Corporate Governance Report As a company with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Fresnillo Governance Structure Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FSA Listing Rules to comply The Board Structure with theProvisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure acopy of which may be found on the website of the Financial thatthe Board focuses on strategy, monitoring the performance Reporting Council www.
uk or explain its reasons for ofthe management team, governance, risk and control issues.
non-compliance, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated The following statement is therefore made in compliance with such to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK requirement, and the sections thereafter explain how the principles Companies Act, FSA Listing Rules and the Code.
in the Code were applied and provide cross-references to other sections where more detailed description is available.
A detailed The Board has delegated authority to the following committees report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages110 to 115. tofacilitate the routine business of the Company: Audit Committee UK Corporate Governance Executive Committee Code Compliance Statement Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations The Code establishes eighteen main principles of good governance HSECR Committee in five areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration Nominations Committee and Relations with Shareholders.
Theremainder ofthis report provides further detail onhow the Company applies good Remuneration Committee governance in these five areas.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community For the financial year ended 31 December 2011, the Company Relations Committees are available on the Companys website hascomplied with the provisions of the Code in all these areas, www.
savein respect of D. 2.1. which provides that the Board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three Independent The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive officer and Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo isresponsible for the management of the Companys businesses Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle includingtwo Independent Non-executive Directors one of whom, bytheBoard and all executive management of the operations Lord Cairns, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the oftheGroup within the strategy and budget approved by the Board.
Company, Mr Baillres, who was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres The Report of the Remuneration Committee the Directors experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market Remuneration Report sets out the responsibilities and activities and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees ofthe Remuneration Committee during the year and can be found deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration on pages 110 to 115.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters concerning hisown remuneration.
Fresnillo Governance Structure and Key Responsibilities Fresnillo plc Board Strategy and Oversight Related Party Activity only Independent Directors Strategic Investments Corporate Governance Financial Reporting Key Policies andEthics Audit HSECR Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial Assurance Monitoring HSECR activity Board Appointments Directors Remuneration Risk Controls assurance Sustainability Monitoring Succession Planning Incentivisation and Retention Executive Committee Operational expenditure Operational and financial management Day-to-day management of risk 98 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Board Composition and Independence Board Independence Board Membership Alberto Baillres, Rafael MacGregor, Juan Bordes and Arturo Fernndez are each directors of Peoles and have been appointed Throughout the year, the Board consisted of ten Directors to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
theNon-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, the Chief Executive Thus, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his officer, Jaime Lomeln, and eight Non-executive Directors.
However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for were no changes to the Board during the year to 31 December 2011. overseeing the successful development of the Fresnillo Group over The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company many years and, therefore, the Board considers that his continued are set out on pages 92 to 94. involvement as its non-executive chairman is very important to theCompany.
Furthermore, a transparent governance system Board Balance and Roles hasbeen established, primarily through the Relationship The composition of the Board and the roles of the Chairman, Agreement, which ensures that the Company benets from ChiefExecutive officer and the Senior Independent Director have MrBaillres leadership and experience whilst being able to been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is thedecision-making processes of the Board.
capable of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive officer theRelationship Agreement ensures that transactions and are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder specified in writing and agreed by the Board.
There have been are at arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
nochanges to these roles since they were agreed by the Board.
Fernando Ruiz is a retired partner and consultant in the rm Chevez, TheChairman, Mr Baillres, is also the Chairman of Peoles Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a rm providing professional services andother companies within the BAL Group.
Mr Ruiz is not involved in providing any services As Senior Independent Director, Lord Cairns is available to tothe Company on behalf of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved thevalue of those services is not material to either party.
through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer, Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Chief Financial officer or Head of Investor Relations.
Mr Wilson was not involved inthe provision of audit or any other services to the Company byErnst &Young LLP prior to his retirement.
The Board considers Lord Cairns, Fernando Ruiz, Fernando Solana, Javier Fernndez and Guy Wilson to be independent in character and judgement but also by reference to Provision B.
99 Corporate Governance Report continued Relationship Agreement Conicts of Interests Since May 2008, there has been a relationship agreement in place The duties to avoid potential conicts and to disclose such situations between Peoles and the Company to regulate the ongoing for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the Director.
Each Director ensures that they keep these duties under Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is review and inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of capable of carrying on its business independently of the Peoles any change in their respective positions, such as new directorships Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peoles taken on.
Group are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Each Director has completed a Directors List which sets out details Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to of situations where each directors interests may conict with those amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association in a way of the Company situational conicts.
The Directors Lists have which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
been re-submitted by each Director as at 31 December 2011 and Ithas also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve the Board has considered and authorised new situational conicts a related party transaction as dened in paragraph 11.1.
R of the identied in these resubmitted lists.
In addition, Directors are Listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
reminded at the beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Since 2008, the Board has rened the process by which transactions Board of any further conicts of interest in accordance with sections between Peoles and the Company are approved and the 175, 177 and 182 of the Companies Act 2006. approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented.
The key elements of this process are outlined in thediagram below: Oversight of the Relationship Agreement The approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented Process Responsibility Contract negotiation Fresnillo Management and Executive Committee Verication Industry benchmarking reports or independent valuation assessment Financial scrutiny Audit Committee review Board approval Independent Directors approve under the Relationship Agreement 100 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance thenal version of the agenda.
Members of the Executive Board Process Committee are responsible for preparing papers in respect of The primary objective of the Board is to take responsibility for the strategic planning, policies and investment proposals for each Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy and to Boardmeeting.
Papers are usually circulated about five days monitor the management of the Groups activities.
During the year beforethe Board meeting concerned.
more time has been allocated to presenting and discussing aspects of strategy as part of the normal agenda for each Board meeting.
All proposals presented to the Board for its consideration under the Aspecial strategy discussion was also held in April to enable the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first considered and approved Directors to discuss this at greater length.
Non-executive Directors bythe Executive Committee.
In so doing, the Executive Committee are encouraged to engage in constructive debate regarding strategy aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration and fully participate in these sessions.
those factors set out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards reported to the Board.
decision which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies.
This schedule of matters was revised All Directors have received briengs from the Companys advisers, in April to account for the introduction of the UK Corporate including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and Governance Code.
responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors The Board also provides leadership to the Fresnillo Group in continues to be developed.
The Company Secretary and Carlos establishing the values by which it will conduct its business.
Ortiz Mena, the Head of Legal, supported by the Groups UK legal Duringthe year, the Board has monitored the Companys response advisers ensure that the Board is fully briefed on all its legal and to the provisions set out in the UK Bribery Act 2010.
During 2011, Directors received briengs ithas considered its role in setting the tone from the top in relation on the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
TheDirectors also to the Fresnillo Groups procedures under the Bribery Act.
As a received a brieng on the UK Bribery Act.
result, in April 2011, the Board considered and approved revised versions of the Companys Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise its Code of Conduct and its Donations and Political Contributions themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations.
Following approval of these policies, a full communication Non-executive Directors have visited at least one of the Groups programme has been undertaken to ensure that employees and locations, the Company is implementing a more structured contractors are aware of the Boards position on these matters.
programme to increase the frequency of site visits.
In addition to the usual pattern of meetings, a further Board meeting The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, was held in December 2011 to approve the second interim dividend ifnecessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board paid to shareholders on 30 December 2011.
Directors also have access to the advice and services ofmembers of the Board and Board committees at meetings ofthe Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is duringthe financial year ended 31 December 2011 is set out below.
amatter reserved to the Board.
A procedure has been established All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at theCompanys expense in relevant circumstances.
The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing a draft agenda for each Board meeting in conjunction with the Chief Executive The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established officer and the Chief Financial officer.
The Chairman approves programme of meetings as follows: Board Meetings: Programme and Attendance February March April July August October Key Activity Full year results and report Strategy Interim Results Business Plan and Budget Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee HSECR Committee 5 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting 2 meetings Alberto Baillres 5 5 2 2 1 1 Jaime Lomeln 5 5 2 2 Lord Cairns 4 5 2 2 Fernando Ruiz 5 5 5 5 2 2 1 1 Javier Fernndez 5 5 1 1 1 2 Rafael MacGregor 5 5 2 2 Juan Bordes 5 5 Arturo Fernndez 5 5 Guy Wilson 4 5 5 5 Fernando Solana 3 5 3 5 Lord Cairns and Guy Wilson were unable to travel to attend the December 2011 Board meeting, but were consulted on matters for discussion via telephone, prior to the meeting.
Fernando Solana was unable to attend meetings in early 2011 due to ill-health.
Javier Fernndez was unable to attend the September 101 2011 HSECR meeting due to the meeting being scheduled at short notice.
Corporate Governance Report continued Board Performance Evaluation Our aim The Board attaches considerable weight to making sure that its Our overall view is that, while the Fresnillo governance approach is effective.
It fully recognises that sound Board may work differently in some areas governance has a role to play in securing strategic success and frommore conventional UK plc boards, it is strong performance as well as in protecting the interests of its shareholders.
It is especially conscious of theneed for its governance showing strongly the characteristics which to result in practical and effective independent oversight given its makeit capable of being an effective board particular ownership structure andrelatively short history as a UK The progress made over only three years is listed company.
The Board isdetermined to make sure that it is commendable: the focus of agendas is now working effectively to the long-term benefit of all shareholders andrecognises the role theDirectors collectively haveto play onthe business: discussion is more open inmaintaining this focus.
forsome to a surprising extent: an effective In 2011 the Board appointed Independent Audit Limited IAL chemistry based on trust has been established: toundertake an independent review of Board effectiveness.
and the Company has strived to meet the Thisappointment formed part of a three-pronged engagement spiritof the UK Corporate Governance Code.
ofIAL toreview how far the most critical components of the corporate governance approach at this time are meeting the IndependentAudit Limited needsof the business: Fresnillo plc Review of Board Effectiveness 2011.
1. the work of the Board: 2. the oversight provided by the Audit Committee: and 3. the governance of risk in conjunction with .
The main focus of the Board Performance Evaluation exercise was to provide an objective assessment of the Boards development since the IPO to ensure that it is fullling its role in the interests ofallof its shareholders.
Our approach The Board performance evaluation exercise included individual discussions with each of the Directors, the ChiefFinancial officer, Chief Operating officer, the Vice President forExploration and the Company Secretary.
Board and committee papers covering a twelvemonth period were also reviewed.
Twoextensive meetings withthe Chairman covered his views onthe Boards work and his governance goals and a detailed reviewof IALs findings.
The report was presented to the Board byIAL in October 2011.
An action plan has been developed since that meeting.
102 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Our development Relations with Shareholders The main recommendations were set out as i items for immediate Free-oat investors by location action: ii items for further thought: and iii items for the future.
% Some of the recommendations in relation to the development of UK 55.1 therole of the HSECR Committee in reviewing serious accidents North America & Canada 30.3 Rest of Europe 9.2 and management responses and the Boards approach to risk Rest of world 5.4 governance were adopted immediately.
Source: J. P. Morgan Cazenove Furthermore, the Chairman prepared a plan in response to the development points arising from the Review which was discussed and agreed at the Board meeting on 29 February 2012.
The key features of this plan are: The Board seeks to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders Over the next year, management will develop KPIs to enable in Fresnillo plc are properly respected and aligned with those of theBoard to monitor people strategies and understand major shareholders.
As described on page 100, the Board maintains organisational culture: procedures for dealing with transactions with Related Parties as well Board members will be provided with more information on as Directors conicts of interest.
technical issues, market trends and political developments in Mexico with more time allocated to discuss such issues during The Company has an ofce in London where the Head of Investor the year: Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders and The Nominations Committee will report to the Board on analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group succession issues following its meeting in April 2012: andto respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The role of the Audit Committee in monitoring the Companys TheHead of Investor Relations in London maintains ongoing procedures for dealing with related party transactions was relations with analysts and major shareholders through telephone lookedatparticularly closely and considered to be appropriate.
The Company also uses a full programme of Aseparate evaluation of the Audit Committee being undertaken mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
by IAL will also result in a more detailed action plan being Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor createdspecically for the Audit Committee to implement.
Relations Ofce in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive officer, ChiefFinancial officer, the Director of Exploration and the Director Next steps ofOperations participate in the major roadshows to meet Progress in implementing the action plan will be reviewed again withanalysts and shareholders.
The Head of Investor Relations, inJuly 2012 andthis will form a key consideration in scoping supported by the Chief Executive officer, gives a report at each outthe2012 Board Performance Evaluation exercise.
Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
In December 2011, FTSE Group announced that it would be revising Individual Performance Reviews the criteria for membership of its UK Index Series.
This includes the The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally FTSE 100 Index of which Fresnillo plc is a constituent.
The minimum from time to time without the executives present.
These meetings free oat for a company to be eligible will be increased from 15% provide an opportunity for the Chairman to ensure that the to25%.
The Company recognises the value of being a member Non-executive Directors training and development needs are ofthe FTSE 100 Index and during 2012 will consider arrangements beingsatised.
The performance of the Chief Executive officer for increasing its free oat in order to satisfy the new criteria.
ofthe Company, being the sole Executive Director, is reviewed bythe Remuneration Committee in connection with his annual The Companys fourth annual general meeting will be held on bonus.
The Independent Non-executive Directors met to 18May 2012.
The business of the Annual General Meeting will evaluatethe performance of the Chairman in October 2011 beconducted in accordance with the provisions E. 2.1. and E. 2.2. following which theSenior Independent Director discussed oftheCode.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen theviews of the independent directors with the Chairman.
ofeachofthe board committees will be available to answer questions putforward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual GeneralMeeting willbe sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
103 Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Report Membership The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, therefore, Independent Non-executive Directors.
Role The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is In introducing the report of the Nominations responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and Committee, I would like to repeat the comments experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee I have made on diversity issues in the are available on the Companys website at www.
Chairmans Letter at the beginning of this annual report.
The sustained success of our business What we did in 2011 isdependent on having the right people on The Nominations Committee met once during the year and ourteam at all levels of the organisation: those considered the current membership of the Board and Board Committees, it reviewed the Groups succession planning, the time with the skills, experience, responsibility and commitment required from each director, the letters of appointment determination to help the Company achieve for the Non-executive Directors and undertook a brief selfitsgoals.
Fresnillo plc has been at the forefront evaluation exercise.
The Nominations Committee has not retained of opening the doors of employment to people any external consultants to assist it in its work.
As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the letters of appointment for the in Mexico who have not traditionally held jobs Non-executive Directors are made available for inspection at the inthe mining industry, including women, Companys registered ofce, during normal business hours.
whoare advancing on their own merit.
In April, the Nominations Committee considered the report, Increasing the diversity of our workforce, Women on Boards published by Lord Davies of Abersoch.
aswehave done over the past ten years, The Nominations Committee confirms that the Board is committed demonstrates our attention to this issue.
to the principle of appointments to the Board being made on the basis of merit.
The criteria for determining the composition of the I am also committed to greater diversity, Board and future Board appointments continues to be based on: basedon merit, at the Board level, and the Relationship Agreement requirements for appointments thisobjective will be given due consideration tothe Board by Peoles: infuture appointments.
the Companys leading position as a precious metals miner inMexico: Alberto Baillres the Companys inclusion in the FTSE 100 Index: Chairman of the Nominations Committee the specic functions on Board committees which independent directors will be required to full: and the criteria set out in the current terms of reference of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee has endorsed the Companys non-discrimination policy in relation to employment opportunities but recognises that within the mining industry opportunities to consider female appointments to the Board and senior positions would be more restricted than in other sectors.
Nevertheless, it was noted that the proportion of women employed in the Company is now 9.3% compared to nil ten years ago and women are increasingly employed in management positions.
Against this backdrop, the Nominations Committee will consider female candidates for future appointment to the Board as part of the process of succession planning and futurechanges to the Board as and when the composition of the Board is refreshed.
The Nominations Commitee will consider Board succession at its meeting in April 2012 prior to recommending to the 104 Board proposals for the re-election of directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance Audit Committee Report Membership The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2011 wereGuy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Fernando Solana.
Guy Wilson was a partner at Ernst & Young prior to his retirement on 30 June 2008.
He is, therefore, considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing and accounting experience.
The Audit Committee met five times in the year.
The external auditoris represented at each meeting, providing opportunities forthe auditors to gain direct information relevant to the external audit process and for the Audit Committee to better understand thefactors relevant to the auditors when exercising their The principal duties of your Audit Committee .
areto oversee the internal control and risk management of your company: to review the Role financial statements and related accounting The Audit Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the Fresnillo Groups financial statements.
It oversees the policies: and to assess the effectiveness of the Groupsrelationship with the external auditors and reviews the internal and external audit functions.
In addition, effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the independent directors, we also monitors the activity of the Internal Audit Department and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal review the financial aspects of all related party controlsand risk management systems.
The terms of reference transactions with our major shareholder prior ofthe AuditCommittee are available on the Companys website totheir approval.
com and its duties are categorised under thefollowing headings: This year, our role overseeing risk management has expanded to encompass a detailed review of the processes underlying the Financial Reporting Companys thorough analysis of risks and related mitigations Internal Controls and Risk Management inherent in all our operations and also those necessary to ensure Whistleblowing Procedures that we comply with all aspects of the Bribery Act, some of the strict provisions of which have no equivalent in Mexico.
In respect of the Internal Audit financial statements, we concentrate on those areas where External Audit judgement is required.
Over the past three years, we have worked Related Party Matters with management and Ernst & Young to rene the key methodologies to ensure that third party validation and necessary The following sections summarise how the Audit Committee has assumptions are transparent and consistently applied.
Although we fullled its duties in 2011. are not complacent, we are satisfied that the current methodologies are appropriate.
Financial Reporting At its meeting in February 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed Our oversight of the whole audit function continues to evolve.
We the2010 Annual Report and financial statements for the year-ended have promoted greater communication and hence understanding 31 December 2010 and the related preliminary announcement prior between the internal and external audit functions which is leading to recommending them to the Board for approval.
Prior to approval, towards a more integrated approach and this aspect will continue to the Board considered the consistency of the accounting policies be a main focus for us in the year ahead.
We monitor carefully the adopted and the application of accounting standards.
Particular independence of Ernst & Young and do not permit them to do any areas of focus for the Audit Committee were: work that might jeopardise their independence.
As a result, other accountancy and advisory rms are employed where appropriate the valuation of the Silverstream contract: and this year the fees for those services were US$2.3 million.
the mine closure model and estimation of related provisions: Looking to the future, we have noted the European Commissions the judgements used in calculating the PTU charge: proposals for audit reform and continue to monitor the arguments the impact of exchange rate movements: for and against.
In the UK and certain other European countries, the the allocation of exploration expenditure between capital cost regulators, many companies and the audit profession have and revenue expense: challenged some of the more radical proposals but we will be the correct application of depreciation policy over mine assets: prepared for whatever outcome nally emerges.
In the meantime, the Audit Committee continues to evaluate the performance of the the basis of calculation of the Groups tax charge: and external auditors each year.
the going concern basis for preparing the accounts.
Mr Guy Wilson Chairman of the Audit Committee 105 Corporate Governance Report continued At its July meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the 2011 interim The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of financial results before recommending them to the Board for internal control, which includes risk management, and reviewing approval.
In undertaking that review, the Audit Committee seeks itseffectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to toensure that issues discussed during the review process for the identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the full-year financial statements have been progressed and that there achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations is consistency between the policies and judgements used in inherent in any system of internal control, the Companys system preparing the full-year and half-year financial statements.
isdesigned to meet its particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk At its meeting in February 2012, the Committee reviewed the altogether.
Consequently, it can only provide reasonable and not financial statements for the year-ended 31 December 2011, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
priortorecommending them to the Board for approval.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Internal Controls and Risk Management Committee reviews the system of internal control on an annual In December each year, the Audit Committee agrees the process basis.
The day to-day responsibility for managing risk and the bywhich the Board will undertake a review of the Groups system maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively ofinternal controls.
The outcome of that review is presented to assumed by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee theAudit Committee in the following February.
The Group has issupported in this task by the Internal Audit Department.
inplace internal controls and risk management systems in relationtothe processes for both financial reporting and the The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant preparation ofconsolidated accounts.
These systems include risks faced by the Group has been established in accordance with policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting the Turnbull Guidance.
A comprehensive and detailed risk review records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately was undertaken by the Company during the year, which is and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements described more fully in the Our Risk Management Framework inaccordance with IFRS.
Fresnillo Internal Audit Plan Process Internal Audit Main Plan 2012 Enterprise Risk management Universe of Fresnillo Group Universe of Assessment concerns and companies and approved Strategy processes ERM results of projects bythe Audit previous audit Committee Internal Controls and Risk Management There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Company detailed below and assurance concerning thesystem of internal controls focuses on these components: Component of the System ofInternalControl Basis for Assurance The Group risk matrix.
Updated twice annually by the Executive Committee and Internal Audit Department.
A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent Reviews undertaken by the Internal AuditDepartment.
anddetect material error and loss.
A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit Department.
fortransaction and investment decisions, including anywith relatedparties.
Reports from Internal Audit and the external auditors following theirreviews supplemented by annual written representations fromoperational and functional management.
Review process performed by the Executive Committee.
Controls and procedures set out in the Companys Accounting Monitored and reviewed by the InternalAudit Department.
A programme of internal audit reviews conducted by the Groups Reports prepared by the Internal Audit Department are discussedwith Internal AuditDepartment.
management prior to finalisation and reviewed bythe Audit Committee.
106 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance InFebruary 2011 and July 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed the Internal Audit process for identifying the Groups major risks and uncertainties The Audit Committee receives presentations and updates from the prior to publication of the annual financial and interim statements.
Group Internal Audit Department at each of its meetings throughout Based on the risk categories set out in the risk matrix, the Audit the year.
A workplan for the following year is agreed prior to the end Committee, through the Internal Audit Department, has sought of the year.
Any changes to the plan during the year are agreed with letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the the Audit Committee.
executive management on the Groups system of internal control The Internal Audit team seeks to complete audits of all of the tosupplement the specic workundertaken by Internal Audit and Companys mining assets on a regular basis.
focus has been placed on auditing the Companys new mines to ensure that proper procedures are implemented in those new The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit operations.
There has also been particular focus on Treasury, IT and Committee at its February 2012 meeting, reviewed the third party contractor management.
At each meeting during the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls taking year, the Audit Committee has focused on the progress made by account of the matters noted above.
On the basis of this review, the management in addressing red ag items raised during internal Board considers that the measures that have been implemented to audit visits to ensure that the management responses to create an appropriate risk management framework are appropriate remediation are appropriate and timely.
In 2011, the Board and the Audit Committee approved plans presented by management setting out a An internal audit workplan for 2012 and beyond was presented to number of improvements to the internal control environment to take and approved by the Audit Committee at its October 2011 meeting.
account of the expansion of the Groups activities in exploration and The resourcing of the internal audit function was reviewed during mine development, particularly in the light of the need for increasing the year.
It is anticipated that there will be an increase in resourcing numbers of contractors.
These initiatives are being included in the to take account of the expanded responsibilities of the internal audit development of related embedded risk management and assurance department as a result of the expansion of the Groups mining processes.
The Board is committed to the continued development assets, increased third party contractor activity and the assurance of its internal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining activity required to ensure that the Group is properly implementing best practice levels of risk management and internal control for adequate procedures under the UK Bribery Act.
international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The members of the Audit Committee undertook a review of the Internal Audit Department and the results of that review were Whistleblowing Arrangements discussed during a meeting between the Chairman of the Audit In the course of reviewing the Companys arrangements for Committee, the Head of Internal Audit and the Internal Audit Manager.
ensuring compliance with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act, the Audit Committee has received reports from management External Auditor concerning the framework by which employees can raise concerns The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external about matters of financial or non-financial impropriety.
Ernst & Young LLP has provided audit services to the the Honour Commission, which provides the forum by which Company since its incorporation as a new company in 2008. violations may be considered, was re-constituted and its terms of TheAudit Committee considers that the rotation of the audit reference revised to embrace the procedures adopted in response partnerin line with ICAEW guidelines is appropriate.
The current to the Bribery Act.
audit partner was appointed in 2010.
The Audit Committee The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders considers the reappointment of the external auditor as part of its toanonymously via an independent third party report violations annual programme of work.
In February 2011, the Audit Committee ofour Code of Conduct.
The results are audited by an independent considered and recommended the re-appointment of Ernst & third party and classied in 25 different categories: high-risk Young LLP, to the Board prior to the Companys annual general conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of condential meeting.
This review took into account the results of the auditor information, accounting irregularities, conict of interest, assessment process, the quality of the work and communication clientcomplaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical bythe external auditor and the level of audit fees.
The Audit treatment of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company Committee also periodically considers the need to invite tenders records, improper use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment, forthe external audit.
Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP among others.
The Honour Commission comprises the Chief during the year are shown in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Executive officer, the Compliance officer currently the Chief In October 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed the terms of Financial officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the Chief Operating engagement in respect of the audit of the financial statements officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Legal Manager.
forthe year-ended 31 December 2011 including audit plans and TheHonour Commission received seven complaints which have timescales.
In October 2011, the Audit Committee also approved beeninvestigated.
The Audit Committee reviewed the actions audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit.
takenin response to those complaints at its meeting in December.
As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the overall theCompany, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings of the whistleblowing arrangements which it did at its meetings in July external auditor in respect of the financial statements for the year andOctober 2011 and it is satisfied that they remain adequate.
ended 31 December 2010 at its February 2011 meeting and in 107 Corporate Governance Report continued respect of the financial statements for the six-month period ending Evaluation on 30 June 2011 at its July 2011 meeting.
This process was repeated The Audit Committee has reviewed how it evaluates both its own at the February 2012 meeting.
As part of each of these reviews, the performance and the effectiveness of the internal and external Audit Committee met with representatives from Ernst & Young LLP auditors during the year.
without management present and with management without representatives of Ernst & Young present, to ensure that there are Committee evaluation no issues in the relationship between management and the external In previous years, the Audit Committee has undertaken an internal auditor which it should address.
At each of those questionnaire-based evaluation of its own performance.
meetings, the Audit Committee also approved the respective Thisprocess has been facilitated by the Company Secretary.
representation letters given to Ernst & Young LLP by management.
In2011, following their external evaluation of the board of Fresnillo plc, Independent Audit Limited were commissioned to undertake In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the initial findings of the anexternal evaluation of the Committee.
The results of this hard close audit undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the evaluation were considered in February 2012 along with the period to 31 October 2011 at its meeting in December 2011. mainrecommendations that the Committee should: In April 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed the letters to adopt a more structured approach to assessing management detailing recommendations made by the external theeffectivenessof the external auditor: auditor in the course of their work.
During the year, the Audit evaluate in a more rigorous way the performance Committee has noted an increasing level of collaboration between oftheinternalaudit team: Ernst & Young LLP and the Companys Internal Audit Department inorder to improve the respective efficiency of the external and develop further its review of the achievement of noninternal audit processes.
nancialobjectives and the measures employed tomonitor performance: and The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the determine the scope of its role in monitoring riskexposures independence of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor.
The insupport of the Board.
Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision ofnon-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor.
The steps taken in response to the comments on the evaluation Theengagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, ofthe external and internal auditors are commented on below.
assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved.
In response to comments made by Independent Audit Limited in Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted relation to their Board Evaluation report, the Audit Committee also services above US$150,000 is subject to the specic approval of reviewed their terms of reference and are in the process of updating theAudit Committee.
This policy was considered at the October them to reect the present responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
The Committee reviewed the extent of A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee may be found on services provided by other audit rms and advisors at its October the Companys website at www.
Non-audit services supplied by Ernst & Young during 2011 were minimal, focused on tax advice, and are External auditor evaluation notconsidered material enough to affect auditor objectivity or Previously, the Audit Committee has undertaken an informal independence.
Non-audit services of approximately US$2.3 million evaluation of the external auditors after the completion of the have been placed with other audit rms during the year.
Recognising the need for a more robust and 2012, the Audit Committee approved a policy on the employment objective process for evaluating the external auditor in future years, offormer employees of the auditor.
the Audit Committee intends to use a questionnaire-based process for evaluating the performance of the external auditor.
Related Party Matters Internal auditor evaluation In reviewing the full-year financial statements prior to recommending Each year, the Audit Committee members evaluate the internal them to the Board for approval, the Audit Committee reviewed a auditfunction.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee circulates schedule all of the Companys related party transactions during aquestionnaire, which considers different aspects of the role and theyear ended 31 December 2011. performance of the internal audit function, to the other members of The Audit Committee reviews the financial and commercial aspects the Committee.
The members of the Committee send their written of any transaction proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the comments to the Chairman of the Audit Committee who then meets Peoles Group prior to such matters being considered by the with the other committee members to discuss their views on the Independent Non-executive Directors under the terms of the performance of the internal audit function.
He then meets with the Relationship Agreement or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the Head of Internal Audit and the Audit Manager responsible for the Listing Rules.
During the year, the Audit Committee has considered Fresnillo businesses to review the output from the Audit Committees the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Arrangements for evaluation exercise.
In February 2012, all of the members of the Audit 2011.
Based on the satisfactory outcome of that review, the Committee met with the internal audit team to provide this feedback.
Chairman of the Audit Committee recommended that the Later in the year, Independent Audit Limited has been commissioned independent directors approve the proposed charges for 2011 to undertake an external evaluation of the internal audit function on under the Met-Mex Arrangements.
behalf of the Audit Committee.
108 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2011 Overview Strategic Review Performance Financial Statements Governance HSECR Committee Report Membership The members of the HSECR Committee are Rafael MacGregor Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Jaime Lomeln.
Meetings are also attended by various operational and unit managers.
Role Fresnillo plc develops, executes and monitors a broad range ofpolicies and practices related to health, safety, environment andcorporate social responsibility through its Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations System.
The Health, Safety, Environment and The HSECR Committee evaluates the effectiveness of the Community Relations HSECR Committee Companys policies and systems for identifying and managing hasbeen in close contact with Company HSECR matters within the Companys operations.
The Company reports to the HSECR Committee on such matters.
management in order tostress the importance of achieving HSECR objectives within the The terms of reference of the HSECR Committee are available onthe Companys website at www.
During 2011, the Company experienced the unfortunate fatal What we did in 2011 accidents of eleven collaborators.
These accidents are unacceptable During the year, the Committee has received reports from and represent a deviation from the Companys record on safety.
The management on health, safety, environmental and community HSECR Committee expresses its sincere condolences to the families relations issues.
The inadequate safety record of the Company of these collaborators.
The position of the HSECR Committee is that ascompared to previous years, as well as the recommendations safety is first at all times, including a zero-tolerance approach to and actions taken by management, have been reviewed by the breaches in safety measures, with adequate procedures being the HSECR Committee.
first check point to be veried each day during each daily work shift.
In September 2011 the Company appointed a Corporate Safety The Committee requested the Company to undertake an Manager specically charged with ensuring that adequate safety independent study regarding the current HSECR system in order procedures are followed at all times by personnel and collaborators.
toverify its design and measure its maturity, pursuant to which In the CEOs report, further detail is provided regarding the theCompany appointed  PwC.
The Companys response to these accidents, including the special Committee also reviewed the independent safety audits requested auditsthat have been performed and the actions taken.
by the Company, and the recommendations from such audits as well as the results of the PwC study were reported to the Board Regarding health, environmental and community relations indicators, inOctober.
during 2011 the Companys ongoing medical programmes have promoted health amongst employees as well as in the local Additionally, the HSECR Committee reviewed the re-enforcement communities where the Company operates.
The Company reports and implementation by management of specic action plans and that all mine units have ISO 14001 and Clean Industry Certications the development of forwardlooking indicators in order to assess Minera Saucito began operations in 2011 and is in the process of and monitor HSECR matters, as well as the improvement of obtaining environmental certications.
Additionally, the Company communications thereto related.
continues to work with local communities, promoting education, The HSECR Committee formally met twice during the year and sports culture and infrastructure that improve the quality of lives hasbeen in close contact with management during the year.
Details of the specic measures taken during the year on HSECR The special audit conducted by  in Q1 2011 matters, including in response to the external study by PwC and concluded that the level of maturity of the HSECR System continues thesafety independent audits, are set out in the Sustainable to develop and management is working to have it atfullmaturity Development Report on page 62.
Please also refer to the by2016.
Performance section starting on page 45.
With a view to monitoring more closely Company operations, theHSECR Committee has decided to meet more frequently, including at least one meeting per year at operational locations.
Thefundamental responsibility of the HSECR Committee is, with thesupport of the Board, to ensure that the management of the Company strives at all times to operate in a sustainable manner asasocially responsible company.
Mr Rafael MacGregor Chairman of the HSECR Committee 109
