Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance statement There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which is We understand that corporate governance is not setout under 12 separate categories: strategy and management: structure just about reporting against compliance with a code.
and capital: financial reporting and controls: internal controls: contracts: Rather it is about ensuring that the way we operate communication: board membership and other appointments: remuneration: delegation of authority: corporate governance matters: policies: and other.
in all our businesses maintains an appropriate By way of example, board approval is required for major investments, balance of dynamic entrepreneurship and controls.
including the acquisition or disposal of any business worth more than 5m: We strive to ensure that this balance exists and any changes to the groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: works properly at board level and throughout and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The board fulfils a number of its most important functions through its four committees.
Descriptions of the work of three of these committees is set Alf Duch-Pedersen Chairman out elsewhere in this report.
The CSR Committee has existed since January 2010 and has been chaired by Mark Elliott since then.
Initially, it reported to the Audit Committee, Compliance with the UK Corporate butin late 2011 it was formally constituted as a committee of the board in GovernanceCode recognition of the desire of the board to increase its focus on corporate The boards statement on the companys corporate governance social responsibility.
Its first meeting as a full board committee was held in performance is based on the UK Corporate Governance Code published January 2012.
Its activities will therefore be reported on in greater detail inJune 2010 the Code which is available on the Financial Reporting inthe companys 2012 report.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available The Listing Rules require companies to disclose how they apply the Codes onthe companys website: www.
com main principles and report how they have done so.
The Code recognises that alternatives to following provisions may be justified in particular Board balance circumstances if good governance can be achieved by other means, provided the reasons are explained clearly and carefully.
In such cases, companies must also illustrate how their actual practices are consistent Board composition withthe principle in question and contribute to good governance.
The board comprises the non-executive chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, The company complied throughout the year under review with the anon-executive deputy chairman Mark Seligman, five other non-executive provisions of the Code.
This section of the report sets out how the directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and a chief operating officer Grahame Gibson.
company has applied these provisions.
Theboard considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior independent director is Lord Condon.
Lord Condon was Our governance framework deputy chairman until October 2011, when Mr Seligman took on that role.
ThorleifKrarup, a non-executive director, retired from the board G4S plc board on31January 2011.
The directors bring a wide range of skills and experience to the board.
Thisexperience and their roles on the board is described in more detail CEO CFO onpages 49 to 51.
Succession Nomination Remuneration Audit CSR Mr Duch-Pedersen has announced his intention to retire from the Committee Committee Committee Committee boardduring 2012 once a replacement chairman has been appointed.
Theprocessfor selecting his successor is being conducted by the Executive Capex Group Risk Group Nomination Committee, led by Lord Condon and assisted by an Committee Committee Committee Internal Audit externalrecruitment consultant.
As deputy chairman, Mr Seligman has been co-opted onto the committee for the purposes of this exercise.
MrDuch-Pedersen is not directly involved in the selection process.
Regional Regional Risk Regional Thefinalselection of the new chairman will be a matter for the entire Management Committees Finance boardas, currently, none of the existing directors have put themselves forward as acandidate for the role.
The board sits at the top of the companys governance framework, setting broad strategic targets, monitoring progress, approving proposed actions Director re-election and ensuring appropriate controls are in place and effective.
The companys articles of association require that all continuing directors Management decisions, development of strategies and policies and are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting implementation of board decisions falls to the executive committee.
following their appointment and that they submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and that at least one-third of the directors not Regional management teams have responsibility for businesses within their standing for election for the first time stand for re-election at each Annual regions and are tasked with implementing policies and controls at business General Meeting.
However, in accordance with the Code provision on levels, as well as ensuring they meet agreed financial goals.
re-election of directors, all the continuing directors will stand for re-election The presence of a majority of independent non-executive directors ensures at the Annual General Meeting in 2012. objectivity, challenge and debate.
It is the primary responsibility of the board to provide effective leadership for the group and this is done by, amongst other things, ensuring that decision making is conducted throughout the group within a strong internal control framework and by setting values and standards.
G4S plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Corporate governance statement continued Conflicts of interest Induction and professional development Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which apply When new non-executive directors are recruited, they have the to them as a result of which they have or may have an interest or position opportunity to spend time with the executive directors to understand the which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the company.
In business, its structure and people as well as the companys strategy and accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has financial performance.
In addition, they visit businesses, usually within a authorised such matters.
The affected directors did not vote when their number of countries, so they can begin to get a feel for the groups own positions were considered.
Where the board deemed it appropriate, operations.
Meeting regional and country staff continues throughout a such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
The board directors time on the board, as does continuing professional development reviews such matters ona regular basis.
usually in areas where the director has specific committee responsibility.
Board meetings, information flow, development Risk management and internal control and induction The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed Meeting attendance to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Scheduled Unscheduled meetings meetings against material misstatement or loss.
Executive directors The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the Nick Buckles CEO 6 6 7 7 board, which assesses the groups risk appetite tolerance, considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, Trevor Dighton CFO 6 6 7 7 which are reviewed and monitored by the head of group internal audit, are Grahame Gibson COO 6 6 7 7 in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to Non-executive directors present significant exposure.
Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman 6 6 7 7 The key features of the groups risk management process, which was in Lord Condon 6 6 7 7 place throughout the year under review and since, are: Mark Elliott 6 6 7 7 u A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile Winnie Fok 5 6 3 7 ofthose risks which may have an impact on the achievement of businessobjectives.
Bo Lerenius 6 6 7 7 u Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how Mark Seligman 6 6 7 7 the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
Risk appetite tolerance Clare Spottiswoode 5 6 4 7 is considered in the context of the net after controls andmitigation risk with a particular focus on High net risks.
Tobecategorised as High, arisk must meet at least one of the following criteria: Board meetings and information flow 1. major impact on the achievement of the business strategy: Six scheduled board meetings were held during the year ended 2. serious damage to business reputation: 31December 2011 and there were a further seven additional meetings.
3. severe business disruption: or One of the scheduled meetings was an extended, two day, off-site board 4. impact of 5% on operating profit or assets.
and strategy session at which presentations on the development and u Risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application implementation of the companys strategy were made to the board by and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted senior executives and the board debated the companys strategy and on key risks.
Each of the non-executive directors has undertaken an area of special interest in relation to the groups activities.
In some cases this u Risk management committees have been established at regional and relates to a particular geography about which the director has intimate group level.
The regional committees meet at least annually and the group committee meets quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk and control knowledge, in others it relates to business activities in which the director issues is considered at each meeting and risk profiles are reviewed and has great experience.
To further their understanding of the group and their updated at each meeting.
relationship with the operating businesses, some were able to attend meetings and conferences held by various regions and business units, u Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each following which they reported back to the board on matters of interest.
operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part Prior to each meeting, comprehensive board papers are circulated to of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the thedirectors addressing not only the regular agenda items on which the company risk evaluations are assessed by the regional risk management executives will report, but also details of any areas requiring approval or committees.
decisions such as significant acquisitions or important market issues.
At each meeting, the board then receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary, an HR report which includes summaries of developments on HR and health & safety matters and an investor relations report which includes analysts reviews and any comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
After meetings of the board committees, the respective committee chairmen report to the board on the matters considered by each committee.
Inaddition, each month the board receives management accounts, trading and financial updates, investor relations and HR reports.
There are seven board meetings scheduled for the current year, including anextended strategy review session.
Because G4S Government Solutions, Inc. GSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to operational information, it is not subject tothe same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfied itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by GSI which include a risk review by an external advisor.
G4S plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance Board performance review withthe internal control guidance for directors in the UK Corporate The performance of the board and its committees other than the Governance Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of the group CSRCommittee has been evaluated using a process conducted by an risk management committee.
This committee, which reports to the Audit externalconsultancy.
This involved the use of questionnaires completed by Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
directorsand other regular committee attendees which were then used The regional risk management committees and the group risk management toinform interviews conducted by the consultants with each director.
committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
Writtenreports were produced by the consultants setting out their findings Theymonitor the actions taken to manage risks.
in relation to the board and its committees performance.
These reports concluded that the board and its committees had a strong culture and The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and function effectively.
Following consideration of the reports by the board and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly the relevant committees, however, steps have been taken to modify the reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide way the board and its committees work to address the issues which were range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance identified in these reports.
from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of Examples of steps taken or to be taken include: whistle-blowing activity, fraud reports and risk and control self-evaluations.
u changes to content of reporting to the board and a review of the The group has in place robust internal control and risk management materiality thresholds of the matters which are presented to it: systems for financial reporting.
The group has a single global consolidation u allowing more time to address matters which do not appear on the regular system which is used for both internal management reporting, budgeting committee agendas: and planning as well as external reporting.
The group has a comprehensive u providing more opportunity for review of health and safety matters: budgeting process with the budget being approved by the board.
Forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results at business unit, u measuring the implementation of strategy: and region and group level are reported monthly and variances are reviewed.
u increasing contact between non-executive directors and investors.
Aprogramme of business internal financial reviews is performed by a In addition, the consultants considered the performance of the chairman finance team from either region or group to check the accuracy of financial and each board member and their reports were used to inform the reporting and compliance with the group finance manual.
discussion about the chairmans performance, which was conducted by the The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management senior independent director without the chairman being present, and and internal control each year.
As well as the above processes and sources interviews with individual directors which were conducted by the chairman.
of assurance, the Audit Committee also considers the following year end These individual meetings also allowed the chairman to review directors reporting in conducting this review: training and development needs.
u Summary of Internal Audit work, including an update on all open audits The chairman also held meetings with the non-executive directors without with a deficient rating, analysis of results by region, common audit findings the executives being present.
and areas identified for improvement in internal controls: u Summary of Internal Financial Reviews, including significant accounting Relations with shareholders orfinancial control issues and common concerns identified: The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings u Overview of year end Financial Control Status reports completed by all withindividual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and businesses confirming adherence to group standards with any exceptions financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged reported: at these meetings.
A capital markets presentation is conducted each year u A broad overview of the general risk management and internal control atwhich some of the non-executive directors, the executive directors and systems in place during the year: other senior executives describe the groups strategy.
During the course u Year end Group Risk Profile: and of2011, executive management held over 150 individual and group investormeetings covering over 250 institutions.
u External audit year end reporting on financial controls and accounting.
It is intended that all the directors will attend, and be available to answer The Audit Committee has confirmed that it is satisfied that the groups risk questions at, the Annual General Meeting which is an important management and internal control processes and procedures are appropriate.
opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal particularly private shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting, the controlsystem for the year to 31 December 2011 by considering reports meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy votes cast and the same from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since information is published subsequently on the companys website.
G4S plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Performance Corporate governance statement continued Board committees The Nomination Committee The Audit Committee Membership and meeting attendance Membership and meeting attendance Meetings Meetings Director attended Director attended Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman 5 5 Mark Seligman chairman 4 4 Lord Condon 5 5 Lord Condon 4 4 Mark Elliott 5 5 Winnie Fok 3 4 Bo Lerenius 4 4 Role Mr Seligman is the member of the Audit Committee with recent and The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations relevant financial experience.
Thorleif Krarup was a member of the on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and AuditCommittee until his retirement from the board on 31 January 2011, experience on the board and its committees.
Succession planning for although the committee did not meet in 2011 until after his retirement.
theboard is a matter which is devolved primarily to the Nomination Committee, although the committees deliberations are reported to and Audit Committee meetings are attended by representatives of the group debated by the full board.
The board itself also regularly reviews more auditor, the chief financial officer, the group financial controller, the head of general succession planning for the senior management of the group.
group internal audit and the company secretary.
Key activities during 2011 Role Last year the committee considered the boards policy on diversity in The committee considers the groups annual and half-yearly financial relation to the recruitment of directors in light of Lord Davies report on statements as well as interim management statements in certain women on boards.
Subsequently the chairman published a statement about circumstances, and any questions raised by the auditor on the financial the boards intention in this regard.
This explained that it is the boards statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, beliefthat increased diversity is desirable as it is in the interests of good the groups financial reporting and internal auditing processes, whistlegovernance that a wide variety of experience and viewpoints be brought blowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls.
tobear on issues facing companies.
It is the boards desire to see increased female representation on the board by 2015.
Key activities during 2011 The board committee memberships of the non-executive directors were In addition to its regular work, the Audit Committee has recommended evaluated and succession planning for the board and in particular the that the board re-appoints the existing external auditor having reviewed its executive directors and the chairman and deputy chairman was the subject performance of audit services for the company, reports on the performance of detailed review.
As mentioned previously, the Nomination Committee of the firm as a whole, its independence given the non-audit services it has also undertaken responsibility for the process involved in selecting a provides to the group and its policy and practice on audit partner rotation, new chairman.
as well as the cost of its services.
The committee will keep the matter of the choice of external auditor under review at regular intervals.
The Audit Committee has revised its policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies and general advice on financial reporting standards.
Where the fees for such services are significant, prior approval of the committee is required.
The auditor is also prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The provision of any non-audit services by the audit firm must in any event comply with the requirements in that regard of the Auditing Practices Board.
The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
The committee has reviewed and amended its terms of reference to ensure it meets the recommendations of the Financial Reporting Council.
G4S plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The CSR Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Membership and meeting attendance Director Meetings Director attended Mark Elliott chairman Lord Condon chairman 5 5 Winnie Fok Mark Elliott 5 5 Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman 5 5 Clare Spottiswoode Clare Spottiswoode 3 5 Joined October 2011.
Bo Lerenius 3 4 Although the CSR Committee, chaired by Mr Elliott, met on three Mr Lerenius was a member of the Remuneration Committee until October 2011. occasions during 2011, these meetings were not of a full board committee.
The role and work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described The CSR Committee was constituted as a full board committee in October in the Directors remuneration report which appears on pages 62 to 70.
2011, but its first meeting thereafter did not take place until January 2012.
Role By order of the board The CSR Committee has established a revised remit now that it is a full Peter David committee of the board.
Its duties include reviewing and agreeing the Secretary groups CSR strategy, developing policies on various CSR related matters for 12 March 2012 consideration by the board, reviewing the activities of the executives who are responsible for matters which are CSR related and monitoring performance of the group against its policies and any associated targets.
It will also take responsibility for the companys CSR report.
The companys separate CSR report for 2011 provides more detail on the groups CSR strategy and the progress it has made during the year.
A brief summary of some the issues which that report addresses are set out on pages 44 to 48.
Key activities As discussed above, the CSR Committees first meeting as a full board committee was held in January 2012.
Its annual activities will therefore be reported on in greater detail in the companys 2012 report.
G4S plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
