Overview Strategic review Performance Strategic review Business model continued Resources, relationships and performance measurement Organisational structure Employees G4S is managed through a regional structure, led by four regional CEOs.
As at the end of December 2011, G4S had 657,200 employees, located Theregional CEOs are members of the group executive management team.
asfollows: By geographical segment Please see pages 52and 53 for their full biographies 9 Employees % Revenue by region 1 UK and Africa 2,180m Europe 123,200 19% 2 Europe 1,836m North America 59,700 9% 1 3 Americas 2,243m Asia 257,600 39% 4 Asia Middle East 1,263m 4 Middle East 49,500 8% Africa 111,900 17% Latin America and Caribbean 55,300 8% 2 Total number of employees 657,200 100% Of the total workforce, approximately 90% are employed in front-line 3 positions delivering services to customers with the remainder working in management, supervisory and support roles.
G4S has set standards to ensure that all employees are treated with At a strategic level, the CEO and CFO monitor the groups investments and respect, dignity and fairness.
These standards cover issues such as health performance across the two main product areas of secure solutions and cash andsafety, diversity and inclusion, transparent and fair procedures for solutions, which have different business models.
At an operational level, our dealingwith disciplinary matters, grievances and redundancies, reward and business is managed on a geographic basis.
Regional performance is reviewed recognition, and labour relations and freedom of association.
Local line by the group CEO and CFO on a monthly basis and a business review andhuman resources managers are responsible for ensuring compliance process is implemented throughout eachregion to ensure good visibility of withthese standards.
business performance and issues onan ongoing basis.
At the end of 2011, thecash solutions division comprising some of our largest cash solutions businesses was integrated into the existing regional structure.
The G4S brand Our structure enables us to deliver ourstrategic objectives, maintain astrong The group was created in 2004 through the merger of Group 4 Falck and governance framework, developintegrated solutions, target key regional Securicor.
Today, just eight years later, the G4S brand is widely recognised markets and build customer relationships.
This is particularly the case in our major developed markets and some key developing markets where we are one of the few international security companies with a local presence.
Financial resources The group continues to have strong cash flow generation, equivalent to 85%of PBITA in 2011, and this is one of the key performance indicators forG4S management.
In addition, the groups funding position is strong, withsufficient headroom and available committed facilities to finance currentinvestment plans.
Please see the Financial review on pages 38 to 41 9 G4S plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Shareholder information David Taylor-Smith Grahame Gibson Dan Ryan Willem van fide Ven Chief operating officer and Chief operating officer and Regional CEO Regional CEO Europe Regional CEO UK and Africa Regional CEO Americas Asia Middle East Stakeholder relationships Financial KPIs G4S engages with multiple stakeholders on a variety of issues.
The key financial performance indicators for the group and G4S operational management across both the secure solutions and cash solutions businesses are organic growth, cash conversion operating cash flow as % of PBITA Customers andPBITA margin.
These are used for the following reasons: The very nature of G4Ss business requires its management and employees u Organic growth is used as the best measurement of growth inherent to understand its customers business issues and risks and provide an within a business, and it is widely accepted as such appropriate solution.
Customer engagement also helps to improve customer service and to develop new services to help customers achieve their u Cash conversion is used to measure the cash generation of the group owngoals.
andhow successful the business is at managing its operating capital u PBITA margin is used as a measure of success in controlling the cost base relative to sales Employees and their representatives As a service business, G4S is judged on its service delivery and the difference The performance of the group KPIs can be seen on page 1 and the 9 it can make to its customers.
It is essential that employees understand their performance of the business division KPIs on pages 29 and 35 role in service delivery, are trained well, rewarded appropriately, have the righttools for the job and are motivated to deliver a quality service to customers.
A significant proportion of the groups employees is represented Non-financial KPIs by a union or collective bargaining method.
G4S works with unions, Managers across the group are also targeted to achieve additional specific unionfederations and other employee representatives to improve company or country objectives which relate to the business environment  and to make sure any issues are dealt with inwhich they operate and the local challenges that the businesses face.
All objectives and targets are focused on driving the business performance forward and delivering the groups solutions strategy over the longer term.
Investors Ata group-wide level, one of the key elements of the strategy is to ensure Attracting appropriate investment in the company enables the group that, over time, a significant proportion of the groups revenue is derived todevelop its business and continue to invest in its growth strategies.
from what we define as solutions type contracts and relationships.
Ensuring that its strategies and practices are aligned to investor needs andprinciples is a core element of developing investor confidence and This is measured through an ongoing analysis of the groups top customers ensuring that the group continues to attract the investment it requires.
acrossthe globe as outlined on page 18.
Industry bodies HR standards and KPIs As an international leader in its sector G4S willingly takes on responsibility In addition, we believe strong employee relationships help deliver excellent forestablishing strong benchmarks wherever it operates, and plays a customer service.
To ensure that G4S delivers on its commitments to its pivotalrole in raising standards in the wider industry and society as a whole.
employees, businesses are required to report monthly on key metrics ManyG4S employees play an active role in industry bodies and associations relatingto: across the world.
u Health and safety Governments and legislators u Employee turnover and stability As well as being some of the groups largest customers, governments create u Industrial relations and implement laws and regulations and so are important stakeholders.
u Recruitment rates Thegroup supports regulation whichis designed to improve standards andproactively encourages it wherepossible.
It is important to ensure that legislative developments donotcreateunfair competitive environments Please see pages 44 to 48 and the G4S 2011 CSR report for more detail 9 orunnecessary burdens onbusiness activities.
Experts Experts on specific topics help the group to ensure that policies and practices are aligned with best practice in many areas such as its environmental impact, health and safety and human rights.
G4S plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
