Genus plc Annual Report 2011 40 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code Genus is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2011, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which is publicly available at http: www.
This Statement, which forms part of the Directors Report together with the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 58, describe how the Company has applied the principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and currently comprises three Executive Directors, the Non-Executive Chairman and three other Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors appear on page 34.
The Board considers that the Directors have a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring effective judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resourcing and standards of conduct which are vital to the success of the Group.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent.
The Board met eight times in the period of this report and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval including setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major capital expenditure projects and acquisition possibilities, approval of material contracts, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Additional Board meetings can be held if necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
The Board delegates authority to the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams to make day-to-day operating decisions to ensure the proper management of the Groups business and implementation of the Boards approved strategy.
In turn, they recommend strategy and plans to the Board, make routine decisions on resources and ensure that robust operational and financial controls are in place.
Members of the regional management teams are invited on a regular basis to make presentations to the Board and participate in certain aspects of strategic reviews.
The Chairman, Bob Lawson, has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Chief Executive, Richard Wood, has executive responsibility for achieving operational and financial targets and for executing the Groups strategy.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and are set out in writing.
The Companys Senior Non-Executive Director is Nigel Turner who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and to independent professional advice as required.
In addition, the Company ensures that the Directors receive appropriate training as and when necessary.
To ensure the Board is able to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information, with Board packs being issued to all Directors well in advance of Board meetings.
The Group Company Secretary & General Counsel ensures that Board procedures are followed and that statutory and regulatory requirements are complied with.
The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 30 June 2011 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Non-Executive John Hawkins 3 3 1 2 2 2 2 Bob Lawson 5 5 2 3 3 1 1 Executive Directors Richard Wood 8 8 3 3 2 3 John Worby 8 8 3 1 n a Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner 8 8 3 3 5 5 3 3 Mike Buzzacott 8 8 3 3 5 5 n a Barry Furr 8 8 3 3 3 n a Note: Figures in brackets indicate maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member, as a member of the relevant Committee.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 41 The Audit Committee The Audit Committee, comprising Mike Buzzacott Chairman, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr, meets at least three times a year and has formal terms of reference that are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
At the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Groups internal and external auditors.
Minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring a wide range of matters including the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Groups financial statements, the effectiveness of the Groups accounting systems and control environment including risk management, the Groups internal audit function, the effectiveness and independence of the Groups external auditors including the provision of any additional services to the Group, and the Groups reporting to shareholders.
The Audit Committee Report set out on pages 45 to 47 provides details of the role and activities of the Committee and its relationship with the internal and external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, comprising Nigel Turner Chairman, Bob Lawson, Mike Buzzacott and Barry Furr, meets at least twice a year to review the performance of the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers, and to recommend their remuneration and other benefit packages, including performance related bonus schemes, pension rights and share incentives.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board as a whole sets the remuneration of the Non-Executives.
The Remuneration Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee which includes details of Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share awards is shown on pages 48 to 58.
The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, comprising Bob Lawson Chairman, Nigel Turner, Mike Buzzacott, Barry Furr and Richard Wood, is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and structure of the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
Its duties include reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes, giving full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior executives taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates on merit to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
In the period, the Committee considered the appointment of a new Chief Executive due to the retirement of Richard Wood effective 30 September 2011.
Suitable candidates were identified by the Committee using the services of external consultants to facilitate a search and a recommendation was made to the Board.
As a result, Karim Bitar was appointed as a Director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2011 and will become Chief Executive with effect from 30 September 2011.
Science Committee The Boards Science Committee is chaired by Professor Barry Furr and has the responsibility of developing and recommending to the Board the Companys research and development strategy that will allow Genus to extend its leading position in livestock breeding by scientific innovation and monitoring progress of individual projects.
The Committee met three times in the period.
Terms of Reference The terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Science Committee are available on the Companys website: www.
Board Performance Evaluation The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Company.
Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board, led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, carried out in the period an evaluation of performance using a system based on the use of a questionnaire and one-to-one meetings between the Chairman and the individual Directors.
The Board met to discuss the conclusions of the evaluation exercise.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 42 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The performance evaluation exercise focused on matters such as the effectiveness, expertise and dynamics of the Board together with matters such as Board support, strategic and operational risk management and internal controls, succession planning and management of human resources, corporate governance and the effectiveness of the Boards Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation exercise showed the Board and its Committees to be working well.
Certain recommendations for improvement have been agreed and will be implemented in the current financial year.
The Board is satisfied that each Director has sufficient skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their role: continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update their skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to fulfil their role both on the Board and on Board Committees.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its Directors knowledge and capabilities.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsels responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees and between senior management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
All Directors receive induction on joining the Board.
As part of their role as members of a unitary Board, Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy.
Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors, and in succession planning.
During the period, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met regularly as a group without the Executive Directors present.
Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, the Non-Executive Directors have also met without the Chairman present to discuss appropriate issues and appraise the Chairmans performance, taking account of the views expressed by the Executive Directors.
Shareholder Relations The Company has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors through a planned programme of investor relations.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director meet frequently with representatives of institutional shareholders and private client brokers.
Feedback from these meetings including that prepared by independent brokers and advisors is discussed at Board meetings enabling all Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to understand the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director also maintain contact with major shareholders.
The Board takes the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to meet and communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their involvement.
The Business Review on pages 4 to 33 provides a detailed review of the Groups performance and future developments.
Bob Lawson, Mike Buzzacott, Nigel Turner and Barry Furr will be available to answer questions as Chairmen of the Board and its Committees at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2011.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has applied the Code by establishing a structured risk management system which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties affecting the Group and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
The system applies on an ongoing basis to each business unit of the Group worldwide, divisional management boards, the Companys Operating Board and Main Board.
The Companys management structure is described further below.
The Main Board has continued to enhance the Groups risk management system during the year by each of the regional businesses conducting externally facilitated risk management workshops, the results of which were reviewed by the Companys Operating Board and Main Board.
During the period, the Groups internal audit activities were outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP who were tasked to audit specific key business risks identified by the Companys risk management system and agreed by the Board.
In addition, specialist third party consultants are tasked from time to time to perform an internal audit of a specific key business risk, for example the Companys compliance with environmental and health and safety requirements and the Companys business continuity plans.
Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Company appointed a Head of Internal Audit to bring in-house the overall management of internal audit and increase the overall resource applied to internal audit activities.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 43 The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In compliance with the Code, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Groups financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by this report.
This included the work programme of the Companys internal audit function, and management reports prepared at the time of the approval of the Companys interim and final reports and financial statements, to consider whether significant risks were identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses had arisen and the remedial action that had been taken.
The management reports were based on the output of detailed risk workshops conducted by the Group centrally and regionally in the year, and responses received to comprehensive questionnaires issued to each of the Groups business units and regional management.
In addition, together with the risk events and controls that had been recognised through the Groups other means of day-to-day risk management, namely the divisional management boards, the Operating Board, the Main Board and insurers were considered.
Whilst areas are routinely identified for improvement, during the course of its review of the system of internal control the Board has neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material or significant.
The key elements of the Groups internal control and risk management systems are as follows: Management of Business Risk The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group.
The key risks identified as part of this process and the mitigating actions to control such risks are summarised on page 31.
The Board, the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams are tasked with the responsibility for the ongoing identification, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of risks that ensure the significant risks affecting the Company are properly identified and managed.
Further enhancements were made in the Companys management of business risk in the year by the constructive use of Group wide externally facilitated risk management workshops.
Management Structure Authority to operate the Groups subsidiary companies is delegated to the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management teams within limits set by the Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group requires the approval of the Board.
Formal empowerment levels, which set out delegation of authority, authorisation levels and other control procedures are in place.
These procedures are supplemented by operating standards set by the Chief Operating Officers and their regional management, as required for the type of business and the geographical location of each subsidiary.
An Operating Board, chaired by the Chief Executive and comprising the Group Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officers, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller and other executives by invitation meets on a regular basis to review the Groups performance against its budget, long and short-term strategies, risk management and other key business issues, indicators and activities.
In addition, monthly business review meetings are held between each regional business unit and the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel and the Group Financial Controller.
Information and Financial Reporting Systems The Groups current planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead together with the preparation of three year strategic plans, which the Board reviews and approves.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through monthly reporting of financial results, key performance indicators and variances, updated full year forecasts and information on key business risk areas.
The main features of internal control and risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated accounts are segregation of duties, a robust consolidation and reporting software system, various levels of management review and reconciliation processes.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards enhanced by post-recruitment training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment as is the maintenance of high ethical standards.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 44 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Investment Appraisal Capital expenditure is regulated by a budgetary process and predetermined authorisation levels.
For expenditure above specific levels, detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Due diligence work is carried out if a business is to be acquired.
Major projects and all acquisitions are subject to post-implementation reviews on a timely basis.
Areas of under performance against expectations and any significant overspends are investigated and corrective action is taken where required.
Approval This statement was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Bob Lawson Chairman 5 September 2011
