Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 45 Audit Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and the Company fulfils this requirement.
All members of the Committee are expected to be financially literate.
The principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups financial systems, internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management system: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory guidance and monitoring compliance: ensuring the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise matters of concern in confidence: and reviewing the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar in the period.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters relevant to its terms of reference in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend its meetings.
The Chairman is not a member of the Committee but does attend its meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
Other members of management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties In the year ended 30 June 2011 and up to the date of this report the Audit Committee has: reviewed the Financial Statements in the 2011 Annual Report and the Financial Statements in the 2011 Interim Report.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from management on significant issues affecting the Financial Statements, and reports from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and review of the Interim Report: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: met with the external auditors, without management being present: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2011 Financial Statements and review of the Interim Report: reviewed the independence and performance of the external auditors: agreed a work programme for the Companys internal audit function: received reports from the internal audit function on the work undertaken by internal audit and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year: reviewed the performance of the internal audit function: Genus plc Annual Report 2011 46 Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report continued met with the internal auditors, without management being present: reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference: reviewed the Groups tax strategy and the Groups pension arrangements: reviewed the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy and bribery prevention procedures.
External Auditors Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence, objectivity and performance of the external auditors, and for making a recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment of external auditors on an annual basis.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, were first appointed as external auditor of the Company for the period ended 30 June 2006 following a formal tender process.
The Groups policy on non-audit services sets out services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, addressing both the nature of services and monetary thresholds requiring approval by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Chairman.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte are retained for tax advisory and tax compliance services.
Note 8 to the Financial Statements sets out the fees paid to Deloitte during the year for audit services, audit related services and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the use of Deloitte for such services does not impair their independence as the Groups external auditors.
The Companys Non-Audit Services by Auditors Policy can be found on the Companys website www.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee has reviewed a report from management on the effectiveness of the external audit work based on questionnaires completed by key financial staff and members of the Audit Committee covering matters such as: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: the content of the external auditors reports: and cost effectiveness.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors be reappointed for a further year.
A new senior statutory audit partner has been selected by the Company due to the previous senior audit partner having held office for five years.
Internal Audit Function The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management system.
During the period the Companys internal audit function had been outsourced to Ernst & Young LLP.
Subsequent to the end of the financial year, the Company appointed a Head of Internal Audit to bring in-house the overall management of internal audit and increase the overall resource applied to internal audit activities.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee has reviewed the following in the period: the scope, terms of reference, resource and activities of the internal audit function within the Group: internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: the internal auditors reports on the results of individual audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of resolution of the matters raised in such reports: the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and the performance of the internal auditors.
The Groups Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 47 Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
It has also ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and has assisted the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Mike Buzzacott Chairman of the Audit Committee 5 September 2011
