BA Audit Committee report Composition Activities The Audit Committee comprises the following independent nonThe Committee met on five occasions in 2011 timed to coincide with the executive Directors: financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 48.
Name Audit Committee position The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of John Sheldrick Chairman Corporate Audit, the engagement partner of  Tufan Erginbilgic Member from 9 May 2011 LLP PwC and other members of senior management attended Shonaid Jemmett-Page Member meetings by invitation.
The Head of Corporate Audit and PwC had Richard Parry-Jones Member the opportunity to discuss matters with the Committee without any Michael Turner Member executive management being present at two and three meetings The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
In addition, the members of the Committee met separately at the start of each meeting to discuss matters in the absence of any The Committees members have, in the Boards view, recent and persons attending by invitation.
relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Financial reporting Governance Code.
In particular, John Sheldrick, the Committee Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from During the year the Audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters in respect of the Companys half year 1995 until his retirement in September 2009 and has chaired GKNs Audit Committee since 2004: and Shonaid Jemmett-Page has held and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their consideration by the Board.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the a number of senior finance roles in Unilever, is a former partner at KPMG and is currently Chief Operating Officer at CDC Group plc.
significant accounting judgements made in respect of restructuring charges, tax and warranty provisioning, non-recurring costs on Aerospace contracts, assumptions in respect of post-employment Role obligations, and charges arising from the temporary closure of the The primary role of the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to Groups plant in Gallatin, US.
Key points of disclosure and presentation the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk statements were also considered.
Reports highlighting key accounting management systems.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring matters and significant judgements were also received from PwC in and reviewing: respect of each set of financial statements: these were discussed in the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant Committee with the auditors.
Analysis to support the going concern reporting judgements contained in them: judgement given on page 35 was also reviewed.
the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external Following consideration of the matters presented to it and discussion auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of with both management and PwC, the Committee was satisfied that the non-audit services: significant judgements made were justified and that the financial the effectiveness of the external audit process, making reporting disclosures were appropriate and meaningful.
recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the External auditors external auditors: Independence the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Corporate Audit : implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on external audit.
The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk independence of the external auditors, regulate the appointment of management systems: and former employees of the external audit firm to positions in the Group the Groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors and ethics, including whistleblowing.
During the year, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board approved changes to the policy on the Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and provision of non-audit services by auditors in order to improve clarity responsibility are available on our website at www.
The terms and reflect current practice and developing regulatory guidance.
In were considered as part of the Boards performance evaluation review particular, changes were made to exclude a number of services in line as described on page 50. with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees, both published in Advice provided to the Committee December 2010.
In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access to the services of Corporate Audit and to the external auditors, As a general principle the external auditors are excluded from and may obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
During 2011 consultancy work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit no member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought work unless there are compelling reasons to do so.
Any proposal to such outside professional advice beyond that which was provided use the external auditors for non-audit work must be submitted to the directly to the Committee by the external auditors.
Both the Head of Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for approval prior Corporate Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the to appointment.
The Finance Director will, depending on the nature of Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During the year, an electronic approval system for non-audit services was implemented, allowing improved tracking and visibility of non-audit fees.
The non-audit fees incurred during 2011 are set out in.
BB GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 note 4 a to the financial statements and include half year review work, The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group tax compliance and advice whereby PwC can draw upon significant level significance, including details of any remedial action being taken: historic knowledge gained through the audit process, technical these reports included updates on the status of the Groups proprietary accounting advice and other verification and attestation procedures.
internal financial control monitoring system GKN Reporting and All such activities remain within the policy approved by the Board.
It considered reports from Corporate Audit and PwC on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to the The Committee receives annual confirmation from PwC as to their Board on the results of its review.
The Committee also examined reports independence and objectivity within the context of applicable detailing the Groups actual or potential material litigation, monitored regulatory requirements and professional standards, as well as compliance with the Groups policy for the appointment of agents management confirmation of compliance with the Groups policies on and consultants which is available on our website, and reviewed the employment of former employees of the external auditors and the the Directors and Company Secretarys expenses.
use of the external auditors for non-audit work.
The objectivity and independence of PwC is also considered as part of Corporate Audits Further information on the Groups systems of internal control and annual review of the effectiveness of both the external auditors and risk management is given on pages 50 and 51. the audit process.
Whistleblowing Effectiveness and reappointment To support the Groups Employee Disclosure Procedures Policy which Following the rotation of the audit partner after the completion of is available on our website, GKN operates a Group-wide international the 2010 audit in line with best practice guidelines, the Committee whistleblowing hotline.
Run by an external and independent third party, undertook a thorough review of the performance of the external auditors the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make and the effectiveness of the external audit process which included: on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
Any matters so reported are a tender proposal by the new audit partner for future GKN audits investigated and escalated to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
which covered such matters as qualification, expertise, resourcing, Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made independence, objectivity and value for money and which was are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
subject to rigorous scrutiny by the Committee: completion of a comprehensive questionnaire by Directors and Performance evaluation senior management across the Group on the effectiveness of the Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process which took auditors and the audit process: place during the year can be found on page 50. a comparative analysis of GKNs audit and non-audit fees against On behalf of the Committee those of the constituents of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices: consideration of the findings of an independent benchmarking survey into the four major audit firms: and a review of externally published documents on the four major audit firms including PwC issued by regulatory bodies.
Following the review, and taking account of the tenure of PwC as John Sheldrick auditors, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to Chairman of the Audit Committee recommend to the Board PwCs reappointment as the Companys auditors.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the 27 February 2012 Committees choice of external auditors.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2011 can be found in note 4 a to the financial statements.
Internal control In 2011 the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken by Corporate Audit and considered the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any recommendations made.
The Committee considered and approved the 2012 Corporate Audit programme, including the proposed audit approach particularly in respect of post-acquisition reviews and antibribery compliance checks, coverage and allocation of resources.
The effectiveness of Corporate Audit was formally reviewed, taking into account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
