AC In this section Corporate governance Leadership page 47 Effectiveness page 49 Accountability page 50 Relations with shareholders page 51 Compliance statement page 52 Introduction The regulatory and governance environment continued to evolve during 2011: the Bribery Act came into force in July 2011: issues such as risk appetite, diversity, succession planning, board evaluation and remuneration were brought to the fore through a number of consultations and reports: and amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code were announced.
GKN continues to be active in contributing to the governance debate and we have taken the necessary actions to ensure that our governance framework remains robust.
Board changes As reported in my Chairmans statement on page 5, we have strengthened the nonexecutive Director representation on the Board through the appointment of Tufan Erginbilgic.
Furthermore, our succession planning delivered very capable internal successors for the roles of both Chief Executive and Chairman: Nigel Stein and Mike Turner bring extensive skill and experience to their respective positions and the continuity they provide will doubtless be of great benefit to the Group.
Remuneration During the year, the Remuneration Committee undertook a thorough review of the policy and structure of remuneration for our executive Directors and a number of changes to the remuneration framework are proposed as a result.
These are designed to improve the alignment of the remuneration framework with the interests of shareholders and our strategic objectives, in particular the delivery of long term sustainable earnings growth.
Further information can be found in the remuneration report.
Diversity In February 2011, Lord Davies published a report containing recommendations to address the balance of women on boards, including recommendations for listed companies to announce their goals in this regard.
The report fostered much debate around gender diversity, culminating in the amendment of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Achieving gender diversity is more difficult in certain sectors and, as an engineering business, the demographic profile of the current talent pool presents significant challenges.
Notwithstanding this, we will work towards extending the female composition of our Board as vacancies arise and suitable candidates are identified, with an aspiration of 25% female membership by 2015.
Our prime responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our overriding aim in any new appointments must always be to select the best candidate.
Our governance framework is outlined in the following statement and is one which I believe will continue to contribute to the future success of GKN and its shareholders.
AD GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Leadership GKNs governance framework is designed to facilitate a combination of effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management required both to safeguard shareholders interests and to sustain the success of GKN over the longer term.
The Board recognises that to achieve good governance requires considerable and continuing effort.
Governance is therefore an integral part of the way in which the Board and its Committees operate.
The governance framework extends across the Group to ensure that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with wherever GKN operates and that an appropriate internal control environment exists.
In pursuit of GKNs Values, Directors and employees are expected to act with integrity at all times, combining high standards of business performance with equivalent standards of corporate governance and risk management.
Directors also have a statutory duty to take into account the long term consequences of their decisions, the interests of employees, relationships with suppliers, customers and others, the impact of the Groups operations on local communities and the environment, and the need to maintain a reputation for high standards of business conduct.
The role of the Board The GKN Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Group.
Key aspects of the Boards role include setting the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary capabilities to deliver the strategy are in place, reviewing operational performance and ensuring that an appropriate and effective framework of control and risk management exists.
A full description of the role of the Board, which includes a number of specific responsibilities reserved for its decision, is available on our website at www.
Roy Brown has been Chairman since 2004: he is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
Following the retirement of Sir Kevin Smith, Nigel Stein was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2012.
As Chief Executive, he leads the business and, with the support of the Executive Committee, is responsible for the execution of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day running of the Group.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a 12 month rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
Agendas are closely aligned to the key aspects of the Boards role: below are examples of areas of the Boards focus in 2011.
Strategy Capabilities Performance Control Approved strategic plans and Succession planning for the Considered reports following Assessed, with the support the Groups annual budget, Board and senior executives the fatalities at Gallatin and of the Audit Committee, the with appropriate consideration agreed corrective actions to effectiveness of internal Reviewed divisional of the risks inherent in them strengthen further the Groups control and audit processes technology plans that safety focus Approved the strategic support the delivery of Considered post acquisition acquisitions of Getrag Driveline the business strategy Reviewed divisional strategic reviews in respect of Products and Stromag Holding and operational performance Rockford Powertrain Received a detailed update on and Teleflex Aerospace Considered further fide-risking the application of continuous Considered Group financial Manufacturing Group opportunities in respect of the improvement across the Group performance, with continued Groups pension arrangements focus on cash generation and Assessed the effectiveness working capital of the Board The Board meets formally at least eight times a year.
At least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to the Groups business locations: in 2011 the Board toured a number of Aerospace and Automotive facilities located in North Carolina and Alabama in the US including a Getrag driveline facility which was acquired during the year.
On a separate occasion the Board also visited the Groups Aerospace facility at Filton in the UK.
A number of informal meetings are also held during the year which help to strengthen relations between Directors.
There are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, should this be deemed appropriate.
Board Committees The Board has appointed a number of Committees which play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
Their terms of reference are available on our website.
All Board Committees are supported by the Company Secretariat.
AE Corporate governance Continued Corporate Governance Committees Audit Committee monitors the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups chaired by John Sheldrick systems of internal control and risk management.
A report on its activities in 2011 is given on pages 54 and 55.
Remuneration Committee determines and makes recommendations on the Groups remuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain chaired by Richard Parry-Jones and reward executive Directors and senior executives.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 56 to 68.
Nominations Committee recommends Board and Board Committee appointments and reviews succession planning against the leadership chaired by Roy Brown needs of the Group.
A report on its activities during the year is set out on page 53.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of these Committees.
This gives them detailed insight into matters critical to the success of the Group and helps to inform Board discussions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive are also members of the Nominations Committee.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the Audit Committee, made available to other Directors.
In order that the Board remains fully appraised of their work, the Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
These Committees can obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company if deemed necessary.
Operational Governance Executive Committee is responsible for executing strategy by leading, overseeing and directing the activities of the Group.
chaired by Nigel Stein Its work is supported by a number of sub-committees: Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is responsible for driving operational best practice globally through the application of Lean business processes.
Group Technology is responsible for development of the Groups technology plan, driving the development of appropriate Strategy Board technologies across the Group and the strengthening of external relationships including access to sources of funding.
Governance and has responsibility for developing strategy for and providing oversight and direction on all matters relating to Risk Sub-Committee governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
In November 2011, the Chief Executives Council was established to help shape the Groups strategy and operations.
Chaired by the Chief Executive, the Councils membership comprises 25 senior executives from divisional leadership teams involved in the day-to-day running of the businesses.
Board and Committee attendance The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2011 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Director 9 meetings 5 meetings 8 meetings 5 meetings Chairman Roy Brown 9 5 Executive Directors Sir Kevin Smith 9 5 Marcus Bryson 9 Andrew Reynolds Smith 9 William Seeger 9 a Nigel Stein 8 Non-executive Directors b Tufan Erginbilgic 4 6 2 2 3 5 1 2 Shonaid Jemmett-Page 95 8 5 c Richard Parry-Jones 84 8 4 John Sheldrick 95 8 5 Michael Turner 95 8 5 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
a Nigel Stein was unable to attend the Board meeting in February due to a prior business commitment with a major customer.
b Tufan Erginbilgic was unable to attend the Nominations Committee meeting in June and the Board and Remuneration Committee meetings in June and September due to prior business commitments.
c Richard Parry-Jones was unable to attend the Board, Audit and Nominations Committee meetings in February due to personal commitments.. AF GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Effectiveness Development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the Board composition markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and The Board currently comprises four executive and six non-executive regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings Directors, including the Chairman.
Biographical details of all Directors with senior executives.
Board visits to Group business locations enable are given on pages 44 and 45.
The Board considers that all of the nonthe Directors to meet with local management and employees and to executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent and is not update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect the judgement operations.
Non-executive Directors are also encouraged to visit of any Director.
Group operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure Changes to Board composition in 2011 are set out below: to the business.
On 3 February the Board renewed the terms of appointment for Training and development needs are discussed with each Director Richard Parry-Jones for a further three year period.
by the Chairman as part of the individual performance review process.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed a non-executive Director on 9 May for an initial term of three years, bringing with him considerable Secretary such that any needs identified either through the review process or on an ad hoc basis can be addressed: for example, Nigel experience of the global energy industry.
Stein attended a Harvard Business School workshop for new chief From 1 October, responsibility for the Groups Automotive business executives, Directors attended external training courses on a number was assumed by Andrew Reynolds Smith, with Marcus Bryson of matters including remuneration, industry regulation, climate undertaking responsibility for GKN Land Systems.
change and risk, executive Directors completed the Groups Strategic Sir Kevin Smith retired from the Board on 31 December and was Leadership Development Programme and all Directors received succeeded as Chief Executive by Nigel Stein from 1 January 2012. in-house briefings on the implications of the Bribery Act and related changes to the Groups policies and procedures.
At the AGM on 3 May 2012, and in accordance with the Companys articles of association, shareholders will be asked to elect Tufan Information and support Erginbilgic to the Board.
All other Directors, with the exception of Roy The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive Brown who retires at the conclusion of the AGM, will seek re-election in accurate, timely and clear information.
The provision of information to accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
the Board, particularly in relation to risk, was reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
Descriptions of the role of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary are available on our To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to website.
The non-executive Directors provide constructive challenge enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
circulated to Directors one week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that the Board is fully briefed Nominations Committee.
The Committee follows Board approved on legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
procedures available on our website which provide a framework for In addition, Directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, take the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
may be expected to make recommendations.
Appointments are made on merit, and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity The Company Secretary also supports the Committee Chairmen by including skills, experience and gender.
Non-executive appointees ensuring that agendas are appropriate and address all matters for are also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to which the Committee has specific responsibility.
On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction These procedures were used by the Nominations Committee in pack which includes background information about GKN and its recommending to the Board the appointment of Nigel Stein as Chief Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors duties Executive, Michael Turner as Chairman and Tufan Erginbilgic as a nonand responsibilities, procedures for dealing in GKN shares and a executive Director.
The Committee engaged the services of an external number of other governance-related issues.
This is supplemented by a search consultant in relation to these appointments: further information briefing with the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the is set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 53. induction of new Directors both into the Group and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors.
The Director meets with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be briefed on the general Group strategy and each individual business portfolio.
Plant visits and external training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and responsibilities of Board Committees, are arranged as appropriate.
This induction process was applied following the appointment of Tufan Erginbilgic during the year.
B Corporate governance Continued Performance evaluation Accountability An external performance evaluation was undertaken in late 2010 and Financial and business reporting the results were presented to the Board in January 2011.
The facilitator When reporting externally the Board aims to present a balanced and Sheena Crane did not provide any other services to the Group.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
A number of recommendations were agreed and implemented, Such assessment is provided in the business review sections of this including the following: annual report.
The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of the preparation of the annual report are set out on page 72 and the a written Chief Executives report on Group performance, progress auditors report on page 73 includes a statement by PwC about their on significant strategic activity and other issues of note to be reporting responsibilities.
As set out on page 35, the Directors are circulated in advance of and considered at each Board meeting: of the opinion that GKN's business is a going concern.
an annual deep dive review by the Board of succession planning Risk management and internal control to, and development for, senior levels below Board: The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges detailed reviews of strategic capabilities including continuous its responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk improvement and technology: and management and receives regular reports on such matters.
The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups ability to the rescheduling of Committee meetings to the day prior to Board manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
meetings and more time allocated to the Board strategic review meeting in order to allow for increased debate.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group The evaluation process for 2011 involved in-depth one-to-one interviews and for deciding how these are to be managed.
In addition to formal conducted by the Company Secretary with each Director to gather reviews of risk management by the Executive Committee, members are feedback on the following areas believed to be critical to informing expected to report to the Committee as necessary the occurrence of and assisting the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees: any material control issues, serious accidents or events that have had strategy and process: a major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been identified.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting risk and risk management systems: and or Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
As part of its remit, monitoring financial and non-financial performance: the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee develops strategy for and provides oversight and direction on all matters relating to succession planning: risk management.
deep dive topics and capability reviews: GKNs enterprise risk management programme facilitates a common, overall Board and Committee working efficiency: and Group-wide approach to the assessment of risks and the way in which these are monitored, managed and controlled.
Risk profiling key themes for discussion focus in 2012. is undertaken at plant, region business stream, divisional and The results of the evaluation exercise were presented at a Board corporate levels using a software tool which provides a consistent meeting in January 2012.
The output is under consideration by the set of risk definitions and a common approach to probability and Board: any agreed changes will be implemented as soon as practicable.
A broad spectrum of risks is considered, including those relating to strategy, operational performance, financial including credit The individual performance of the Directors was also evaluated, against risk, risk financing and fraud, product engineering and technology, a number of assessment areas, through one-to-one interviews with the business reputation, human resources, health and safety, and the Chairman.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of these environment.
Consolidated risk maps are reviewed by divisional evaluations and the Chairman confirms that each Director continues management, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and to make a valuable contribution to the Board and, where relevant, the Board.
its Committees and devotes sufficient time to the role.
A summary of those risks which could have a material impact on the Group is given on pages 36 and 37.. B GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Group also has in place systems and procedures for exercising Relations with shareholders control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include: ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
the formulation and deployment of Group accounting policies and Major shareholders procedures, supported by regular bulletins from the central and Communication with major institutional shareholders is undertaken divisional finance teams on the application of accounting standards as part of GKNs investor relations programme, in which non-executive and reporting protocols: Directors are encouraged to participate.
Group and divisional policies governing the maintenance of The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, with support from accounting records, transaction reporting and key financial the Company Secretary, meet with institutional shareholders and control procedures: investor representatives to discuss matters relating to governance and strategy.
Any issues raised are fed back to the Board by the Chairman.
a proprietary internal control monitoring system, GKN Reporting and The Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues with Integrity Procedures GRiP, to assess compliance with key financial shareholders where concerns cannot be addressed through normal controls on monthly, quarterly and annual cycles: channels of communication.
monthly operational review meetings which include, as necessary, reviews of internal financial reporting issues and financial control The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are joined by the Remuneration Committee Chairman where discussion includes monitoring: and matters relating to executive remuneration.
In late 2011 early 2012, ongoing training and development of financial reporting personnel.
the Remuneration Committee Chairman consulted with major shareholders on proposed changes to the remuneration framework Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review for executive Directors.
their business risks and to report on whether there has been any material breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations is supplemented by an interim review conducted at the half year.
meet regularly with major shareholders to discuss strategy, financial Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied and operating performance.
Feedback is sought by the Companys with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with the policies brokers after meetings and presentations to ensure that the Groups which support the GKN Code.
strategy and performance is being communicated effectively and to develop further an understanding of shareholder views.
This feedback The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage is included in a twice-yearly report to the Board which also provides an and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk update on investor relations activity, highlights changes in holdings of failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to of substantial shareholders and reports on share price movements.
In eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide addition, external brokers reports on GKN are circulated to all Directors.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
GKN hosted a Capital Markets Day for institutional investors in April 2011, which included a visit to the Aerospace A350 facility in Bristol The review process and divisional presentations on growth opportunities and technology The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control innovations.
A recording of the presentations and slide material shown processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee to discharge is available on our website.
this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees report on pages 54 and 55.
Communications with shareholders Written responses are given to letters or email received from The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee shareholders and all shareholders receive, or can access electronically, concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk copies of the annual and half year reports.
This report is considered by the Board in forming its own section of our website was enhanced during 2011 and provides further view on the effectiveness of the systems.
detail about the Group, including share price information, webcasts and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of presentations of annual and half year results, other presentations made internal control and risk management during the period covered by to the investment community, and copies of financial reports.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the guidance on internal control the revised Annual General Meeting Information regarding the 2012 AGM is given on page 69.
Shareholders Turnbull Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms who attend the AGM are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
Resolutions for consideration at the 2012 AGM will be voted on by way of a poll rather than by show of hands.
This is a more transparent method of voting as it allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those cast by proxy.
The results of the poll vote will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on our website after the meeting.
Corporate governance Continued Compliance statement This corporate governance statement, together with the Nominations Committee report on page 53, the Audit Committee report on pages 54 and 55 and the remuneration report on pages 56 to 68, provide a description of how the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied within GKN during 2011.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2011, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in the Code with the exception of provision B.
1.2 which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive Directors.
As stated in the 2010 annual report, a recruitment process was started in late 2010 to identify a replacement non-executive Director following the retirement of Helmut Mamsch on 31 October 2010.
From this date and until the appointment of Tufan Erginbilgic on 9 May 2011, the Board comprised five executive Directors and four independent non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
Since this date, the Company has been in compliance with provision B.
1.2 and currently comprises four executive Directors and five independent nonexecutive Directors excluding the Chairman.
The Board is content that the independent judgement of the non-executive Directors was not adversely impacted during the period of non-compliance.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1, 2.2 1, 2.3 1, 2.5, 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown on pages 69 to 71.
