14 Strategy in action Market leadership Creating a new global leader in all-wheel drive GKN Driveline has established its position as global leader in the engineering, manufacture and vehicle integration of all-wheel drive AWD systems, through its acquisition of Getrags Driveline Products business in September 2011.
With operations in the US and Europe, Getrag Driveline Products has a product, manufacturing and customer footprint complementary to GKNs existing AWD product business, which is predominantly based in Asia.
Production of AWD vehicles is forecast to grow faster than overall global vehicle production, reflecting increasing demand globally for crossover vehicles and compact Sport Utility Vehicles SUVs.
Following the acquisition, and against this positive market outlook, GKN Driveline now offers its customers throughout the world a unique capability in the development of entire AWD systems.. 1C GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Leading the way in composite technology GKN Aerospaces technology-led products use the latest developments in materials processing and advanced metallic and composite manufacturing capabilities.
With advances in composites for the engine environment and its world-leading expertise in wing structures, GKN Aerospace is at the forefront of aerospace composite technology.
At its plant in Filton, UK, GKN Aerospace manufactures advanced carbon fibre composite wing spars for the new Airbus A350 XWB, using state-of-the-art carbon fibre fabrication techniques.
During 2011, it delivered the first trailing edge assembly to Airbus.
GKN is investing heavily in next generation automation technology and the Filton site is a global centre of excellence for advanced wing assembly.
This ensures its ability to fulfil customers orders and help them reach weight and emissions targets through the use of advanced carbon materials.
Business review Establishing strong positions in rapidly growing markets.
1D GKN Driveline is increasingly well positioned to take advantage of the rapid growth in the Chinese and Indian automotive markets.
Strategy in action Continued During 2011, GKN opened its twelfth production facility in China, a new 52,000 square metre sideshaft plant in Changchun, northern China.
Together with a phase two expansion, due to be completed in 2012, this will provide a capacity of one million vehicle sets a year from 2013.
China is already the largest car market in the world and, to keep pace with customer demand, GKN Drivelines production capacity in China is set to grow by more than 50% in the next four years.
Rapid growth also continues in India, where a new manufacturing facility for CVJ Systems and Trans-axle solutions is under construction.
When fully operational in August 2012, it will have an annual production capacity of more than 600,000 CVJ Systems.
GKN Drivelines business in India has grown at an annual rate of more than 15% over the past five years and India is expected to remain a high-growth market.. 1E GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Extending expertise to offer new products Two acquisitions during 2011 provide platforms for growth in both new and existing markets.
While the acquisition of Getrag Driveline Products see page 14 helped secure global leadership in the fastgrowing all-wheel drive AWD segment, the Stromag acquisition supports GKN Land Systems strategy to build a global leader in industrial power management capabilities, extending expertise in electro-mechanical components.
Stromag is a market-leading engineer in industrial power management, with a strong technology base and a focus on providing tailored solutions for its customers.
GKN Land Systems existing business combined with Stromag provide a strong platform to accelerate growth in existing markets, such as agriculture and construction, together with access to a number of attractive new industrial segments including renewable energy.
Geographic expansion, initially in North America, and then into Asia, will provide further opportunities for the business.
1F Strategy in action Continued Applying Lean processes in all we do A culture of continuous improvement is at the heart of everything we do at GKN.
By constantly looking to improve our people, processes and products, we deliver value to our customers.
A Lean Enterprise model is applied in GKN businesses and production processes worldwide.
This approach splits operations into value streams, the end-to-end process of delivering a product or service to the customer.
The core aim of the Lean improvement process is to minimise waste across an entire value stream.
GKN brings together many continuous improvement tools and techniques to change ways of working, serving customer needs more efficiently.
The case study below is an example of the improvements Lean techniques have made at one of GKNs sites.
All GKN sites have a continuous improvement plan, aligned to business objectives, which focuses employees consistently on positive development.
We aim to engage every employee in every location across GKN, building a culture which constantly challenges the norm and identifies opportunities to perform better.
Changing culture to improve efficiency GKN Aerospaces facility in Garden Grove, California, USA, manufactures military transparencies, commercial and business jet cockpits and passenger cabin windows.
Using Lean techniques, it has undergone a complete transformation.
Through the deployment of continuous improvement CI and enhanced organisational leadership, levels of quality, productivity and efficiency have all substantially increased.
To achieve this, business goals were aligned with the Lean Enterprise model to establish a CI plan.
In an on-going programme, management participate in training and events at the site with Employee Involvement EI being a primary focus.
All employees are trained in the fundamentals of Lean and take part in daily EI meetings based around sharing information and monitoring key performance metrics.
The site has embraced the CI culture and has a very motivated workforce, resulting in lower absenteeism and higher employee retention.
Since 2008, productivity has increased 29%, the business has gone from loss-making to profit, inventory levels are down 25% and scrap levels have been reduced by $2 million annually.
Garden Grove has positioned itself as a centre of excellence for transparency design, development and manufacture.. 1G GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operational excellence Business review.
2 Strategy in action Operating low-emission production processes Continued GKN Powder Metallurgy operates the worlds most energy efficient metal-forming process.
Sintering helps conserve natural resources by using recycled scrap metal to produce metal powder.
This powder is then pressured and heated to form sintered components in a products final shape.
Powder Metallurgy creates significantly less waste than competing processes such as casting, forging and machining.
A low-emission manufacturing process and the avoidance of wasteful secondary operations further reduce its environmental impact.
Components made through a sintering process are also lighter and their use in the automotive industry means that vehicles with powder metal parts require less energy and produce less carbon dioxide, thereby increasing efficiency and reducing demand on finite resources.
Driving electrification of transport Electric power is increasingly seen as a solution to developing sustainable, environmentally efficient transport.
This focus is leading to progressive electrification of the drivetrain in cars.
A key part of GKN Drivelines strategy is to support vehicle manufacturers as they search for fuel savings and reduced CO emissions through hybrid and electric drive vehicles.
2 GKN Driveline has formed a joint venture with EVO Electric Ltd, a UK pioneer in advanced electric drive solutions, enabling GKN Driveline to offer advanced axial flux motors and generators adding to its existing eDrive Systems portfolio.
The business is working on more than 20 electric hybrid programmes with automotive manufacturers.
The investment in EVO strategically enhanced GKN Drivelines capability in eDrive as it continues to innovate in the application of alternative power sources and sustainable energy in systems that deliver outstanding performance.. 21 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Sustainability Business review
