B@ GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Nominations Committee report Composition Activities The Nominations Committee comprises the following Directors: The Committee met on five occasions in 2011.
Members attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 48.
Name Nominations Committee position The Committees main focus in the year was on the succession process Roy Brown Chairman for both the Chief Executive and the Chairman roles.
Tufan Erginbilgic Member from 9 May 2011 In identifying a new Chief Executive to take over from Sir Kevin Smith on Shonaid Jemmett-Page Member his retirement at the end of the year, the Committees focus was to find an Richard Parry-Jones Member individual with proven leadership capabilities in a multinational business John Sheldrick Member who could lead the development of the Groups strategy in particular Nigel Stein Member from 1 January 2012 driving future growth, both organic and through acquisition.
An extensive Michael Turner Member process was conducted involving consideration of both internal and Sir Kevin Smith was a member of the Committee until his retirement external candidates, following which the Committee recommended from the Board on 31 December 2011.
Nigel Stein to the Board as successor to the Chief Executive.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, The process for the selection of a Chairman, to succeed Roy Brown the majority of members are independent non-executive Directors.
on his retirement in May 2012, was conducted by a Selection Panel comprising those non-executive Directors who did not wish to apply The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
for the role, and with support from Roy Brown, Sir Kevin Smith as Chief Executive and Nigel Stein as Chief Executive Designate.
Following a Role thorough process during which the Panel considered both internal and The role of the Nominations Committee is to lead the process for external candidates, Michael Turner was recommended to the Board as identifying, and making recommendations to the Board on, candidates GKNs next Chairman.
for appointment as Directors of the Company and as Company Both these appointments were unanimously approved by the Board.
Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to The Committee also recommended, and the Board approved, changes the Board on the composition of the Nominations Committee and in the executive Director responsibilities of Marcus Bryson and Andrew the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Reynolds Smith as a consequence of Nigel Steins appointment as Committees.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition Chief Executive.
In addition, following a successful search process of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, by the Committee, the Board approved its recommendation to appoint ethnicity and gender and the independence of the non-executive Tufan Erginbilgic to strengthen the non-executive membership of the Directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to Board following the retirement of Helmut Mamsch in late 2010. any changes.
The Nominations Committee follows Board-approved procedures in making its recommendations.
Performance evaluation Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process which took responsibility are available on our website at www.
The terms place during the year can be found on page 50. were considered as part of the Boards performance evaluation review On behalf of the Committee as described on page 50.
Advice provided to the Committee From time to time the Committee appoints external search consultants to provide support in recruiting and selecting individuals for potential appointment to the Board.
During 2011, MWM Consulting and Zygos Partnership were engaged by the Committee.
Neither of these firms provides any other services to the Group.
Roy Brown Chairman of the Nominations Committee 27 February 2012 Governance
