84 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Senior Independent Director Governance and policy Sir Robert Wilson has been our Senior Independent Director since This section describes our management structure and governance 20 May 2009.
His role is to act as a sounding board for the procedures and, together with the Remuneration Report on pages Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
He 106 to 133, includes details of how we applied and complied with is also available as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
the principles and provisions of the Code and with US legislation His responsibilities include the evaluation of the performance of and regulations.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial the Chairman, and at the request of the Chairman, evaluating the Reporting Councils website, www.
Throughout 2011, Board and its Committees in collaboration with the Committee we complied with the provisions of the Code, except that Larry Chairmen in years when the evaluation is conducted internally.
Culp was unable to attend the AGM due to another pressing The Senior Independent Director also works with the Chairman business commitment.
on the process for the selection of a new Chairman as appropriate Leadership and he chairs the Nominations Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Board for the Chairmans successor.
The Board Sir Robert maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company of our major shareholders through meetings with shareholders and and is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is reports from our investor relations team.
appropriately managed and achieves its strategic objectives.
The Sir Deryck Maughan will succeed Sir Robert as Senior Independent Board is also responsible for our system of corporate governance, Director with effect from the end of the AGM in 2013. strategy, risk management and financial performance.
CEO Sir Christopher Gent has led the Board as Chairman since January 2005.
The Board comprises three Executive Directors and 12 Our CEO, Sir Andrew Witty, is responsible for the management of Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
The Executive the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for Directors are the CEO, the CFO, and the Chairman, Research consideration and approval by the Board and implementing the & Development.
The CEO is assisted by other members of the CET, which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
Biographies of each of the Directors are given under Our Board Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under on pages 78 to 79.
Our Corporate Executive Team on pages 80 to 81.
The Chairman Company Secretary The role of our Chairman is to lead and manage the business of the The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, was appointed on Board to provide direction and focus, while ensuring that there is 1 January 2011.
She is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
He sets the agenda for Board discussions to promote Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
effective and constructive debate and to support a sound decisionShe has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the Boards making process, ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary.
and clear information, in particular about the companys performance.
Victoria supports the Chairman in the delivery of the corporate governance agenda, in particular in the planning of agendas for the The Chairman works closely with our CEO to ensure that the annual cycle of Board and Committee meetings, and ensuring that strategies and actions agreed by the Board are effectively information is made available to Board members in a timely implemented and provides support and advice to the CEO, while fashion.
She advises the Directors on Board procedures and respecting his executive responsibility for managing the Group.
The corporate governance matters, and arranges for the Non-Executive division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO has Directors to attend internal management meetings and visits to our been agreed by the Board and is set out in the governance section business operations.
For example, during the year, Larry Culp visited GSKs site in The Chairman is responsible for the performance of the Group to Shanghai, China.
He also met the Chairman and General Manager shareholders and leads discussions and the development of of GSK India in Mumbai.
Tom fide Swaan attended various internal relations with them.
compliance and assurance meetings as well as a conference of the The Chairman was considered to be independent in character and Audit & Assurance team and Stacey Cartwright visited GSKs judgement on his appointment.
manufacturing site in Ware, Hertfordshire.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element on the Board and are well placed to constructively challenge and support management, and help develop proposals on strategy.
Between them, they bring experience and independent judgement, gained at the most senior levels of international business operations and academia.
"GSK Annual Report 2011 85 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Corporate governance framework The Board monitors the performance of the Group as a whole by: s ENGAGING AT ""OARD MEETINGS WITH AND CHALLENGING THE #% AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE #%4 AS APPROPRIATE ON THE lNANCIAL AND operating performance of the Group and external issues material to the Groups prospects: s EVALUATING PROGRESS TOWARDS THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE 'ROUP S lNANCIAL AND BUSINESS OBJECTIVES AND ANNUAL PLANS 4HE."
ON %XECUTIVE Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting these objectives and plans: and s MONITORING THROUGH REPORTS RECEIVED FROM VARIOUS COMMITTEES THE SIGNIlCANT RISKS FACING THE 'ROUP The Board appraises and approves major nancing, investment and licensing decisions in excess of dened thresholds.
The CEO is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, the performance of the business.
The Board discharges its responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which include the approval of overall budgetary planning and business strategy.
BOARD Chairman, 3 Executive Directors and 11 Independent Non-Executive Directors Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chief Executive 7 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive officer Non-Executive Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and the Chairman Corporate Responsibility Finance Committee Corporate Administration Committee Executive and Non-Executive & Transactions Committee CET 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors Directors, other CET Members Directors and the Chairman and the Company Secretary Key Board Committees Management Committee The Board is ultimately responsible for the activities of the Group, its strategy and governance, risk management and financial performance.
The following matters are specically reserved to the Board: Strategy Approval of strategic plans and ensuring strategic objectives are achieved Major organisation changes Acquisitions, disposals, licensing transactions, mergers and joint ventures Governance Composition of the Board and its Committees Approval of appointments and succession plans for Executive Directors and other CET members Senior management terms of employment Corporate governance matters The Groups Code of Conduct Risk management Determination of the Groups risk appetite and risk management policies Monitoring major risks and exposures Review and approval of internal controls and risk management policies and processes Financial performance Appropriation and distribution of profits Capital investments Regular reviews of business performance and objectives 86 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration The Board met six times in 2011, with each member attending as Board agenda follows: During 2011, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business: Number of Number of meetings held whilst meetings a Board member attended January Review of the 2010 Board evaluation report Review of the Investor Relations strategy Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 6 Review of the 2010 financial results Sir Andrew Witty 6 6 6 Review of the Notice of AGM Simon Dingemans 6 6 6 Consideration of the re-appointment of the auditors Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 6 Review of the R&D commercial interface Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 Review of risk and internal control processes Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6 6 Stacey Cartwright 4 3 4 March Annual review of Biologicals operations Larry Culp 6 6 6 Annual review of GMS Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 6 Update on the Investor Relations strategy Judy Lewent 4 4 4 May Review of the financial strategy Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 6 Annual review of European operations James Murdoch 6 5 6 Annual review of operations in Japan Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6 6 AGM preparation Tom fide Swaan 6 6 6 Review of licensing and capital projects Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 6 Julian Heslop 2 2 2 July Review of changes to the financial strategy Simon Dingemans was appointed as a Director on 4 January 2011 Consideration of funding strategy Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent were appointed as Non-Executive Consideration of tax strategy Directors on 1 April 2011 Annual review of R&D Julian Heslop retired early as a director on 31 March 2011 Annual review of the talent and leadership development strategy In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on three occasions.
October Annual review of projects and transactions approved by the Board If a Director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, he Annual review of US Pharmaceuticals and or she still receives all the papers and materials for discussion at that Vaccines operations meeting.
He or she will review them and will advise the Chairman Annual review of Emerging Markets & Asia Pacic or Committee Chairman of his or her views and comments on the operations matters to be discussed so that they can be conveyed to other members at the meeting.
December Review of the 2011 Board evaluation report Approval of the 2012-2014 plan Consideration of the external economic environments impact on the pharmaceuticals sector Review of the strategy on diseases of the developing world Board agendas are shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate, including deep dive reviews of key issues for the business to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
The items with an asterisk above represent the deep dive reviews which took place in 2011.
In addition, at each meeting, the Board receives regular updates from the CEO on the Groups operations, reports from the CFO on financial performance and updates on developments in, and the companys compliance with, corporate governance requirements and other regulations from the Company Secretary.
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas of responsibility.
The Directors meet with all the CET members on an annual basis to discuss and develop proposals collectively in relation to the Groups strategy.
GSK Annual Report 2011 87 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Board committees To meet best corporate governance practice, the Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees have long been an established part of our system of corporate governance.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Board Committee is set out in the table below.
The full terms of reference are available on our website and reports by each Committee, including their activities during the year and attendance at meetings, are given on pages 97 to 104 and 106 to 133.
Minimum number of meetings Committee Committee Role and terms of reference Membership per year Report on pages Audit & Risk Reviews the financial and internal reporting process, the Independent 4 97-101 integrity of the financial statements, the system of internal Non-Executive Directors controls, the identication and management of risks and the external and internal audit processes.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration of the Independent 4 106-133 Executive Directors and other members of the CET and, with Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman the assistance of external independent advisers, it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
Nominations Reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board Independent 2 101-102 and appointment of members to the Board and the CET, Non-Executive Directors making recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The and the Chairman Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the Board and CET.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular review of 3 103-104 Independent Responsibility external issues that have the potential for serious impact Non-Executive Directors upon the Groups business and reputation.
The Committee and the Chairman is also responsible for oversight of GSKs worldwide donations and community support.
Finance Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Executive and As necessary Report and Form 20-F and convening of the AGM, together Non-Executive Directors with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
It also approves certain major licensing and capital transactions and changes to the Groups Investment Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with the Executive and As necessary Administration administration of the Groups business and certain corporate Non-Executive & Transactions transactions.
Directors, other CET members and the Company Secretary 88 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration A breakdown of the experience of the Directors in different regions of Effectiveness the world is set out below.
Board composition Number of Directors with this experience We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose 12 capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic 10 positioning of our business.
The process for Board appointments is led 8 by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages 101 to 102.
6 We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the Board 4 and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over time so that we can draw upon the experience of the longer serving Directors, 2 while tapping into the new external perspectives and insights which more recent appointees bring to the Boards deliberations.
Europe US EMAP Global Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, medical Time allocation research and academia, media, retail and financial services, and have appropriate experience of complex organisations with global reach.
Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which sets Some have considerable experience of the pharmaceutical industry out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
and the more recent appointees bring a new approach to the Group The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are expected to and to the Boards discussions.
devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of their On 4 January 2011, Simon Dingemans was appointed to the Board duties.
No precise timings are given as this will vary from year to year as Chief Financial officer Designate.
He assumed the role of CFO on depending on the companys activities.
Directors are expected to 1 April 2011 in succession to Julian Heslop, who retired early from attend all Board meetings and any additional meetings as required.
On 1 April 2011, Judy Lewent and They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of Stacey Cartwright were appointed as Non-Executive Directors which they are members, the latter parts of the Audit & Risk as part of the Boards ongoing refreshment programme.
Committee meetings which are open to all Directors and strategy sessions and to make visits to operational sites.
In addition, Board Further changes to the Board were announced in January 2012. members are invited to attend at least one CET meeting a year and James Murdoch will not offer himself for re-election at the AGM may attend certain R&D Executive and operational meetings.
in 2012 and at the AGM in 2013, following nine years service, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson and Larry Culp will not stand Length of tenure for re-election to the Board.
The length of tenure and independence of each Non-Executive Board diversity Director is shown below: We are committed to equal opportunities through our recruitment Considered of employees and Board members representing all elements of Date first Years from to be elected by first election to independent society.
We aspire to create an inclusive environment where we shareholders 2012 AGM by the Board seek to value and draw on the differing knowledge, perspectives, Sir Christopher Gent May 2005 7 experiences and styles resident in our global community.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson May 2008 4 We have a good representation of women in management Dr Stephanie Burns May 2007 5 positions, but we recognise that we need to increase the Stacey Cartwright May 2011 1 proportion of female employees at the most senior levels of the Larry Culp May 2004 8 company as well as our Board.
Currently, 20% of our Directors Sir Crispin Davis May 2004 8 are female, but we would like to increase this to at least 25% by Judy Lewent May 2011 1 2013.
We have made some progress towards achieving this Sir Deryck Maughan May 2005 7 objective during 2011 with the appointment of Judy Lewent and James Murdoch May 2009 3 Stacey Cartwright.
Dr Daniel Podolsky May 2007 5 Tom fide Swaan May 2006 6 The backgrounds and gender mix of the Directors are illustrated Sir Robert Wilson May 2004 8 below.
Considered to be independent on appointment.
Background Gender The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be 2 3 independent in character and judgement and free from any Female Academia business or other relationship which could materially interfere with 3 Male Pharmaceutical the exercise of their judgement.
Throughout 2011, all of the 12 healthcare Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, were General independent Non-Executive Directors and met the criteria for business 10 independence set out in the Code.
At the date of publication and throughout 2011, a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2011 89 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Board induction and training The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and facilitating a tailored induction programme for new Directors and their ongoing training.
The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors includes meetings with members of the CET and other senior executives to explain the companys business, the environment in which we operate and an investors perspective, as well as guidance on their duties and obligations as a Director of GSK.
Visits to some of our business operations are also part of the induction programme.
To ensure that Non-Executive Directors gain and maintain a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are invited to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive, the Portfolio Investment Board, the scientific Review Board and the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
They also meet employees during visits to the companys operations and receptions held around Board meetings.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and presentations by internal and external advisers.
During the year, the Board was briefed on boardroom diversity, various developments in narrative reporting and executive remuneration, risk management, the impact of the UK and EU reviews of the audit market, market abuse and insider trading, compliance with the new UK Bribery Act 2010, and other developments in corporate governance reporting, including the European Commissions review of the comply or explain principle.
The Chairman meets with each Director annually on a one-to-one basis to discuss his or her individual performance and contribution and to agree ongoing training and development requirements.
Board evaluation The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and the performance of its Committees every year.
The evaluation is normally carried out by the Senior Independent Director, but every third year, the evaluation is conducted by an external facilitator.
In 2008, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review carried out the evaluation and she also conducted the 2011 evaluation.
Dr Long has no other connection with the company.
The action points from previous Board evaluations are set out in the table below: Date Action Progress 2008 Utilise Board and Committee time more effectively Board and Committee papers are reviewed for appropriateness and timeliness of and facilitate further contribution by Non-Executive circulation has improved.
Meetings have been structured to create more time for Directors.
Enhance continuous education process for Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend a range of internal Non-Executive Directors.
management meetings and to visit Group sites.
Provide greater visibility to executive talent and An annual presentation is made to the Board on executive talent and succession management succession planning process.
Opportunities for emerging talent to meet with the Board are included in the annual Board and Committee programmes.
2009 Increase Board time devoted to strategic discussion The Board has increased its focus on R&D activities and was pleased with and the indicators of success in the delivery of the progress on R&D during the year.
Separately, in February 2011, the Remuneration R&D pipeline.
Committee granted incentive awards linked to R&D new product performance.
Devote more time to focused consideration of the The Board sought assistance from the Audit & Risk Committee ARC to more companys key risks on an ongoing basis.
fully understand the Groups key risks and continued to consider regular reports from the ARC in 2011.
Provide the Board with more regular updates and The Board was pleased with the operation by the Nominations Committee of the enhanced succession planning process.
This resulted in the appointment of the insights into the newly enhanced management succession planning process.
Chief Financial officer Designate and further positive progress has been made on the recruitment of new Board members to refresh the Board with the appointment of Stacey Cartwright and Judy Lewent as Non-Executive Directors.
2010 Allocate more time on a regular basis for strategic Board agendas have been revised to create more time for strategic discussion and issues and the significant challenges facing the debate.
Fundamental reviews of key issues have been introduced to ensure industry to further enhance returns to shareholders.
focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
Further enhance information ow by providing Board members are provided with external reports and reviews of the industry Board members with a wider variety of external and the company to further inform their deliberations.
perspectives on the company and the industry.
Assess the extent to which the new R&D policies The Board programme has been enhanced by the inclusion of deep dive implemented in recent years have added value.
discussions on aspects of R&D, such as the R&D commercial interface and diseases of the developing world.
Continue to support executive management on The Groups compliance function has been reviewed and enhanced to provide ethical leadership within the Group.
further support to management in driving ethical leadership across the Group.
90 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration A summary of the conclusions of the Committee evaluations is 2011 Board evaluation included in each Committees report.
The Board evaluation process included a one-to-one interview with The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, each Director and the Company Secretary.
The topics discussed, met separately, without the Chairman being present, to discuss the which had been circulated to the Directors in advance, included a Chairmans performance.
They considered that his leadership, variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness, including performance and overall contribution were of a high standard.
Board and Committee information ows, handling of strategic issues, collective effectiveness and exploration of ways to further In addition, the Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors improve the way in which the Board operates.
independently of the Executive Directors.
The key conclusions of the 2011 evaluation were presented to, and Re-election of directors discussed by, the Board.
At our AGM in 2011, the entire Board retired and offered themselves Consistent with Dr Longs findings in 2008, the review concluded for election or re-election.
Each Director was elected or re-elected that the Board was highly effective in the way it approached its and no Director received less than 93.9% of the votes cast.
At the work, developed its relationships and used its time.
The CEO and AGM in 2012, all of the Directors will again retire and all, with the Executive management were welcoming of the Non-Executive exception of James Murdoch, will offer themselves for re-election.
Directors, the quality of debate was high and there was strong James Murdoch decided not to stand for re-election to the Board leadership by the Chairman and Committee Chairmen.
The use of Board dinners and the Board calendar and agendas were more following his decision to re-locate to the United States and to focus on his duties as Deputy Chief Operating officer and Chairman and effective than when previously reviewed in 2008.
The quality of papers and presentations had further improved.
Chief Executive officer, International of News Corporation and his role as Non-Executive Chairman of BSKyB.
The challenge, given the environment within which the company operated, was to build on the Boards contribution and impact.
Each of the Directors standing for re-election has been subject to a formal evaluation process and it is believed that they each continue The Board agreed the following recommendations with a view to to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their respective further increasing its ability to add value: roles.
Accordingly, the Board recommends that shareholders i The external landscape approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2012 AGM relating to the re-election of the Directors.
"s 4HE ""OARD AGENDA SHOULD DEDICATE TIME THROUGHOUT THE YEAR FOR the consideration of major external inuences, including Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Robert Wilson, Larry Culp and Tom fide Swaan competitive business models, market developments, and GSKs have each served as Non-Executive Directors for more than six relative strengths and weaknesses to help expand the Boards years and their performance has been subject to a rigorous review."
The Board has concluded that they continue to be effective Non-Executive Directors.
"s 4HE ""OARD WOULD LOOK TO INCREASE ITS UNDERSTANDING AND knowledge through individual Non-Executive Director and Board Directors conicts of interest site visits."
"All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid s 'IVEN THE SIZE OF THE ""OARD IT WAS IMPORTANT THAT."
ON %XECUTIVE a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect Directors, assisted by the Company Secretary, continued to engage conict of interest or possible conict of interest with the company.
both formally and informally with the company, drawing on The duty applies, in particular, to the exploitation of any property, relevant personal experience inside and outside of Board meetings, information or opportunity whether or not GSK could take and attending relevant internal executive meetings and industry advantage of it.
Our Articles of Association provide a general events to keep abreast of current developments.
power for the Board to authorise such conicts.
"sANAGEMENT SHOULD DEMONSTRATE TO THE ""OARD HOW THEY ARE The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board embedding the culture of risk awareness within Emerging to grant and periodically, but in any event annually, to review any Markets and how emerging risks are captured within the potential or actual conict authorisations."
Directors are not counted Assurance process.
in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conicts.
"Authorisations granted are recorded by the Company ii Board contribution and composition Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at its next s 4HE ""OARD HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO BUILD ON RELEVANT SKILLS AND meeting."
competencies for the future as its composition was due to change On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing over the next two years.
It would be helpful for the Board to plan the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conicts that its composition over the next five to six years, to optimise its may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may effectiveness.
affect an authorisation previously given.
"Even when provided with s 4HE $IRECTORS HAD IDENTIlED TWO SIGNIlCANT GAPS IN THE ""OARD S authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory current composition: global CEO experience and knowledge of, duty to promote the success of the company."
If an actual conict and experience in, Emerging Markets.
These aspects will be arises post authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the addressed in the recruitment of new Board members by the Director from receipt of the relevant information and participation Nominations Committee.
in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
GSK Annual Report 2011 91 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential We also attach importance to clear principles and procedures conict authorisations in October 2011 and reported to the Board designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A that the conicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Group policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
that our business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
Independent advice The business units and the majority of global support functions The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or prepare reports annually, in collaboration with Global Compliance more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal see page 92, summarising risk management activities.
These and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an reports are reviewed by the relevant Risk Management and agreed procedure, which is set out on our website, to enable them Compliance Board RMCB for each operation and subsequently to do so.
reported to the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC and the ARC.
indemnification of Directors Risk Oversight and Compliance Council Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board former Directors who held ofce during 2011 and up to the signing to assist the ARC in overseeing the risk management and internal of the Annual Report.
control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises several CET members, the Company Secretary and some of the heads of Accountability departments with internal control, risk management, assurance, audit and compliance responsibilities.
Internal control framework The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and risks and their mitigation plans and to provide oversight of internal understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the our internal policies.
The ROCC, responding to our Group risk adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the management and legal compliance policy, has provided the Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls and business units with a framework for risk management and upward risk management.
The Board has delegated responsibility for such reporting of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identication review to the Audit & Risk Committee ARC, which receives regular of an individual with overall responsibility for management of any reporting aligned with our Assurance Programme.
It is the responsibility of management, through the CET, to Risk Management and Compliance Boards implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is responsible for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
They often comprise members of the senior executive team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists where The internal control framework includes central direction, resource appropriate.
The RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are allocation, oversight and risk management of the key activities of considered important for their respective business units, including R&D, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human resources, those risks that are designated as significant to GSK as a whole, information systems and financial practice.
As part of this thus increasing the number of risks that are actively managed framework, there is a financial planning system with an annual across the Group.
budget approved by the Board.
The results of operating units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
Forecasts are Each business unit and global support function must periodically prepared regularly during the year.
review the significant risks facing its operations.
This review should include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks We also have in place established procedures to identify and to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives.
The review consolidate reporting entities.
Our control activities include policies generally occurs annually and should be embedded within, and and practices covering appropriate authorisation and approval of aligned to, the annual planning process to ensure that significant transactions, the application of financial reporting standards and risks are identied with changes in management direction and the reviews of significant judgments and financial performance.
Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
Responsibility for risk management and control is clearly delegated to local business units, supported by our regional management structure.
These principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership, coupled with local operating autonomy, as the framework for the exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
92 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Our internal control framework and the interaction of the various elements are set out below: Risk Oversight Audit and & Risk Compliance Committee Council Risk Global Management Quality and Compliance Council Boards Global Product Audit & Assurance Business units Quality Office Independent External audit Business review of Emerging Business Internal Business regulatory Incidents Quality business unit risk control audit monitoring agency events Heads management infrastructure activity and internal outcome audit activity GSK Risk Universe Management Quality Internal Assurance audit In 2011, Global Compliance conducted a review of its global Global Compliance strategy, structure and supporting processes, with a focus on The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by the Global Compliance standardisation and simplication and the intention of providing department, which is responsible for supporting the development more consistent and effective oversight within an increasingly and implementation of practices that facilitate employees complex business model.
compliance with laws and Group policy.
During the year, the Global Compliance Leadership Team agreed The thrust of our compliance efforts is the promotion of ethical the global strategy, common roles and responsibilities, and baseline behaviour and corporate responsibility in accordance with our expectations for which the organisation will be held accountable.
"values and due diligence in preventing and detecting misconduct The new Global Compliance organisation comprises three groups: or non-compliance with laws or regulations, supported by effective s 'LOBAL #OMPLIANCE ""USINESS 0ARTNERS WHO ARE ALIGNED TO EACH compliance systems."
Their role is to proactively partner with senior Our employees are encouraged to seek help and to report concerns leaders to drive a values and compliance-based culture and or suspected cases of misconduct without the fear of retaliation.
improve risk identication and management practices: Employees can do this through line management or via our s 'LOBAL #OMPLIANCE PERATIONS CENTRALLY MANAGES OUR COMPLIANCE integrity and condential reporting lines managed by Global activities e. g. analytics, reporting, communications, policy Compliance.
All concerns and allegations are fairly and administration, project management and training, with a focus independently investigated and disciplinary action, if applicable, is on efficiency, consistency and continuous improvement: and commensurate with the issues presented.
s 'LOBAL #OMPLIANCE NVESTIGATIONS CO ORDINATES ALL COMPLIANCE The Global Compliance department is managed by the Head of related investigations, ensuring consistency and efficiency of Governance, Ethics and Assurance, a CET member, who reports investigations across geographies and business units.
He chairs the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs activities and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the ARC on a regular basis.
His direct reporting line to the ARC provides a mechanism for bypassing executive management should the need ever arise.
GSK Annual Report 2011 93 Overview 02 Strategic review 10 Financial review & risk 51 Governance & remuneration 78 Financial statements 134 Shareholder information 222 Assurance Excellence & Operations provides central oversight and Global Product Quality Ofce support to: drive integration and holistic assurance delivery: raise In 2011, a new central Global Product Quality Ofce was standards of assurance through enhanced talent development, established to strengthen the independence of leadership and continuous improvement and benchmarking, and quality oversight: governance of our Good Manufacturing Practice GMP product enhance assurance reporting to the business units and the ARC quality activities company wide.
regarding the state of control over key risks to the organisation: and deliver assurance over emerging risks to GSK through Strategic The Global Product Quality Ofce will provide a common Risk Evaluations SREs.
governance framework for this risk area, and have oversight responsibility for developing common quality standards and SREs supplement the Internal Audit programme, by examining systems across GSK for the manufacture of consumer, emerging risks facing GSK.
SREs are conducted by our assurance pharmaceutical and vaccine products in accordance with GMP.
teams in partnership with the business.
The approach is designed Our Chief Product Quality officer serves as the ultimate to evaluate risk areas and enable the development, implementation independent central point of contact for the escalation of product and or evolution of appropriate mitigation plans.
quality issues anywhere across the Group that need resolution or Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Programme ABAC is part of our additional attention.
response to the risk of bribery and corruption.
It builds on our Audit & Assurance values and existing standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to compliance in this complex risk area.
The Audit & Assurance has responsibility for independently assessing ABAC Programme is overseen by the Anti-Bribery & Corruption the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of significant team, who provide advisory support and routine audits of this risk.
risk areas and reporting outcomes to the ARC in line with an Details of our ABAC Programme are available on our website.
The internal audit group is comprised of seven principal teams focused in the following areas: The Head of Audit & Assurance acts as the Global Risk officer with support from the Director, Risk Management.
Risk Management is s #OMMERCIAL AND &INANCIAL NTERNAL !UDIT responsible for maintaining GSKs risk management framework and s NFORMATION 4ECHNOLOGY NTERNAL !UDIT supporting the business in identifying key risks.
The management of risks is owned by the business.
See Risk Management on sANUFACTURING NTERNAL !UDIT INCLUDING %NVIRONMENT EALTH page 94.
Safety and Sustainability The ARC has ongoing oversight of the effectiveness of Audit & s 2 $ NTERNAL !UDIT Assurance through its review of the Assurance Plan and related s !SSURANCE %XCELLENCE PERATIONS delivery of commitments, as well as through periodic quality assessment reviews conducted by the external auditors.
"s !NTI ""RIBERY #ORRUPTION Assurance reporting s 2ISKANAGEMENT All internal audit activity is conducted by a single organisation Assurance reporting to the ARC follows a structured programme, under the leadership of the Head of Audit & Assurance, who integrating reporting from business units and Audit & Assurance."
reports to the Head of Governance, Ethics and Assurance, but Our business units and the majority of global support functions also has an independent reporting line to the ARC Chairman.
The prepare reports annually that detail their risk management and global audit function allows for more holistic assurance, compliance approaches, providing balanced assessments of the consistency in approach, and independence in reporting.
This status of internal controls over key risks, and highlighting any has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and the potential for over significant compliance issues.
All support functions report at least or under auditing.
Managers must oversee risks that are considered Internal Audit undertakes a continuous process of risk assessment important for their respective business units, including those risks that contributes to the evolution of our audit strategies and that are designated as significant to the Group.
Information compilation and delivery of the audit schedule.
This approach regarding the controls in place to manage these risks is provided to allows Audit & Assurance to respond expeditiously to changes assure the ARC that these risks are adequately managed within the in our business and risk environment and to ensure that our audit internal control framework.
In addition, significant compliance issues and internal audit results When issues or control deficiencies are identied during are escalated to the ROCC and the ARC at the earliest opportunity.
audit engagements, Internal Audit recommends processes for improvement.
Our managers develop corrective action plans to address the causes of non-compliance with, and gaps in, internal controls.
Internal Audit then tracks these plans to completion and reports results to executive management and the ARC.
Internal audit results are also compiled and reported to the ROCC and the ARC as detailed in the Assurance reporting section below.
94 GSK Annual Report 2011 Governance & Corporate governance continued remuneration Risk management Relations with shareholders Our risk management programme extends beyond legal and We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regulatory issues and considers our overall strategy and changes in regular communications, the AGM and other investor relations the external environment.
Furthermore, risk management principles activities.
are embedded within management practices and are part of the We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis.
The annual business strategy and objective setting process.
results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders receive For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on an annual summary leaet which advises them that our Annual pages 72 to 77 and Note 44 to the financial statements, Report and Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available Legal proceedings.
Monitoring risk and effectiveness of controls Our CEO and CFO give live presentations to institutional investors, analysts and media with the half and full year results, which are The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole also available via webcast and teleconference.
After the first and of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of third quarter results, we hold webcast teleconferences for the same approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is designed audience.
Our results are available on our website.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Our investor relations department, with ofces in London and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
The CEO, CFO and Chairman maintain a continuous The ARC receives reports on areas of significant risk to the Group dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and and on related internal controls.
Following consideration of these objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
During the reports and those received via the Assurance framework, the ARC year over 240 meetings were held with major shareholders.
reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications There are areas of our business where it is necessary to take risks to on corporate governance matters.
We also have a small central achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such as investment in Corporate Responsibility CR team which co-ordinates strategy, R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
During 2011, the policy development and reporting specically with respect to CR ARC, in conjunction with the full Board, considered and reviewed and communicates with socially responsible investors and other the nature and extent of these risks and the risks associated with stakeholders.
achieving the companys strategic objectives.
The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders In these cases, it is our objective to apply expertise in the prudent to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and management, rather than elimination, of risk.
The Boards review communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The relates to the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to Senior Independent Director and all the Non-Executive Directors material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other are available to meet with shareholders.
investments, although it considers the risk of its participation in these activities.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Head of Human Resources and the Company Secretary hold The Board, through the ARC, has reviewed the assessment of risks annual meetings with major shareholders to discuss executive and the internal control framework that operates in GSK and has remuneration and governance matters.
considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up We have a brieng process in place, managed by the Chairman, to the date of its approval by the Board.
The process followed by for Non-Executive Directors to focus on sector specic issues and the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with general shareholder preferences.
the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
AGM This is in accordance with the new provisions of the UK Corporate Our AGM is held in London and notice is given to shareholders at Governance Code, which provide that the Board is responsible for least one month before the meeting.
The AGM includes a determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing presentation about the business and Directors answer shareholder to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides questions both during the meeting and informally afterwards.
All oversight to ensure that GSK maintains sound risk management the Directors attended the AGM on 5 May 2011 with the exception and internal control systems.
of Larry Culp, who was unable to attend due to a pressing business Remuneration commitment arising from his responsibilities as President and Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
Sir Deryck Maughan Our Remuneration Report, which describes the level and participated in the meeting by telephone as he was unable to travel.
components of the remuneration of the Directors, is set out on Voting on all the resolutions at the AGM is on a poll and the full pages 106 to 133. results, including votes withheld, are published on our website.
