3.3 | Corporate governance report BOARD GOVERNANCE Code to the extent required, our report on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, Overview the functioning of our audit Committee and our going concern Prior to 28 April 2011 when a compliant structure was estabstatement.
lished, the Company did not comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as the Company was a private Details of the Companys significant shareholders, voting rights, concern wholly owned by its employees.
It has since that date directors powers and rules concerning the appointment and complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The replacement of directors and amendments to the articles of asgovernance section seeks to set out how Glencore has applied sociation are either contained in this section 3.3 or section 3.4. the main principles set out in the Code in a manner which enaGlencores Board comprises six Non-Executive Directors inbles shareholders to evaluate how these principles have been cluding the Chairman and two Executive Directors.
Directors, with brief biographical details, is provided on pages 81 83.
For the Chairman, those details include his other signifiThe disclosures in this report relate to our responsibilities for cant commitments.
preparing the annual report including compliance with the Board of Directors Risk management Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive directors Independent directors Internal audit CEO CFO Audit Remuneration Nominations HSEC Committee Committee Committee Committee Corporate finance Legal & compliance Sustainability Business segment heads Treasury, accounting & tax Metals and minerals Energy products Agricultural products IT Zinc copper lead Oil Grains Alumina aluminium Coal coke Oils oilseeds Human resources Ferroalloys nickel cobalt iron ore Cotton sugar NB: All board committees are chaired by independent directors Chairman and Chief Executive Officer constructive challenge to the Executive Directors.
All of them Glencore has established a clear division between the respecare regarded by the Company as independent Non-Executive tive responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman of the Directors within the meaning of independent as defined in Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, which are set out in the Code and free from any business or other relationship which a schedule of responsibilities that has been approved by the could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Board.
While the Non-Executive Chairman is responsible for judgment.
This view has been taken having regard to all facts leading the Boards discussions and decision-making, the Chief including the following: Executive Officer is responsible for leading Glencores operating performance and day-to-day management.
This, coupled William Macaulay is chairman and chief executive of First Rewith the schedule of reserved matters describes below, ensures serve Corporation First Reserve.
First Reserve was on Mr Mathat no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
caulays appointment to the Board the holder of a tranche of $ 2.3 billion Convertible Bonds due 2014 issued by Glencore Non-executive Directors Finance Europe S. A.
First Reserve has subsequently sold The Companys Non-Executive Directors provide a broad range these bonds and now holds shares, or economic interests in of skills and experience to the Board which assists in both their respect of shares, totalling 157,996,976 in number, as further roles in formulating the Companys strategy and in providing detailed on page 98.
84 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Peter Coates was until April 2011 the independent non-execu- 2011 was obviously an unusual year given that the Company was tive chairman of Minara, while that company was 70.6% owned incorporated and listed in the first half of the year.
In future the by Glencore, and was until August 2009 a non-executive chairBoard plans to have a minimum of 5meetings a year with addiman of Xstrata Australia and a former chief executive of Xstrata tional meetings as required.
The Board will usually meet at the Coal, part of Xstrata plc, a listed entity in which Glencore holds a Companys headquarters in Baar, Switzerland although it may 34.5% interest.
Mr Coates joined Xstrata in 2002 with Glencores occasionally meet elsewhere.
coal assets in Australia and South Africa when they were sold to Xstrata for cash and shares simultaneous with Xstratas primary The Board and its Committees have standing agenda items listing and capital raising in London.
to cover their proposed business at their scheduled meetings which in the Boards case includes a review of the latest financial Board Committees position and current trading and an analysis of the work being The Board has established the following Committees to assist undertaken by its Committees.
The Chairman seeks to ensure it in exercising its functions: Audit, Nomination.
Remuneration that the very significant work of the Committees feeds into, and and Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities HSEC.
A benefits as to feedback from, the full Board.
Most Board meetreport from each Committee is set out on pages 88 to 96. ings also benefit from a presentation by the head of a division and some technical and investor relations updates.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and the minutes of the Committee meetThe Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Direcings are reviewed by the Board.
These terms of reference are tors without the Executive directors present, and at least once a available at www.
year the Senior Non-executive Director chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Board Meetings The Board has approved a formal schedule which sets out those matters which are reserved for its decision making alone such as strategy, the annual budget and material acquisitions and disposals.
Attendance during the year for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration HSEC of 4 of 2 of 3 of 2 of 3 Simon Murray 4 3 Ivan Glasenberg 4 3 3 Steven Kalmin 4 Peter Coates 4 2 3 Leonhard Fischer 4 2 2 Anthony Hayward 4 3 2 3 William Macaulay 4 2 2 Li Ning 4 3 Excludes meetings held in relation to the IPO.
Appointment and re-election of Directors muneration Report.
No other contract with the Company or any The work of the Nominations Committee in respect of the apsubsidiary undertaking of the Company in which any Director pointment and reappointment of Directors is contained in that was materially interested subsisted during or at the end of the Committees report, below.
All members of the Board will be offering themselves for reInformation and professional development election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
It is part of the It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive Chairmans role to discuss the time commitment and contribuDirectors 1 attain a good knowledge of the Company and tion of each Non-executive Director as part of his individual its business and 2 allocate sufficient time to Glencore to disappraisal, and the Nomination Committee unanimously recomcharge those responsibilities effectively.
New Directors receive mends the reappointment of each of the Directors.
a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, including meetings with senior management and advisers and All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of apvisits to the Groups operational locations.
The Board calendar pointment and the details of their terms are set out in the Reis planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range | Annual Report 2011 | 85 of topics.
Directors are also given the opportunity to visit the well as a common accounting policies and procedures manual.
Groups industrial assets and discuss aspects of the business Management monitors the publication of new reporting standwith employees, and regularly meet the heads of the Groups ards and work closely with their external auditors in evaluating main departments.
As well as internal briefings, Directors atthe impact of these standards.
tend appropriate external seminars and briefings.
Risk management and internal control All Directors have access to the advice and services of the ComThe Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing pany Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Board procedures are complied with, and have access to the risks that are considered significant by the Group in accordindependent and professional advice at the Companys exance with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control pense, where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has responsibilities as Directors.
been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process Board performance evaluation is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only Since Glencore has a new Board, it was thought appropriate provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against matethat the first evaluation process should be an internal one.
By rial misstatement or loss.
The directors confirm that they have using assessment questionnaires prepared by the Company reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Sec retary and the Chairman, all Directors graded areas such control systems.
This review excludes associates of the Group as performance of the Board and its Committees, the effecas Glencore does not have the ability to dictate or modify the tiveness of the Chairman, Executive and NonExecutive Direcinternal controls of these entities.
This report describes how tors, the monitoring of operational performance and Corporate the effectiveness of the Groups structure of internal controls Governance, as well as leadership and culture.
The Company including financial, operational and compliance controls and Secretary and the Chairman provided a report of the results, risk management systems is reviewed.
which were discussed by the Board and by each Committee.
The Board and the Committees concluded that overall they 1 Approach to risk management functioned effectively.
However, matters for improvement conEffective risk management is crucial in helping the Group to cerning planning, logistics, content of meetings, board papers achieve its objectives of preserving its overall financial strength and the need for additional directors were discussed and agreed.
for the benefit of all shareholders and other stakeholders and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern while We have reviewed the interests declared by the Directors which generating sustainable long term profitability.
Spanning the orcould conflict with those of the Company, and we are satisfied ganisational structure, Glencores disciplined approach to risk that the Boards powers to authorise potential conflicts is opermanagement and control originates with strategic responsibilating effectively.
ity in the hands of the Board, which also retains operational authority on matters exceeding agreed thresholds of materiality.
Remuneration The Board retains final authority for assessing and approving Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration report on pages the Groups overall risk appetite and sets overall limits which 91 to 96 which includes a description of the work of the Remuare subject for review annually.
Through delegation to the Audit neration Committee.
Committee for oversight and to senior management for day-today operational issues, an effective risk management governance apparatus has been established for the Group.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Audit Committee retains responsibility for reviewing the Financial reporting overall effectiveness of Glencores risk management approach and systems.
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a detailed annual budgeting process where As a primary oversight and control, the CEO engages in a business units prepare budgets for approval by the Board.
The regular and ongoing interrogatory exchange with the manageGroup uses a large number of performance indicators to measment team and he is supported in this challenge process by the ure both operational and financial activity in the business.
fideGroups organisational structure with its concentration of major pending on the measure these are reported and reviewed on a decision making, as well as by the alignment of the economic daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In addition management in the interest of key senior staff with the medium term performance business receives a weekly and monthly pack of indicators which of the company through shareholding lock-ins.
The CRO, the are the basis of regular operational meetings, where corrective Group Risk Management Team and the multi-sourced reporting action is taken if necessary.
At a Group level a well-developed available to them help to equip the CEO and senior managemanagement accounts pack including income statements, balment with appropriate analysis in order to allow them to conance sheets, cash flow statement as well as key ratios related to duct appropriate risk management of the group.
capital productivity is prepared and reviewed monthly by management.
As part of the monthly reporting process a forecast of The CRO and Group Risk Management Team act as facilitators the current year numbers is carried out.
To ensure consistency of the control process with elements of consolidated reporting of reporting the Group has a global consolidation system as including counterparty credit exposure, the co-ordination of 86 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Group and departmental Value at Risk VaR, stress and scelines where price transparency is less dependable.
Glencore nario testing amongst others.
The departments and Group risk reports VaR across the Group and also by commodity departteam are engaged in an ongoing dialogue concerning general ment, as well as at a variety of more detailed levels.
aspects of risk management policy and the central team provide oversight and input on those aspects of risk management VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in and risk mitigation that remain the functional responsibility of fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does the Groupsindividual departments.
The internal audit, compliGlencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future ance and business ethics Committees also play key roles in manmarket movements or representative of any actual impact on aging Group operational risk and verifying process controls.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for Glencore recognises the need for continuous focus on this key estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and risks assoarea in the context of both the evolution of its business risks, and ciated with longer time horizons as well as tail risks.
The Group the unpredictable and volatile global economic environment.
recognises these limitations and so complements and refines The Group continues to maintain and expand the resources and its risk analysis through the use of stress and scenario analysis.
information systems used in its centralised risk management, Glencore regularly backtests its VaR to establish adequacy of whilst also adopting and following policies which are intended accuracy and to facilitate analysis of breaks.
to mitigate and manage market price and credit risks.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commod- 2 Risk assessment and control tools ity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging inGlencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordinastruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation tion with the Groups departments, monitor and report regularly of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to management on the financial risks and exposures Glencore is to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics facing.
The Group monitors its commodity price risk exposure by to the risk exposure to the hedged, resulting in an ongoing and using a VaR computation assessing open commodity positions unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures which are subject to price risks.
The credit quality of its counrepresent a key focus point for Glencores commodity departterparts is actively and continuously monitored by the Group ment teams who actively engage in the management of such.
through internal reviews and a credit scoring process which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
The Group makes Internal and External Audit active and widespread use of credit enhancement through the Glencore has a dedicated Internal Audit function reporting diuse of products such as letters of credit and credit insurance rectly to the Audit Committee.
The role of Internal Audit is to products to help manage and mitigate credit risk exposures.
evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which Glencore uses to monitor and limit its primary market exposure related to its Internal Audit reviews areas of potential risk within the business physical marketing exposures and related derivative posiand suggests control solutions to mitigate any exposures.
VaR estimates the potential loss in value of open poAudit Committee is regularly informed about audits performed sitions that could occur as a result of adverse market moveand relevant findings, as well as the progress on implementing ments over a defined time horizon, given a specific level of the actions agreed with management.
The methodology is a statistically defined, probability based approach that takes into account market volatiliDuring each financial year the Audit Committee reviews the exties, as well as risk diversification benefits by recognising offternal and internal audit work programmes and considers resetting positions and correlations between commodities and ports from internal and external auditors on the system of intermarkets.
In this way, risks can be compared across all markets final control and any material control weaknesses.
It also received and commodities and risk exposures can be aggregated to responses from management regarding the actions taken on derive a single risk value.
issues identified in audit reports.
The Board has approved a one day, 95% VaR limit of $100milThe Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the exlion which is subject to review and approval on an annual baternal auditors is designed to ensure the external auditors insis.
The purpose of this Group limit is to assist senior managedependence and objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified wide ment in controlling the Groups overall risk profile.
During 2011 range of services may not be provided as they have the potenGlencores average VaR was approximately $ 39 million.
This tial to impair the external auditors independence Excluded represents a decrease from the actual average of approximateServices.
The Audit Committees approval is required for 1 ly $43million in the prior year.
any Excluded Service 2 and other engagement where either i the fee is contingent, ii the fee may exceed $500,000, or iii Glencores VaR computation covers its business in the key base where the fees for all non-audit work may exceed $15million.
metals, coal, oil natural gas and the main risks in the AgriculturThe external auditors were requested to provide certain nonal Products department grain, oil seeds, sugar and cotton.
It audit services when it was concluded that they were the most assesses open priced positions and those which are subject to appropriate supplier due to efficiency and status as a leading price risk, but due to a lack of liquid terminal market, Glencore firm for the specific services being requested.
For 2011 the todoes not extend its VaR calculation to a number of business tal non-audit fees paid to the auditors were $17.9million which | Annual Report 2011 | 87 principally related to the auditors role as Reporting Accountant Role and responsibilities in connection with the Listing: further details are contained in The primary function of the audit Committee is to assist the note25 to the financial statements.
Board in fulfilling its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit, risk management and conRelationships with shareholders trols.
This includes: The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view of the monitoring and reviewing the Groups financial and accountGroup in communications with shareholders and believes that ing policies and practices: being transparent in describing how we see the market and the monitoring the integrity of the annual and half yearly finanprospects for the business is extremely important.
cial statements and any formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant finanWe communicate with shareholders in a number of different cial reporting judgments relating to them: ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half year results and considering the reappointment of the external auditors: interim management statements are a combination of presenconsidering the scope of the annual external audit and the tations, group calls and one to one meetings.
The full and half work undertaken by external auditors: year reporting is then followed by investor meetings in a variety reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external of locations where we have institutional shareholders.
We also auditor and the provision of additional services by it: regularly meet with existing and prospective shareholders to monitoring matters that influence or could distort the presenupdate them on our latest performance or to introduce them tation of accounts and key figures: to the Company and periodically arrange a visit to the business reviewing Glencores internal financial, operational and complito give analysts and major shareholders a better understanding ance controls and internal controls and risk management systems: of how we manage our business.
These visits and meetings are monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of Glencores inprincipally undertaken by the CEO, CFO and Head of Investor Reternal audit function: lations.
In addition, many major shareholders have meetings with overseeing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and the Chairman and appropriate senior personnel of the Group inhandling allegations from whistleblowers: and cluding the Company Secretary and Head of Sustainability.
making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval on the appointThe Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholdment of the external auditors and to authorise the Board to fix ers through a briefing, which is a standing agenda item for all the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Board meetings, from the Companys Head of Investor Relaauditors.
tions, which is supplemented by input from the Chairman, CEO and CFO.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is availGovernance processes able to meet shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately The Audit Committee usually invites the CEO, CFO, Group from the arrangements as described above.
Financial Controller, Head of Risk and Head of Internal Audit and the lead partner from the external auditors to attend each The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held in Zug on meeting.
Other members of management may attend as and Wednesday, 9May.
Full details of the meeting are set out in the when requested.
The Committee also holds private sessions letter from the Chairman and Notice of Meeting sent with this rewith the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit withport.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote using out members of management being present.
The Committee the proxy card mailed to them or electronically as detailed in the has adopted guidelines allowing non-audit services to be conNotice of Meeting.
All documents relating to the AGM are availtracted with the external auditors on the basis as set out on able on the Companys website at: www.
Main Activities AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT During the year, the Committees principal work included the following: Chairman adopted the Committees terms of reference: Leonhard Fischer reviewed and adopted a new policy for the provision of non audit services by the external auditors: Other members reviewed the policies detecting, reporting and preventing Peter Coates fraud and serious breaches of business conduct and whistleWilliam Macaulay blowing procedures: reviewed the internal Audit Departments annual audit plan All members of the Committee were appointed prior to the IPO and the performance assessment of the Internal Audit function: and have served for the rest of the year.
Each is considered to reviewed and agreed the audit plan, scope and fees of the be an independent Non-Executive Director and deemed to be audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors: financially literate by virtue of their business experience.
Each considered the output from the Group-wide process used to of Leonhard Fischer and William Macaulay is considered by the identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of Glencores intercompetence in accounting.
The Committee met twice during final controls: the year and all the Committee members attended both meetreviewed and discussed the half-year unaudited financial stateings.
John Burton is Secretary to the Committee.
ments with management and the external auditors: 88 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN discussed various material accounting issues with manageThe first was the search for and consideration of a proposed ment and the external auditors, particularly those involving key new Non-Executive Director.
This process was halted in the judgments and estimates: and light of the proposed Xstrata merger.
reviewed and agreed the preparation and scope of the yearend reporting process.
Secondly, a search process for a female Non-Executive Director was initiated, for which a number of leading female business Reappointment of external Auditor leaders have been identified.
This has been ongoing with a final The Committee has recommended to the Board that a prodecision being driven by the proposed Xstrata merger.
posal be put to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor.
Thirdly, we considered the current composition of the Board.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice Subject to there being a perceived need for the addition of one of external auditor, and in making our recommendation we or two further Non-Executive Directors, it was agreed that the took into account, amongst other matters, the objectivity and Board operated in a satisfactory manner and the Board agreed independence of Deloitte and their continuing effectiveness with the Committees view that all current serving Directors be and cost.
recommended to shareholders for re-election.
The Committee conducted an annual evaluation of its perforAn external consultancy has been retained for search purposes.
mance and concluded that it was effective, has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and had ensured the objectivity Anthony Hayward of the external auditors.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee 26March 2012 Leonhard Fischer Chairman of the Audit Committee 26March 2012 HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT & COMMUNITIES HSEC COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Chairman Peter Coates Chairman Anthony Hayward Other members Ivan Glasenberg Other members Anthony Hayward Simon Murray Michael Fahrbach Ivan Glasenberg Li Ning The Committee met three times during the year and each Committee member attended all of the meetings.
The majority of the members of the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee met three times Role and responsibilities during the year and its members attended all of its meetings.
The main responsibilities of the Committee are, in respect of the Group to: Roles and responsibilities Evaluate the effectiveness of policies and systems for identifyThe main responsibilities of the Committee are to assist the ing and managing environmental, health and safety risks: Board with succession planning and with the selection process Assess the policies and systems for ensuring compliance with for the new appointment of new Directors, both Executive and environmental, health and safety regulatory requirements: Non-Executive, including the Chairman and to have oversight Assess performance with regard to the impact of HSEC relatof senior management succession planning.
This involves: ed decisions and actions upon employees, communities and Evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience other third parties: on the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a Receive reports concerning all fatalities and serious accidents particular appointment: and actions taken as a result of such fatalities or serious acOverseeing the search process: and cidents: Evaluating an annual succession planning report from the Evaluate and oversee the quality and integrity of any reportCEO in relation to senior management.
ing to external stakeholders concerning HSEC matters: and Review the results of any independent audits of performance The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on in regard to HSEC matters and strategies and action plans fideour website at www.
veloped by management in response to issues raised.
Main Activities The Committee focused on three main tasks during this year.
| Annual Report 2011 | 89 Main Activities During the year, the Committee Reviewed, amended and adopted terms of reference for the Committee: Reviewed the current corporate practice framework for the Group and approved ongoing changes and reviewed its implementation and practice: Reviewed and overseen the Groups first sustainability report which was published in the autumn of 2011: Undertaken initial site visits and approved ongoing site visit programme: Agreed procedures in regard to fatality reporting and review and recommendations process in respect of each fatality: Received comprehensive presentation from the management of Mopani one of our major African assets : and Commissioned a leading international company to carry out a baseline assessment of the Groups Health and Safety standards.
Peter Coates Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environmental and Communities Committee 26March 2012 90 | Annual Report 2011 |
