CORPORATE GOvERNANCE Board structure at a glance Providing the right balance fully of skills knowledge and experience p60 Effective risk management coMMitted Managing our risk and internal controls p64 Committees in action A formula for success p65 to high StandardS Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for 2011.
Corporate Governance Throughout the year, the Board has continued to be committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and we welcome the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Appointment of new which applies to Go-Ahead in full for this financial year.
We believe Executive Directors that good governance is integral to the way our business is run and it is this commitment that has been a positive contributing factor to the effectiveness of the Board during the year.
The Code emphasises the Boards responsibility for providing the leadership necessary to promote the success of the Company within the context of an effective framework of accountability, oversight and risk mitigation.
As Chairman, I am conscious that it is my responsibility to provide leadership to the Board in order Comprehensive review to ensure its effectiveness and to oversee the delivery of the of remuneration policy Groups strategy.
In this regard, I am mindful of the importance of encouraging the productive engagement of all Board members so as to enable all Directors to work in unison within a culture of openness and debate.
In this statement, I identify how we apply the Codes principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
Incorporation of new Board composition UK Corporate The Board aims to have a diversity of skills, experience, length Governance Code of service, knowledge and gender.
We welcome the publication of the Davies Review on Women on Boards.
The benefits of greater Board diversity, not just gender specific, are clear and this is a positive step forward.
BOARD ChANGES Strengthened risk management and internal controls Keith Down, Group Finance Director with effect from 7 March 2011, and David Brown, new Group Chief Executive with effect from 3 July 2011.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 56 The Boards aspiration has always been, and will continue to be, Our devolved structure to maintain a high level of diversity.
Our Nomination Committee We believe that our devolved management structure, as illustrated carries out its search for candidates from the widest possible pool below, enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective of talent against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, way.
Local management throughout the Group are empowered with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
to operate our companies as autonomous business units, whilst working together to share experience and expertise around the Following Katherine Innes Kers appointment in July 2010, our Group.
For example, many aspects of the Groups day-to-day Board has 17% female representation.
Including our Group operations report through operating company senior management Company Secretary Carolyn Sephton, who was appointed in directly into the Board through the Group Chief Executive and July 2006, our Board has 28% female representation.
The Board the Group Finance Director the Executive Directors : will aspire to maintain at least this level of diversity of gender going forward, however, our foremost priority is to ensure that The Executive Directors sit on the board of each operating Go-Ahead continues to have the strongest possible leadership, company and meet formally with local senior management and we will appoint only the most appropriate candidates.
As a Board, we will consider our response to any changes to The Executive Directors hold regular meetings with the the UK Corporate Governance Code arising from the Financial managing directors of all of the operating companies the Chief Reporting Councils recent consultation document Gender Executive Group to facilitate the sharing of experience and Diversity on Boards.
Board changes The Executive Directors meet on a monthly basis with the During this year we announced two Board changes.
Our senior managers who are responsible for the key centralised Group Chief Executive, Keith Ludeman, retired on 2 July 2011. his Group functions the Executive Team Group, which includes replacement, David Brown, joined us as Deputy Chief Executive finance, technology, procurement, engineering, properties, on 1 April 2011, allowing a smooth and organised handover of development, company secretarial, pensions, legal and duties on 3 July when he became Group Chief Executive.
7 March 2011, Keith Down replaced Nick Swift as Group In addition, there are a number of Group forums that are held Finance Director.
on a regular basis and which consider finance, engineering, health We acknowledge that it is never ideal to have the two most senior & safety and energy matters.
These key forums, which report executives leave at around the same time, but I am pleased that directly to the Executive Directors, enable representatives from our succession planning process was efficient and effective.
We all operating companies to share best and emerging practice, to have made two excellent external appointments that maintain the seek synergies and cost savings, to improve quality and to achieve strength of our Board, providing a continuation of the leadership economies of scale wherever possible.
necessary to promote the success of the Company for the long Our devolved management structure enables the Board to be term value of shareholders.
well informed about our businesses, employees, passengers and stakeholders.
This in turn means that we are able to respond to the changing dynamics of the businesses in which we operate in a timely and knowledgeable manner.
Board and management structure ThE GO-AhEAD GROUP PLC: BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION ExECUTIvE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIRECTORS OPERATING ChIEF ExECUTIvE GROUP GROUP GROUP GROUP COMPANy ExECUTIvE TEAM FINANCE ENGINEERING hEALTh & ENERGy BOARDS GROUP GROUP FORUM FORUM SAFETy FORUM FORUM www.
com 57 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED Corporate responsibility Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code Corporate responsibility is deeply embedded across all aspects Throughout the year ended 2 July 2011, the Company of our organisation.
To ensure that corporate responsibility is complied with the main and supporting principles and prioritised across the business, internal safety and energy targets provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Corporate for each of our operating companies are set at the beginning of Governance Code the Code save in respect of the each financial year.
Progress against these targets is linked to both following provision: operating company senior managers and Executive Directors remuneration.
In addition, a health and safety audit of each of The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Andrew Allner, our businesses is undertaken by an external consultant each year.
was unable to attend the Companys 2010 AGM due to an injury.
This resulted in partial non-compliance with The Board is ultimately responsible for corporate responsibility code provision E. 2.3. across the Group.
As such, we do not have corporate A copy of the Code published in June 2010 is responsibility or health and safety committees at Board level available on the Financial Reporting Councils website as we believe that all Board members should be involved in www.
these fundamental areas that are central to our business.
The Groups flat structure provides the Board with good visibility of performance at each operating company.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs are closely monitored and are reviewed every Applying the principles of good governance month at operating company board meetings, chaired by the The Board of Directors Executive Directors.
At the year ending 2 July 2011, the Board comprised the Chairman, internal corporate responsibility structure three Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
A full list of the Directors with details of their biographies and Committee membership is given on pages 52 and 53.
ThE GO-AhEAD GROUP PLC: BOARD OF DIRECTORS All Directors were members of the Board throughout the financial year with the exception of Nick Swift who resigned on 7 March 2011, Keith Down who was appointed on 7 March 2011 ExECUTIvE DIRECTORS and David Brown who was appointed on 1 April 2011.
Following Keith Ludemans retirement on 2 July 2011, the Board now consists of two Executive Directors, David Brown having OPERATING COMPANy BOARD assumed the role of Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011.
Board meetings The Board normally meets at least seven times during the GROUP ENERGy OPERATING GROUP hEALTh year.
At least one of the meetings each year is dedicated to FORUM COMPANy & SAFETy FORUM reviewing the Groups strategy.
Additional meetings are held Share best practice Senior Manager Share best practice as and when required.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Chaired by Group responsible for Chaired by Group Directors periodically meet without the Executive Directors Engineering Director energy health Engineering Director being present.
During the year, the Chairman met individually & Group Environment & safety & external health & with each Director.
& Energy Manager safety consultant During the year ended 2 July 2011, the Board held nine scheduled OPERATING COMPANy OPERATING COMPANy meetings.
The table on page 60 shows Directors attendance ENERGy COMMITTEE hEALTh & SAFETy COMMITTEE at scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend.
The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman, in consultation with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary.
The Groups values, leadership and strategy are underpinned Detailed briefing papers in relation to the business to be by the highest standards of corporate governance.
As a Board, conducted at each meeting are circulated to the Board at least our aim is to ensure that this effective combination continues to one week before each meeting.
Individual Board members have return enhanced value to our shareholders over the longer term direct access to the Executive Directors and the Group Company while enabling our companies to operate in a safe, socially and Secretary should they wish to receive additional information.
Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman 31 August 2011 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58 Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that debate and the Chairman ensures that adequate time is available their powers to authorise conflicts are operated in accordance for discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers Key senior managers and advisers attend relevant parts of Board that the Directors powers of authorisation of conflicts have meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly operated effectively during the year and the procedures in informed about the current issues facing the business.
Minutes place have been properly followed.
The Board is aware of the of all meetings are circulated promptly afterwards.
other commitments of its Directors and any changes to these commitments are reported to the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, the main terms of which are shown below.
The Board has Responsibility for the operation of Group companies, also delegated specific responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration implementing strategy in accordance with that agreed by the and Nomination Committees, each of which has terms of Board and achievement of objectives, is delegated to the Executive reference which detail their authority and duties.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with the senior delegates some of its responsibilities to these Committees, it still management and staff in the Groups operating companies, both retains full responsibility for a number of key areas such as health formally via the monthly board meetings, and less formally on & safety, corporate social responsibility and risk management.
The Board feels that it is fundamental that the Board as a whole is involved in decision making in these areas and this hands-on approach has served the business well over previous years.
Schedule of matters reserved for the Board 1 Approval of the Groups strategy, objectives, values and 11 Responsibility f or the appointment, re-appointment overall governance framework.
and removal of the Chairman and Directors and the recommendation to shareholders of their election 2 Approval of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, or re-election under the Articles of Association: the Directors Remuneration Report, Turnbull Statement and appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: ensuring half y ear Repor ts.
that suitable procedures are in place for succession planning 3 Approval of any interim dividend and recommendation and the fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors.
12 Regular review and appro val of the Board Procedures 4 Approval of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Manual, the division of responsibilities between the Chairman the resolutions to shareholders therein, including the and the Chief Executive and this Schedule of matters recommendation for the appointment, re-appointment reserved for the Board.
or removal of the Auditors.
13 Responsibility f or establishing Committees of the Board, 5 Approval of all other circulars, listing particulars, and approving their terms of reference, regularly reviewing their corresponding documentation sent to shareholders.
activities and, where appropriate, ratifying decisions.
6 Approval of any changes to the Companys constitutional 14 Approval of all minutes of Board and Committee meetings.
15 Responsibility for oversight of internal control, risk 7 Approval of the Groups financial, taxation and treasury management, health & safety matters and corporate management policies, dividend policy, long term financing, social responsibility.
annual budget and operating plans.
8 Approval of material capital projects, investments, acquisitions, franchises and disposals.
9 Approval of any significant change in accounting, tax or treasury management policies or practices.
10 Approval of changes in the capital structure of the Company or its status as a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange and, in particular, the issue or allotment of shares in the Company otherwise than pursuant to Company-approved employee share schemes and share buyback programmes.
com 59 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED Board balance and independence The Board regularly considers whether the Executive and Non-Executive Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable them to promote shareholders interests and govern the business effectively.
Excluding the Chairman, more than half of the Board are Non-Executive Directors who bring a wide range of experience and objectivity to the Boardroom.
The Executive Directors bring additional perspective to the Boards work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
The balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at the date of this Report and their length of tenure are shown in the charts below.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman was considered independent on his appointment and the Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be robustly independent in character and judgement.
Since Rupert Pennant-Rea will have served on the Board for nine years in October 2011, the Board has concluded that Rupert must then be considered as not independent.
The Nomination Committee has therefore commenced a selection process to appoint a new independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board regularly assesses the other commitments of its Non-Executive Directors and is satisfied that there are no conflicts of duties and that the Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities to shareholders.
Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors tenure Chairman 0-3 years Sir Patrick Brown Andrew Allner Katherine Innes Ker Independent Non-Executive Directors Andrew Allner 6-9 years Rupert Pennant-Rea Rupert Pennant-Rea Katherine Innes Ker 9 years Sir Patrick Brown Executive Directors David Brown There is currently no 3-6 year category.
Keith Down As part of Go-Ahead's orderly succession plan, for a three month period only, there were three Executive Directors.
This is not shown in the chart above.
Meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Sir Patrick Brown 7 9 4 5 6 8 2 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2 Andrew Allner 9 9 5 5 8 8 2 2 1 Katherine Innes Ker 8 8 4 4 7 7 1 1 2 David Brown 3 3 1 1 0 0 0 0 3 Keith Down 4 4 1 1 0 0 0 0 4 Keith Ludeman 9 9 5 5 5 5 2 2 5 Nicholas Swift 6 6 4 4 0 0 0 0 1 Appointed to the Board on 9 July 2010.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011.
3 Appointed to the Board on 7 March 2011.
4 Retired from the Board on 2 July 2011.
5 Resigned from the Board on 7 March 2011.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 60 Roles of the Board The table below outlines the division of key responsibilities, as agreed by the Board.
The offices of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately, with a clear division of responsibility: Role Key responsibilities: Chairman leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: ensuring adequate time is allowed for the discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues: ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing overall effectiveness: encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: and ensuring, with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board.
Group Chief responsible for performance, management and supervision of the Group in accordance with the strategy, policies, budgets and business plans approved by the Board: executive ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors: responsible for the day-to-day leadership of the executive and senior management teams: and ensuring that the Chairman is kept updated in a timely manner of issues, events and developments.
Group Finance maintaining strong financial management underpinned by effective financial controls: Director developing the Groups policies and strategy on tax, treasury, financing, insurance and pensions: ensuring a commercial and financial focus on potential acquisitions, business case appraisal and financial planning: ensuring the appropriateness of risk management and internal control processes and systems: supporting and advising the senior management team in their operational roles: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors.
Senior independent providing an important point of contact for shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director non-executive or Chairman or for which such contact is inappropriate: Director helping to develop a balanced understanding on the Board of the issues and concerns of major shareholders: providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary: and leading a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year, without the Chairman present, where the Chairmans performance is evaluated.
non-executive ensuring constructive challenge: Directors helping develop proposals on strategy: scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance: ensuring the integrity of financial information: ensuring financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors: and contributing a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
com 61 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED It is important that the Board ensures planned and progressive David Brown was appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive on refreshing of the Board and the balance of experience of the 1 April 2011 to succeed Keith Ludeman as Group Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors, in terms of their length of tenure, on 3 July 2011.
David is a member of the Nomination Committee is shown on page 60. and regularly attends Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
David brings a wealth of Group Company Secretary experience to the Board with more than 28 years of working Carolyn Sephton has been Group Company Secretary since in the transport industry.
David is returning to the Group after July 2006. her biography can be found on page 53.
The Group serving as Chief Executive of the Groups London bus division Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in her role as between 2003 and 2006.
The Board recommends unanimously Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
For all other company to shareholders that David Brown is elected as Group Chief secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups Executive at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
non-rail pension arrangements, she reports to the Group Keith Down was appointed as Group Finance Director on Finance Director.
Keith replaced Nick Swift, who left on the same date.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Group Company Keith regularly attends Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows Keith brings a wealth of skills and experience to the Board within the Board and its Committees and between senior combined with a sharp focus on the interests of shareholders.
his management and Non-Executive Directors, as well as facilitating experience in businesses with a strong consumer angle alongside the induction of new Directors and assisting with any Director complex logistics will prove an invaluable contribution to the training and development needs as required.
The Board recommends unanimously to shareholders that Keith Down is elected as Group Finance Director at the 2011 The Group Company Secretarys responsibilities also include Annual General Meeting.
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that the Board is regularly updated on all matters of corporate governance, The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that a full legislative changes and regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
The induction and training programme is provided on appointment appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a and that all Directors continually update their skills and knowledge.
matter for the Board as a whole.
David Brown and Keith Down have received a full and tailored induction including visiting all operating companies to meet with All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group local senior management, meeting with key Group personnel Company Secretary and may also take independent professional and advisers and receiving briefings on the Groups strategy, its advice, at the Groups expense, if they believe it necessary, for the organisational structure, its business and the markets and industry proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
information and professional development The Board is confident that all its Directors have the knowledge, The Board is supplied with any such information to enable it to ability and experience to perform the functions required of discharge its duties effectively.
A comprehensive Board Procedures a director of a listed company.
Manual is maintained which includes formal procedures for the Re-election of Directors working of the Board and its Committees, delegated authorities, At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, in addition to shareholders the timely provision of appropriate information and the duties being asked to elect David Brown and Keith Down to the Board and responsibilities of Directors, including standards of conduct for the first time, Sir Patrick Brown, Rupert Pennant-Rea, Andrew and compliance.
Allner and Katherine Innes Ker will all be offering themselves for The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to update their annual re-election.
The Boards annual performance evaluation has skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company in order confirmed that each Director standing for re-election continues to to competently carry out their responsibility to Go-Aheads contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
In addition to Board and Committee meeting Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board in 1999 as a Non-Executive attendance, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors Director and became Non-Executive Chairman in 2002. he attend the Groups annual Senior Management Conference each is Chairman of the Nomination Committee, a member of the year, enabling them to review and discuss the Groups strategy Remuneration Committee and regularly attends the Audit with senior managers from across the Group.
The Chairman Committee by invitation.
The Board recognises his industry-wide attends most meetings of the Chief Executive Group.
experience and long-standing contribution to the Board and Appointments to the Board unanimously recommends that he should be re-elected for The appointment of new Directors to the Board is based on a further year.
merit and against objective criteria, with due regard to the benefits Rupert Pennant-Rea became a Non-Executive Director of the of diversity, including gender.
This approach was adopted for the Board in 2002. he was appointed Senior Independent Nonappointment of the new Group Chief Executive and Group Executive Director in 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Finance Director and further information on this and the process Committee as well as a member of the Audit and Nomination undertaken is described in the Nomination Committees Report Committees.
Rupert is well known to investors and financial on page 67.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 62 professionals and available to shareholders in his role as Senior Performance evaluation process Independent Non-Executive Director.
While Rupert will have served on the Board for nine years in October 2011, it is the Boards view that Ruperts longer standing knowledge of the Company will be essential in providing continuity and support following the recent changes to the executive team.
The Board therefore recommends Completed by each Director unanimously his re-election for a further year.
Reviewed by the Group Company Secretary QUESTIONNAIRE Andrew Allner became a Non-Executive Director of the Board in 2008 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Andrew has extensive public company board experience in both Executive and Non-Executive positions.
he has a sound and robust financial background and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered each Director meets individually Accountants in England and Wales.
The Board recommends with Group Company Secretary unanimously Andrew Allners re-election for a further year.
INTERvIEW Katherine innes Ker became a Non-Executive Director in 2010 and is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Group Company Secretary compiles Committees.
Katherine has significant Executive and Noninformation from questionnaires Executive experience of helping to grow successful and dynamic interviews into a report organisations and has considerable experience as a financial Group Company Secretary discusses analyst, qualifying her to make an effective contribution to the with Company Chairman Board.
The Board recommends unanimously the re-election BOARD MEETING Findings are presented and discussed at of Katherine Innes Ker for a further year.
Board meeting Further details of each Director can be found in the Directors biographies on pages 52 and 53.
Performance evaluation to the size and composition of the Board and the timely provision The Board is subject to an annual performance review.
In light and appropriateness of information which allowed for optimum of the recent changes to the Boards composition, it was not focus at Board meetings.
The search and appointment process considered appropriate to undertake an external performance for the recent Executive Director appointments had been robust evaluation this year.
The Board concluded that a review would and successful, with the new Directors receiving a full and tailored be undertaken by the Group Company Secretary.
This was on induction upon joining the Board.
The Board also concluded that the basis that the Group Company Secretary was well placed its Committees had operated particularly effectively during to devise questions that were relevant and appropriate to the the year.
Group and that, having attended Board and Committee meetings throughout the year, would understand and be able to ensure Some changes in Board practice will, however, be implemented a full and frank discussion around any concerns raised.
as a result of the evaluation process.
These include increasing the interaction between the Board and senior management, The review this year focused on a number of key areas the continued development of risk management processes including Board dynamics and effectiveness, Board composition and reporting and the role of the Board in contributing to and succession planning, development of strategy and risk the development of strategy and the overall effectiveness management, the nature and level of the Boards interaction of the Group.
with the Groups senior management and corporate governance.
As part of this process, those Directors who had served on the The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness Board for a period in excess of six years were subject to and development in the year ahead and anticipates using an a particularly rigorous review.
external adviser for its 2012 review.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Relations with shareholders Non-Executive Director, met without the Chairman being present The Group recognises the importance of regular communication to appraise his performance during the year.
The performance with all of its shareholders and is committed to maintaining an evaluation of the Chairman took into account the views of the active dialogue with investors throughout the year on the Groups Executive Directors.
The reporting calendar is The evaluation process did not highlight any areas of material dominated by the publication of the annual and half year results each year.
In addition, the interim management and trading concern.
The overall conclusion was that the Board continued to work well and operated effectively in an environment where there statements provide shareholders with a balanced and regular understanding of the Groups operational performance, was constructive challenge and time commitment from the NonExecutive Directors.
Areas of strength identified were in relation its financial results and prospects.
com 63 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED The Executive Directors meet with the Groups major internal control and risk management shareholders both institutional investors and private shareholders The Boards responsibilities with significant holdings after the announcement of annual and For the financial year ended 2 July 2011 and up to the date of half year results and at other times as appropriate, including approval of this report, the Board has complied with provision conference calls, site visits and management presentations.
C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and has established The institutional shareholders have further opportunities to make procedures that implement in full the guidance given in Internal their views known through follow up interviews by the Companys Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code brokers which are then documented and circulated to the Board.
The Executive Directors also provide feedback to the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of following presentations to investors.
internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective Policy and Procedures Manual the Manual is designed to communication with investors and that the Board understands the reinforce the Groups corporate governance, internal control views of major shareholders on matters such as governance and processes and management of risk.
All operating companies must strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to adhere to this Manual and annually certify that they have done so.
meet shareholders, if appropriate, for this purpose.
Additionally, the In addition, the Board gains assurance from the Groups structure Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairmen and the financial, risk management, operating and compliance of the Boards Committees are available to meet major investors reporting processes which are in place.
The Board also considers on request.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have in achieving its strategic objectives.
concerns, and for whom contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Board-level reporting Executive or Group Finance Director has either failed to resolve The Board is supported by the work of the Audit Committee their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
which has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing The principal communication with private shareholders is the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting, control systems.
During the year the Audit Committee regularly which is attended by all Directors.
All shareholders are invited reviewed reports from the internal auditors, the external auditors and encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting which and the Executive Directors on matters relating to internal provides an opportunity for shareholders to develop their controls, financial reporting and risk management.
The Audit understanding of the Company and ask questions on the matters Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment put to the meeting as detailed in the Notice of Meeting sent to of the Groups position and the Board receives regular updates on registered shareholders in advance of the meeting.
There is also how specific risks that are assessed as material are being managed the opportunity to meet informally with the Directors before and on at least a biannual basis.
Group structure Ordinary business which is raised for consideration at the Annual The Groups decentralised organisation structure enables the General Meeting each year is: Executive Directors to play an active role in communicating the objectives, risk strategy and policy of the Group.
Open to receive the financial statements for the year, together with communication on risk matters is encouraged and performance the Directors and Auditors Reports: is monitored against objectives.
Risk management is an integral to approve the Directors Remuneration Report: part of day-to-day operations where there exists clear ownership of risk identification and mitigation at operating company level.
to approve the final dividend: Operating companies are fully supported by the Executive to elect and re-elect members of the Board: Directors in assessing and managing risks and internal controls.
to re-appoint the Companys Auditor: and The Groups structure has the benefit of enabling it to respond quickly to new, emerging or changing risks, with risk management to give the Directors the authority to determine the Auditors information shared across the Group as well as reported upwards.
Financial reporting and planning processes Other matters included on the agenda for the Annual General In accordance with the Manual, there are formally defined Meeting vary from year to year in accordance with the lines of financial reporting responsibility, delegated authorities, requirements of the Company.
capital investment approval policies and clear operating The Company maintains a comprehensive website with a processes.
Monthly reporting of financial information to the dedicated section to shareholders.
This provides a wealth of Board encompasses profit and loss, cashflow and balance sheet information including access to the annual and half year reports, information and key operating ratios.
The annual budgeting and presentations, useful fact sheets, as well as share price and general strategic planning process includes regular re-forecasting of shareholder information.
Shareholders can contact the Company results, taking into account key risks and opportunities.
using the email communication system available on the Companys The use of the Manual by finance teams throughout the Group website which will be responded to by the Groups Investor ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and Relations team.
For further information visit our website at measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies www.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled No-one other than the Committee Chairman and members as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting are entitled to be present at a meeting of the Nomination, Audit pack by all Group entities ensures that information is gathered and or Remuneration Committees, but others may attend at the presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the invitation of the Committee.
Audit Committee Report There is regular reporting to the Board on specific matters including safety, insurance, pensions, tax and treasury management.
Business planning encompasses due diligence and risk assessments where businesses are being acquired or divested and all projects and partnerships are entered into taking into account an Further improvement appropriate risk-reward balance.
in financial reporting, Risk management processes internal controls and In accordance with the Groups Manual and Turnbull guidance risk management on internal controls, an ongoing process has been established for the identification and evaluation of the significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal controls in place.
During the year, and in conjunction with the internal auditors, , the Group continued to strengthen andrew allner its ongoing risk management processes, which include top-down Audit Committee Chairman risk assessment at Group level and bottom-up risk assessments Non-Executive Director at operating company level.
A bespoke risk categorisation model exists which is used across the Group to ensure that risks are Members: identified and reported on a consistent basis and a process is Rupert Pennant-Rea Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in place to aggregate key risks on a Group wide basis.
These key Katherine innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 procedures ensure that the impact of key and emerging risks are addressed, with controls and mitigations monitored at monthly Committee Secretary: operating company board meetings.
A consolidated review of the Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary Groups risks and controls is undertaken by the Audit Committee at least biannually.
Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: health and safety reporting processes Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman health and safety standards have been established across all David Brown Group Chief Executive from 3 July 2011 operating companies and key performance indicators are closely Keith Down Group Finance Director from 7 March 2011 monitored at monthly operating company board meetings.
Keith ludeman Group Chief Executive retired 2 July 2011 The Group Chief Executive reports on health and safety, which nick Swift Group Finance Director resigned 7 March 2011 includes key performance indicators, at each Board meeting.
Internal Auditors representative s Group internal audit External Auditors representative s The conduct of the Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to , with overall responsibility and direction being retained by the Board.
The internal audit Responsibilities function provides assurance over the effectiveness of key controls During the year the Committee met five times and, as part of as identified as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition the annual performance evaluation, also undertook a specific to meetings with local management, the internal auditors report evaluation of its effectiveness.
The main activities undertaken on a monthly basis to the Executive Directors and to the Audit during the year included: Committee at least three times a year.
receiving and reviewing reports from management relating Disclosure and Transparency Rules to the annual and half year profit figures and statements, monitoring statutory audit of the annual consolidated Group Disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 can be found on pages and Parent Company financial statements, reviewing the 77 to 80. effectiveness of the financial reporting, the controls in force Committees of the Board and the key judgemental areas at the half year and year end to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported The Board has established a number of Committees to deal with to shareholders: specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The responsibilities of each Committee are determined by its terms of reference which are receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups external available on the Companys website or upon request from the and internal auditors, including health and safety auditors: Group Company Secretary.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed and updated annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com 65 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED reviewing the relationship with the external and internal Review of the external auditors auditors, including their terms of engagement and fees, The Committee has primary responsibility for advising the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors independence, objectivity and expertise, resources and and recommends to the Board the audit fees to be paid.
The qualification: Boards decision on these matters is subject to the approval of reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial shareholders.
The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of control policies, systems and procedures for the identification, the external auditors have been examined by the Committee assessment and reporting of risk, as outlined on pages 64 and, during the year, discussions were held regarding their terms of and 65: engagement and remuneration.
The Committee remains confident that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups is not compromised in any way and Ernst & young are best internal audit function: placed to carry out their professional duties and responsibilities making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the as auditors.
From the 2010 11 audit, Kathryn Barrow replaced shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation Debbie Ohanlon as Senior Statutory Auditor, Debbie Ohanlon to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the having served five years and retired by rotation.
It is intended that external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms Kathryn Barrows tenure be for a period of five years.
of engagement of the external auditor for both audit and nonWhistle blowing policy audit work: The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, providing a forum for reporting by the Groups external and openness and accountability and a whistle blowing policy has been internal auditors, including health and safety auditors: issued to all operating companies to ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine reviewing the whistle blowing arrangements in place across concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated the Group: carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, should be reviewing the Groups Bribery Act procedures in response taken.
Any matters of significance are reported to the Audit to the Governments guidance published in spring 2011: and Committee.
During the year, no issues of significance were raised.
supporting the new Group Finance Director as part of his Anti-bribery procedures induction to the Group.
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act which came into force on 1 July 2011 and At least once a year, the Non-Executive Directors meet with the external auditors, without the Executive Directors being present.
measures have been established to ensure that compliance is achieved and any issues arising under the Bribery Act are dealt Changes to remuneration policy with promptly and appropriately.
Training has been provided to During the year, the Audit Committee considered the proposals all employees who are in a position to be affected by the Bribery made by the Remuneration Committee in respect of the changes Act.
This includes the Board of Directors and senior management.
to remuneration policy for the new Executive Directors.
As Training will be refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of the part of these changes, the Committee concluded that a formal Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially review of performance versus budget for performance related justifying dismissal.
bonus purposes should be introduced.
Full details of the new remuneration policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code The Audit Committee is made up of three independent NonReport from page 69.
Executive Directors as required by the UK Corporate Governance Policy on the Auditors providing non-audit services Code the Code.
Under the Code, at least one member of the In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax As a Chartered Accountant, and previously the Group Finance services if the fees exceed a certain level are subject to approval Director of another listed company between 2004 and 2007, by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has specified that the Board has determined that Andrew Allner fully satisfies the external audit firm may not provide certain categories of nonthis requirement.
audit services to the Group as detailed in the Committees terms The Committee is fully compliant with the principles and provisions of reference.
The ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees charged by of the Code with regard to its constitution and operation.
the external auditors in the year as a proportion of the annual external audit fee is kept under review to ensure that neither their The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on independence nor their objectivity is put at risk.
During the financial the Groups website at www.
com or upon request from year, the audit fees of the external auditor were 0.6m and their the Group Company Secretary.
fees for non-audit work were 0.2m.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other audit firms during the financial year were 0.2m.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 Appointment of new executive Directors nomination Committee Report During the year, the Nomination Committee was responsible for leading the process of identifying candidates for the roles of Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
As part of this process, a description of these roles and the capabilities The appointments required was prepared.
In consultation with an external search of David Brown and consultancy, and after interviewing a number of potential Keith Down provide candidates, Keith Down joined the Company as Group Finance the right balance Director on 7 March 2011.
As part of an orderly succession plan, of skills, knowledge David Brown joined the Company as Deputy Chief Executive on and experience 1 April 2011, succeeding Keith Ludeman as Group Chief Executive when he retired on 2 July 2011.
The Committee followed a process that was both rigorous and sir patrick Brown transparent and both candidates were appointed based on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits Nomination Committee Chairman of diversity.
Company Chairman Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code Members: The Nomination Committee is fully compliant with the provisions Rupert Pennant-Rea Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Andrew Allner Non-Executive Director The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available Katherine innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request from David Brown Group Chief Executive from 3 July 2011 the Group Company Secretary.
Keith ludeman Group Chief Executive retired 2 July 2011 Committee Secretary: Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary Responsibilities The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are Non-Executive Directors and during the year the Committee met twice not including interviews with potential candidates and, as part of the annual performance evaluation, also undertook a specific evaluation of its effectiveness.
The main activities undertaken during the year included: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any change: recommending to the Board, the membership and chairmanship of Committees: reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Directors, using the performance evaluation process to assess whether the Non-Executive Director is spending enough time on fulfilling their duties: planning for the orderly succession of new Directors to the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and reviewing the terms of reference for the Committee.
com 67 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOvERNANCE CONTINUED Review of remuneration policy Remuneration Committee Report As explained in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 76, one of the key priorities during the year was the comprehensive review of remuneration policy for the new Executive Directors, David Brown and Keith Down.
This included reviewing the structure of the remuneration and A comprehensive incentive packages and consultation with the Groups major review of remuneration shareholders and their representative bodies on these changes.
policy was undertaken The Committee is satisfied that there is now a clearer link during the year between performance and the pay received, with the changes more closely reflecting the Groups corporate goals and market best practice.
Compliance with the uK Corporate Governance Code rupert pennant-rea The Remuneration Committee is fully compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Committee Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website at www.
com or Members: upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman Andrew Allner Non-Executive Director Katherine innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 Committee Secretary: Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: Keith ludeman Group Chief Executive retired 2 July 2011 David Brown Group Chief Executive appointed 3 July 2011 Responsibilities During the year the Committee met eight times and, as part of the annual performance evaluation, also undertook a review of its effectiveness.
The Committee is responsible for all aspects of remuneration.
The key responsibilities and activities of the Committee during the year included: determining the overall remuneration policy including the balance between the fixed and performance-related elements of pay : considering the fees of the Chairman: determining the new awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan in September 2010: reviewing whether any of the awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in September 2007 should vest following the end of their three year performance period: considering the application of the Committees policy in connection with the departing Executive Directors, Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift: appointing new independent advisers to the Committee following a tendering process: reviewing the terms of reference for the Committee: and receiving and reviewing the report from the Chief Executive on salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management of each operating company and senior Group personnel.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 68
