Governance corporate Governance Greene King plc is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained as we recognise that strong governance is crucial in helping the business to deliver its strategy, generating shareholder value and safeguarding our shareholders longterm interests.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Combined Code on corporate governance sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied the principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide an explanation for this.
The board considers that the company has complied with the 2008 Combined Code throughout the year, except in the following areas.
1.3 requires the senior independent nonexecutive director to lead an appraisal of the performance of the chairman at least once a yearand A.
6 requires the board to undertake a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its individual directors.
Aformal evaluation of the board and its nonexecutive directors was completed in February 2010 and an externally facilitated review is currently taking place.
The board is satisfied that, between such reviews, an open dialogue exists between all board members enabling issues to be raised and dealt with as they occur.
A review of the chairmans performance will be undertaken in conjunction with the evaluation process.
C. 3.1 C. 3.1 requires the audit committee to comprise at least three directors, all independent nonexecutive directors.
This requirement was not met in the short period from the retirement of Jane Scriven in March 2011 until the end of the year, in that the audit committee had just two members.
During that part of the year no committee meetings were held.
The search for a new nonexecutive director, who will be appointed as a member of the audit committee, is well advanced.
With effect from 2 May 2011 the company is now bound to comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The company is working towards compliance with the new code and will report on its compliance therewith in next years report and accounts.
The information required by DTR 7.1 and DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, except for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the directors report.
Governance structure The board The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an appropriate range of skills, knowledge and experience among its members, and that the objectivity and integrity of members should be exemplary.
The board currently comprises a nonexecutive chairman, three other nonexecutive directors and two executive directors.
The directors biographies are on page 32.
The board believes that the structure and size of the board is appropriate and that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed bythe board.
The job descriptions are available on request.
The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the board.
The chief executive has responsibility for executing the companys strategy, achieving operational and financial goals and leading senior management in dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision, including approval of the long term objectives and strategy, approval of budgets and financial statements including the report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation of the companys strategy.
Information and training Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to properly discharge its functions.
Documentation includes detailed reports in current trading and full papers on matters where the board is required to give its approval.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are provided with the opportunity to meet and question management as required and are encouraged to visit the companys pubs.
Each director is responsible for ensuring that they remain up to date in their skills and knowledge of the company and the training needs of the board are regularly reviewed.
Explanations of issues and training provided during the year covered areas such as changes in legislation.
There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The company has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
Newlyappointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company.
This takes the form of meetings with other board members and senior management and the provision of an induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies and procedures, financial and operational information and a briefing on directors responsibilities.
Performance evaluation The board believes it is appropriate to undertake a regular performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
Anevaluation exercise was completed in February 2010, with the results reported to the board in March 2010.
The boards intention is to conduct reviews approximately every eighteen months and, accordingly, no evaluation exercise was conducted in the 2010 11 financial year.
An externally facilitated performance evaluation is already under way in 2011, with an external facilitator, Boardroom Review, having already been appointed and interviews being conducted.
The board has confirmed that it is satisfied that it and its committees are operating effectively.
Between evaluation exercises an open dialogue exists between all board members enabling issues to be raised and dealt with as they occur.
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 87 Governance corporate Governance continued Governance structure continued Independence of nonexecutive directors The nonexecutive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined and fully discussed and that the performance of the company is scrutinised and challenged.
Their independence and objectivity are of paramount importance.
The board believes that they all have a range of skills, knowledge and experience which will help the company and that their understanding of the company, its strategy and operations increases over the years.
The board is satisfied that all of the nonexecutive directors were independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship with the executive management which could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgment, and that they all remained independent in character and judgment.
None of the independent nonexecutive directors participates in the share option schemes or longterm incentive plan operated by the company and none was dependent on the fees received from the company as their primary source of income.
Norman Murray is the senior independent nonexecutive director.
Norman was appointed to the board in January 2004, has never been employed by the company and has had diverse business interests.
The board considers that he has remained independent from management inboth character and judgment, that his performance has been effective and that he has demonstrated commitment to the role.
As well as supporting the chairman, a key responsibility for him is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the chairman, chief executive or finance director.
Tim Bridge was not independent on appointment, having previously served as chief executive.
However, the board is satisfied that he shows independent judgment, that his performance as chairman is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, linked to key events in the companys corporate calendar.
There is a twoday offsite meeting for the board each year focusing on strategy.
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to progress the companys business and if necessary, board meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board meetings.
It is expected that all directors attend board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
If directors are unable to attend meetings they are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the nonexecutive directors without the executive directors being present.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee Meetings held during 201011 8 3 3 3 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended Executive directors Rooney Anand 8 Ian Bull 8 Nonexecutive directors Tim Bridge 8 3 1 John Brady 8 3 1 3 Ian Durant 8 3 3 Norman Murray 8 3 3 2 Jane Scriven 7 3 2 During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nominationcommittee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
1 J ohn Brady was appointed to the remuneration committee on 28 April 2011.
The number of remuneration committee meetings attended is stated with effectfromthat date.
2 Jane Scriven resigned as a director on 17 March 2011.
The number of board and committee meetings attended is stated up to and including that date.
Conflicts of interest The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve potential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
The board keeps its authorisations under review on a regular basis.
Board committees The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms ofreference governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request and will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting, reflect the provisions of the combined code and have been approved by the board.
Set out below are reports from each of the nomination committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
Nomination committee report During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Norman Murray andJohn Brady.
Apart from the chairman, all members were considered by the board to be independent.
The committees role is to identify, evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly the structure, sizeand composition including skills, knowledge and experience of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard toanyadjustments that are deemed necessary.
The committee is also responsible for considering the companys succession plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board in the future, and for reviewing membership of the boards committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed upon any individuals.
88 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk Governance Board committees continued Nomination committee report continued The committee met three times during the year and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attended two of those meetings.
One of the meetings was held specifically to deal with the appointment of Matthew Fearn as the new finance director.
In accordance with the articles of association, all directors are subject to reelection by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
The nomination committee undertakes a review of all directors who are due for reelection to determine whether or not to recommend their reappointment.
Members of the committee do not participate in discussions regarding their own reappointment.
The board is not proposing to introduce annual reelection for all directors this year, for the reasons set out in the AGM notice of meeting.
Audit committee report The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant.
The other members of the committee were John Brady and, until her retirement, Jane Scriven.
All members are considered by the board to be independent.
The board is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and relevant financial experience, as the former finance director of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, formerly Liberty International plc.
The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full year audit and the interim results in each case prior to their submission to the board.
It is responsible for reviewing the companys internal financial control systems, advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures and considering the need for a full internal audit function.
It also reviews the groups risk management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives detailed reports on the risk management functions within the business units.
Regular updates are provided to the committee on accounting and reporting developments under relevant financial standards and codes.
The committee had three meetings during the year and on each occasion the finance director and senior members of the finance function attended.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings.
There is an opportunity at each meeting for the committee to discuss matters privately with the auditors without management present.
In addition, the chairman of the committee is in regular contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committee reviews the audit plan presented by the auditors before the start of each audit cycle and agrees the scope of the audit work.
During the audit process the committee keeps under review the consistency of accounting policies on a year to year basis and across the group, and the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions.
The financial statements and interim results are reviewed in detail prior to their submission to the board.
Following the audit the committee discusses issues arising from the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss.
The committee also assesses the effectiveness of the audit process by reviewing whether the auditor has met the agreed audit plan, considering the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in handling key accounting and audit judgements, obtaining feedback from key people involved and reviewing the management letter to ensure that the auditors have a good understanding of the business.
The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, costeffectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
Ernst & Young LLP report to the committee regularly to confirm compliance with their own policies, procedures and ethical standards in relation to auditor objectivity and independence.
The committee chairman and the finance director worked together during the year to prepare for the planned retirement of the senior statutory auditor responsible for the groups audit.
A new Ernst & Young LLP audit partner has already been identified for the 2011 12 financial year.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP for nonaudit work.
The company will award nonaudit work to the firm which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question, taking into account the skills and experience of the firm, the nature of the services involved, the fees payable for the work in question, with particular attention to the level offees for nonaudit services both for individual services and in aggregate relative to the amount of the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in place to mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from such services.
Pieces of work estimated to be in excess of 25,000 and for which the auditors are being considered are put out to tender unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
The finance director may approve specific engagements up to 50,000 and 100,000 cumulatively, and the chairman of the audit committee may approve engagements up to 100,000 and 200,000 cumulatively, with fees inexcess of those limits being subject to approval of the full committee.
During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP for nonaudit work such as taxation advice, primarily in relation to the resolution of legacy tax issues on which Ernst & Young LLP specialists had originally advised.
The companys internal audit function focuses primarily on the groups Retail division, where the greatest financial risks are perceived to exist.
Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of financial risks involved are felt to be such that a wider internal audit function is not required.
Remuneration committee report The remuneration committee was chaired during the year by Norman Murray, and the other members were Ian Durant, Jane Scriven untilher retirement and John Brady appointed to replace her.
All the members are considered by the board to be independent.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the chairman and those members of senior management whose details appear on page 33.
It agrees the total individual remuneration package of each of the executive directors and those senior managers, considers the granting of share options and awards under the longterm incentive plan and determines bonuses payable to the executive directors and senior managers.
The remuneration committee met three times during the year.
The chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attend its meetings.
The chairman does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The chief executive is consulted by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Details of the companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are set out in the remuneration report onpages 82 to 86. www.
co. uk Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 89 Governance corporate Governance continued Communication with shareholders Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media used.
Both are made available to all shareholders.
In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with private shareholders, who have the full opportunity to ask questions.
The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including inparticular the chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders a minimum of twenty working days before the meeting.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief executive on the meetings he and the finance director have with principal shareholders.
The senior independent nonexecutive director, Norman Murray, is available to shareholders if they have concerns about governance issues which the normal channels of contact fail to resolve.
The company maintains a web site www.
co. uk to provide uptodate, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for presentations to investment analysts.
Internal control The board acknowledges its responsibility for the groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can provide reasonable, but notabsolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these andother issues.
There are processes in place which are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
Theboard has adopted a formal risk policy and regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings.
This group oversees the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
The board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment ofthe risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from, and subsequent discussions with, senior management.
No significant problems were disclosed in these reports.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below: Internal control and risk management process The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the significant risks faced.
Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed.
Appropriate steps are then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
Internal audit The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the scope of the internal audit functionwithin the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Information and financial reporting systems The groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures include annual detailed operational budgets and a three yearstrategic plan, both of which are reviewed and approved by the board.
Performance against the budgets is monitored, and relevant action taken, throughout the year, through the periodic reporting of detailed management accounts and key performance indicators.
Forecasts are updated during the course of the year.
With a centralised financial reporting system, transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies, and all relevant information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a reporting pack by all business units in the group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated accounts.
Capital and project control There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and postcompletion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the original plan.
Certain transactions are reserved for approval by the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of authority have been identified for employees.
External audit The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit andinterimreview.
90 Greene King plc Annual Report 2011 www.
