32 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance This is the first year that the Governance Code were applied to At these meetings, it reviews Group Board is reporting against The the Company in 2011 and will be strategy, performance, resources, UK Corporate Governance Code relevant to the Company for the risk management and other matters the Governance Code, as 2012 financial year.
Whilst introduced by the Financial the executive responsibility for The Board Reporting Council in June running the Companys business 2010.
I can report that the rests ultimately with the Chief Board considers that it has Effectiveness Executive, Kennedy McMeikan, complied, throughout the year the non-executive directors ensure The Nominations Committee under under review, with the principles that the strategies proposed by the leadership of the Chairman of governance set out in the the executive directors are fully has considered the blend of skills Governance Code.
discussed and critically examined and experience that the directors Derek Netherton Chairman prior to adoption.
During 2011, the bring to the Board.
This includes scheduled Board and Committee The Board recognises the independent and objective meetings and the number of importance of, and is committed experience of food retailing, meetings attended by each director to, high standards of corporate consumer goods manufacturing, governance, and to integrity and finance, property, human resource were as follows: high ethical standards in all of its management and corporate business dealings.
finance to complement the existing skills and experience of the The following statements, together executive directors.
with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 51, The Board, under the chairmanship describe how the relevant of Derek Netherton, meets regularly principles and provisions of the to discharge its duties.
Main Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 4 4 3 Derek Netherton 6 - - 3 Kennedy McMeikan 6 - - - Richard Hutton 6 - - - Raymond Reynolds 6 - - - Julie Baddeley 5 3 3 3 Bob Bennett 5 4 4 2 Ian Durant 1 1 1 1 Iain Ferguson 6 4 4 3 Roger Whiteside 6 4 4 3 Based on meetings since joining the Board on 5 October 2011.
In addition, the non-executive directors meet formally twice each year and from time to time, as required.
33 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Board has a policy on the At Board level, the Company has All directors are able to receive separation of the roles of the benefited from having a stable training and to take independent Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Board and would only look to professional advice at the The Chairman sets the agenda replace the existing directors as expense of the Company.
for Board meetings in accordance and when it is appropriate for them They also have direct access to with a specific Schedule of Matters to retire.
At the moment the Board the Company Secretary, who is Reserved, and ensures that the has nine directors of whom one is responsible for advising the Board, Board is supplied, in a timely female and would hope to have through the Chairman, on all manner, with information in a recruited two new female directors governance matters.
form and of a quality appropriate by 2015.
This of course depends The Chairman meets with the to enable it to discharge its on finding suitable candidates, non-executive directors at least duties.
The Board considers that and the Board will continue to annually without the executive it effectively leads and controls actively encourage its recruiters directors present.
All directors take to seek out qualified women as Independent Director meets decisions objectively and in the potential directors.
the non-executive directors interests of the Company.
The The Board is firmly of the view that annually without the Chairman non-executive directors scrutinise it is in the interests of the Company present to appraise the the performance of management and the communities in which Chairmans performance.
in meeting agreed goals and it operates that it recruits and objectives and monitor the Evaluation develops the very best people from reporting of performance.
the widest possible pool of talent.
All directors receive induction The performance of the Board, training on joining the Board its Committees and of all directors The Board is satisfied that a process and regularly update and refresh is evaluated annually by a formal is in place for orderly succession to their knowledge through reading, and rigorous process.
For the the Board and to positions of senior attendance on relevant courses review relating to 2011, each management, so as to maintain an and or activities outside the director completed a written appropriate balance of skills and Company.
As part of the process questionnaire and participated in experience within the Company and of maintaining an awareness a one to one interview with the on the Board.
of the Companys activities Company Secretary.
In addition After carefully reviewing the and assessing the ability of the to covering the effectiveness of guidance in the Governance management team, members of the Board, its committees and Code, all of the non-executive the senior management team are each individual director, the directors are considered by invited to attend Board meetings process also included a review the Board to be independent in and or to present papers to the of the performance of the Board character and judgement and Board.
This process also affords against the objectives it set for to be free from any business or senior managers the opportunity itself at the start of the year and other relationship or circumstance to bring matters to the attention whether the Board had operated which is likely to affect or to of the Board.
in accordance with the Companys interfere with the exercise of their values at all times.
The results are The Board is proud of its reputation independent judgement.
fed back to the Chairman and then for bringing the Companys best to the Board for evaluation and talent through the organisation and Election and re-election of discussion.
These discussions are directors encouraging people to succeed used to identify actions to improve regardless of gender, race or any The Companys articles of effectiveness, to identify individual other characteristic.
As a result association require that all directors and collective training needs and three out of seven of the most must retire and seek election at the to set objectives for the Board for senior retail managers are women, first AGM following appointment.
as are three out of ten bakery Accordingly, Ian Durant will resign managers.
The Board believes it is The Board has not yet conducted as a director and offer himself for in the best interests of the Company an external evaluation, and will give election at the AGM to be held on to continue to bring women through 16 May 2012.
Furthermore, the consideration to this in autumn to the very top levels within the Board has resolved that, in line with 2012 when the subject is next due business and is supportive of Lord for review.
all of the directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
34 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance - continued Board Committees The Nominations Committee Board Handbook which contains key information and policies that The Board delegates some of its currently comprises Derek are relevant to the position.
In the activities to the following committees, Netherton - Chairman, and all of induction process tailored for Ian each of which has written terms of the non-executive directors.
The Durant, this included meeting with reference, which are available on the Committees main functions which the external auditor, as well as other Companys website.
The Company it discharged during the year are to senior members of KPMG Audit Plc Secretary acts as secretary to each review the balance and constitution who are not otherwise engaged on of these committees, and each of the of the Board: to advise the Board the audit work for the Company.
committees is provided with sufficient as to whether directors should be For new executive directors where resources to undertake its duties.
nominated for re-election by the the appointment is their first such members: and to approve and The Audit Committee office, the induction includes details manage the process for setting of the legal duties and obligations currently consists of five independent the specification for all Board of being a director.
non-executive directors: Ian appointments, identifying candidates who meet that specification and Risk management Durant who assumed the Chair making recommendations to on 1 January 2012, Bob Bennett Details of the Companys principal the Board on the basis of merit Chairman until 31 December 2011, risks and the management of and compliance with objective Julie Baddeley, Roger Whiteside and these are given in the Business criteria in respect of all new Iain Ferguson.
The Committee met Review section, Principal risks and Board appointments.
four times in the year, and a fuller uncertainties on pages 26 to 29. report on its activities is set out on In recruiting additional directors The Board confirms that it has pages 36 and 37. the Nominations Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the defines the role and uses external The Remuneration Committee system of internal control covering consultants to assist in identifying all material controls, including currently consists entirely of suitable candidates from which financial, operational, compliance independent non-executive directors: the Committee selects a shortlist and risk management systems Iain Ferguson who assumed the and conducts interviews.
The final during the year under review and chair from 1 January 2012 Julie candidate is then subject to formal up to the date of approval of the recommendation by the Committee Baddeley who was Chair until 31 annual report and accounts.
and approval by the Board.
December 2011, Bob Bennett, Roger Whiteside and Ian Durant.
Relations with shareholders During the year the Committee The Committees main duties which oversaw the appointment of Ian The Chairman ensures that it discharged during the year are to Durant as an independent there is effective communication determine the base salary, benefits non-executive director.
This process with individual and institutional in kind, terms and conditions of commenced with the appointment shareholders through the employment, performance-related of Inzito LLP to assist with the announcement of regular trading bonuses, share options and pension search for a non-executive director.
updates, as well as general benefits of the executive directors Inzito followed a brief approved by presentations after announcement and the Chairman on behalf of the Nominations Committee and of the interim and preliminary the Board.
The Committee is also produced a shortlist of candidates results and the posting of results responsible for the operation of the who were interviewed by members Companys share option schemes of the Committee and the executive on the Companys website.
The Committee then and for monitoring the framework for, The Board receives reports on recommended to the Board the broad policy in respect of, and levels any comments received from appointment of Ian Durant, which of remuneration of the Companys shareholders following these was duly confirmed.
executive director committee sets, Following appointment, new directors The Chief Executive and the after discussion with the Chairman, are subject to an in-depth tailored Finance Director carry out the fees for the non-executive induction process.
In the case of extensive engagement with directors so as to ensure that no non-executive directors, this institutional shareholders and director is involved in setting his or includes meeting with members market analysts, either meeting her own remuneration.
The Directors of the Operating Board, visiting them as part of company Remuneration Report is set out on bakeries, shops, and offices, and pages 40 to 51 of this annual report.
being provided with an extensive presentations and briefings, 35 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 individual meetings, or in telephone Accountability, Audit and Disclosure of information to auditors calls.
In addition, the Company Going Concern Secretary and the Companys The Board acknowledges its Each of the directors who held Brokers draw the attention of the responsibility to present a balanced office at the date of approval of this Board to all relevant shareholder and understandable assessment directors report confirms that, so of the Companys position and communications.
The Board also far as they are individually aware, prospects.
This is fulfilled by reviews briefings and comments there is no relevant audit information the statements contained in the of which the Companys auditors by analysts in order to maintain Chairmans statement, Chief are unaware: and that they have an understanding of market Executives report and the Financial taken all the steps that they ought perceptions of the Company.
Review which supplement the to have taken as a director to make The AGM is well attended, with statutory accounts themselves.
themselves aware of any relevant A statement of directors audit information and to establish the Chairmen of the Board and its responsibilities in respect of the that the Companys auditors are Committees available to answer preparation of accounts is given on aware of that information.
any issues raised and any newly page 52.
A statement of auditors appointed directors being available responsibilities is given in the report to meet shareholders.
At the AGM, of the auditors on page 53. the balance of proxy votes cast After making enquiries, the directors for and against each resolution have a reasonable expectation that and the number of abstentions is the Group has adequate resources displayed.
All substantial issues, to continue in operational existence including the receipt of the for the foreseeable future.
For this annual report and accounts, reason, they continue to adopt the are proposed at the AGM going concern basis in preparing the as separate resolutions.
accounts see basis of preparation on page 63.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which they have not been able to resolve through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, or for circumstances where such contact would not be appropriate.
Substantial shareholdings Number of Percentage of shares held issued share capital At 14 March 2012 the only notified holdings of substantial voting rights Templeton Investment Counsel LLC 5,059,689 5.00 in respect of the issued share capital of the Company which Troy Asset Management 4,640,666 4.59 may have altered since the date F & C Asset Management 3,403,162 3.36 of such notification, without any Legal & General Investment 3,188,166 3.15 requirement for the Company to Management have been informed were:
