36 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Audit Committee Report I am pleased to present the Companys first separate report to shareholders on the work of the Audit Committee.
Ian Durant, Chairman of the Audit Committee reviewed the annual and interim undertaken by them and their Committee activity accounts issued to shareholders: suitability for re-appointment.
The Audit Committee is one of the monitored compliance with The Audit Committee reviewed key committees of the Board.
The financial reporting standards: the scope of the external audit considered the accounting for main functions discharged by the in discussion with the external Committee during the year were: items requiring the exercise of auditors and agreed their fees in material judgements, estimates respect of the audit.
i to ensure that the accounting and assumptions and any unusual and financial policies of Following the introduction of items: considered the Companys the Company are proper the Bribery Act in July 2011, taxation policy and accounting: and effective: the Committee considered and and considered the size and remit ii to assist the Board in fulfilling approved a new Anti-Bribery and of the internal audit function.
its oversight responsibilities Corruption Policy, along with a The Committee reviewed the by monitoring the integrity of new Business Conduct Policy Companys internal control the accounts and information and a revised Gifts, Tips and environment to satisfy itself that published by the Company: Hospitality Policy.
procedures are in place to ensure iii to review the internal The Committee normally invites that assets are well protected, financial controls and the the Chairman, the executive authority levels for expenditure Groups approach to risk directors, the Internal Audit are clear, segregation of duties management: Manager, and the external auditors exists and performance is regularly iv to monitor compliance with to attend its meetings, although monitored.
Processes are in place the Listing Rules and the time is set aside bi-annually for to ensure that key controls are recommendations of the being operated and compliance discussion between the Committee Governance Code: and with these processes is the subject and the external auditors and v to maintain an appropriate of inspection by the internal audit with the Internal Audit Manager, relationship with the team and review by the Audit in each case in the absence Companys external and Committee.
The internal auditors and Committee has the power to The Committee also considered review the effectiveness engage outside advisers if it sees and made recommendations and objectivity of the fit.
The Committee also monitors to the Board in relation to the audit process.
and reviews the effectiveness of independence and objectivity of During the year, the Committee, the external auditors including internal audit activity and the risk in performing these functions, the impact of any non-audit work management process.
37 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Governance Code requires to and approved by the Committee the Board to be satisfied that at and the aggregate of such fees least one member of the Audit will normally be less than 100% Committee has recent and relevant of the audit fee.
In circumstances financial experience the Board where the Committee believes is satisfied in this respect and that it is right to authorise is confident that the collective non-audit fees in excess of this experience of the members limit the Committee will approve enables them to act effectively such expenditure in advance of it as an Audit Committee.
The being committed and provide an Committee also has access to explanation to shareholders in the the Companys financial team next directors report.
and to its auditors and can seek further professional advice, at the The Audit Committee has reviewed Companys cost, if required.
whether, and is satisfied that, the External auditors Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, continue to be objective and There are strict policies and independent of the Company.
procedures in place to control KPMG Audit Plc does perform nonthe use of external auditors in the provision of non-audit services.
audit services for the Group but the The Audit Committee keeps under Audit Committee is satisfied that review all non-audit services its objectivity is not impaired by provided by the external auditors such work.
In 2011, non-audit fees in order to seek to ensure that paid to KPMG Audit Plc and related their independence and objectivity KPMG operations amounted to cannot be compromised.
The 83,000 which is 52 per cent of the Committee recognises that there audit fee for the year and related are situations where it is in the to taxation compliance services Companys best interests to use and pension scheme audits.
the services of its external auditors for non-audit work but manages Reappointment of auditors such appointments and will not allow any non-audit work that In accordance with Section 489 might, in the Committees opinion of the Companies Act 2006, a impair the auditors objectivity or resolution for the reappointment independence.
In addition, the of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors Audit Committee ensures that of the Company will be proposed the external auditors have their at the forthcoming Annual own policies and are subject to General Meeting.
professional standards designed to safeguard their independence Ian Durant as auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee has adopted a policy under which 14 March 2012 all use of the external auditors for non-audit work must be reported
