78 Governance Corporate Governance The Board of Halfords Group plc is responsible for determining the longBoard structure term direction and strategy of the Group in a framework of sound and robust corporate governance.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance not only in the areas of accountability and risk management but also as a positive contribution Halfords Group Board to its business strategy and has adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code from 29 June 2010.
The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in Audit Committee maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code David Adams Chairman The Directors consider that the Group has applied the principles and Claudia Arney complied with the provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code the Code for the financial period to 1 April 2011.
This report describes Keith Harris how the Group has complied with the Code.
Bill Ronald Board Structure On 1 April 2011 the Board was composed of eight members, consisting Treasury Committee of a non-executive chairman, four non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
Reports to the Audit Committee.
The T reasury Committee is not a formal committee of the Board.
Nomination Committee Dennis Millard Chairman David Adams Claudia Arney Keith Harris Bill Ronald David Wild Remuneration Committee Keith Harris Chairman David Adams Claudia Arney Dennis Millard Bill Ronald The following Directors held office during the financial period to 1 April 2011: Designation Date of Appointment Reappointment Date of Resignation Dennis Millard Chairman 27 July 2010 David Wild Chief Executive 27 July 2010 Nick Wharton Finance Director 27 July 2010 30 November 2010 Paul McClenaghan Commercial Director 27 July 2010 Andrew Findlay Finance Director 1 February 2011 Claudia Arney Non-Executive Director 25 January 2011 David Adams Non-Executive Director 1 March 2011 Keith Harris Non-Executive Director 27 July 2010 1 Bill Ronald Non-Executive Director 27 July 2010 Nigel Wilson Senior Independent Director 27 July 2010 31 March 2011 1 Bill Ronald was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2011, following the resignation of Nigel Wilson.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 79 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Operation of the Board Group The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board, Board Audit Nomination Remuneration which it has reviewed during the year and considered fit for purpose.
Dennis Millard 14 4 7 6 The Boards primary role is to determine the long-term direction and David Wild 14 3 7 5 strategy of the Group, create value for shareholders, monitor the 1 Nick Wharton 11 3 achievement of business objectives, monitor risk and ensure that good Paul corporate governance is practised and that the Group meets all McClenaghan 14 responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees and other 1 Andrew Findlay 2 1 stakeholders.
1 Claudia Arney 2 1 2 1 1 The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate processes David Adams 1 1 1 are in place in respect of succession planning for appointments to the Keith Harris 13 4 7 5 Board and to key senior management positions and to establish and Bill Ronald 14 4 7 5 monitor the Groups policies and performance in the area of corporate Nigel Wilson 12 4 6 4 social responsibility.
1 To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to Nick Wharton, Andrew Findlay, Claudia Arney and David Adams discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all attended all the meetings they were entitled to attend.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress Directors and their interests reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In During the period there have been a number of changes to the addition, individual non-executive directors meet with senior composition of the Board including the resignation as Finance Director management and make periodic site visits.
Senior managers are of Nick Wharton on 30 November 2010 and the appointment of regularly invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
Andrew Findlay as Finance Director on 1 February 2011.
Non-Executive The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, maintains a Director changes include the appointments of Claudia Arney on 25 rolling twelve-month agenda for Board meetings to ensure all relevant January 2011 and David Adams on 1 March 2011 and the resignation matters are planned into the cycle of meetings and considered at the of Nigel Wilson on 31 March 2011.
From 2 April 2010 until his appropriate time.
resignation Nigel Wilson was the Companys Senior Independent Where a Director has a concern over any unresolved business he is Director.
Bill Ronald has held the position since 1 April 2011. entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Dennis Millard was appointed Chairman on 28 May 2009, and was Should that Director later resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring considered on appointment to meet the independence criteria as set it to the attention of the Board.
1.1 of the Code and continued with his The Group is supportive of executive Directors who wish to take on a existing commitments as disclosed on page 72. non-executive directorship with a company outside the Group, as The other non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be exposure to such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, independent in character and judgement and within the definition of the which will be to the benefit of the Group.
Executive Directors may retain Code.
Accordingly, no individual or group of individuals dominates the any fees they receive.
On 7 March 2011 David Wild was appointed a Boards decision-making and the requirements of paragraph B.
1.2 of non-executive director to the Board of Premier Foods plc and, until his the Code that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should resignation on 30 November 2010, Nick Wharton was a non-executive comprise independent non-executive Directors is satisfied.
At the same director on the Board of Dunelm Group plc where he also chaired the time in accordance with the Combined Code, separate individuals have Audit Committee.
been appointed to the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive The Board had nine scheduled meetings this year and others as respectively as described above and job descriptions delineating a clear required.
During 2010 five additional Board meetings were held to division of responsibilities between the two have been compiled and consider business outside the normal calendar of agendas.
Board has specific responsibility for those matters reserved for its The Chairman and the non-executive Directors contribute external consideration, in certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such as committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
marketing, customer and consumer focus, multichannel trading, During the year the Board committees, Audit, Nomination and retailing, corporate finance, general finance and corporate governance.
Remuneration, scheduled four, seven and six meetings respectively They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards additional meetings were held where appropriate.
Individual Director deliberations, and assist in the development of the Companys strategy, attendance is shown below.
scrutiny of the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems.
The Board believes that all of the Directors devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to perform their duties.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 80 Governance Corporate Governance continued Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms normally Evaluation of the Board and its committees three years and their Terms and Conditions of Appointment are The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation of available on the Groups website halfordscompany.
They are the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual subject to reappointment under the Companys Articles of Association Directors.
The process for 2010 identified the following actions: and subject to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of To align the Company with the recommendations made by the a Director.
Financial Reporting Council as a result of its review of the The Board has formally adopted an induction programme for new Combined Code, the Board felt that the process for identifying, Directors, which will be tailored to each new Director who joins the reviewing and monitoring risk could be made more dynamic and Board and includes briefings regarding the activities of the Group and the Boards risk appetite should be defined.
A review of the visits to operational sites.
Documentation and training on their duties as process was carried out and a more dynamic, bottom-up topDirectors are also available to all Directors.
All Directors are members of down basis was adopted.
the Deloitte Academy, a training resource that provides support and Given the Companys strategic objective of leveraging the Halfords guidance to boards, individual directors and company secretaries.
In brand within its multichannel offer, it was felt that the Board would addition, Directors are also informed regularly on relevant material benefit from greater exposure to trends within this fast-moving changes to laws and regulations affecting the Groups business.
Claudia Arney, who has extensive multichannel Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company experience, has been appointed to the board.
Secretary, who is also responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
Given the number of changes to the Board towards the end of the year, it was decided to postpone the 2011 board evaluation process until Following the guidelines of the UK Corporate Governance Code that all each of the three new board members had settled in to their roles.
directors should retire and seek re-election on an annual basis, the Furthermore, it was decided to include in the process one-on-one Companys Articles of Association were amended at the Companys meetings between the Chairman and each board member to last Annual General Meeting AGM to mirror these guidelines supplement questionnaires that were issued for the evaluation of each Consequently, all Directors on the Board on 1 April 2011 will seek committee.
The interview process was carried out in May 2011 and election or re-election at the Companys AGM on 2 August 2011. covered such topics as the board agenda, meeting process, Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests of composition, succession plans, relationships between board members, the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the their individual performance and the boards role in the formulation of Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are group strategy and policy.
The Senior Independent Director also shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 93.
The discussed the performance of the Chairman with each board member.
Directors have wide experience and expertise and their biographical A review of these responses by the Board or by the appropriate details are given on pages 72 to 73.
Committee, is underway and appropriate action will be taken to ensure In response to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, each that the performance of the Board as a whole, its principal committees Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she and individual Directors is such that each can perform at the optimum has, or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly level for the benefit of the Company.
A full report back will be provided may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These interests were considered and approved by the Board in Board Committees accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and each The Board has established an effective Committee structure to assist in Director was informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit, was given.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Nomination and Remuneration Committees comply with the provisions Company Secretary regarding any further possible situational conflict of the Combined Code and are available for inspection on the that may arise so that prior consideration can be given by the Board as Companys website, halfordscompany.
to whether or not such conflict will be approved.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Only the members of each Committee are entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, professional advisers and members of the senior management team attend when invited to do so.
The Audit Committee will invite the external Auditor to certain of its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business pertinent to them is under discussion.
A Treasury Committee, composed of senior members of the finance and treasury teams and chaired by the Finance Director, has been established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs of the Group.
When the need arises, separate ad hoc committees may be set up by the Board to consider specific issues.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 81 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Remuneration Committee by the Chairman of the Group.
Senior members of management and advisers are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
For the financial period to 1 April 2011, the Remuneration Committee comprised Keith Harris Chairman, Nigel Wilson, Bill Ronald, Dennis The Committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and Millard and, following their appointments on 25 January 2011 and composition of the Board of the Company, for reviewing senior 1 March 2011, Claudia Arney and David Adams.
All are considered to management succession plans, retirements and appointments of be independent non-executive Directors.
additional and replacement Directors and making appropriate recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills Executive Directors attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the and experience on the Board.
invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The Nomination Committee has established a process for Board The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making appointments that it considers to be formal, rigorous and transparent recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy on and involves the use of external executive recruitment agencies.
This remuneration of executive Directors, the Company Secretary and senior process includes a review of the skills, experience and knowledge of managers and its Chairman, Keith Harris, takes this responsibility very the existing Directors, to assess which of the potential shortlisted seriously, stating that Within the general framework of corporate candidates would most benefit the balance of the Board having regard governance, remuneration committees have the key responsibility of also to the need for succession planning.
During the search for a new balancing managements expectations with the interests of all Finance Director and for new non-executive Directors, the committee stakeholders.
A key role of the committee is to attract and retain used the services of the executive recruitment agency Egon Zehnder.
executives of the highest quality, and to motivate them to deliver Egon Zehnder has no other connection with the Company.
They must set targets for management that are stretching yet attainable but not so far reaching as to encourage In recommending Claudia Arney and David Adams to be appointed excessive risk taking.
To function effectively such committees must non-executive Directors of the Group, the Nomination Committee have authority and independence of thought: never more than in assessed the time commitment required by the position and in todays challenging environment is the work of remuneration approving these appointment the Board took this into account and also committees so carefully scrutinised.
considered Claudia and Davids other commitments.
The Board concluded that they both had enough time to fulfil their commitments to The Committee determines, within agreed terms of reference, specific the Group and their other commitments would not affect their ability to remuneration packages for each of the Chairman, the executive carry out their duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
Directors and Company Secretary of the Company and such members of senior management as it is delegated to consider.
This includes Audit Committee pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of For the financial period to 1 April 2011, the Audit Committee comprised executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald and, following their terms of reference, no Director may participate in discussions relating to appointments on 25 January 2011 and 1 March 2011, Claudia Arney their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
and David Adams, all of whom are independent non-executive Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is Directors.
Until his resignation on 31 March 2011 the Committee set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 84 to 93.
The chairman was Nigel Wilson, who, as Chief Financial Officer of Legal & Directors Remuneration Report sets out the status of the Companys General plc, was considered by the Board to have recent and relevant compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance financial experience.
From 1 April 2011 David Adams was appointed Code with regard to remuneration matters and includes a statement on Chairman of the Committee.
David has been the Deputy Chief the Companys policy on Directors and senior managers remuneration, Executive and Finance Director of the House of Fraser Plc and as such benefits, share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements.
A is also considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration report will be experience.
David believes that The work of the audit committee is key proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
to securing stakeholder confidence in the financial statements of the Company.
The constant process of review of the processes involved in Nomination Committee the production of these statements, covering assessment of risk, review The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Companys Chairman of controls, and awareness of a regulatory framework that is constantly Dennis Millard, who believes that The composition of the Board and evolving, is fundamental to the committees exercise of its the senior management team as well as well-defined succession plans responsibilities.
In addition, the committee manages the relationship for each are critical to the success of Halfords, as with any company.
with the internal auditors to ensure independence, and works with the During this year, the Committee was particularly actively engaged with external auditors and the Board to set the planned activity for the the appointment of three new Board members and with the internal audit function.
appointment of a number of senior executives.
In doing so, emphasis Each of the other independent non-executive Directors on the was placed on securing candidates that not only fit the role Committee has, through their other business activities, significant specification but also on how well they would interact with the team as experience in financial matters.
The Chairman, senior members of well as the fresh and challenging approach we believed they could, and management and advisers are invited to attend meetings as should bring.
We believe that this has been achieved.
the Committee also included Keith Harris, Bill Ronald, Nigel Wilson, David Wild and, following their appointments on 25 January 2011 and 1 March 2011, Claudia Arney and David Adams.
All are considered to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment and the Board feels it is appropriate, as all non-executive Directors sit on the committee, that the committee should be chaired 18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction 82 Governance Corporate Governance continued The Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of the The internal audit function provides internal audit reports to the Board, Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Audit Committee via the Audit Committee.
Whilst directed by Andrew Findlay and also provide the opportunity for the independent non-executive previously Nick Wharton, the Companys Finance Directors, it is Directors to meet without the executive Directors present and also the independent in action and reporting, and has a direct line of opportunity to raise any issues of concern with the Companys external communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The principal role in Auditor.
fulfilling the internal audit function is to review the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business by undertaking an agreed The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to schedule of independent audits each year.
The nature and scope of this the Board on the appointment of the external Auditor and their annual audit programme is determined by the Audit Committee at the remuneration, for reviewing the accounting principles, policies and beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time to time practices adopted in the preparation of the Interim Report and Annual according to changing business circumstances and requirements.
Report and Financial Statement and reviewing the scope and findings of the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving its The findings of these audits are reported initially to executive obligations under the Code in areas of risk management and internal management and any necessary corrective actions are agreed.
control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal requirements, Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the accounting standards and the Listing Rules, and ensures that an Audit Committee along with details of progress against action effective system of internal financial and non-financial controls is plans as appropriate.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to Annual Report and Financial Statements remains with the Board.
achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward The Committee will keep under review the external Auditors profile and there is an ongoing process for identifying and evaluating the independence including any non-audit services that are to be provided significant risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related by the external Auditor.
The Auditor is also requested to confirm their controls.
The key elements of this process are: independence at least annually.
During the year a policy which ensured a comprehensive system of monthly reporting from key executives, that the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair the identifying performance against budget, analysis of variances, major objectivity of the external Auditors opinion on the Groups financial business issues, key performance indicators and regular statements was followed.
The policy incorporated a fee limit of forecasting: 25,000, above which a formal tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Committee obtained prior to any proposed well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital appointment.
This policy was reviewed in June 2011 and in future all expenditure and treasury operations: non-audit work conducted by the external Auditor must have prior reviews of key business risks and of managements controls and approval from the Audit Committee.
plans to mitigate these risks: and The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing policy whereby an annual corporate governance confirmation made to the Board staff may, in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible by all senior executives on the effectiveness of the identification of malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any of major risks and of the monitoring of internal controls within their its employees without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements to areas of responsibility.
investigate such matters and for appropriate follow-up action, and the roll-out to our Autocentre colleagues.
As part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key business risks faced by the Group, the Board has established a Internal control and risk management Risk Management Group to oversee the implementation of the risk The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control management framework, co-ordinate risk management activities and for reviewing its effectiveness throughout the Group and ensuring throughout the business and to report to the Board and Audit that there is a process in accordance with the guidelines laid down by Committee on risk issues.
The Risk Management Group is chaired by the Turnbull Report to identify, evaluate and manage any significant the Company Secretary and includes senior managers from Store risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic Operations, Business Systems, Health and Safety, Human Resources, objectives.
Finance, Store Assurance, Business Services, Multichannel, Logistics, and Supply Chain functions.
During the financial period to 1 April 2011 The assessment of effectiveness has been carried out this year.
The and up to the date of this report the Group considered the Companys system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, Risk Register and its alignment with the Companys key strategic the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only objectives and reported its findings to the Board.
The Board considered reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement its appetite for risk in relation to the top 30 risks and determined that or loss.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the the risks and mitigating actions were appropriate to the level of risk that effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk was both acceptable to and incumbent within a FTSE 250 business.
management in accordance with the Code for the financial period to More information on the Companys key risks and uncertainties are 1 April 2011, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report and shown on pages 38 to 41.
18559 17 06 2011 Proof 5 Halfords Group plc Online version 83 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 1 April 2011 halfords.
com Relationships with shareholders The Board is committed to the constructive use of the AGM as a forum to meet with shareholders and to hear their views and answer their Nigel Wilson was the Senior Independent Director until his resignation questions about the Group and its business.
The AGM of the Group is on 31 March 2011 and Bill Ronald was appointed Senior Independent to be held on Tuesday 2 August 2011 at the Hyatt Hotel, Bridge Road, Director on 1 April 2011 following this resignation.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Independent Director is available to meet shareholders upon request if Committees will normally attend the meeting and will answer questions they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of the that may be relevant to the work of those Committees.
If they are Chairman or the executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which unable to attend they will appoint a deputy to attend in their place.
It is such contact is inappropriate.
the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each The Board recognises the importance of establishing and maintaining substantially separate issue at the AGM.
The Chairman will advise good relationships with all of the Companys shareholders and Bill shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
Ronald has indicated his willingness to meet with any shareholders as The Companys financial calendar is set out on page 146. they request.
During the period under review the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chairman and Remuneration Committee Chairman have met with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them By order of the Board informed of significant developments and report to the Board accordingly on the views of these stakeholders.
Alex Henderson Each of the other non-executive Directors is also offered the opportunity Company Secretary to attend meetings with major shareholders and would do so if 8 June 2011 requested by any major shareholder.
The Companys investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and meetings with individual investors as appropriate.
Independent feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the attention of the Board any material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, including private investors.
The Interim Report and the Annual Report and Financial Statements are the primary means used by the Board for communicating during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an investor relations website halfordscompany.
com has been developed to facilitate communications with shareholders.
Information available online includes copies of the full and half-year financial statements, press releases and Company news, corporate governance information and statements and the terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
18559 20 06 2011 Proof 6 Financials Financials Gover Governance finance Resour Resources ces Business Review Business Review Intr Introduction oduction
