Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued Investor relations During the year, actions to strengthen the control environment In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Chief continue to be taken centrally by Group management, principally in Executive and Finance Director communicate the Groups strategy the area of health and safety and bribery and corruption.
The duties and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within and responsibilities of subsidiary management are continually theguidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that refreshed as well as documented in a manual circulated to institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys allsubsidiary managing directors.
The dedicated resources issued share capital meet or hold discussions with the Company on established to identify and investigate potential acquisitions and a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered the opportunity toensure a rapid and successful integration following acquisition to meet the Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
remain in place, and the scope of the Groups IT policies and the programme of compliance audits are regularly reviewed to ensure All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general they are sufficient to address current risks.
During the year we meeting, and major shareholders are also invited to briengs refreshed our processes to ensure that appropriate tax accounting following the half-year and annual results.
The content of arrangements are maintained in particular to enable continued presentations to shareholders and analysts at results compliance with local tax requirements.
announcements and all announcements are available As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is conducted.
The internal audit function has independently operated since 2004, The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest reporting on the outcome of these visits to the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Reports, biographical In2008 09, a dedicated Internal Audit manager was added to information on key Directors and Ofcers, share price information, support the function and during 2010 11 an internal auditor based and full subsidiary company contact details as well as hotlinks to inChina was recruited to the function.
Each year we implement their own websites.
The website also features the facility to request further improvements to our Internal Audit activities as the result e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group and ofbenchmarking activities and continue to target further revisions contains information in Chinese, French, German and Spanish forthe coming year to enhance our processes.
Going concern The Financial calendar is set out on page 128.
The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and Auditor independence factors likely to affect its future development, performance and The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, independence and objectivity annually.
During 2003 04, the liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Business Committee set down the Policy on Auditor Independence and Review.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes the Services provided by the External Auditor.
This policy states that Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, the Group will only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial services in cases where these services do not conict with the instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to currency auditors independence.
The policy also sets a fee level per project and liquidity risks.
of 100,000 above which non-audit services are subject to a The Group has considerable financial resources including a tendering process.
The above fee levels for non-audit services 165mve-year revolving credit facility together with contracts regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual cap with adiverse range of customers and suppliers across different equal to the audit fee.
No one customer accounts for more than 3% of Group turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries and after conducting a formal review of theGroups financial resources, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 Nomination Committee Report Governance The Nomination Committee was in place throughout the financial year.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company who was deemed to be independent upon appointment to the Board.
Three of the vemembers of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision A.
During the year attendance by Committee members at meetings was as follows: Name Attendance Geoff Unwin Chairman 2 of 2 Geoff Unwin Andrew Williams 2 of 2 Chairman Richard Stone 2 of 2 Stephen Pettit 2 of 2 Members Steve Marshall 1 of 1 Geoff Unwin Chairman Jane Aikman 1 of 1 A ndrew Williams Richard Stone Activities S tephen Pettit The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate executive Steve Marshall from 1 August 2010 and non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board.
Jane Aikman to 1 August 2010 Duringthe past year, the Committee has been occupied with succession planning discussions and the appointment of two The Nomination Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors.
non-executive Directors of the Group and the Chief Executive.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include all When the necessity to appoint a Director is identied, a candidate mattersindicated by the Combined Code.
The terms of reference prole is developed indicating the ideal skills, knowledge and are considered annually by the Nomination Committee and are experience required taking into account the Boards existing thenreferred to the Board for approval.
External search consultancies are retained whenrecruiting non-executive Directors and are used to Responsibilities evaluateinternal and external candidates for succession planning.
regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including The Committee meets at least annually and more frequently the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board duringtimes that a search is being conducted.
compared to its current position and making recommendations tothe Board with regard to any changes: The coming year will involve the Committee in identifying a giving full consideration to succession planning for directors non-executive director candidate bringing additional diversity andother senior executives in the course of its work, taking into totheBoard.
account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, As noted on page 51 the process of appointments to the Board is and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board paramount in ensuring the Companys performance is maintained in the future: and and continually improved upon.
The Committee is committed toidentifying the right candidates to take Halma forward.
being responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approvalof the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies as On behalf of the Nomination Committee andwhen they arise.
Geoff Unwin The full terms of reference, which remain unchanged from the Chairman previous year, can be found on the Companys website or can be 21 June 2011 obtained from the Company Secretary.
