Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Name: Neil Quinn Name: Adam Meyers Title: Chief Executive, Safety Sensors Title: Chief Executive, Health Optics Division Division Appointment: April 1998 Board Appointment: April 2008 Board April 1995 Executive Board April 2003 Executive Board Age: 61 Age: 49 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: BurstingDisks, Gas Detection and HealthOptics Automatic Door Sensors Skills and experience: Neil is Chief Skills and experience: Adam is Executive of the Safety Sensors ChiefExecutive of the Health Optics Division.
He was appointed tothe Division.
He was promoted to Halma Executive Board in 1995 aDirector of Halmas p. l. c. Board andtothe Halma p. l. c. Board in 1998. inApril 2008.
He became a member He joined Halma as Sales Director ofthe Halma Executive Board in ofApollo Fire Detectors in 1987, 2003asDivisional Chief Executive.
Hejoined Halma in 1996 as President Neil has a material sciences degree of Bio-Chem Valve.
Adam is a systems from Shefeld University.
engineering graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and gained his MBA from Harvard Business School.
Name: Stephen Pettit Name: Richard Stone Name: Carol Chesney Title: Non-executive Director Title: Non-executive Director Title: Company Secretary Appointment: September 2003 Appointment: January 2001 Appointment: April 1998 Age: 60 Age: 68 Age: 48 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Nomination, Remuneration Chairman and Audit Skills and experience: Stephen was Skills and experience: Richard is Skills and experience: Carol was appointed a non-executive Director theSenior Independent Director.
appointed Company Secretary of ofHalma in September 2003.
He is HeisChairman of Candover Halma p. l. c. in 1998.
Shespent three anon-executive director of National Investments plc, a non-executive years with English China Clays p. l. c. Grid plc and BT Group plc Equality director of Gartmore Global Trust before joining Halma in 1995 as ofAccess Board.
Stephen is an p. l. c. Trust Union Finance 1991 plc, GroupFinance Manager.
She is a Economics and Politics graduate Engandscot Limited and TR Property maths graduate of Randolph-Macon ofCardiff University, has an MSc Investment Trust plc.
Previously Womans College, Virginia and fromLondon School of Economics Richard was Chairman of Drambuie qualied as a Chartered Accountant and anMBA from INSEAD.
Previously Limited, amemberof the Global with Arthur Andersen.
Stephen was non-executive Chairman Board of  of ROK plc, an executive director with and Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand.
Cable & Wireless PLC and a divisional chief executive with BP PLC.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 Directors Report Governance Board of Directors and Executives continued Name: John Campbell Name: Charles Dubois Name: Mark Lavelle Name: Rob Randelman Title: Chief Executive, Elevator Safety Title: Chief Executive, Fluid Title: Chief Executive, Process Safety Title: Chief Executive, Photonics Division Technology Division and Asset Monitoring Division Division Appointment: April 1998 Appointment: April 2008 Appointment: April 2007 Appointment: April 2011 ExecutiveBoard ExecutiveBoard ExecutiveBoard ExecutiveBoard Age: 52 Age: 45 Age: 52 Age: 51 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: ElevatorSafety FluidTechnology SafetyInterlocks and Asset Monitoring Photonics Skills and experience: John is Chief Skills and experience: Charles is Skills and experience: Mark is Skills and experience: Rob is Chief Executive of the Elevator Safety Chief Executive of the ChiefExecutive of the Process Executive of the Photonics Division.
He previously led the FluidTechnology Division.
He was Safetyand Asset Monitoring Division.
He became a member of the Halma successful disposal of the Groups appointed to the Executive Board Hejoined Keeler in November 2001 as Executive Board in 2011 as Divisional resistor businesses.
He was previously Managing Director and was promoted Chief Executive.
He was previously Halma Executive Board in 1998 and President of Diba Industries having to Divisional Chief Executive and the President of Ocean Optics having has also operated Halma businesses joined the Group in 1999 as Vice Executive Board in 2007.
Mark has a joined the group in 2006 as Vice in the Safety Interlock, Bursting Disk President of Perma Pure LLC.
He chemistry degree from Cambridge President of Sales at Ocean Optics.
and Automatic Door Sensor areas.
holds a Bachelors degree in physics University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Rob is a Chemistry and Physics Hejoined Halma in 1995 as President from the College of the Holy Cross graduate of Ursinus College, and of IPC Resistors and is an electrical and earned his MBA from the F. W. Olin gained his MSE and PhD in Chemical engineering graduate of the University School of Business at Babson College.
Name: Allan Stamper Name: Nigel Trodd Name: Martin Zhang Title: Chief Executive, Water Division Title: Chief Executive, Fire and Title: Director Halma China Security Division Appointment: October 2007 Appointment: July 2003 Appointment: February 2008 Executive Board ExecutiveBoard ExecutiveBoard Age: 56 Age: 53 Age: 44 Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: Committees Sub-sectors: WaterManagement and Water UV FireDetection and Security Sensors HalmaChina Skills and experience: Allan is Skills and experience: Nigel is Chief Skills and experience: Martin was Divisional Chief Executive of the Executive of the Fire andSecurity appointed as Adviser tothe Halma WaterDivision.
He was appointed to Division.
He joined Halma in July 2003 Executive Board in February 2008. the Executive Board in October 2007. as Chief Executive of Process Safety Martin joined the Group in June 2006 He joined Halma in 2002 as Managing Division and a member of the as Director of Halma China and Director of Crowcon Detection Executive Board.
Nigelis a business successfully established Halma Instruments.
Allan is anengineering studies graduate of Thames Valley Chinaofces inBeijing and Shanghai.
graduate of both Loughborough University and is amember of the Martinholds a Bachelors degree University BSc and Imperial College Chartered Institute ofMarketing.
inChemical Engineering from MSc and has an MBA from Craneld.
Chengdu University of Science andTechnology and he alsostudied forhisExecutive MBA at University ofTexas at Arlington Tongji UniversityShanghai.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Corporate Governance Board committees Our committees are a valuable part of the Companys corporate governance structure.
The workload of the committees is far morethan the table of scheduled meetings would indicate as ad hocmeetings and communications between meetings frequently require considerable amounts of time.
Our appointment of two non-executive Directors mid-year enabled us to review the committee allocations during the year to ensure their composition matched the resources available.
Board performance Geoff Unwin The Board evaluates its performance and that of the Remuneration, Chairman Audit and Nomination Committees at least annually with each Committee also evaluating its own performance.
Each year, we Corporate governance is about behaviour and this section of the consult the Board to determine whether an external facilitator report deals with how the Board and its committees discharge would enhance our process.
To date, we have concluded that the theirduties and how we apply the principles of good governance current, open climate that the Board enjoys ensures a full and inthe Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended frankdiscussion of all matters, so an external facilitator is not to theListing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which necessary.
However the Board feels that it would be worthwhile to the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Governance is complex, engage an external facilitator periodically and plans to do so during sothe Board is committed to the shared endeavour of maintaining 2011 12.
For 2010 11 the evaluation commenced with an updated high standards of corporate governance to ensure the Board self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which were compiled sendsconsistent messages on values and behaviours.
The policy by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board atthe oftheBoard is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance February 2011 Board and Committee meetings.
The Board also with the principles of corporate governance contained in the metin February 2011, separate from any scheduled meeting, for Combined Code not by merely following regimented rules, but ageneral discussion on Board effectiveness followed by a meeting bythe promotion of wide discussion on topics to which Board of the executive Directors with the Chairman, the executive members properly contribute, demonstrating mutual engagement Directors with the Senior Independent Director, a meeting of amongst the participants.
theChairman and non-executive Directors, and then a meeting I continue to be pleased with the progress Halma has made ofthenon-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
toensure best practice is maintained and we continually seek Theoutcomes of these meetings were then fed back to individuals toimprove our practices for the benefit of our shareholders.
by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Chief Executive, asappropriate.
Overall, our process confirms that the blend of Succession planning behaviours and skills around the Halma Board table are well suited I have always maintained that a key part of my role involves to the task and consistent with Group values.
With a Board that is ensuringthat the right people are doing the right jobs within free to openly express concerns comes more considered outcomes theGroup and that there is a sufficient cadre of individuals being emphasising collective responsibility, transparency, clarity and nurtured throughout the Group to enable effective succession sustainable conduct.
The additional emphasis placed on our succession planning practices over the past year has demonstrated the Shareholder communication importance we place on developing talent in house, for example, I would like to encourage all shareholders to nd the time to attend Rob Randelmans promotion to the Executive Board in April 2011. our AGM on 28 July 2011.
It is an excellent opportunity to meet the Reviews of management capabilities and potential are performed Board, the Executive Board and a selection of the CEOs from our on a routine basis and I am satisfied that sufficient resource operating companies.
withinthe Group exists and continues to be developed through Geoff Unwin programmes such as the Halma Executive Development Chairman Programme which itself evolves to meet the changing needs oftheGroup.
Where a need for improvement to management 21 June 2011 resources is identied, the necessary attention is provided toensure full strength is attained as soon as practicable.
Board appointments The Board has been strengthened during the year by the appointment of both Lord Blackwell and Steven Marshall.
Theseappointments have resulted in the Companys full compliance with the principles of the Combined Code: a position which we plan to continue aided by the recruitment of an additional non-executive Director due to Richard Stones upcoming retirement.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Directors Report Governance Corporate Governance continued The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate Compliance with the Code of best practice strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk management Since 29 July 2010 when Lord Blackwell and Steven Marshall policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the wereappointed, the Company complied with the Codeprovisions Boards decision and the Board meets at least six times each year setout in Section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code.
Prior to that with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an date the Company did not comply with provision A.
3.2 which involves agenda and comprehensive board papers in the week preceding the composition of the Board and the number of members who each Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and areindependent non-executive Directors.
services of the Company Secretary as well as there being an The Board recently determined its ideal composition as a Chairman, agreedprocedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
five independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
The Boardadjudged this composition as an appropriate Engagement with management structure for the Company providing valuable direct knowledge The Directors have a programmed schedule of meetings and ofoperations and effective challenge surrounding the issues facing visitswith the Executive Board, Group companies and Development the Group.
With Richard Stones upcoming retirement, the Board Programmes to ensure that they are able to engage with will appoint a further non-executive Director, placing an emphasis management and employees at all levels.
Such contact, especially on improving its diversity.
between the non-executive Directors and Group employees, iswhere much value is added and supports the messages Application of the principles of good governance fromtheExecutive team.
The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and supporting principles, Committees of the Board by complying with the Code as reported above.
Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Guarantees and Facilities Chairman, four executive Directors and five other non-executive Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Their biographies appear on page 48.
The Board considers the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors Each of these committees has terms of reference approved tobe independent.
In assessing independence, the Board considers bytheBoard, copies of which are available on the website or that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of onrequest from the Company Secretary.
management and free from business and other relationships which Board meeting attendance could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment now and During the year attendance by Directors at Board meetings was in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the asfollows: Chairman and non-executive Directors serve to align their interests Geoff Unwin 6 of 6 with those of all shareholders.
Richard Stone is acknowledged Andrew Williams 6 of 6 asthe Senior Independent Director and, upon his retirement after the AGM, will be succeeded in this role by Stephen Pettit.
Upon Kevin Thompson 6 of 6 appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered Neil Quinn 6 of 6 appropriate training.
Under the Companys Articles, each Director Richard Stone 6 of 6 is subject to re-election at least every three years however, Stephen Pettit 6 of 6 commencing thisyear, the Board is adopting annual re-election of Jane Aikman 5 of 6 Directors.
TheBoard confirms that each Director standing for Adam Meyers 6 of 6 re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
Richard Stone is not standing for re-election as he is Norman Blackwell 3 of 3 retiring after the Annual General Meeting.
Steve Marshall 3 of 3 Training During the year the Board received training and brieng updates onchanges in corporate governance, bribery and corruption legislation, health and safety matters and other relevant legislative changes.
Newlyappointed non-executive Directors followed an induction programme which included scheduled trips to companies in each ofthe 12 sub-sectors to be achieved over a 3-year period.
