Halma p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 Internal control The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the The Board has overall responsibility to the shareholders for effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are theGroups system of internal control, and responsibility for summarised below.
reviewing its effectiveness has been delegated to the Audit Operating companies carry out a detailed, relevant risk Committee.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place material misstatements or loss, this system is designed to identify orproposed for each significant risk.
This risk assessment and manage those risks that could adversely impact the process was renewed and enhanced in line with best practice achievement of the Groups objectives.
A risk register is compiled from this information, detailed on pages 42 and 43. against which action is monitored through to resolution.
Group Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance management also compile a summary of significant Group risks, fordirectors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there avoid the risk.
isan ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Each month the board of each operating company meets, significant risks faced by the Group, that this has been in place for discusses and reports on its operating performance, its the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
This process has been reviewed by the Board Therelevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
and the Group accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Chief Executive The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, have audited the and Finance Director and report progress to the Executive Board.
financial statements and have reviewed the internal financial Warning signs are reported to Group and divisional management.
control systems to the extent they consider necessary to support These are designed to provide an early warning of potential risks their audit report.
and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma p. l. c. Board aschedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for meeting which includes financial information, the main features decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors ofGroup operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, the Group at that time.
Cyclical and risk-based internal control visits are carried out Group risk is mitigated by means of an operating structure which byinternal audit personnel or senior finance staff resulting in spreads the Groups activities across a number of autonomous actions fed back to each company and followed up by Divisional subsidiary companies.
Each of these companies operates with Finance Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
Visit reports ahigh-quality board of directors including a finance executive.
are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such visits Group companies operate under a system of controls which reported to the Audit Committee regularly with any significant includes but is not limited to: control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each a dened organisational structure with an appropriate delegation operating company prior to publication of half-year and yearof authority to operational management which ensures endgures.
A programme of IT audits is also carried out and appropriate segregation of key duties: reported on.
the identication and appraisal of risks both formally, through the The Chief Executive and Finance Director report to the Audit annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, through Committee on all aspects of internal control for its review.
an annual detailed risk assessment carried out at local level and TheBoard receives the papers and minutes of the Audit informally through close monitoring of operations: Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual a comprehensive financial reporting system, further enhanced review of internal control.
during the last financial year, within which actual and forecast results are compared with approved budgets and the previous years gures on a monthly basis and reviewed atboth local and Group level: an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure and other capitalised costs: self-certication by operating company management of compliance and control issues: and a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
