Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT APPROACH TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The year ended December 31, 2011 is the first year in which the Company has been listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and has been required to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Previously the Group was required to comply with the Corporate Governance Requirements of the Australian Stock Exchange ASX and the Toronto Stock Exchange TSX which differ in a number of respects from the requirements of the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Governance Code the Code, a copy of which can be obtained from the Financial Reporting Councils website at http: www.
The Board recognises the importance of having in place efficient and effective governance systems that comply with the requirements of the Code and has, during the 2011 year, implemented, or commenced the implementation of, a number of measures designed to enhance the Groups Corporate Governance framework.
This framework will continue to be reviewed and enhanced to ensure that where possible the Groups Corporate Governance framework complies with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code taking into consideration the Groups operating environment, performance needs and strategic requirements.
Overall responsibility for the governance of the Allied Group rests with the Board of Directors.
In accordance with its obligations under the Code, set out below is an explanation of how the Board has complied with the requirements of the Code and stating the reasons for any departures from those requirements.
BOARD STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, three Independent NonExecutive Directors and one Executive Director.
The Non-Executive Chairman is not considered to be independent on the bases that a Mr Caruso continues to hold options that were issued prior to the restructuring of the Group that occurred on June 30, 2011 as described above and b prior to June 30, 2011 Mr. Caruso served as the Executive Chairman of the Group.
Under the independence criteria set out in the Code, at the time that the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on June 30, 2011 none of the Non-Executive Directors were considered to be independent as a consequence of them holding Allied Gold Mining PLC options.
Those options were either exercised prior to December 31, 2011 or expired on December 31, 2011.
With the exception of the NonExecutive Chairman, all of the Non-Executive Directors now meet the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
The Board notes that in accordance with Australian governance requirements all options issued to NonExecutive and Executive Directors were specifically approved by shareholders prior to those options being issued.
Notwithstanding the matters noted above that prevented the NonExecutive Directors from being considered to be independent during the reporting period, it is the Boards view that: a.
All NonExecutive Directors are, and were during the reporting period, independent in character and judgement.
No relationship exists, or existed during the period, between a NonExecutive Director and another party that would affect the independent exercise of the NonExecutive Directors judgement.
Director biographies are provided separately on pages 19 and 20 of the Directors Report.
Page | 29 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Each Directors term of office expires at the later of the third annual general meeting of Shareholders of the Company or three years following that Directors last election or appointment.
One third of the Directors must retire at each annual general meeting.
Retiring Directors are eligible for re-election.
The composition of the Board is reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that the Board has the appropriate blend of skills and experience.
The Company, through the Remuneration and Nomination Committee has identified the need to appoint additional NonExecutive Directors as soon as possible to further strengthen the Board and is actively seeking suitably qualified applicants whose skills and experience will complement and enhance the skills and experience of the existing Board members.
LEADERSHIP STRUCTURE Board of Directors Role of the Board The role of the Board is to provide leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, to set the strategic aims and direction of the Group, to secure the effective management of relationships with the Groups stakeholders and to ensure that an effective system of internal control is established and maintained for the Group.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved for its collective decision.
The Board is responsible, among other things, for the determination and monitoring of the Groups strategic aims and long term objectives, operating and capital expenditure budgets and senior appointments, the extension of the Groups activities into new activities or geographies, mergers and acquisitions, approval of material capital projects, material debt or equity raisings, corporate governance systems, the Groups internal control and risk management systems, oversight of the Groups operations and the management of the corporate structure of the Group.
The Board is also ultimately responsible for approving and monitoring financial and other reporting.
The Board delegates certain matters to the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in accordance with the Charters of those committees as described below.
In addition the Board has, subsequent to December 31, 2011, approved a delegation of authority to the Chief Executive Officer to facilitate the efficient and effective operation of the Groups activities.
Board Processes Board meetings are held at least four times per year.
During the reporting period the Board met eleven times.
Due to the geographical dispersion of the Board, it is not practicable for all Directors to be physically present at each Board meeting however at least two of the Board meetings are held in locations selected to enable all Directors to be physically present.
These meetings are usually conducted over a two to three day period to enable meetings of the Board Committees to be conducted at the same time with all members present and to provide the members of the Board the opportunity to engage in informal discussions regarding the activities of the Company and the markets in which the Group operates.
Where Directors are unable to be physically present at Board meetings they are able to participate through a variety of means including teleconferencing and videoconferencing.
In addition to formally scheduled Board meetings, the Board members communicate regularly between meetings and the Board meets as required to address any significant matters that may arise.
The agenda for full Board meetings is prepared by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary and the Chief Executive Officer.
Board members are provided with a package of documents relevant to the agenda items for the meeting.
The agenda for Board meetings would typically include the following items monthly Board Report including reports by the Chief Executive Officer and other members of the Senior Management team, management accounts, strategic matters, long term business planning and governance and compliance.
Page | 30 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Each Director has access to all relevant Company information that they may require and may communicate freely with the Companys Senior Management.
Further under the Companys Articles of Association, each Director may engage independent advisors at the Companys expense should they consider it necessary for the performance of their duties.
The NonExecutive Directors believe that the format of the Board, in conjunction with the activities of the Board Committees, is sufficient to allow them to effectively verify the performance of management in achieving set goals and objectives.
Board performance The Board has adopted a self evaluation process to measure and assess the performance of individual Directors and the effectiveness of the Board as a whole.
Each Director and the Board as a whole are assessed through the completion of questionnaires that consider factors such as attendance at Board meetings, contribution to discussion of significant matters considered at Board meetings and the completion of any tasks allocated to an individual Director by the Board.
The individual assessments are then scored.
The results of the 2011 review were tabled and discussed at the November 2011 Board meeting.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is to be completed by the Senior Independent Director in consultation with the other NonExecutive Directors.
The performance of the Chief Executive Officer is undertaken by the NonExecutive Chairman in consultation with the other NonExecutive Directors.
The Board has not engaged an independent external party to evaluate the performance of the Board but is cognisant that the Code requires such an evaluation to be conducted once every three years.
Dealing in Company shares All employees of the Group are required to comply with the Companys Share Dealing Policy.
Under this policy, Directors and Senior Managers in the Group and their close associates are specifically prohibited from undertaking any dealing in the Companys shares or options over the Companys shares unless such dealing is approved by the Company Secretary.
Diversity The Group employs a broad mix of individuals reflecting its philosophy of hiring the best candidate for all positions at all levels irrespective of race, religion or gender.
In terms of the composition of the Board and Board nominations, the Remuneration and Nominations Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board and will consider the requirements of the Davies Report and the Australian Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Principles as part of the process of determining the composition of the Board that is the most appropriate for the Group.
Directors and Officers Insurance The Company has put in place, and bears the cost of, appropriate Directors and Officers insurance in respect of any claims that may be made against those individuals as a consequence of performing their duties.
Communications with shareholders The Board acknowledges its responsibility under the Code for maintaining effective communication with shareholders.
The Board has approved a Continuous Disclosure Policy that can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Chief Executive Officer provides the Board with a monthly update on investor relations activities and any significant communications with shareholders.
Corporate communication with shareholders is generally conducted by the Chief Executive Officer, however in February 2012 the Company appointed a Page | 31 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 full time Investor Relations Manager to assist in enhancing communications with shareholders and other internal and external stakeholders.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum of two road shows are undertaken during the year to enable Company representatives, led by the Chief Executive Officer, to interact directly with shareholders and other interested parties.
In each of the jurisdictions in which the Companys shares are traded, the Company has appointed a NonExecutive Director resident in that jurisdiction.
The NonExecutive Directors are available to meet with significant shareholders as required.
It was the practice of the previous holding Company, Allied Gold Limited, to have NonExecutive Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting to provide the NonExecutive Directors and Shareholders the opportunity to meet with each other.
It is the Companys intention that its Annual General Meeting that is to take place before June 30, 2012 will be held in Perth with a video link to London.
Non-Executive Directors will be present in each location providing the opportunity for them to meet the Companys shareholders.
The Company ensures that all shareholders and other stakeholders have equal access to the Companys information through the publication of all such information on the Companys website at www.
au which is freely accessible to all interested parties and through the release of information to the London Stock Exchange and other securities exchanges on which the Company's securities are traded.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer have been separated since June 30, 2011 when the Board appointed Mr. Terranova as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.
Mr. Terranova was previously the Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director of the Group.
The appointment took place pursuant to a transition process which resulted in the current Executive Chairman, Mr. Caruso, moving into the role of NonExecutive Chairman.
The transition process was implemented to ensure that the Companys operations, in particular the recently commissioned Gold Ridge project, reached steady state production under the guidance of the then Executive Chairman.
The Board believes there are significant merits in retaining the key Executives within the Group and the involvement of Mr. Caruso in the transition process ensured a seamless hand over of the Chief Executive Officer role to Mr. Terranova.
In addition, Mr. Terranova, as the newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, is able to continually draw upon the knowledge of the NonExecutive Chairman given the instrumental role Mr. Caruso played in the development of the Groups operations.
The Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership of the Board including setting its agenda, managing the conduct of its meetings and ensuring effective communication between the Board and its stakeholders.
The Chief Executive Officer is principally responsible for day to day management of the Groups operations.
All members of the Executive Management Team report directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer, with the assistance of the Executive Management Team is responsible for proposing the Groups strategy and for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Senior Independent Director Since June 30, 2011 Mr Harvey has been the Senior NonExecutive Director.
Since the expiry on December 31, 2011 of options held by Mr. Harvey over the Companys shares, he has been the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is available for discussions with other NonExecutive Directors who may have concerns they believe have not been adequately considered by the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders should they require an alternative point of contact with the Company.
Page | 32 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 Executive Committee The Executive Committee supports the Chief Executive Officer in the day to day management of the Groups operations through a framework of delegated authorities.
The Executive Committee meets on a regular basis to monitor the performance of the Groups operations and is comprised of the following personnel: Chief Executive Officer General Manager Operations Chief Financial Officer Group General Manager Resource Development Group Exploration Manager AUDIT, RISK AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is chaired by Mr. Harvey and its other members are Mr. House and Mr. Lowrie.
Mr. Steemson was a member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee until his resignation from the Board on August 16, 2011.
Mr Harvey has significant investment banking and merchant banking experience and the Board considers that Mr Harvey has the requisite accounting and financial management expertise for the purpose of serving as the Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
Members of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee are appointed by the Board from amongst the independent NonExecutive Directors on the recommendation of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and in consultation with the Chairman of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The members of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee will comprise at least three NonExecutive Directors with, where possible, two Directors who are assessed to be independent.
Whilst none of the members of the Committee were considered to be independent under the Code at the time of the Companys admission to the Main Market on June 30, 2011 due to their holding of options over the Companys shares, as at December 31, 2011 all members of the Committee were considered to be independent.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee has defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference provide that at least one member of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee will have accounting and or related financial management expertise as determined by the Board.
The Board considers that Mr. Harvey has the requisite recent and relevant financial experience for these purposes.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing its summary financial statements, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management systems.
A copy of the Committees Charter which was reviewed for compliance with the Code as part of the process of the Company listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange is available on the Companys website at www.
The Board, through the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, has considered the necessity for a separate internal audit function.
However, given the size and complexity of the Group they considered the regular reviews of the Groups mining projects undertaken by executive management and the financial and technical audits of the Company's major assets to be sufficient.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee will continue to monitor the requirement for a separate internal audit function.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is required by its terms of reference to give due consideration to relevant laws and regulations, the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules as appropriate.
The Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, and make recommendations in respect of any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
Page | 33 Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 To ensure the Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities, it meets not less than two times per year and is regularly updated on new legislation and other information relevant to the Committee's role.
The Committee met on two occasions during the reporting period.
To assist management in providing the information to allow the committee to discharge its responsibilities the Group's Chief Financial Officer, other executive management, and external auditors regularly attend Committee meetings.
The members of the Audit Committee believe that their discussions, under the direction of the audit charter, provide an assurance regarding the integrity of the financial information and that the financial controls and the systems of risk management are both robust and defensible.
The Board of Directors is satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by the Companys auditors BDO LLP during the year is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors.
The Directors are satisfied that the services disclosed below did not compromise the external auditors independence for the following reasons: all non-audit services are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors prior to commencement to ensure they do not adversely affect the integrity of the auditor: and the nature of the services provided does not compromise the general principles relating to auditor independence.
The following fees for nonaudit services were paid payable to the external auditors during the year ended December 31, 2011: 2011 2010 $000 $000 Other non assurance services BDO Corporate Finance WA Pty Ltd - 67 Other non assurance services BDO LLP 449 - 449 67 The other non-assurance services provided by BDO LLP during 2011 were for the preparation of various financial reports for the Company and the Companys Sponsor in relation to the preparation of the Companys Prospectus prepared for its listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
During the reporting period the most significant activities undertaken by the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee were: Approved the appointment of BDO LLP as the Companys auditor.
Reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit services provided to the Group by BDO LLP, the Companys auditor.
Reviewed the external audit plan and scope of work and the findings arising from all audit work performed by the External auditors.
Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board in respect of annual financial statements, quarterly and interim financial statements and related releases.
Reviewed key accounting policies and developments in financial reporting, regulatory and other changes.
Reviewed new or amended policies proposed by management in relation to financial risk management and delegated authorities.
As part of the process of the Companys listing on the Main Market of the LSE, the Committee performed a detailed review and assessment of the Groups internal controls related to financial management and financial reporting.
