Directors report | governance corporATe governAnce reporT alan thomson chairman provisions in the year and further explanation on particular topics can deaR shaReholdeR be found later in this Report and in the Remuneration Report.
hays is a strong business with a global presence.
We are a leading global professional recruiting group, and experts in qualified, the second development was the introduction of the UK Bribery act, professional and skilled recruitment, helping to power the growth which came into force on 1 July 2011. this legislation covers all global and success of thousands of organisations over five continents.
activities of any business that has an operation in the UK.
We have taken the opportunity to refresh our anti-bribery and corruption arrangements It was clear to me when I joined hays as Chairman in november 2010 in the year after undertaking extensive risk assessments in every that hays takes all aspects of governance very seriously and strives operating country.
We have introduced a new Group-wide anti-bribery toward best practice.
my aim is to ensure that the Board of hays plc and corruption policy including guidelines relating to the giving and and the organisation as a whole continue to operate to the highest receiving of gifts and entertainment and are providing comprehensive standards of corporate governance.
the Boards role remains three-fold: training for all Group employees.
We have also introduced controls in to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the business: stewardship: and respect of our dealings with relevant suppliers and we have put in place to understand the views of shareholders.
to help all our stakeholders to internal reporting mechanisms to monitor compliance.
the Board will understand how the Board has achieved these objectives in the year, monitor and review these arrangements periodically to ensure they this Report continues to be structured along these three themes.
In the boardroom and across our business, we aim to ensure that the Code applies to companies whose accounting period begins on or we promote long-term commercial success, while embedding sound after 29 June 2010. the Financial services authority requires UK listed values and principles within our business culture.
In this, my first companies to explain how they applied the main principles set out in Corporate Governance Report to you, our shareholders, I would section 1 of the Code and whether they have complied with the highlight two important governance developments within the UK principles set out in section 1 throughout the financial year.
this Report in the last 12 months that affect the way we, the Board, lead the explains how we have applied the main principles of the Code during management of your Company.
the first of these was the introduction of the UK Corporate Governance Alan Thomson Code the Code, which replaced the 2008 Combined Code.
the Code Chairman made some key changes to board governance, the most notable of which were the recommendation of annual re-election of all directors of Ftse 350 companies at their aGms, the need for boards to consider Statement of compliance diversity when making new board appointments, board determination throughout the year ended 30 June 2011 the Company has, without of the Companys risk appetite in achieving its strategic objectives and exception, complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
executive director remuneration provisions, including the use of Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial incentives to support appropriate levels of risk-taking.
I am pleased to Reporting Councils website, frc.
report that your Board and its committees have acted on these The boArd And iTS work ENTREPRENEURIAL STEWARDSHIP UNDERSTANDING LEADERSHIP SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS 34 Our governance framework 36 Managing risks and internal control 31 Board roles 35 How the Board operates 38 Responsibilities Internal control statement 32 Biographies, skills and contributions Matters reserved for the Board How we engage with 37 Principal risks shareholders Board committees Terms of reference Operational management structure 39 BOARD FOCUS IN THE 2011 FINANCIAL YEAR What the Board has done in the year Main committee activities Attendance table 40 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Understanding the business Board training and  evaluation 30 Directors report | governance enTrepreneUriAL LeAderShip manages and delivers the appropriate communications to board roles shareholders with the Group Finance director: the Board is organised to apply breadth and depth, in both experience develops the effectiveness of the senior management team and and skills, to ensure the successful development of the business, deliver manages the succession requirements: and shareholder value sustainably over the long term and to enable the Company to make a positive contribution to society.
the Board sets the ensures the Chairman is regularly appraised of current business goals for the business, its culture and standards of conduct.
of any business is measured in part by the extent to which risk and the Companys strategy is described in pages 6 to 11 of this reward are balanced, how the business uses its strengths to reach its annualReport.
potential and how it effectively addresses its areas of weakness.
essentially, the Board establishes an entrepreneurial framework within Paul Venables as Group Finance director provides Board focus on the which the business can flourish without promoting excessive risk-taking financial position of the Group, manages key stakeholder relationships, or disproportionately impacting the worlds resources.
including shareholders and banks, oversees the Groups financial reporting and control systems and assists the Chief executive in alan thomson manages and leads the Board as Chairman.
Chairmans main objective is to ensure the Board performs all its functions effectively and sets the standard of leadership for the senior lesley Knox currently represents the non-executive directors and is managers and employees to follow throughout the Group.
as part of his an alternative point of contact for shareholders in her role as senior formal remit, alan: Independent director.
she also leads discussions on the Chairmans performance and the succession of the Chairmanship, as required.
In sets and manages the Board agenda: conjunction with her role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, ensures the provision of sufficient, appropriate and timely information lesley is a key voice representing shareholder views on the Board.
to all directors: lesley will be stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the annual General meeting to be held on 9 november 2011.
Paul harrison ensures that effective communication takes place with shareholders will be taking over as senior Independent director and Chairman of the and that the Board understands the views of shareholders: Remuneration Committee.
ensures the Board has adequate time to consider complex or Paul harrison currently chairs the audit Committee and has a key role in strategically important issues: the Companys governance and control framework, including managing ensures new directors receive appropriate induction training that is the relationship with the auditor and representing the audit Committee tailored to their specific requirements: on the Board.
Paul will be relinquishing his role as audit Committee Chairman at the conclusion of the annual General meeting.
Victoria is responsible for the development of the Board and its individual Jarman, who will be appointed as a non-executive director of the members, including ongoing training, ensuring optimal effectiveness Company on 1 october 2011, will succeed Paul as Chairman of the and active engagement of all members: and audit Committee following the annual General meeting.
ensures that the Board and its members are evaluated at least once alison Yapp as Company secretary and General legal Counsel assists a year and this is externally facilitated every three years.
the Chairman in administering Board meetings, provides support and alistair Cox manages and leads the Groups business as Chief executive.
advice to the directors, and acts as the principal adviser on governance his core role is to carry out the strategic plans and policies established and legal matters.
by the Board and to manage the business operations.
In performing his remit, alistair: formulates, develops and recommends the strategy and strategic priorities for the business: manages the implementation of the approved strategy and the strategic priorities: manages and optimises the operation and financial performance of the business: 31 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
