Directors report | governance Audit Committee RepoRt Paul harrison audit committee chairman recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, the DEar sharEholDEr appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditor: The audit Committee the Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive directors of the Company.
The Committees terms of monitor the relationship with the Companys auditor, including reference include all matters indicated by the uK Corporate Governance consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its Code the Code, which replaced the 2008 Combined Code published engagement: by the Financial reporting Council.
Further information on the Code can review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit as well be found on the Financial reporting Councils website, frc.
The as the auditors independence: terms of reference are considered annually by the Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
review the policy on engagement of the auditor for the provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance: Composition of the Audit Committee Paul harrison, an independent non-executive director, will continue review the Companys internal control and risk management systems: to chair the Committee until the conclusion of the Companys annual monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: General Meeting to be held on 9 november 2011, when he will be and succeeded as Committee Chairman by Victoria Jarman.
lesley Knox, William Eccleshare and Paul stoneham were members of the ensure the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees Committee throughout the year and richard smelt was appointed as a to raise concerns in confidence.
member of the Committee with effect from 23 March 2011. lesley Knox Activities of the Audit Committee will stand down from the Committee when she retires from the Board at The Committee met four times during the financial year ended 30 June the conclusion of the annual General Meeting.
2011. attendance at meetings is shown on page 39.
Paul harrison, a Chartered accountant, is Group Finance Director of During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as follows: The sage Group plc.
as such, he is considered suitably qualified to be the audit Committee Chairman.
Victoria Jarman is a Chartered Financial statements accountant, has a corporate finance and investment background and The Committee reviewed the draft annual financial statements and half is considered to be similarly suitably qualified.
The qualifications both year report prior to recommending their approval to the Board.
The formal and by experience of the other members of the Committee can Committee discussed with the executive directors and external auditor be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 32 and 33. the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted, significant estimates and judgements, whether the financial statements gave a true and fair at the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the view and the appropriateness of the going concern assumption.
Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, head of internal audit, Group Financial Controller and external auditor attend the meetings.
External auditor The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the for approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member auditor.
Deloitte llP is the external auditor of the Company and, under of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the ethical guidance, it is required to introduce a new audit partner every nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
The current audit partner has been in place for five years and The Committee comprises five independent non-executive directors this represents his last year as audit partner for the hays audit.
Following and two members constitute a quorum.
meetings with the Committee Chairman and the Group Finance Director Role of the Audit Committee a new audit partner has been appointed.
he has been involved in During the year, the Committee reviewed the Committees terms of aspects of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended reference.
These were considered to be in line with best practice and 30 June 2011 in order to familiarise himself with the Groupsactivities.
only minor changes were necessary to reflect the revised 2010 iCsas in line with its terms of reference, the Committee undertook a Guidance for audit Committees.
The terms of reference of the thorough annual assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and Committee are published on the Companys website, haysplc.
com, and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte llP, seeking the views are also available from the Company secretary at the registered office.
and feedback of the Committee and fellow Board members, together The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: with those of Group and divisional management.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Committee as to the choice of monitor the appropriateness of the financial statements and formal externalauditor.
announcements relating to the financial performance including any significant judgements: 42 Directors report | governance The Committee considered the scope and materiality of the audit independence and objectivity of internal audit and its activities, work, considered and approved the audit fee, reviewed the results including the annual audit plan and resource requirements.
The plan has of the auditors work and considered the auditors performance and delivered both geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based effectiveness.
The risk of the auditor withdrawing from the market assurance in support of non-financial topics such as iT and hr was also considered.
processes, contract management and compliance.
The Committee met the external auditor twice during the year without internal audit reports include recommendations agreed with management being present.
management to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of internal controls.
at each meeting, the Committee received a summary The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of the of new audit findings and separate details of outstanding audit auditor for non-audit services and confirmed the applicability of that recommendations and those that were overdue, with management policy in satisfying itself that their independence and objectivity was comments on progress made.
The Committee also met the head of internal audit twice during the The key features of this policy are as follows: year without management being present.
work closely related to the audit e. g. taxation or financial reporting raising concerns in confidence matters can be awarded to the auditor by the executive directors The Committee reviewed the Groups procedures enabling employees provided the work does not exceed 150,000 in fees per item: and to raise concerns in confidence.
Employees are able to raise concerns all other work either requires Committee approval or forms part of a or report compliance issues through an independent third-party list of prohibited services where it is felt independence or objectivity organisation.
The Committee receives reports of any serious concerns may be impaired.
The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed by Audit committee effectiveness Deloitte llP in the year and has concluded that the policy has been The Committee undertook its own annual performance evaluation, applied and the auditors independence and objectivity has not which concluded that the Committee has acted in accordance with been impaired as a result.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte llP and its its terms of reference, is operating effectively and met all legal and associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 to the regulatory requirements.
Consolidated Financial statements on page 69.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the 2011 annual after due and careful consideration, taking account of the processes General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte theCommittee.
llP be reappointed as the Companys auditor at the annual General on behalf of the audit Committee.
Meeting to be held on 9 november 2011. paul Harrison risk management and internal control audit Committee Chairman The Committee reviewed the Companys risk management and internal control systems by considering the Groups risk assessment process which included detail of the extent of coverage, the assessment methods employed and the effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks.
it also considered the results of testing performed by both the internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls.
internal audit and risk The Committee oversees the risk management and assurance activities including the work of internal audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the terms of reference of the internal audit function and only minor changes were necessary.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the head of internal audit and of the internal audit function through an internal review process, seeking views from a number of internal stakeholders.
The Committee also reviewed the 43 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
