Directors report | governance nominATion commiTTee reporT alan thomson nominaTion commiTTee chairman deaR shaReholdeR chairmanships and the search for a new non-executive director, which is the nomination Committee the Committee is appointed by the described in the next section of this Report.
Board and consists of independent non-executive directors of the Succession Company.
the quorum for the transaction of business is three.
the as announced on 19 may 2011, lesley Knox will be stepping down from Committees terms of reference include all matters required by the the Board on conclusion of the annual General meeting to be held on UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
the terms of reference 9 november 2011.
Paul harrison will take over as senior Independent are reviewed periodically by the Committee and any changes are director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
then referred to the Board for approval.
the terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website, haysplc.
Victoria Jarman will be joining the Board as a non-executive director on Changes were made to the Committees terms of reference on 1 october 2011 and will succeed Paul harrison as Chairman of the audit 31 august 2010 in line with the Code, which applied to the Company Committee on conclusion of the annual General meeting.
at the annual from 1 July 2010. the changes included an annual review of the General meeting shareholders will be asked to reappoint Victoria structure, size and composition of the Board and to consider the Jarman as a director of the Company.
benefits of diversity, including gender, when identifying suitable alan thomson, as Chairman of the nomination Committee, led the candidates.
Further information on the Code can be found on the process for appointing the new non-executive director to the Board.
Financial Reporting Councils website, frc.
the Zygos Partnership, an external search consultancy, was engaged composition of the nomination committee to lead the search.
alan thomson briefed Zygos as to the personal the Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, as attributes needed in the new non-executive director with regard to the recommended by the Code.
alan thomson was appointed as a business, its future direction and the role to be undertaken.
the Board member and Chairman of the Committee on 10 november 2010, considered that individuals with business to business and professional succeeding Bob lawson following his retirement from the Board at the services backgrounds would be particularly relevant, as would 2010 annual General meeting.
lesley Knox, as senior Independent individuals with strong international experience and credibility within director, led the process for appointing the new Chairman.
Bob lawson the investment community.
style and cultural fit with hays were also did not attend Committee meetings which concerned the succession of important considerations, as was boardroom diversity in light of the the Chairmanship.
the process for the succession of the Chairmanship lord davies report.
was described in the Companys 2010 annual Report & Financial Zygos produced a shortlist of candidates.
selected members of the statements.
Board met with the shortlisted candidates and all members of the lesley Knox, William eccleshare, Paul harrison, Richard smelt and Paul nomination Committee and the executive directors met with Victoria stoneham were all members of the Committee throughout the year.
the secretary attends meetings of the Committee and, by invitation, Victoria was considered to be the ideal candidate given her background the Chief executive and the Group Finance director may also attend and experience and met the Boards criteria.
Victoria is a Chartered meetings as required.
the Committee can seek professional advice at accountant, having spent her early career at KPmG.
she was formerly the Companys expense.
Chief operating officer of lazards london and middle east operations role of the nomination committee and a member of its european management Committee.
Victoria is a the Committee reviews the structure and composition of the Board non-executive director of fide la Rue plc and a member of its audit and annually to ensure it remains appropriate for the needs of the business nomination committees.
In addition to her accounting skills, she will and plans for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
It leads the bring a wealth of international corporate finance and operational process for the identification and selection of new directors and makes experience, which will be valuable as the Group continues to broaden its recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments, business across a wide range of disciplines and geographies.
the Board taking into consideration the benefits of diversity.
It also makes is delighted that she will be joining the Company.
recommendations to the Board on committee membership, including alan thomson and lesley Knox will be available at the 2011 annual the chairmanship of the committees.
General meeting to answer any questions about the work of the main activities of the nomination committee Committee.
the Committee formally met twice during the year and held various on behalf of the nomination Committee.
amongst other things, it considered the recommendation to appoint alan thomson as a director and Chairman Alan Thomson of the Board, the composition of the Board, the Committees terms of nomination Committee Chairman reference, directors annual retirement as recommended by the Code, the succession of the audit and Remuneration Committee 41 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2011
