corporate governance The Company aims to achieve best practice reporting on corporate governance.
With a Premium Listing on the LSE, the Company is subject to the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules and the requirement to explain how it has applied the main principles of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
hoW the BoarD operates looKing aheaD The Board delegates certain responsibilities to committees In 2012, the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in line with recommendations of the 2010 UK Corporate will amend the 2010 Code to require companies to report Governance Code the 2010 Code and to facilitate the on the boards policy of diversity.
The Nomination achievement of business objectives of the Company.
The Committee fully supports the importance of having diversity of thought and representation on the Board and Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the Company and each Director must take decisions Heritage operates equal opportunity policies in all areas of activity.
During the year further consideration will objectively in the interests of the Company.
The Boards principal role is to set strategy and the parameters within be given by the Nomination Committee to preparing a diversity policy, including gender, for the Board.
Executive which the Group operates to further its objectives.
remuneration and the continued development of the approach to risk will also be focus points for the Board DevelopMents in 2011 Heritage continues to make progress to comply fully with over the year and the Company is committed to ensuring that remuneration packages support long-term strategy the Combined Code and there are now only two areas of non-compliance which the Board believes are not and do not reward excessive risk taking.
appropriate for the Company to apply at this time.
The Company has responded to the introduction of the UK For further information on corporate governance please see the Corporate Governance Report.
Bribery Act 2010 the UK Bribery Act, which became effective 1 July 2011, with a comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption programme.
corporate strUctUre Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee c o M M U n ic at io n s Shareholders Board el e c t Reserves Committee Anti-Bribery & Corruption Committee CSR Committee heritage oil plc Annual Review 20
