REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMIT TEE CO NTI NUED In fulfilling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of financial High level controls include: reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee reviews the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public review of management accounts with comparison of actual financial information and examines documentation in relation to performance against prior periods and budget: the Annual Report and Accounts and annual financial report approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two signatories announcements.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and required to make a transfer from the principal bank accounts: approving the half year and annual financial statements remains quarterly reconciliation of all control accounts: with the Board.
prior approval by the Board for major investments: and segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
The internal control procedures in relation to financial reporting form part of the internal control and risk management systems A formal risk assessment is conducted periodically during the year described below.
The Directors recognise the need to maintain which covers all material controls, including financial and operational, financial reporting procedures, to review them on an ongoing basis and risk management systems.
A risk matrix has been developed which and to adapt them to changing circumstances and will use the Board aids identification of the primary risks the Group faces and likelihood memorandum as a basis for further developing the control processes.
The primary risks are collated from this assessment As part of the ongoing review process a decision was taken to update with recommended controls to mitigate these risks and presented to the the financial reporting IT systems and a new Purchase to Pay Audit Committee for review.
The Board receives reports of the Audit procurement system was implemented in November 2011.
The system Committees review of the internal control system, risk assessment provides an integrated purchasing, receipting and invoice payment process and any reports made under its whistle-blowing policy.
process linked to the financial system.
Functionality in the system, incorporating scanned images and electronic authorisation, improves Details of principal risks and uncertainties, which are those reviewed control of the procurement and invoicing process, maintaining clear by the Audit Committee during the year, are discussed on pages 34 to and auditable records.
RI SK MA NAGEME NT A ND I NTER N A L CO NTRO L WHI S T L E - B LO W I N G P O LICY It is the Boards responsibility to determine the nature and extent of the An important part of the Companys control processes is having a significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
reporting system that can be used by employees to report possible fraud It also has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal or wrongdoing.
The whistle-blowing policy and procedures in place control and risk management and has put in place processes for were reviewed during the year as part of the processes concerning the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that the UK Bribery Act.
As a result, a new whistle-blowing policy was Group faces.
This includes significant risks that may arise from recommended by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board.
environmental, social and governance matters.
The Groups system Information is available to all employees advising them that they can of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing by contacting risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Board and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or Audit Committee receive reports of any information reported under the loss.
The risk assessment and internal control procedures were in place whistle-blowing procedures and appropriate action is taken as a result.
from the start of 2011 to the date of the approval of this report and have been reviewed by the Board in accordance with the FRCs guidance on AUDITOR S internal control the Turnbull Guidance.
INTER N AL AUDIT At present there is no internal audit function established.
The The Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit function in 2010 the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The and again in 2011 and concurred with the opinion of the Board, which review covers all controls, including financial, operational and risk maintains that the current control systems in place and management management processes.
Appropriate actions are put into place to oversight are sufficient to highlight any areas of weaknesses in the remedy any weaknesses identified by the review.
One weakness financial reporting systems.
The need for an internal audit function is identified in its financial procedures reporting concerns accounting reviewed at least annually.
for complex financial transactions and so the Company ensures that it seeks third party advice to mitigate this weakness.
INTER N AL C O NTROL FRAME WORK The internal control systems consist of both high level controls and controls in place at an operational level.
These systems are based on established management structures with defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
