corpor ate governance heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 20 Heritage is committed to protecting the interests of shareholders and stakeholders, through compliance with relevant legal and regulatory environments and through the effective management of risk.
2011 highlights implemented changes in accordance with the 2010 Code and continued working towards compliance: Board briefing on diversity: and established an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee and Policy.
p ote nti a l Failure to comply with corporate governance codes A strong and transparent approach to corporate impact and and practices could result in adverse sentiment towards governance will be viewed favourably by the Companys o p p o r t un it y the Company.
m i t igat io n We recognise the importance of maintaining strong regular updates on potential changes to the regulatory of impact corporate governance procedures and processes and landscape: continue to develop systems.
We do this through: complying with all relevant national and international laws and acting in accordance with local guidelines and employing the skill, expertise and resources of the regulations including those that are industry specific Group and its advisers: that govern our operations: and reviewing compliance with corporate governance codes establishing Board level responsibility and accountability.
and other regulatory guidelines regularly: o u r Responsible business practices are a way of doing business The CSR Committee, formed in 2010, is tasked with a ppr oac h within our Company rather than an isolated exercise and maintaining the Companys CSR Policy Framework in line this is underpinned by how our Board and committees with best practice and appropriate international standards operate.
We have a corporate governance framework and guidelines.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring which supports an enterprising management team whilst that the CSR Report is a fair reflection of our policies, also managing the risks that are inherent in running a systems and performance, is coherent and published in a growing exploration and production business.
timely manner and that the same approach is applied to the Companys website www.
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate leadership and focus on making sure the Company is well run and has Further detail on all aspects of Corporate Governance a transparent approach to developing the Group.
We have can be found in the Corporate Governance Report and responded to the introduction of the UK Bribery Act, which the full Terms of Reference of the Committees are became effective 1 July 2011, with a comprehensive available on the Companys website anti-bribery and corruption programme, including the www.
establishment of a Board level Anti-Bribery and Corruption Committee and an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code.
The 2010 Code, introduced in June 2010, applied from 1 January 2011.
The main changes concern risk within the business model, performance-related pay, accountability re-election of Directors, proper debate, well balanced Board, Board performance and Board training and development.
How is the Company approaching upcoming amendments to of activity and seeks to encourage the employment of the 2010 Code and recommendations made in the Davies women.
The aim is that over time, women as a percentage Q&A Report Women on Boards ?
of the workforce will increase and lead to a larger pool of potential talent from which to recruit to senior positions.
The Nomination Committee supports the importance of We have developed information systems in order to collate having diversity of thought and representation on its Board.
information on female representation and pay within However, in terms of gender, the Company operates in an Heritage which will help to inform future policy environment with low representation of women at all levels developments.
There are already a number of senior of the industry.
In some countries of operation cultural women in posts throughout the Group with direct lines differences in particular mean that women are underof communication to members of the Board and our represented in the work force.
In order to address this, the Board includes one female Non-Executive Director.
Company operates equal opportunity policies in all its areas heritage oil plc Corporate Social Responsibility 20 2
