corPorate Governance 69 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 internal and financial control.
this builds on process and whether using auditors from one West-Ward enabled them to obtain the most information gathered in the legal, financial, audit network continues to ensure the quality appropriate advice and team for the work in a business and regulatory due diligence undertaken of the audit.
the committee reviewed this cost-effective manner.
in advance of any transaction, and focuses on during the year and concluded that the existing the audit committee held extensive financial personnel support, imposition of Hikma team continue to conduct an effective audit, discussions with Deloitte llP, the uk-based reporting policies, it consistency and subsequent that the teams knowledge of the Group, Group auditors, regarding the safeguards internal audit work.
particularly the Groups diverse international established to ensure continued audit in the year under review, Hikma undertook operations, is advantageous in terms of its independence.
these include completely five corporate transactions.
each offered ability to identify issues of importance and relay separate teams undertaking audit and different challenges to the internal and them clearly to the committee.
the committee non-audit work and regular uk audit partner financial control environment.
a substantial it believes that there is a strong and open review of the safeguards work being performed integration project is underway to migrate relationship between the audit team leadership in the united states, together with an themsi business to the Hikma saP platform.
the committee independent us partner review of the local inmorocco Hikma immediately implemented recommended to the Board the audit engagement in the united states.
board level control and supplied full time re-appointment of the existing external auditor, additionally, in 2011 the audit committee financial staff to Promopharms operations who has been in place since the company listed chairman visited the us twice to meet the incasablanca to integrate it into the Hikma in 2005. united states audit partner along with the uk reporting model.
at Haosun in china, Hikma Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related audit partner.
required the recruitment of a new cFo as part and non-audit services are outlined in note 6 the committee remains satisfied that, of the transaction.
at unimark in india, on the to the consolidated Financial statements.
despite the delay in the msi transaction and ground support has been given by the finance audit-related services are services carried out the consequent rescheduling of integration team, and financial reporting timetables were by the external auditor by virtue of its role as work into 2011, meaning that non-audit fees akey element to transaction discussions.
auditor and principally include assuranceare higher than those charged for the audit insudan, management of operations and related work.
During the period under review work during the year, adequate controls remain in place to safeguard auditor finance has been assumed by Hikmas existing the Group used members of the global personnel and incorporated into Hikmas Deloitte network in certain jurisdictions for independence.
in accordance with the Groups non-audit services policy, none of the work for control model.
as reported previously, non-audit fees were higher than usual in 2010, the msi acquisition undertaken in the united external Audit states by Deloitte consulting llP was of a principally due to engaging Deloitte consulting the audit committee is responsible for the llP in the united states to assist in the financial information systems design, development, implementation and monitoring valuation, executive recruitment or advocacy development of a post-merger integration of the Groups policy on external audit, which plan for West-Wards acquisition of Baxters nature.
the assistance has not involved is undertaken by Deloitte llP and for undertaking decisions that are the msi business.
these arrangements continued monitoring the independence and objectivity until the close of the msi acquisition in may responsibility of management.
the committee of the external auditors.
the audit committee continues to keep the position under review.
2011 and, therefore, the non-audit fees is also the primary point of contact for the incurred in 2011 were $2.1m.
the uk-led audit team continues to provide an auditors with the Board.
the Group has appropriately high level of audit challenge to as reported last year, the appointment of adopted a policy on the provision of non-audit Deloitte consulting llP in the united states was management and constructively raises issues services by the external auditors, which is with the committee.
should shareholders made after a competitive tender process in included in the Board Governance manual, 2010. a detailed request for Proposal was wish to discuss the situation with the setting out which non-audit services the company, the chairman of the audit prepared and five international consulting firms external auditors may and may not provide to were invited to tender.
each firm produced committee will be happy to make himself the Group.
the Group also maintains a policy available.
aproposal and made presentations to requiring prior approval by the audit West-Wards executive management.
the us committee for recruitment of a senior For and on behalf of the audit committee team recommended Deloitte consulting llP member of the audit team or the recruitment because of its strengths and experience in of an employee of the external auditors to a Breffni Byrne relation to carve-out integrations and the senior finance position within the Group.
Audit Committee Chairman pharmaceutical industry, its capabilities in the there are no contractual provisions that 13 march 2012 integration areas that were most likely to restrict the committees choice of auditors.
it is represent a challenge to the msi acquisition also the committees policy to consider every and the characteristics of the team.
the year whether there should be an audit tender appointment of Deloitte consulting llP by
