72 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.2 commiTTee reporTs Nomination continued candidates, and whilst a woman was not induction Diversity the process of director induction for robert the Board has noted the recent focus on appointed, the Board has always operated and will continue to operate a discrimination-free Pickering was undertaken by the secretariat, Board diversity and the recommendations under the direction of the senior independent of the Davies report on representation approach to recruitment at every level of its operations, clearly understanding the benefits Director and oversight of the chairman, and is of women at board level.
the Board also fully described in the Governance report.
notes the changes proposed by the Financial that such approach has already delivered to the Hikma business.
reporting council to the uk corporate re-election Governance code.
the value in diversity does not come in accordance with the requirements of the from setting targets.
Hikma is committed to From its foundation Hikma has seen code in force in 2012, each member of the excellent value in recruiting people from employing and engaging the best people, Board will put himself up for re-election at irrespective of background, gender, orientation, a diverse range of backgrounds, including the2012 aGm.
our diversity continues to be demonstrated by the broad range of Hikma has always operated a composition discrimination-free working environment people in our organisation.
it would be the Board continues to keep its composition inappropriate to select for or against an and is committed to gender diversity at all under review.
During the year, the nomination levels and in all areas of its business.
Hikma individual on grounds of diversity, which could committee reviewed the skills of its executive be required were Hikma to set a target for its has a high number of female employees across and non-executive Directors, and the its organisation: senior management includes Board composition.
our target is to continue experience they bring to the Board for setting to employ the best and, in doing so, we will an international spread of executives, with the strategic direction of the Group, and 25% of senior management being female.
achieve the diversity of society required to achieving its objectives.
the committee continue to make Hikma a success.
across our business as a whole, 32% of our concluded that the Board has a very broad employees are female.
the Group has always spread of experience, consistent with the For and on behalf of the nomination committee been committed to diversity and believes that needs of the Group.
For further information, it has demonstrated this commitment.
see the biographical details of the Directors sir David rowe-ham Hikma recently appointed a new on pages 54 to 56. nomination committee chairman independent non-executive Director after 13 march 2012 an independently managed process.
the list of potential appointees contained female 2011 WORLDWIDE EMPLOYEE GENDER % 1.
