corPorate Governance 61 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT the Board concluded that his former executive roles and responsibilities 2011 the Board is responsible for setting the role should not prevent him from remaining BOARD COMPOSITION % aschairman, especially as he has an in-depth strategic direction and monitoring the financial performance of the Group against its targets.
understanding of the Group and the business 1.
CHAIRMAN 1. and is able to provide a valuable contribution the Board promotes good governance within 11% 2. the Group, and seeks to ensure that Hikma in his capacity as non-executive chairman.
EXECUTIVE meets its responsibilities to shareholders, DIRECTORS 22% employees, suppliers, customers and other 3.
NONThe Chairman has an in-depth stakeholders.
there is a formal schedule of INDEPENDENT 3. matters reserved for the Board, which was understanding of the Group NED 11% 4. reviewed in 2011 as part of the annual 4.
INDEPENDENT NEDs corporate governance review conducted by 56% the audit committee and approved by the independence Board.
the schedule includes approval of the Board reviewed and considered the During the year the Board appointed strategic plans, financial statements, budget, independence of the non-executive Directors robertPickering as an independent material investment decisions, acquisitions during the year as part of the annual corporate non-executive Director.
anddivestments, and responsibility for the governance review.
the Board considers that the names of the Directors, their biographical effectiveness of the Groups systems of their diverse business backgrounds, skills and details and dates of appointment are set out internal control.
experience enable all the non-executive on pages 54 to 56. the Board delegates its authority to the Directors to continue to bring independent the senior independent Director is ceo who is responsible for delivering the judgment to bear on issues of strategy, sirDavid rowe-Ham who remains available companys strategic objectives.
the ceo is performance, resources, key appointments, toshareholders should they have concerns assisted in this task by the senior management standards of conduct and other matters thatthey do not wish to raise directly with team who meet with the ceo to set strategy presented to the Board.
sir David is also chairman of and key objectives for their areas of For the purposes of the code, the Board the nomination committee and is responsible responsibility.
the ceo reports on operational considers sir David rowe-Ham, michael for chairing the meetings of the non-executive progress and corporate actions to the Board, ashton, ronald Goode, Breffni Byrne and Directors conducted without the presence assisted by members of senior management robert Pickering to be independent.
these ofthe chairman or executive management.
who present to the Board, as appropriate, to individuals provide extensive experience of highlight and debate developments in their international pharmaceutical, financial, chairman and chief executive areas of responsibility.
corporate governance and regulatory matters the roles of the chairman and chief executive and were not associated with Hikma prior officer are separate, and the Board has approved Board composition tothe listing of the company in 2005. statements of their respective responsibilities at the end of the year under review, the Board does not classify ali al-Husry in writing.
these statements were reviewed the Board comprised nine directors: asan independent Director for the purposes during 2011 as part of the annual corporate ofthe code because of his involvement governance review.
Board withDarhold limited, the companys largest the chairman previously held the role XX the Non-Executive Chairman shareholder.
He was also a director of ofchairman and chief executive.
in 2007, HikmaPharmaceuticals limited prior to the XX two Executive Directors herelinquished his executive responsibilities companys listing.
However, he continues XX and continued as non-executive chairman.
one Non-Independent tobring his broad financial experience to Non-Executive Director Prior to the appointment of the current theBoard as well as a detailed knowledge chiefexecutive officer, the Board undertook XX five Independent Non-Executive Directors ofthe mena region which remains significant consultation with its major shareholders and to the Groups business.
external advisers regarding the continuation ofsamih Darwazah in his role as chairman.
