Hochschild Mining plc 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report The trustee of the Hochschild Mining Employee Share for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Trust the Employee Trust has waived dividends declared by the Company after 20 June 2011 on shares Principal activities held by the Employee Trust.
Hochschild is a leading precious metals company with a primary focus on the exploration, mining, processing Directors and sale of silver and gold.
The names and biographical details of the Directors serving at the date of this report are given on pages 60 and 61.
Information incorporated by reference This Directors Report should be read in conjunction All Directors were in office for the duration of the year under with the following parts of the Annual Report which review except for Graham Birch and Rupert Pennant-Rea are incorporated by reference to satisfy the relevant who were appointed by the Board on 1 July 2011 and disclosure requirements.
Business Review With the exception of Dionisio Romero who will be retiring The information required to be disclosed in the Business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, each of Review can be located as summarised below.
the Directors will be retiring and seeking re-election by shareholders in line with the recommendation of the Business Review contents UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors interests Section Pages Requirement Details of the interests of the Directors in the Companys Chairmans Main trends and factors 2 and 3 shares are shown below: statement likely to affect the Group Chief Executives 6 to 8 Ordinary shares as at review Ordinary 1 January 2011 or shares as at date of appointment, Market & 20 and 21 31 December 2011 if later geographic 1 overview Eduardo Hochschild 182,415,206 182,415,206 2 Operating & Review of performance Roberto Daino 200,000 500,000 22 to 35 exploration review with KPIs, development of Ignacio Bustamante 14,054 0 the Groups business, yearend position and prospects Sir Malcolm Field 14,285 14,285 3 Financial review Graham Birch 0 0 50 to 56 Jorge Born Jr. 0 0 Corporate Information on employees, 37 to 48 responsibility environmental and social Nigel Moore 14,285 14,285 matters 4 Rupert Pennant-Rea 7,000 7,000 Risk management Principal risks and 57 to 59 Dionisio Romero 100,000 100,000 uncertainties Fred Vinton 25,000 0 Corporate Governance Statement 1 Eduardo Hochschild holds an indirect interest in the Company through an intermediate The requirements for a Corporate Governance Statement holding company which he controls and which owns the entire issued share capital of Pelham Investment Corporation which, in turn, owns shares in the Company.
are fulfilled by the Corporate Governance report on 2 Roberto Dainos interest is held by Navajo International Holdings Ltd. pages 65 to 76.
3 Graham Birch was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 July 2011.
4 Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 September 2011.
Results and dividend 1 The Groups adjusted EBITDA for the year amounted to In addition, Fred Vinton has an interest in Convertible $563.4 million 2010: $397.7 million.
Revenue for the year Bonds of the Company with a nominal value of $500,000.
was $987.7 million 2010: $752.3 million and attributable profit to equity shareholders after tax before exceptional There have been no changes in the above interests in the items was $165.9 million 2010: $94.9 million.
period from 31 December 2011 to 19 March 2012.
Relationship Agreement An interim dividend of $0.03 per share was paid to Prior to the Companys IPO, Pelham Investment shareholders of the Company on 22 September 2011.
Corporation, Eduardo Hochschild and the The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Company amongst others entered into a relationship of $0.03 per share 2010: $0.03 per share.
Subject to agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between shareholders approving this recommendation at the them the Relationship Agreement.
The principal forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, the purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that dividend will be paid in UK pound sterling on 29 May 2012 the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the to shareholders on the register at the close of business benefit of the shareholders of the Company as a whole, on 4 May 2012.
Shareholders may elect to receive their and that transactions and relationships with the Controlling dividend in US dollars.
The US dollar dividend will be Shareholders and any of their respective associates are converted into UK pound sterling at the exchange rate at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
prevailing at the time of payment.
1 Calculated as profit from continuing operations before net finance income cost, foreign exchange loss and income tax plus depreciation and exploration expenses other than personnel and other exploration related fixed expenses.
Governance 63 Further details on the Relationship Agreement with regards associated company has the meaning given to it by section to the conduct of the Major Shareholder are set out in the 256 of the Companies Act 2006.
Corporate Governance report on page 66 and with regards However, a Director will not be indemnified for any liability to the right to appoint Directors to the Board are set out incurred by him to the Company or Group companies: on page 68. any criminal or regulatory fines: the costs of defending Supplier payment policy any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted: or the It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance costs of defending any civil proceedings brought by with trading terms by the supplier, payments to suppliers the Company in which judgement is given against him.
are made in accordance with terms and conditions agreed The Company has purchased and maintains liability in advance.
insurance for its Directors and officers as permitted At 31 December 2011, the Company had an average of by section 233 of the Companies Act 2006.
31 days purchases owed to trade creditors 2010: 24 days.
Conflicts of interest Political and charitable donations The Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public The Company does not make political donations.
companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts During the year, the Group expended $7.7 million of interest of directors where the Companys Articles of 2010: $6.7 million on social and community welfare Association contain a provision to that effect.
Shareholders activities surrounding its mining units.
approved amendments to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM held on 9 May 2008 which included Related party transactions provisions giving the Directors authority to authorise Details of related party transactions undertaken during the matters which may result in the Directors breaching year under review are given in note 30 to the Consolidated their duty to avoid a conflict of interest.
financial statements on pages 140 and 141.
The Board has established effective procedures to enable Essential contractual and other arrangements the Directors to notify the Company of any actual or The Directors consider that the following are the potential conflict situations and for those situations to contractual and other arrangements with customers, be reviewed and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the suppliers or contracts to which group companies are a party Board, subject to any conditions that may be considered and which are considered to be essential to the business: appropriate.
In keeping with the approach agreed by the Board, Directors conflicts were reviewed during the year the mining concessions and operating permits granted under review.
by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions of the Groups operations: and Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters the collective agreements with trade unions in respect under discussion at Board meetings are required to declare of the workers at the Groups mines in Peru.
this interest and to abstain from voting on the relevant matters.
Any related party transactions are approved by a Policy on financial risk management committee of the Board consisting solely of Independent The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk Directors.
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose management can be found in note 36 to the Consolidated limits or conditions when giving any authorisation, if they financial statements.
Information on the Companys think this is appropriate.
exposures to foreign currency, commodity prices, credit, Going concern equity, liquidity, interest rate and capital risks can be found This Annual Report provides details of the Companys in this note.
business activities, its financial position and a description Directors and officers liability insurance of the Companys objectives, policies and processes for Since Directors are increasingly being added as defendants managing its capital: its financial risk management in legal actions against companies, the Board believes that objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging the risk of Directors being placed at significant personal activities: and its exposures to credit and liquidity risks.
The Board also believes that The Company benefits from considerable financial the provision of appropriate indemnities and the funding resources and long-term relationships with a number of of Directors defence costs as permitted by legislation are customers and suppliers across different geographic areas.
reasonable protections for the Directors and are important These factors, together with the general macroeconomic to ensure that the Company continues to be able to attract outlook which supports gold and silver prices, provide the and retain the highest calibre individuals as Directors.
Directors with reassurance that the Company is well placed Accordingly, the Articles contain a provision whereby each to manage its business risks successfully.
of the Directors is indemnified by the Company in respect Having regard to the Financial Reporting Councils of liability in relation to: i any negligence, default, breach document entitled Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: of duty or breach of trust relating to the Company or any Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the associated company: ii execution of their duties as Directors have considered five year cash flow forecasts Directors of the Company: and iii the activities of the presented by management which, amongst other things, Company or any associated company as trustee of an reflect the financial requirements of the Groups significant occupational pension scheme.
For these purposes, capital projects including the Inmaculada and Crespo Hochschild Mining plc 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors report continued Statement of Directors responsibilities projects, and the Arcata dore project.
Consequently, The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the Directors have arrived at a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in AGM the consolidation taken as a whole: and The sixth AGM of the Company will be held at the Management report includes a fair review of the 10 am on 23 May 2012 at the offices of Linklaters LLP.
development and performance of the business and the The shareholder circular incorporating the Notice of position of the Company and the undertakings included AGM will be sent separately to shareholders or, for those in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with who have elected to receive electronic communications, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties will be available for viewing at www.
The shareholder circular contains details on the business to be considered at the meeting.
Disclaimer Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability Auditors to any person in relation to this Annual Report except to A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated Statement on disclosure of information to auditors reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Companys auditors, each Director confirms that to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. best of his knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit The names and functions of the current Directors of information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
the Company are set out on pages 60 and 61 of this Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that he Annual Report.
ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish On behalf of the Board that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Raj Bhasin This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in Company Secretary accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the 19 March 2012 Companies Act 2006.
