Governance 65 Corporate governance report Your Board considers that high standards of corporate governance are essential elements of preserving and enhancing shareholder value.
Dear Shareholder Your Board believes that the Companys participation in an established investment market carries significant responsibility to manage the Company transparently and in a manner appropriate to a successful business.
2011 has seen continued progress in the ongoing development and evolution of the corporate governance framework at Hochschild Mining.
We are delighted that as part of the Board succession process, we were able to welcome Dr Graham Birch and Rupert Pennant-Rea to the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors.
They each bring with them a wealth of mining and markets experience and they have already established themselves as valued additions to the Board.
In the past we have seen significant improvements made to Board processes and Board composition as a result of the internally led annual Board evaluation assessment.
This year has been no different.
During 2011, the recommendations arising from the 2010 assessment were implemented which led to, amongst other things, my assuming the Chairmanship of the Groups CSR Committee, and improvements in Board reporting.
Further details on the evaluation process can be found on pages 68 and 69.
The year also saw the implementation of the UK Bribery Act.
This provided an opportunity for management to reiterate to our key stakeholders, our core values of working honestly, openly and with transparency.
A review of our policies and procedures resulted in a refreshed Group Code of Conduct which sets out the values expected to be upheld by our key stakeholders, supplemented by a tailored Anti-bribery policy to reinforce our commitment to ethical working practices.
Responsibility for ongoing review in this area has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
As Chairman, it is incumbent upon me to promote standards of good corporate governance which are embodied in the UK Corporate Governance Code which we report against for the first time.
I am delighted to be able to introduce and endorse this Corporate Governance Report with the hope that it provides you with an insight into the approach taken by the Board and its Committees in discharging their governance responsibilities.
Eduardo Hochschild Executive Chairman 19 March 2012 Hochschild Mining plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Introduction and statement of compliance The Company is jointly led by the Executive Chairman, This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Eduardo Hochschild, and the Chief Executive Officer, Report, sets out how the Company has applied the Main Ignacio Bustamante.
Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code a copy of which is available on the website of The document which sets out the division of responsibilities the Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk between the Chairman and the CEO was reviewed during the year and has been approved by the Board.
Disclosures to be included in the Corporate Governance Report in relation to share structure, shareholder The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are agreements and the Companys constitutional provisions collectively responsible for the formulation of the vision pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are and long-term corporate strategy of the Group the approval provided in the Supplementary Information section on of which is a matter for the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading an The Board confirms that in respect of the year ended executive team in the day-to-day management of the 31 December 2011, the Group has complied with the Groups business.
provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code except that a Whilst the Chairman is not considered to be independent, significant part of the Executive Chairmans remuneration the Board is satisfied that given its structure, decisions is not performance-related.
can be made without any one Director exercising undue As previously disclosed, the remuneration arrangements influence.
This sentiment has been reiterated by the views for the Executive Chairman were reviewed in early 2010. expressed by Directors during the annual Board Evaluation In agreeing the structure, the Board felt that the process undertaken in 2011. arrangements should reflect the importance of the Additional safeguards come in the form of the Relationship Chairmans contribution to the long-term strategic Agreement entered into by Eduardo Hochschild, Pelham development of the Group and his current significant Investment Corporation the Major Shareholder and shareholding.
For this reason, a package comprising fixed the Company prior to the IPO in November 2006, which elements only was considered to be the most appropriate.
seeks to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries The Board are capable of carrying on their business independently of the Controlling Shareholders and any of their The Board is responsible for approving the Companys respective associates.
strategy and monitoring its implementation, for managing the operations of the Company and for providing Furthermore, the Company and the Major Shareholder leadership and support to the senior management team agree in the Relationship Agreement that they will comply in achieving sustainable added value for shareholders.
with the applicable obligations under the Listing Rules and It is also responsible for enabling the efficient operation to exercise their powers so far as they are able to ensure the of the Group by providing adequate financial and human Company is managed in accordance with the Code.
resources and an appropriate system of financial control to ensure these resources are fully monitored and utilised.
Senior Independent Director Sir Malcolm Field acts as Senior Independent Director There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the and, as such, acts as a sounding board for the Chairman as Board which includes the approval of annual and halfnecessary.
Sir Malcolm is also available to meet with major yearly results, the Groups strategy, the annual budget shareholders if their concerns have not been resolved by and major items of capital expenditure.
Composition Non-Executive Directors As at the date of this report, the Board comprises two Each of the Companys Non-Executive Directors hold, Executive Directors: the Chairman and the Chief Executive or have held, senior positions in the corporate sector Officer, and eight Non-Executive Directors.
and bring their experience and independent perspective to enhance the Boards capacity to help develop proposals on strategy and to oversee and grow the operations within a sound framework of corporate governance.
Details on the tenure of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Governance 67 Independence of the Non-Executive Directors Senior executives of the organisation are invited to attend The Board considers that, excepting Roberto Daino in board meetings and to make presentations on their areas light of his previous role as an Executive Director of the of responsibility.
Company and his ongoing role as Special Adviser to the Principal matters considered by the Board during 2011 Chairman and senior management team, all of the Noninclude: Executive Directors are independent of the Company.
Financial In reaching this conclusion, the Board took into account the following circumstances which were not considered the 2010 Annual Report and the 2011 Half-Yearly Report: to be of a nature to materially interfere with the exercise Dividend, Cash Management and Hedging policies: of the relevant directors independent judgement: the 2012 Budget.
Dionisio Romeros involvement with TECSUP a not-for-profit educational institution established Strategy by the Hochschild Group and his former position the Groups long-term strategic plan.
as Chairman of Banco Credito del Peru, an occasional provider of short-term finance to the Group: Business Performance Dr Graham Birchs previous positions, until January 2009, status of the Groups portfolio of assets: as Director of BlackRock Commodities Investment Trust progress of the feasibility studies for the Groups plc, and manager of Blackrocks World Mining Trust Advanced Projects: and Gold and General Unit Trust given Blackrocks status as one of the Companys largest shareholders, and that presentations on a number of corporate Dr Birch and Sir Malcolm Field both serve on the Board development initiatives: of Petropavlovsk PLC: and a presentation on the Groups IT infrastructure.
that Roberto Daino and Rupert Pennant-Rea both serve on the Board of Gold Fields Limited.
Governance Risk the strategic risks faced by the Group: Board Meetings held in 2011 Four meetings of the Board were held during the the impact on the Group of the Bribery Act 2010 and year, attendance at which has been summarised in the consideration, and subsequent adoption of, a revised following table: Group Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy: the annual review of Directors conflicts of interest Maximum possible Actual attendance attendance and assessment of independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors: Eduardo Hochschild 4 4 update on the implementation of the 2010 Board Roberto Daino 4 4 Evaluation recommendations and the outcome of the Ignacio Bustamante 4 4 2011 Board Evaluation process: Sir Malcolm Field 4 4 the appointments of Dr Graham Birch and 1 Dr Graham Birch 2 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea as Non-Executive Directors.
Jorge Born Jr. 4 4 Health & Safety, Environmental & Community Relations Nigel Moore 4 4 2 detailed reports on the 3 fatalities occurring during the Rupert Pennant-Rea 1 1 year, and the remedial steps taken: and Dionisio Romero 4 3 the Groups Community Relations strategy.
Fred Vinton 4 3 1 Dr Graham Birch was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 July 2011 In between Board Meetings, Directors are kept abreast 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 September 2011 of latest developments through monthly reports on the Companys operations, exploration activity and Directors receive a full pack of papers for consideration at financial situation.
least five working days in advance of each Board meeting and, in the event that a Director is unable to attend, comments are fed back to the Chairman who seeks to ensure that all views are represented on any given matter.
Hochschild Mining plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Appointments and re-election of Directors Advice Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the The Company has procedures by which members of the Nominations Committee which met during the year under Board may take independent professional advice at the review to consider the appointments of Dr Graham Birch Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
and Rupert Pennant-Rea as Non-Executive Directors of Company Secretary the Company.
The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the Board and is responsible for advising the Board on The Code recommends that directors of FTSE 350 governance matters and the provision of administrative companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual and other services to the Board.
All the Directors have basis, a practice that was adopted by the Company last year.
access to the Company Secretary.
Biographical details of the Directors are given on pages 60 and 61.
Board evaluation Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the The Board is committed to the process of self evaluation Major Shareholder has the right to appoint up to two as a means of continually improving its efficiency.
Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Implementation of 2010 Board evaluation Major Shareholder holds an interest of 30% or more in During the year, a number of steps were taken by the Board the Company and the right to appoint one Non-Executive or the management team, as appropriate, to implement Director for so long as it has an interest of 15% or more the recommendations arising from the 2010 Board in the Company, and in each case to remove any such Evaluation process.
The Relationship Agreement continues for so long as the Companys shares In summary these actions included: are traded on the London Stock Exchange or until such times as the Controlling Shareholders including Eduardo the search for a Non-Executive Director with a mining Hochschild cease to own or control in aggregate a or geological background, which resulted in the minimum of 15% or more of the issued share capital appointment, during the year, of Dr Graham Birch: or voting rights of the Company.
the design and roll-out of the Talent Inventory Review which identifies and documents the training and Board development development needs of key senior management It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the position holders: Directors update their skills and are provided with the necessary resources to continue to do so.
This is achieved presentations to the Board on the Groups IT through various means.
organisation and infrastructure, and tax strategy: Induction revisions to the format of the monthly management New Board appointees are offered the opportunity to meet accounts to accommodate specific information requests with key management personnel and the Companys from the Board: principal advisers as well as undertake visits to the Groups the inclusion of standing reports to the Board on Cash operations.
This process is currently being reviewed to and Debt Management: and ensure the provision of a comprehensive and structured introduction to the Group.
a Board visit to the Groups joint venture operations in southern Argentina.
Briefings The Directors receive regular briefings from the Company 2011 Board evaluation Secretary on their responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed In keeping with past practice, the 2011 Board Evaluation company and on relevant developments in the corporate process was undertaken through one-to-one interviews governance landscape.
In addition, the Chairman has made conducted by the Senior Independent Director assisted arrangements to ensure that the Directors have ongoing by the Company Secretary.
Given the timing of his access to the Companys officers and advisers.
appointment to the Board, Rupert Pennant-Rea did 2011 San Jose site visit not participate in the exercise.
During the year, a site visit to the Groups joint venture in Argentina was organised.
Directors received presentations from the General Manager of the operations, and had the opportunity to meet with personnel on-site.
Governance 69 External Board evaluation The interviews were structured to elicit Directors views The Board notes the recommendation of the Code to on a number of subject areas see box below.
undertake an externally facilitated evaluation at least once 2011 Board Evaluation Areas of focus every three years.
The Board acknowledges the benefits of an external The Board evaluation which will be commissioned by 2013.
Composition, focusing in particular on: The Boards committees Whether the profile of the Board is aligned with the medium-term strategic plan The Board has delegated authority to the following The role and contribution of the Non-Executive Directors standing committees.
Board process Succession Planning Audit Committee see page 70 Risk Management and Governance Nigel Moore Committee Chairman Dr Graham Birch Non-Executive Director The Committees Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director Composition and overall workings Fred Vinton Non-Executive Director Discussion on specific aspects of the principal Board Committees Remuneration Committee see page 72 The Chairman Sir Malcolm Field Committee Chairman Jorge Born Jr. Non-Executive Director With particular focus on: Nigel Moore Non-Executive Director his ability to lead the Board Rupert Pennant-Rea Non-Executive Director facilitating open discussion interaction with shareholders Nominations Committee see page 72 In addition to the above, Directors were requested to Eduardo Hochschild Committee Chairman provide feedback on the performance of their fellow Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director Dionisio Romero Non-Executive Director Board members.
The findings relating to the evaluation of the Board and the Corporate Social Responsibility Committees were considered collectively by the Chairman Committee see page 72 and the Senior Independent Director, and the resulting Eduardo Hochschild Committee Chairman recommendations were discussed and, where appropriate, Sir Malcolm Field Non-Executive Director approved by the Board.
Roberto Daino Non-Executive Director The outcome of the Chairmans performance evaluation The terms of reference for each Board committee was collated by the Senior Independent Director and is available for inspection on the Companys website considered by the Non-Executive Directors collectively at www.
com before being relayed to the Chairman.
The principal recommendations arising from the years Board Evaluation process are: enhancements to the annual strategic review: the opportunity to speak with experts in the field of Community Relations in Latin America given its strategic importance: a more active role to be taken on by the Nominations Committee with particular focus on succession planning: improvements in the linkages between the Board committees and the Board: and the need for additional update meetings during the year to take place between the four scheduled Board meetings.
Hochschild Mining plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Report of the Audit Committee The following matters featured among those considered by Terms of reference the Committee during the year: The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Financial reporting The 2010 Annual Report and monitor the integrity of the Companys financial Accounts and the 2011 Half-Yearly Report were reviewed statements: by the Committee before recommending their adoption to the Board.
As part of its review, the Audit Committee monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal reviewed accounting policies, estimates and judgements controls and risk management systems: applied in preparing the relevant report and accounts oversight of the internal audit function and review and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained of its annual work plan: within them.
oversee the relationship with the Companys external Audit plans In line with its usual practice, the Committee auditors: and considered reports from the external auditors on the scope and structure of the forthcoming review of the review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
half-yearly results and audit of the annual results.
In advance of the implementation of the Bribery Act 2010 Risk management Consideration of Risk Management during the year, the terms of reference of the Audit assessments which incorporate a risk matrix detailing Committee were extended thereby enabling it to review, i the most significant risks facing the Group: ii an on behalf of the Board, the Companys procedures for evaluation reflecting the likelihood of the occurrence detecting fraud and the Companys systems and controls of the risk and the extent of the potential impact on for the prevention of bribery, and to receive reports on the Group, and iii commentary on the steps taken non-compliance.
to manage each specific risk.
See pages 57 to 59 for a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced Membership by the Group.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore who has extensive and substantial financial experience gained whilst Internal audit The Audit Committee has continued to holding a number of senior appointments with Ernst & oversee the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach Young and who acts as Audit Committee Chairman for to internal audit.
a number of other listed companies.
Further details are Internal control Through the processes described on given in Mr Moores biography on page 61. the following page, the Audit Committee reviewed the The other members of the Audit Committee are adequacy of the Groups internal control environment Sir Malcolm Field, Fred Vinton and Dr Graham Birch who and risk management systems.
was appointed to the Committee following his appointment Whistleblowing The Audit Committee reviewed the to the Board on 1 July 2011. adequacy of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy which All Committee members are considered to be independent was subsequently circulated across the organisation as Directors.
part of the Groups procedures to combat fraud and bribery see section below with respect to activities Attendees undertaken in connection with the UK Bribery Act.
The lead partner of the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive External audit The Audit Committee considered the Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of reappointment of the Companys external auditors Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting before making a recommendation to the Board that by invitation.
the same be put to shareholders.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
and, as part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee Activity during the year reviewed the findings of the external auditors and During the year under review, there were four meetings of management representation letters, reviewed and agreed the Audit Committee which were attended by all serving audit fees and evaluated the auditors performance.
members with the exception that Fred Vinton was unable Bribery Act Under its extended terms of reference, to attend one meeting.
the Audit Committee reviewed the actions taken by management as a result of the implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Furthermore, the Committee has instigated a timetable of reports during the current year to ensure continuous review, monitoring and follow-up.
Governance 71 The Committee Chairman routinely meets with the These controls are managed by the use of formal external auditors in the absence of executive management.
procedures designed to highlight financial, operational, During the year, the Committee members held meetings environmental and social risks and provide appropriate with the external auditors without executive management information to the Board enabling it to protect to discuss matters relating to the 2010 annual audit and the effectively the Companys assets and, in turn, maintain 2011 half-yearly report.
Auditor independence The process used by the Audit Committee to assess The Audit Committee continues to oversee the the effectiveness of risk management and internal control implementation of specific policies designed to safeguard systems includes: the independence and objectivity of the auditors which Reports from the Head of the Internal Audit function includes the Groups policy on the provision of nonaudit services.
Review of accounting and financial reporting processes together with the internal control environment at Group level Policy on the use of Auditors for non-audit services This involves the monitoring of performance and the This policy lists those non-audit services that the external taking of relevant action through the monthly review auditor may provide in the absence of any threat to its of key performance indicators and, where required, independence which include support in relation to M&A, the production of revised forecasts.
The Group and Joint Ventures and tax advisory services which are not has adopted a standard accounting manual to be incompatible with the auditors statutory responsibilities.
followed by all finance teams which is continually The policy also sets out those services which the auditors updated to ensure the consistent recognition and are prohibited from rendering and where it is not treatment of transactions and production of the in the best interests of the Group for the work to be consolidated financial statements.
undertaken by the external auditor.
Such services include management of, or significant involvement in internal Review of budgets and reporting against budgets audit services, advice to the Remuneration Committee Consideration of progress against strategic objectives and valuation services.
Safeguards The system of internal control is designed to manage Additional safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business independence include: objectives and it must be recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any permitted assignment over $100,000 may only be material misstatement or loss.
awarded after competitive tender: Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is six monthly reports to the Audit Committee from reasonably satisfied that the internal controls are in place the auditors analysing the fees for non-audit services at the operational level within the Group.
In accordance rendered: and with the Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that an annual assessment, by the Committee, of the auditors there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating objectivity and independence in light of all relationships and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, between the Company and the audit firm.
and that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
2011 Audit and non-audit fees The Board, via the Audit Committee, continues to monitor Details on fees paid to the external auditors are provided the internal control environment of the Group alongside in note 31 to the Consolidated financial statements.
the development of risk management processes further details of which are given in the risk management section Internal control and risk management of this Annual Report.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control including risk management Overall, the Board acknowledges that the steps taken and for reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for the to initiate a risk management framework are appropriate periodic review of the effectiveness of these controls has to the Groups circumstances.
been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Notwithstanding this delegation of authority, the Board continues to monitor the strategic risks to which the Company is exposed.
Hochschild Mining plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Nominations Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Terms of reference Terms of reference The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and The role of the CSR Committee is to oversee and to make all necessary recommendations to the Board in connection nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board vacancies and make recommendations to the Board with corporate social responsibility issues as they affect on Board composition and balance.
In particular, it focuses on compliance with national and international standards to In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, ensure that effective systems of standards, procedures and regard is given to relevant experience and the skills practices are in place at each of the Companys operations.
required to complete the composition of a balanced Board.
The CSR Committee is also responsible for reviewing The benefits of Board diversity, including gender diversity, managements investigation of incidents or accidents that are acknowledged by the Directors, however, decisions on occur in order to assess whether policy improvements appointments to the Board will continue to be taken on are required.
For this reason, the Board does not consider the Membership setting of specific measurable targets to be appropriate.
The Committee is chaired by Eduardo Hochschild and In addition, the Nominations Committee has been counts Sir Malcolm Field and Roberto Daino as its authorised by the Board to review Directors external other members.
interests with regards to any actual, perceived or potential The CEO and VP of Operations attend each CSR conflicts of interests.
Membership The members of the Nominations Committee are The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Eduardo Hochschild Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field and Activity during the year Dionisio Romero.
The Committee held four meetings during the year, each of which was fully attended except that Roberto Daino was The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
unable to attend one meeting.
Activity during the year The Committee met four times during the year in Details relating to the CSR Committee and the Groups connection with the appointments of Dr Graham Birch activities in this area are set out in the Corporate and Rupert Pennant-Rea to the Board as Non-Executive Responsibility report on pages 37 to 48.
Remuneration Committee Details on the composition and activities of the All meetings were attended by all members with the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors exception that Dionisio Romero was unable to attend one Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 87. meeting and therefore relayed in advance his approval to the matter in question.
The Appointments proceeded on the basis of the candidates proven and sought-after experience having served on the Boards of other UK listed mining companies.
In addition, following the 2010 Board Evaluation process, as the holder of a Doctorate in Mining Geology, Dr Graham Birchs profile was considered particularly suited to a position on the Board.
For these reasons, open advertising and external search consultancies were not considered necessary in connection with the Appointments.
Areas of focus in 2012 As previously mentioned, one of the recommendations of the 2011 Board Evaluation process was that the Nominations Committee should play a more active role with particular focus on succession planning.
Consequently, the Nominations Committee met subsequent to the financial year-end and has timetabled meetings during the year specifically to consider succession planning with respect to the Non-Executive Directors and members of senior management.
Governance 73 Principal Shareholder Contacts Shareholder relations The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Overview and the Chief Financial Officer are available to discuss the The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent concerns of major shareholders.
Alternatively, shareholders relationship with shareholders.
may discuss any matters of concern with Sir Malcolm Field, Responsibility for communications with shareholders as the Companys Senior Independent Director.
on strategy and business performance rests with the The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer in Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer particular are responsible for discussing strategy with the and the Head of Investor Relations.
Communications Companys shareholders and conveying their views to the with shareholders with respect to the administration of other members of the Board.
shareholdings and matters of governance are co-ordinated by the Company Secretary.
2011 AGM Notice of the 2011 AGM was circulated to all shareholders Shareholder contact in 2011 at least 20 working days prior to the meeting and the The following table summarises the principal means by Chairmen of the Board Committees were available at the which management communicated with investors during meeting to answer questions.
A poll vote was taken on the year: each of the resolutions put to shareholders with results announced shortly after the meeting and published on the Date Event Companys website.
January, Conference Calls following the Quarterly April, July, Production Reports and Interim Management Further information on matters of particular interest to October Statements, when appropriate investors is available on page 179 and on the Companys website at www.
com February Extraordinary General Meeting to approve the disposal of the Groups residual holding in Lake Shore Gold Corporation Consultation by the Remuneration Committee Chairman with major shareholders on the proposed CEO LTIP March 2011 Annual Results presentation UK, European and North American Roadshow June Annual General Meeting August 2011 Half-Yearly results presentation September UK, European and North American Roadshow In addition, an extensive Investor Relations schedule resulted in management holding over 150 investor meetings as well as presenting at 10 sector specific conferences in Canada, the US, Europe and South America.
