Corporate responsibility 41 Safety the Hochschild approach to safety Our achievements in 2011 Mining has an inherently high risk profile and we therefore The Arcata and Selene units obtained OHSAS 18001: 2001 consider safety to be our highest priority.
The Board and accreditation management arecommitted to ensuring employee safety isanintegral part of measuring the successful implementation 240 innovative safety ideas were submitted by employees of corporate strategy.
inthe second running of the Luis Hochschild Safety Award.
The top 10 suggestions were selected for implementation The Group regrets that there were three fatalities during across the Group by each mining unit theyear.
In the first incident, an assistant to a scoop operator attheSan Jose operation was fatally injured after falling down Implementation of the Fatal Risk Control software in an ore pass.
The second fatality occurred after an electric shock partnership with Expectra, a South African based consultancy, was sustained by one of the Groups electricians during routine which will enable the Group to develop a clear Organisational maintenance at the Selene plant.
The third incident took place Safety Strategy based on international best practice at the Groups Pallancata operation where a maintenance The Det Norske Veritas DNV safety management supervisor sustained fatal injuries from a fall inthe process systemwas implemented to Level 2 at the Azuca, Crespo oflaying a cable.
andInmaculada projects, as certified by the Groups Circumstances leading to these tragic events have been internalaudit function investigated by management, reported to the Board and the All personnel at the Peruvian operating units attended resulting recommendations implemented.
fivemandatory safety training courses After each accident, the Group suspends operations at the Employees in the emergency brigades at the operations mine to conduct an internal review of the relevant safety received training to intermediate level procedures and carry out safety briefings.
2011 Performance Safety indicators target Status Commentary 2011 2010 2009 8% reduction in LTIFR A reduction of only 2% Fatal accidents 3 2 2 wasachieved 1 Lost time accidents 81 66 79 In relation to the DNV In addition to achieving 2 LTIFR 3.63 3.70 5.22 Management Information our targets for the year, 3 System, to achieve: theGroup was able to Accident Severity Index 910 777 1,485 obtain Level 2 as certified 4 Level 5 at Ares Accidentability rate 3.30 2.88 7.76 bythe Groups Internal Level 6 at San Jose 1 Accidents leading to an absence of one day or more.
Audit function, at the 2 Calculated as total number of accidents per million labour hours.
L evel 7 at Arcata and Groups Advanced Projects 3 Calculated as total number of days lost per million labour hours.
Pallancata 4 Calculated as LTIFR x Accident Severity divided by 1,000.
To continue offering monthly safety awards 2012 targets To achieve OHSAS 18001 Partial Arcata and Selene were A 6% reduction in LTIFR accreditation at Pallancata certified OHSAS 18001 and San Jose and recertify compliant by the leading The Group seeks to achieve the following with respect Ares, Arcata, and certification company, SGS totheDNV safety management system: the Selene Plant as OHSAS18001 compliant Maintain and further develop current levels of implementation at Peruvian andArgentinian units To provide Stage 2 training to emergency crews Level 3 at the Inmaculada Project Launching a safety campaign highlighting the potential impact on family life To evaluate the effectiveness of the Fatal Risk Control software at the Pallancata unit with a view to implementation at other Operating units To provide training to the Groups emergency brigades toadvanced level
