GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction These activities highlight some of the ways in which the Board has sought One of the most important elements in sustainable success and long-term to full its responsibilities particularly in relation to the development of value creation, and at the heart of good corporate governance, is the strategy and supervision of the management of the business and more culture and integrity of the organisation and its people.
The strength of details are set out in the corporate governance report that follows.
Home Retail Group reects the commitment and effort of our colleagues in every part of the business.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Oliver Stocken all of them for their valuable contribution.
Chairman As Chairman, I am responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
An effective board needs For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied fully with non-executive directors who not only have the necessary skills and the main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined experience to contribute but also support the culture and values of the Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Group.
At Home Retail Group we are fortunate to have colleagues on the Council in June 2008 the Code, except that the audit, nomination and Board that reect these attributes, bringing to the Board a good remuneration committees included two independent non-executive combination of consumer goods, retail, financial and investor relations directors from the start of the period under review until the appointment of expertise.
In April 2010 we strengthened our Board further with the Mike Darcey on 20 April 2010.
This statement, together with the directors appointment of Mike Darcey who has added new perspectives to report and the directors remuneration report, provides a summary of the our discussions.
Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
The Company has also To participate fully in setting strategy and assessing risks, the Board needs to have a sound understanding of the Group and its businesses and complied fully with the remainder of the Code during the period under the environment in which they are operating.
At Home Retail Group, we review by applying its principles as follows.
address this in a number of ways: Each of our non-executive directors serves on each of the three main The Board Board committees: audit, remuneration and nomination.
This enables The Board consists of the chairman, Oliver Stocken: chief executive, Terry Duddy: finance director, Richard Ashton: and three non-executive Board members to have direct insight into all the key areas of governance and to take full account of the relationships between directors: John Coombe the senior independent director, Penny Hughes the work of these committees, including consideration of financial and Mike Darcey.
The biographical details of the directors in ofce at the reporting, internal controls and risk management, external and end of the period under review are shown in the Board of Directors and internal audit, remuneration policy and succession plans.
Operating Board section on page 35.
Board members have regular contact with management.
Members The three non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which could of the Operating Board and other members of management regularly attend and present at Board meetings when relevant agenda items are affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
During the period under review, members of the Company has in place formal procedures regarding conicts of interest, Operating Board joined us for three Board dinners and we also spent a which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The non-executive directors are half day together with each of the Argos and Homebase management appointed for three-year renewable terms.
The Board is satisfied that the teams, without the presence of the executive directors, discussing chairmans other board appointments and commitments do not place progress on business initiatives.
constraints on his ability to full properly his role as chairman of Home Board members spend time seeing the business in operation, hearing Retail Group plc.
See page 45 for information on outside appointments of the views of colleagues from across the business and monitoring other directors and members of senior management.
developments in both the market and with our competitors.
During The Board has at least ten scheduled meetings and telephone the year, we have visited our stores, distribution centres, contact conferences each year and meets more frequently, as required.
There centres and ofces across the United Kingdom and attended is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to the Board.
We have also visited competitors stores The Board has responsibility for: with our executive colleagues to enhance our understanding of the the overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups competitive environment.
long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of performance, ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: Effective communications with shareholders are also very important, the approval of interim management statements, announcements as highlighted in the UK Corporate Governance Code and in the new UK of half-year and full-year results, including dividends, and the annual Stewardship Code.
In addition to the regular channels of communication report and accounts, including the corporate governance statement, remuneration report and statement on internal controls: between management and shareholders outlined in this report, I have met with a number of our largest shareholders and written to others to determining the nature and extent of significant risks it is willing for emphasise the importance that the Board attaches to communications the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives: with shareholders and to highlight the availability of a direct line of the approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders communication to me, particularly if there were areas of concern whether at general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than about performance, strategy or governance.
Penny Hughes, as chairman routine documents: of the Remuneration Committee, has also communicated with a number of investors.
38 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 GOVERNANCE Board committees the approval of all appointments to the Board and of the company The Board has appointed the following principal committees: secretary, following recommendations by the nomination committee, remuneration committee, nomination committee and audit committee.
ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior The terms of reference of each of these committees are available on the management, and approving the terms of reference of the Board Companys website at www.
In order to facilitate committees: and better communication with Board members and the provision of determining the responsibilities of the chairman and of information to the Board, the independent non-executive directors the chief executive.
serve on each of the Board committees.
The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the The attendance of directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and the Board, for efficient communication with shareholders and for facilitating Board committees was as follows: the contribution of the non-executive directors and their constructive relationship with the executive directors.
During the period under review Board Audit Remuneration Nomination the chairman has met with the non-executive directors without the meetings committee committee committee 4,5 4 4 Board member 10 4 5 3 executive directors present.
The chief executive is responsible for the 1 day-to-day business of the Group, and is supported by the Operating Terry Duddy 10 4 5 3 Board, which includes the finance director and the managing directors 2 Richard Ashton 10 4 of the main businesses and shared service functions.
Each month the Board received a management information pack 3 Oliver Stocken 10 4 5 3 that provided detailed information on the performance of the Groups businesses.
In advance of each scheduled meeting, the Board received John Coombe 10 4 5 3 a comprehensive management report that covers the trading and operational performance of each of the Groups businesses, the Groups Mike Darcey 10 4 4 3 financial performance, current market expectations of financial Penny Hughes 10 3 5 1 performance and any significant developments.
The Board met informally on the evening before most Board meetings.
This provided an opportunity Notes: to discuss current trading and operations and recent developments.
Terry Duddy is not a member of the audit committee or the remuneration committee.
members of the Operating Board were invited to join these discussions on a 2.
Richard Ashton is not a member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee or the nomination committee.
regular basis and provided updates to the Board on their areas of responsibility.
Oliver Stocken is not a member of the audit committee.
Following an externally facilitated evaluation of the performance of the 4.
Includes the final meetings of the period under review which took place in early March 2011.
Board in 2010, the formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and 5.
Board meetings comprised seven scheduled meetings and three scheduled its committees during the year was conducted internally.
was provided to Board members as a guide to issues to consider.
The chairman discussed Board and committee performance individually Remuneration committee with each Board member and there was discussion of feedback at a Board Penny Hughes is chairman of the remuneration committee.
Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the members of the committee are John Coombe, Oliver Stocken and, from chairman.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey.
Terry Duddy attends meetings of the non-executive directors met without the chairman present to appraise committee at the request of the committee chairman.
In accordance with the chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by the Code, the committee meets not less than three times a year.
the period under review the committee met five times.
The remuneration All directors were previously subject to election by shareholders at the committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the first opportunity after their appointment.
In line with the requirements of Groups policy on the remuneration of the Operating Board, as well as the the new UK Corporate Governance Code, published in June 2010, all specic remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and directors are now required to submit themselves for re-election each year.
other members of the Operating Board.
Details of how the committee has The letters of appointment for non-executive directors, including the fullled its responsibilities and of compliance with Section B of the Code chairman, are available for inspection by any person at the Companys regarding remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report registered ofce during normal business hours and at the Annual General on pages 43 to 51.
Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary, who has been appointed by the Board, is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and all directors have access to this professional advice.
The company secretary ensures that the Board receives regular brie ngs on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 39 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Nomination committee Reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any material The nomination committee is chaired by Oliver Stocken and its other litigation involving Group companies.
members are John Coombe, Terry Duddy, Penny Hughes and, from 20 April Reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud, including 2010, Mike Darcey.
The nomination committee meets not less than twice a presentation from the external auditors on fraud trends and fraud a year and has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board prevention.
on the composition of the Board and its committees, on retirements, Reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in con dence, appointments of additional and replacement directors and on succession raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, planning.
As reported last year, the committee led the process that resulted dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters.
in the appointment of Mike Darcey as a non-executive director.
As part of that process, the committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge One of the primary responsibilities of the audit committee is to make and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepared recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, a specication of the capabilities required for the appointment, including re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
During the period an assessment of the time commitment expected.
An external search under review, the committee reviewed and discussed the Public Report on consultancy was appointed to facilitate the search for suitable candidates.
the 2009 10 Inspection of  LLP issued by the Audit During the year, the nomination committee has considered the Inspection Unit of the Professional Oversight Board, part of the Financial composition of the Board and its committees and also reviewed and Reporting Council.
A number of factors were taken into account by the discussed succession plans.
committee in assessing whether to recommend the external auditors for re-appointment.
These included: Audit committee the quality of reports provided to the audit committee and the Board The audit committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other members and the quality of advice given: are Penny Hughes and, from 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey.
John Coombe was the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses formerly chief financial officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The Board considers and the retail sector: and that he has the recent and relevant financial experience required to chair the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the audit committee.
Penny Hughes and Mike Darcey have a wide range of the Group.
experience from positions at the highest level of business.
Oliver Stocken, Terry Duddy, Richard Ashton, the Group head of internal audit and the The committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential external auditors attend meetings of the committee at the request of part of the audit framework and the assurance it provides.
For the the committee chairman.
period under review non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, The audit committee normally meets no fewer than four times  LLP did not exceed audit fees.
The committee a year and its principal responsibilities cover internal control and has established control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and risk management, internal audit, external audit including auditor independence of the external auditors and to ensure that the independence and financial reporting.
The committee met with the independence of the audit work undertaken by the external auditors external auditors and the head of internal audit after each of its meetings is not compromised.
without the presence of executive directors or management.
The committee has established a policy covering the type of non-audit The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may only financial calendar.
During the period under review, the committee provide such services provided that these do not conict with their undertook the following activities: statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These services are: Reviewed the full-year results announcement, annual report and further assurance services where the external auditors deep financial statements and the half-year results announcement knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed and considered reports from the external auditors.
This may include but is not restricted to Reviewed the statement in the annual report on the system of shareholder and other circulars regulatory reports and work in internal control.
connection with acquisitions and divestments: Reviewed and approved audit plans for the external and taxation services where the external auditors knowledge of the internal auditors.
Groups affairs may provide significant advantages to the Groups Considered quarterly reports from the head of internal audit on the tax position and where this is not the case, the work is put out to results of internal audit reviews, signi cant findings, management tender: and action plans and timeliness of resolution.
general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide Reviewed reports on the Groups risk management process and services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial risk pro le.
limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award Reviewed presentations on risk and its identi cation, management work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and and control.
40 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 GOVERNANCE However, certain areas of work are specically prohibited including work The key procedures which were operational in the period under review related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately were as follows: be subject to external audit and management of or signi cant involvement in internal audit services.
Risk assessment The committee chairmans approval is required before the Company Risks were identied and reviewed by management followed by the uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
review of the risk committee.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, The committee receives half-yearly reports providing details of assignments facilitated by the risk assurance manager.
and related fees carried out by the external auditors in addition to their The risks identied through this process were then reported to the normal work.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried out in the period Operating Board and audit committee with particular focus on those under review were: risks classied as high-level risks by the risk committee.
The schedule of high-level risks was used as the basis for a programme of internal m audit and assurance.
The audit committee has delegated responsibility from the Board Services relating to taxation 0.4 for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a All other services regular basis and received its annual report on the controls over these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social and governance matters.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of Control environment and control activities internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is The Group has established procedures for delegating authority, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve which ensures that decisions that are significant, either because of business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed appropriate level.
the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each provide internal control.
significant risk that has been identied.
These strategies include The Board confirms that the Company has in place an ongoing process internal controls, insurance and specialised treasury instruments.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the The Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
Group, including risks relating to environmental, social and governance These include risk identication, management and reporting standards, matters.
This process was in place throughout the period under review and ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
Data up to the date of approval of this annual report and meets the requirements consolidated into the Groups financial statements is reconciled of the guidance issued in October 2005 entitled Internal Control: Guidance to the underlying financial systems.
A review of the consolidated data for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
is undertaken by management to ensure that the true position and This process is overseen by a risk committee chaired by the finance results of the Group are reected, through compliance with approved director and comprised of all divisional finance directors, the director of accounting policies.
Group treasury and taxation, the company secretary, the risk assurance manager and the head of internal audit.
The risk committee met six times Information and communication in the period under review.
The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including The audit committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
The Operating system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
As part Board also reviews a range of financial and nonfinancial performance of the process that the Company has in place to review the effectiveness indicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they of the internal control system there are procedures designed to capture remain relevant and reliable.
and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary action The Group has whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised by the Board report any suspected improprieties.
Monitoring A range of procedures was used to monitor the effective application of internal control in the Group, including management assurance through conrmation of compliance with standards, and independent assurance through internal audit reviews and review by specialist third parties.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to the audit committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identied as being the greatest risk to the Group.
Follow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011 41 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Going concern Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
The business and financial reviews on pages 14 to 31 contain information Shareholders also have a direct line of communication to the chairman, on the performance of the Group, its cash ow and net cash position, particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to strategy or governance.
The senior independent non-executive director is the Groups financial risk management is set out in note 4 to the financial also available should shareholders have concerns which contact through statements and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the normal channels of the chairman, the chief executive and the finance the Groups performance are set out on pages 32 and 33. director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company All directors, including the chairmen of the audit, nomination and has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present at the meeting and, following each vote, the level of proxies lodged on each Relations with shareholders resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its of votes withheld, will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual shareholders and does so through a variety of channels, including General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website at the annual report, the Annual General Meeting and the processes www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief executive and the finance director supported by management specialising in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by the chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Meetings with investors have been held following the full-year and half-year results announcements.
Additionally during the year, the Board received a presentation from the Companys joint brokers on the UK equity market and the market perception of the Company.
42 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2011
