Governance Corporate governance HomeServe complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in the Combined Code published in July 2003 by the UK Financial Reporting Council as updated in June 2008 the Code save as where mentioned in this report.
The manner in which the Company applies the principles of good governance contained in the Code is described in the appropriate parts of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Thus, the application by the Company of the Codes principles relating to remuneration matters in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 82 should be read in conjunction with the statement below.
A review of the Groups position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review on pages 3 to 33.
The Board The Board of Directors leads and controls the Company by holding up to ten meetings a year at which its current and forecast performance is reviewed and monitored.
Regular reports on monthly performance and other matters of importance to the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information necessary to make informed judgements.
In addition, the Board holds regular meetings at least annually, also attended by senior operational management, to devise and discuss the Companys medium and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular formal and informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to inform Directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
Occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at the Companys operating sites other than Walsall, in order to afford the Board, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, with the opportunity to meet with local management.
In accordance with the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director is subject to election by the Companys shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his appointment and is subject to re-election every year thereafter.
The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it for decision and has approved the written terms of reference of the various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include the recommendation or approval of dividends, the approval of preliminary and interim financial statements, major financial commitments, the acquisitions of significant companies or businesses, appointments to the Board and its Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, the Companys future strategy and its internal controls.
It also provides that the Board receives regular updates from the chairmen of its committees.
During the year the Board was led by Barry Gibson, the Chairman, who also served as a member of the Boards Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly defined in a written specification agreed by the Board and which made clear the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the Board, effective communication between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the general progress and long-term development of the Group.
The Board has established a formal procedure for Directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
HomeServe 59 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance The day-to-day running of HomeServes business is delegated to an Executive Committee which is led by Richard Harpin, Chief Executive.
Other members of the Executive Committee include Jon Florsheim, Martin Bennett, Jonathan King and the Chief Executive of HomeServe Europe, Rachael Hughes.
During the year, in addition to the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors Messrs Chippendale, Morris and Sibbald and Mrs David with extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
Ian Chippendale served as the Companys independent Senior Non-Executive Director.
The Board actively encourages all Directors to deepen their knowledge of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Group and the environment in which it operates: and has adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of Directors.
Newly appointed Board members are required to undergo an induction programme, which includes obtaining a thorough understanding of the Groups various operations, and they have the opportunity to receive formal training from external providers if they wish.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and external advisers.
The Board has implemented a formal process for reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its Remuneration and Audit committees and its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the Non-Executive Directors were held without the Executive Directors, and at least once a year, without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
The Board evaluation process, which was conducted by the Chairman and Company Secretary, was concluded in March 2011.
Directors completed evaluation questionnaires and a formal written report summarising their views and containing recommendations to further improve the effectiveness of the Board was prepared and reviewed by the whole Board in March 2011.
The Board concluded that it was operating effectively, although a number of recommendations for further improvement were approved.
The Board has noted the requirement in the new UK Corporate Governance Code that the evaluation of the Board should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Board intends to conduct an externally facilitated review during 2011 12.
Committees The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which has formally adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards committees are available on request from the Company Secretary and are on the Companys website.
The terms of reference were reviewed during the year following the publication of updated guidance by the ICSA.
A Risk Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other representatives of each business, operates across the Group and is chaired by Martin Bennett.
Its terms of reference have been approved by the Board and its purpose is to establish the Groups risk appetite, to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of its action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and to report thereon to the Board, which retains responsibility for the overall evaluation of the Groups risk management processes.
HomeServe 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors, is chaired by Barry Gibson with the other members being the independent Non-Executive Directors.
This Committee met informally to consider the appointment of Jonathan King to the Board and also to consider the appointment of a further Non-Executive Director a position that Stella David was appointed to in November 2010.
Following these informal meetings, recommendations were made to the Board and decisions taken by the Board as a whole.
The Committee draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary and did so during the year in respect of both the Executive and Non-Executive appointments made.
An external search consultancy was used in respect of the latter.
Its duties also include the review of the size, structure and composition of the Board, and succession planning for Directors and other senior managers.
During the year, these duties were undertaken by the Board itself.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee was chaired by Mark Morris who comes from a strong financial background having worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc finance director.
The Committee did not comply with the Code during the year as the Chairman, Barry Gibson, was a member along with Ian Chippendale.
Since the year end, Andrew Sibbald has been appointed to the Audit Committee, replacing Barry Gibson.
The Committee meets regularly to review the preliminary and interim results before they are presented to the Board, to receive reports from the Companys internal and external auditors and to make recommendations to the Board on accounting policies.
Its primary duties include the monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance with and the effectiveness of, the Companys accounting and internal control systems.
The Committees duties also include agreeing audit strategy, monitoring the scope and results of the Companys annual audit and the independence and objectivity of its auditors.
The internal and external auditors and the Chief Financial Officer are invited but are not entitled to attend all meetings.
Where appropriate, other Executive Directors also attend meetings at the Chairmans invitation.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the Executive Directors, whether at Committee meetings or, more informally outside of them.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting for the appointment of the external auditors, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement.
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
This policy provides that the total fees payable to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 100% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and other services pursuant to legislation principally fees in respect of the half year review.
In addition any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the Committee.
Fees for non-audit related work in the year did not exceed the fees for audit and other services pursuant to legislation principally the half year review.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
HomeServe 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance Key activities of the Audit Committee during the year In line with its remit, the following key issues were discussed by the Committee during the year: Review of the preliminary results for 2009 10 Review of the interim results for 2010 11 Review of the auditors management letter Approval of the internal audit plan and review of the work undertaken Review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process Review of the policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit services Approval of the fees paid to the external auditor Review of the development and implementation of the HomeServe Toolkit for internal controls Review of cash control processes Review of the UK Senior Accounting Officer process Review of the whistle blowing policy Review of the whistle blowing and fraud registers.
Remuneration Committee The Committee was chaired throughout the year by Ian Chippendale.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors, Barry Gibson and Mark Morris being its other members.
The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include determining the Groups overall remuneration strategy and the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, after having consulted with the Chief Executive and having received professional advice from remuneration consultants.
The Committee is also responsible for approving the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
Short biographies of each of the Directors, including their membership of the Boards committees outlined above, may be found on pages 52 and 53.
HomeServe 62 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Attendance at meetings The table sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees by each member during the year.
Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9 4 2 Meetings attended R D Harpin 9 M J Bennett 9 J Florsheim 9 J King 7 J M B Gibson 9 4 2 I Chippendale 9 4 2 S David 3 A Sibbald 9 M Morris 9 4 2 Jonathan King was appointed on 5 July 2010 Stella David was appointed on 23 November 2010 Relationships with shareholders The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the Chairman and independent Senior Non-Executive Director, who are available to discuss any questions which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may contact HomeServe direct, either through its website or by telephoning its offices.
The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all Directors are fully aware of the views of major shareholders.
Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated to Directors upon publication.
The Board receive a monthly Investor Relations report which includes an analysis of the Companys shareholder register as well as any feedback received from shareholders and analysts.
During the year the Board undertook a shareholder perception study to improve its understanding of the view of shareholders.
Shareholder Perceptions, an independent third party company specialising in these studies, contacted a mix of existing and potential shareholders and asked a range of questions on strategy, financial performance and management strength.
The results of the study were reviewed by the Board and incorporated into the Groups strategic thinking.
HomeServe 63 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the Groups budget and projected cash flows, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Internal controls As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to internal controls, having implemented the procedures necessary to comply with the guidance on internal control published in October 2005 Turnbull Guidance and to report in line with that guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an established internal control framework in place, which is continually reviewed and updated taking into account the changing nature of the Groups operations.
This process has been in place for the whole of the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The key elements of the system operated by the Group to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks include the following: The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses, whereby each of the risks identified is reviewed in detail by the Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Weekly telephone meetings of the Executive Committee monitor its day-to-day performance, and full Executive Committee meetings are held at least eight times a year at which the Directors report on the progress of the companies or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
A clearly defined organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers and for local boards of management, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
Three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Audit Committee and a formal audit plan is in place to address the key risks across the Group.
Consolidated financial results, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with variances being identified and understood so that mitigating actions can be implemented, where appropriate.
HomeServe 64 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance The consolidated accounts are reviewed by the Executive Directors and verified by the finance team.
The accounts are then considered by the Audit Committee who make a recommendation in respect of their approval to the Board.
The Board then review and approve the accounts prior to the announcement of the half year and annual results.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
The Company has adopted a formal whistle blowing policy for employees, franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management processes to any significant new business acquired or established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
This is informed by the risk reviews completed as part of due diligence.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
The Risk Committee reviews a register summarising the significant risks faced by the businesses or the Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks on a quarterly basis and updates the Audit Committee and the Board regularly.
As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: At the end of the year, the Executive Directors compile a report identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered by the Audit Committee and by the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the Executive Directors and the internal and external auditors, on any issues identified as having a potentially substantial impact on the results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
The Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to assist the Audit Committee to monitor these risks, as well as to set the Groups risk appetite and to evaluate in detail risk registers compiled by the Groups businesses.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers significant to the Board for its consideration.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all such meetings.
