Corporate governance report INTROdUCTION aNd sTaTemeNT popular trends but ensuring that strategy, acquisition and disposals, OF COmPlIaNCe appropriate structural safeguards risk management and internal are in place to minimise risk and control, capital projects over a The Company is committed to the ensure that the Company can defined level, annual budgets, Group principles of corporate governance achieve its long-term ambitions borrowing facilities and contained in the UK Corporate of stability and success.
consideration of significant financial Governance Code that was issued in and operational matters.
The Board 2010 by the Financial Reporting THe BOaRd also considers legislative, Council the Code for which the environmental, health & safety, Board is accountable to Role governance and employment issues.
Throughout the year The Board has responsibility for ended 24 December 2011, the the overall management and Board composition Company has been in compliance performance of the Howden Joinery The Board is structured to ensure with the provisions set out in the 2010 Group.
This includes providing clear that there is a clear distinction UK Corporate Governance Code.
and effective leadership and setting between the strategic functions the values and standards which are of the Board and the operational The Company has applied the applied throughout the business.
The principles set out in the Code, They are collectively responsible for Board currently comprises two including both the main and challenging and assisting in the executive directors, the Chairman supporting principles, by development of strategy and and four non-executive directors.
complying with the Code as ensuring that there are sufficient Details of the individual directors reported above.
Examples of how resources in place to meet the can be found on page 33. the principles and supporting strategic objectives which have 52 principles have been applied are been set.
Will Samuel was the non-executive set out below and in the Chairman during the whole period.
Remuneration Report and The directors are also responsible Committee reports.
The Board for determining the nature and executive directors received a formal briefing on the extent of significant risks and There were no changes to the impact of the revised UK Corporate maintaining sound risk management executive directors during the Governance Code in July 2010 and and internal control procedures period.
Matthew Ingle and Mark are aware of the importance of throughout the Group.
Robson continued in their roles as applying the Code in the spirit in Chief Executive Officer and Chief The Board reviews the which it was adopted.
Mr Ingle was performance of and provides appointed to the Board in 1998: counsel to the senior management HOWdeNs aPPROaCH TO Mr Robson in 2005. in their day to day running of the CORPORaTe GOveRNaNCe business and is ultimately Non-executive directors As a locally empowered, responsible for the safeguarding The non-executive directors have entrepreneurial business, Howden of its shareholders interests and been selected for the diversity of Joinery is reliant on a strong, ensuring its own effectiveness.
their backgrounds as well as their effective and consistent personal attributes and experience.
governance culture throughout the Decisions reserved for consideration The current board members bring a business.
To that end, the Board by the Board are detailed in a wide range of skills and experience recognises that the importance of schedule which is reviewed annually.
to the Board and all actively corporate governance lies not These include decisions about contribute in discussion.
merely with following codes and Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 The Board considered that the seamless transition, Mark Allen and terms of reference of these following directors were deemed to was appointed on 31 May 2011 and committees are reviewed annually be independent during the period: received a full induction into the and are available on the Groups Company.
On 21 September 2011, website at http: www.
Mark Allen Ian Smith resigned from his position .
com appointed 31 May 2011 as non-executive director.
The work of each of these committees is Angus Cockburn The Company was early in adopting considered in detail below.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Tiffany Hall Governance Code and as such all of The Board has also established a Michael Wemms Senior the directors were subject to Pensions Committee dealing with Independent Director re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The matters associated with the Groups Board is proposing that all of the pension scheme and a Disclosure The Chairman, Will Samuel, was directors will be subject to reCommittee which considers matters considered to be independent on election at the 2012 AGM.
which could give rise to an appointment as outlined in the Code.
obligation to make a market division of responsibilities announcement under the FSA At the 2011 AGM held on 16 May The roles of Chairman and Chief Listing Rules.
2011 the Board noted that, having Executive are separate and clearly served nine years as a nondefined.
The Chairman is primarily In addition to these standing executive director, Ian Smith would responsible for leadership of the committees, the Group has an be presumed not to be independent Board and has a pivotal role in Executive Committee comprising for the purposes of provision B.
1.1 53 creating the conditions for individual those members detailed on page of the Code.
Whilst the Board director and board effectiveness 120.
The principal purpose of the considered it appropriate for Mr including ensuring a culture of Committee, which meets twice a Smith to continue as director of the openness and debate in the month, or more frequently if Company after that date to ensure a boardroom.
The Chairman is required, is the implementation smooth transition of responsibilities responsible for setting the Boards of the Groups strategy and and to help bring the strategy agenda and works closely with the operational plans.
The Committee review of which he was part to a Company Secretary in this regard.
monitors the operational and conclusion, Mr Smith nevertheless He ensures that adequate time for financial performance of the resigned as a member of the Audit, discussion is afforded to all agenda business, as well as being Remuneration and Nomination items at meetings.
It is also the responsible for the optimisation Committees from this point responsibility of the Chairman to of resources and the identification ensuring that the Company ensure effective communication with and control of operational risk continued to comply with the terms the shareholders.
The executive within the Group.
of reference of such committees.
At directors, and in particular the Chief all times during this period the attendance Executive, are responsible for Company continued to adhere to The Board holds regular meetings satisfactory execution of the policies provision B.
1.2 of the Code which and receives accurate and timely and strategy agreed by the Board.
provides that at least half of the information.
During 2011, the Board Board excluding the Chairman must In accordance with the Code, the held seven formal Board meetings be independent and to the Board has established Audit, and a number of other meetings and provisions of the Code related to Remuneration and Nominations teleconferences to discuss and the composition of the Audit, Committees, each with defined review progress on issues affecting Remuneration and Nomination terms of reference.
The membership the Group during the year.
In order to ensure a Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Board audit Committee Committee Nominations Committee Possible actual Possible actual Possible actual Possible actual Will Samuel 7 7 2 2 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Mark Allen 3 3 2 2 2 1 1 1 Angus Cockburn 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Tiffany Hall 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Ian Smith 6 5 1 1 1 1 1 1 Michael Wemms 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 Denotes Chairman formal qualifications.
We have was undertaken by the Company appointed one female director and Secretary.
The review was The table above shows the number one male director to our Board conducted within a methodology of meetings individual directors since May 2010, which means that previously agreed by the Board and could have attended taking account currently 14% of Board members comprised a series of interviews and of eligibility, appointment and are women.
retirement dates during the year 54 and their actual attendance.
For the We believe that it is in the interests of The formal evaluation addressed key committees, only the attendance of the business and of its shareholders topics which included: members of that committee is for us to build a stable, cohesive and shown, although other directors, the composition of the Board: representative Board.
The where appropriate, have often also Nominations Committee will continue the extent and quality of attended at the invitation of to seek diversity of mindset as well information provided to the Board the chairman of the committee.
as of gender and background when and Committees: considering new appointments in the If a director is unable to attend a the conduct of Board meetings period to 2015.
More widely, we are meeting, they are nevertheless committed to developing a long-term and processes: provided with all the papers and pipeline of executive talent that information relating to the meeting the extent to which the Board reflects the diversity of Howdens and are able to discuss the issues engages in strategic planning: business and of all its stakeholders.
arising directly with the Chairman Currently 25% of the members of our and executive directors.
talent management and Executive Committee are female.
continuity planning: diversity Board evaluation the performance of the Chairman, The Board recognises the A formal review of the Boards of Board committees and of importance of ensuring that there is effectiveness was conducted individual members: diversity of perspective, following the September Board background and approach in its the quality of debate within meeting in accordance with the management team and on its the Board: and Boards formal process for reviewing Board.
Since the business was its own effectiveness.
Following the established in 1995 it has sought to the extent to which actions arising 2010 evaluation which was enable individuals to progress from the 2010 evaluation exercise conducted by an independent, within the organisation regardless had been implemented effectively.
external facilitator, the 2011 review of age, gender, background or Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 The report of the evaluation was A detailed review of the work of the members: the Chairman of the presented to the Board in February Audit Committee can be found in Board, who also chairs the 2011 and the Board accepted its the Audit Committee report on Committee, and the independent findings and recommendations.
The Senior Independent Director met Only members of the Committee RemUNeRaTION COmmITTee with the non-executive directors in have the right to attend Committee To view the Remuneration Committee the absence of the Chairman to meetings.
However, other individuals full terms of reference please refer to assess the Chairmans performance.
such as the Chief Executive and the Company website at: http: www.
external advisers may be invited to .
com There is a procedure for all directors attend for all or part of any meeting, investors governance remuneration.
to take independent external advice, as and when appropriate.
at the Companys expense, in the Function course of their duties via the Appointments to the Committee shall The Remuneration Committee is Company Secretary.
Working with be for a period of up to three years, responsible for: the Chairman, the Company which may be extended for two Secretary is responsible for ensuring further three-year periods, provided advising on the remuneration that Board procedures are followed the director remains independent.
packages of the executive directors: and all directors have access to her More information on the Boards developing strategy and policy advice and services.
commitment to diversity in the on executive remuneration: directors indemnity & insurance Howdens Board and senior determining the remuneration In accordance with the Articles management can be found on 55 packages of individual executive of Association, the Company has page 54. directors: and provided indemnities to the Function directors to the extent permitted reviewing the remuneration of The Committee keeps under review by the Companies Act in respect certain other senior executives the size, composition and structure of liabilities incurred as a result of who are not on the Board.
of the Board, including succession, their office.
In addition the and makes recommendations to Full details of the Committees Company maintains appropriate the Board for all new appointments insurance cover against legal composition, scope, function and and reappointments.
how it carried out its duties are action brought against it or its subsidiaries, directors and officers.
contained in the Remuneration During 2011, the Nominations Report on pages 37 to 51.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance Committee met twice to consider: provides cover in the event that the NOmINaTIONs COmmITTee director is proved to have acted the reappointment of directors dishonestly or fraudulently.
To view the Nominations Committee at the 2011 AGM: full terms of reference please refer to the performance of the Committee aUdIT COmmITTee the Company website at: http: and the appropriateness of the www.
com To view the Audit Committee terms Committees terms of reference: and of reference please refer to the investors governance nomination.
Company website at: http: www.
the appointment of Mark Allen as a Composition .
com new non-executive director to In accordance with the Committees investors governance audit.
Like Mr Smith, terms of reference, the Nominations Mr Allen brings a broad-based mix Committee consists of five of business skills to the Group, Corporate governance report continued along with his considerable employees, such as depot shareholdings.
The Board also experience at Board level and as managers, in order to maintain a commissions regular feedback CEO.
The Committee appointed an broad purview of the business.
reports from the Companys Executive search agency to assist joint brokers, UBS and JP A record of ongoing training and with the recruitment process.
development of directors is kept by The Board as a whole, rather than the Company Secretary.
The Annual General Meeting AGM just the Nominations Committee, provides shareholders with an discussed the issue of succession RelaTIONs WITH opportunity to discuss the Groups and continuity planning as one of its sHaReHOldeRs progress and operations directly agenda items during the year.
At the AGM, the The Company considers its Company proposes separate relationship with both institutional INdUCTION aNd ONGOING resolutions on each substantially and private investors to be important TRaINING separate issue and the numbers of and readily enters into dialogue with proxy votes cast for and against As the only new appointment to the investors.
The Company has each resolution are made available Board during the year, Mark Allen consulted extensively with its to shareholders when voting has undertook the Group induction principal shareholders in the course been completed.
The notice of the programme.
Although each of 2011 in relation to the ongoing AGM is sent to shareholders at induction programme is tailored to progress of the Company and also least twenty working days before the needs of the individual, the in relation to identifying appropriate the meeting.
Groups induction programme for executive incentive arrangements.
newly appointed directors is The Company is aware of the 56 RIsK aNd INTeRNal CONTROl centred on familiarisation with the stewardship obligations of Groups operations.
This includes institutional investors as set out in The Board is responsible for the meeting directors and executives the UK Stewardship Code and will Groups system of internal control individually, visiting operational work with its institutional investors to and for reviewing its effectiveness, locations, and discussions with the ensure that they are able to satisfy whilst the role of management is to Companys external advisers.
implement Board policies on risk and director also receives a pack of control.
Such a system is, however, All of the executive directors, introductory materials.
designed to manage rather than the Chairman and the Senior eliminate the risks of failure to The Chairman meets with individual Independent Director met with achieve business objectives.
In directors annually to discuss, shareholders during the year and all pursuing these objectives, internal amongst other things, individual of the directors make themselves controls can only provide reasonable training and development needs.
available for meetings with assurance against misstatement or Ongoing training and development shareholders as required.
The UK Corporate Governance for the directors includes The Companys website www.
Code recommends that the Board at attendance at formal conferences .
com least annually reviews the and internal events as well as includes a specific investor relations effectiveness of the Groups system briefings from external advisers.
section and provides an effective of internal controls, including Directors are also encouraged to channel for communication with financial, operational and compliance attend external seminars and existing and potential investors.
The controls and risk management.
The briefings as part of their continuous Board receives regular reports from Board has conducted reviews of the professional development.
The the CFO with regard to relations with effectiveness of the system of non-executive directors are also the major shareholders and internal controls through the encouraged to meet with Howdens developments and changes in their Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 processes described below and is Each operating division and Key risks and their management are satisfied that it accords both with the central function identifies key risks regularly reported to and discussed Code and with the Turnbull Guidance.
through the adoption of both a at the Executive Committee.
During the course of its review of the bottom-up and top-down A review of the risk process and system of internal control, the Board process.
These key risks are risk management systems is has not identified or been advised of regularly reviewed by the senior undertaken by the Audit any failings or weaknesses which it management team in each Committee annually.
has determined to be significant: division.
The key risks to each therefore a confirmation in respect of business areas objectives are Key risks arising within the necessary actions has not been identified and scored for business are formally discussed by considered appropriate.
The key the Group Board every six months controls to manage the risks to the given that overall risk is a matter A description of the Groups desired level are identified.
reserved for the Board as a whole.
principal risk and uncertainties can A local database of risks and be found on pages 23 to 26 of the In order to gain assurance that the controls is maintained within each Review of Operations and Finance.
Groups risk process is effective a operating division and central periodic review of both the Audit Risk management service function.
This is and Risk Process is conducted by The Board can confirm that, for the consolidated into a central register an appropriately qualified and 2011 financial year and up to the which becomes the key risk experienced external assurance date of approval of the annual report register for the Group.
This is and financial statements, there has Risk department facilitates the conducted every five years with 57 been an ongoing process for identification of these risks and the next review planned for 2012. identifying, evaluating and managing provides an independent appraisal the significant risks faced by the Internal control of the interpretation of the scoring Group which is reviewed regularly by The Group has an established mechanism, to ensure that the key the Board and accords with the framework of internal controls, which risks are brought forward to the Turnbull Guidance.
Under the includes the following key elements: Executive Committee.
The guidance of the Chief Financial Executive Committee then reviews The Board reviews Group strategy Officer, it is the responsibility of the the key risks to assess the and the executive management are Executive Committee to review the effectiveness of the risk accountable for their performance effectiveness of the risk management strategies.
management process and internal The senior management team controls on behalf of the Board.
The The Group and its subsidiaries within each division and within the Executive Committee regularly operate control procedures central functions are responsible reports to the Board on how risks designed to ensure complete and for the ongoing review of their are being managed.
In addition, accurate accounting of financial functions risk registers.
Regular there is a mechanism in place to transactions, and to limit exposure reporting on internal and external report significant control to loss of assets or fraud.
changes that affect the risks or their breakdowns or risk occurrences to Measures taken include physical importance to the business, and the Executive Committee.
controls, segregation of duties in any risk occurrences, are reported key areas and periodic Internal An ongoing process for the effective upwards through their register to Audit reviews.
management of risk has been the Executive Committee.
defined by the Board and is operated in the following stages: Corporate governance report continued sTaTemeNT OF dIReCTORs The Audit Committee meets for managing its commercial and ResPONsIBIlITIes regularly and its responsibilities financial risks.
The Groups financial are set out above.
It receives risk management objectives and its The directors are responsible for reports from the Internal Audit exposures to credit risk and liquidity preparing the Annual Report, function on the results of work risk in relation to financial Directors Remuneration Report carried out under an annually instruments are described in note 30 and the Financial Statements in agreed audit programme.
The to the financial statements.
accordance with applicable law Audit Committee has full and and regulations.
As highlighted in note 30 to the independent access to the internal financial statements, the Group Company law requires the directors and external auditors.
meets its day to day working to prepare financial statements for Internal Audit facilitates a process capital requirements through an each financial year.
Under that law whereby operating entities provide asset backed lending facility which the directors are required to prepare certified statements of compliance is due for renewal in May 2014.
The Group financial statements in with specified and appropriate key current economic conditions create accordance with International financial controls.
These controls uncertainty particularly over a the Financial Reporting Standards are then cyclically tested by the level of demand for the Groups IFRSs as adopted by the European Internal Audit Department to products and b the exchange rate Union and Article 4 of the IAS ensure they remain effective, and between sterling and both the Euro Regulation and have chosen to are being consistently applied.
and the US dollar which would prepare the parent company financial impact the cost of the Groups statements in accordance with The Audit Committee will annually operations.
The Groups forecasts United Kingdom Generally Accepted assess the effectiveness of the 58 and projections have been stressAccounting Practice United Kingdom assurance provided by the internal tested for reasonably possible Accounting Standards and applicable and external auditors.
Every five adverse variations in trading law.
Under company law the years, an external assessment will performance.
The results of this directors must not approve the be undertaken with regard to the testing show that the Group should accounts unless they are satisfied assurance provided by the Internal be able to operate within the level that they give a true and fair view of Audit department.
The next of its current facility and covenants.
the state of affairs of the Company external review is due in 2012.
The Groups banking facility expires and of the profit or loss of the in May 2014 so at this stage the Company for that period.
GOING CONCeRN Group has not sought any written The Groups business activities, In preparing the parent company commitment that the facility will together with the factors likely to financial statements, the directors be renewed.
We will open renewal affect its future development, are required to: negotiations with the bank in performance and position are set due course.
out in the Chairmans statement on select suitable accounting policies pages 8 to 9, the Chief Executives and then apply them consistently: After making enquiries, the directors statement on pages 10 to 18 and the have a reasonable expectation that make judgements and accounting Review of Operations and Finance the Company and the Group have estimates that are reasonable on pages 19 to 26.
The Review of adequate resources to continue in and prudent: Operations and Finance describes operational existence for the the financial position of the Group, foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they state whether applicable UK its cash flows, liquidity position, continue to adopt the going concern Accounting Standards have been borrowing facilities, and the Groups basis in preparing the Annual Report followed subject to any material objectives, policies and processes and Accounts.
departures disclosed and Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 explained in the financial The directors are responsible for the statements: and maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information prepare the financial statements on included on the Companys website.
the going concern basis unless it is Legislation in the United Kingdom inappropriate to presume that the governing the preparation and Company will continue in business.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from In preparing the Group financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: dIReCTORs ResPONsIBIlITy properly select and apply sTaTemeNT accounting policies: We confirm to the best of our knowledge: present information, including accounting policies, in a the financial statements, prepared manner that provides relevant, in accordance with the relevant reliable, comparable and financial reporting framework, give understandable information: a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and provide additional disclosures profit or loss of the Company and when compliance with the specific the undertakings including the requirements in IFRSs is 59 consolidation taken as a whole: and insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of the review of operations and particular transactions, other finance along with other events and conditions on the documents which are entitys financial position and incorporated into the Directors financial performance: and Report, together include a fair review of the development and make an assessment of the performance of the business and Companys ability to continue the position of the Company and as a going concern.
the undertakings including the The directors are responsible for consolidation taken as a whole, keeping adequate accounting together with a description of the records that are sufficient to show principal risks and uncertainties and explain the Companys they face.
transactions and disclose with By order of the Board reasonable accuracy at any time the matthew Ingle financial position of the Company Chief executive and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with mark Robson the Companies Act 2006.
They are Chief Financial Officer also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 29 February 2012 hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
audit Committee report To view the Audit Committee terms satisfy Provision C. 3.1 of the UK The Audit Committees terms of of reference please refer to the Corporate Governance Code.
The reference include all matters Company website at: http: www.
Board also considers that I have the indicated by Disclosure and .
com commercial, financial and audit Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
experience necessary to address any We conducted the annual review of complex accounting, audit and risk the Committees terms of reference The Board is dependent on the Audit issues which may arise.
at our meeting in November 2011.
Committee to review the Groups internal financial controls, to assess COmPOsITION meeTINGs the work and independence of the In compliance with the Code and We are required by our terms of external auditor, the effectiveness of the Committees terms of reference to meet at least three the internal audit function and risk reference, during the year the Audit times per year and have an agenda management processes, and to Committee comprised wholly of predominately linked to events in the ensure the integrity of the financial independent non-executive Groups financial calendar.
As such it is crucial that directors: Angus Cockburn, agenda is approved by myself in my the Committee conducts itself in an Michael Wemms, Tiffany Hall, Ian capacity as Committee Chairman on informed and efficient way.
This Smith until May and thereafter behalf of my fellow members.
Each Report of the Audit Committee Mark Allen.
The quorum for Audit Committee member has the provides an overview of the makebusiness is two members.
Subject right to require reports on matters of up of the Committee and the matters to successful annual re-election to interest in addition to the annually it considered during the year.
the Board as provided by the UK recurring items such as the review Corporate Governance Code, of the external audit report and 60 ROle OF THe CHaIRmaN OF appointments to the Audit accounts, review of auditor THe COmmITTee Committee are for a period of three effectiveness and review of As Chairman of the Audit Committee years and are extendable by two conflicts of interest.
I have ultimate responsibility for additional three year periods.
An approving the Committees agenda, The Chairman of the Board along induction programme is provided ensuring that key audit issues are with the Chief Executive, Finance for new Audit Committee members reported to the Board in an effective Director, the Head of Risk and as part of the wider induction into and timely manner and maintaining Internal Audit, representatives the Board.
key relationships with the Groups from the Finance function and senior management, Head of Risk We review membership of the senior representatives of the and Internal Audit, the Company Committee at regular intervals.
The external auditors may be invited to Secretary and senior representatives Board is satisfied that the current attend all or part of any meeting as of the external auditors.
I have been mix of financial and commercial and when appropriate.
The Audit a member of the Audit Committee experience of the Audit Committee Committee reserves the right to since my appointment as a nonis such that the Committee can request any non-members to executive director in October 2006 effectively exercise its withdraw from any meeting.
and have chaired the Committee responsibilities to the Company in sUmmaRy OF THe ROle OF THe since March 2007. relation to risk and controls.
aUdIT COmmITTee I am a qualified chartered accountant The Committee is permitted by its We assist the Board in ensuring that and Finance Director at Aggreko plc terms of reference to obtain the Group's financial systems and as such the Board considers that independent external advice at the provide accurate and up-to-date I have the requisite recent and Companys expense.
information on its financial position relevant financial experience to Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 and that the Group's published effectiveness of the audit process, cash flow and accounting financial statements represent a true taking into consideration relevant valuation information, including and fair reflection of this position.
UK professional and regulatory the choice and consistent use of requirements: and key assumptions.
A description of The Audit Committee is the Groups significant accounting developing and implementing a responsible for: policies can be found in note 2 of policy on the engagement of the the consolidated financial monitoring the integrity of the external auditor to supply statements on page 69: financial statements of the Group non-audit services, taking into and any formal announcements account relevant ethical guidance reviewing the effectiveness of the relating to the Group's financial regarding the provision of Group's internal financial controls performance and reviewing non-audit services by the external with specific reference to controls significant financial reporting audit firm.
in place on a divisional basis and judgements contained therein: reviewing the disclosures made in We are also responsible for the annual report and financial reviewing the Company's internal reporting to the Board, identifying statements on this matter: financial controls and the Group's any matters in respect of which we internal control systems: consider that action or improvement reviewing the processes used by is needed, making the Group for identifying, reviewing the Group's risk recommendations as to the steps to evaluating and mitigating risks: management processes and be taken and monitoring the systems although the Board as receiving reports from the external effectiveness of any resulting activity.
a whole remains responsible for auditors on the conduct of their 61 overseeing the overall risk profile audit, their review of accounting OveRvIeW OF THe aCTIONs of the business : policies, areas of judgement and TaKeN By THe aUdIT their comments on the COmmITTee TO dIsCHaRGe ensuring that information flows effectiveness of internal controls: ITs dUTIes from the senior management and external auditors are such that the During the year, the Committee reviewing the proposed plan of information the Committee met three times and discharged work presented by the external receives is complete, accurate, its responsibilities through the auditors, including terms of timely and robust: following activities: engagement and fees: monitoring and reviewing the reviewing the Group's policy on reviewing the Group's 2010 annual effectiveness of the Company's the engagement of the external report and financial statements, internal audit function: auditor for non-audit work: the half yearly financial report published in July 2011 and the making recommendations to undertaking an assessment of interim management statements.
the Board in relation to the the qualification, expertise and As part of this review we received a appointment of the external auditor resources, and independence report from the external auditor on and approving the remuneration of the external auditor and the their audit of the annual report and and terms of engagement of the effectiveness of the audit financial statements and review of external auditor: process.
This included the half yearly financial report: consideration of a report on the reviewing and monitoring the audit firms own quality control considering the processes in external auditor's independence procedures and the audit firms place to generate forecasts of and objectivity and the annual transparency report: audit Committee report continued assessing the risk of a possible environment.
In order to ensure that of the Company were served by withdrawal of the external auditors the Committee members are up to engaging them.
Details of Deloitte from the market: date in their knowledge, we also LLP's fees for audit and non-audit had a technical update presentation work during 2011 are included in holding confidential sessions with from a leading expert in Deloittes note 7 to the financial statements the independent auditors and the about recent developments in the on page 77.
We have reviewed the head of internal audit in the areas of governance, accounting nature and cost of the non-audit absence of executive directors and reporting.
work undertaken during the year and and Company executives: the safeguards Deloitte LLP has in exTeRNal aUdITOR place to protect their independence evaluating the performance of the as auditors and we are satisfied Internal Audit function and As a Committee we are this work has not impaired agreeing a programme of work: responsible for the development, their independence.
implementation and monitoring of receiving reports from the Internal the Group's policy on external The Audit Committee also has a Audit function on its work and audit in line with relevant ethical policy in relation to the employment monitoring the status of actions standards and guidance.
The of former members of the external taken in response to its findings: current policy sets out the audit team.
This policy states that, categories of non-audit services reviewing activity reported whilst the Company would not which the external auditors will and under the Group's normally employ a former member will not be allowed to provide to whistleblowing policy: of the external audit team, if the Group, subject to fide minimis appropriate, individual cases may reviewing our own effectiveness levels.
All relevant fees proposed 62 be considered by the Chairman as an Audit Committee as part of by the external auditors must be of the Committee and Chief the Board's evaluation process: reported to and approved by the Financial Officer.
No services considering the revised guidance were provided by the external We recognise that auditor on Audit Committees issued by the auditor pursuant to contingent independence is an essential part of Financial Reporting Council: and fee arrangements.
the audit framework and the reviewing the Committee's terms assurance it provides.
To fulfil our During the year, the external auditors of reference and recommending responsibilities regarding the provided tax advice relating to the minor changes to the Board.
independence of the external Group's obligations in respect of auditors, we undertook a In addition to the above we regularly former MFI properties and its comprehensive review during 2011 invite senior management from the overseas subsidiaries.
We reviewed encompassing the following: business to come and talk about the nature and cost of this work the financial controls in their during the year and approved the review of the independence of the business areas.
We regularly hear ongoing involvement of Deloitte LLP external auditors and the from the Finance Directors of the in this regard as it was concluded arrangements which Deloitte LLP two divisions on the control that they were best placed to supply have in place to identify, report environments in their areas and such tax services in a cost effective and manage conflicts of interest: during this year we had a session manner due to the experience and review of the changes in key with external experts on the work qualifications of the individuals external audit staff for the current they had performed in conjunction providing such services, their year and the arrangements for the with Internal Audit on the knowledge of the Company and its day to day management of the Information Systems control tax affairs and that the best interests Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2011 audit relationship.
This included The external audit was last tendered the level and nature of non-audit reviewing the role of the senior in 2002.
This resulted in a change to activity performed by Internal statutory audit partner who signs the Groups external auditor, with Audit: and the audit report.
In accordance Deloitte LLP replacing the previous staffing, reporting and with the ethical standards, the incumbent audit firm.
During the effectiveness of divisional audits.
senior statutory audit partner will year we discussed the re-tendering change at the end of the 2011 year of the external audit but, as a result The Group's whistleblowing policy end audit having held office of our work above, and taking into contains arrangements for the Head for five years: account the tenure of the auditors, of Internal Audit to receive, in we concluded that the confidence, complaints on consideration of the effectiveness independence criteria under the accounting, risk issues, internal of the external auditors through a relative standards continued to be controls, auditing issues and related review of their plan of work and met and accordingly it was not matters for reporting to the Audit the outputs arising from the audit: necessary to tender for the audit Committee as appropriate.
The Committee has therefore consideration of the overall extent raised and investigated under this unanimously recommended to the of non-audit services provided by policy were formally reviewed during Board that a proposal be put to the the external auditors, in addition the year.
shareholders at the Annual General to case by case approval of the Meeting that Deloitte LLP be OveRvIeW provision of non-audit services as reappointed as external auditors appropriate: and As a result of its work during the and that the directors be authorised year, the Audit Committee has consideration of the likelihood of a to fix their remuneration.
At the year 63 concluded that it has acted in withdrawal of the auditor from the end the independent auditors accordance with its terms of market and note taken of the fact formally confirmed their reference and has ensured the that there are no contractual independence and objectivity independence and objectivity of obligations to restrict the choice had been maintained.
INTeRNal aUdIT I will be available at the Annual To assess the effectiveness of the General Meeting to answer any We are also required to assist the external auditor, we reviewed: Board to fulfil its responsibilities questions about the work of the the arrangements for ensuring the Audit Committee.
relating to the adequacy of external auditors independence resourcing and plans of the Internal angus Cockburn and objectivity: Audit department.
During the year, Chairman of the audit Committee we reviewed: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any Internal Audit's programme of 29 February 2012 variations from the plan: work and progress made against planned activity: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of results of key audits and other the key accounting and audit significant findings including the judgements: and adequacy and timeliness of management's response: the content of the external auditors reporting on internal control.
