Job: Governance v27 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:53 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate Governance Report expected time commitments required.
The Directors, together with Corporate Governance continues to be an important brief biographical details, are identified on pages 34 and 35. consideration of the Board of Hunting and so it is with great pleasure I introduce to you our report for 2011.
Excluding the Chairman, 60% of the Board is currently During the year the Company was compliant with the UK comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Code, with new initiatives being Prior to the appointment of a non-executive Director, the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the Boards introduced to align the Boards operation with the Codes requirements to ensure the balance of skill and experience is recommendations.
With the appointment of Andrew maintained to fulfil the Groups strategy.
In the case of a nonSzescila in September 2011, Hunting now has a full executive Director being reappointed, the Code recommends complement of independent non-executive Directors all aparticularly rigorous evaluation with particular consideration having served for fewer than three years.
Their challenge being given to the need to regularly refresh the Board and to inthe Boardroom, including input to the strategy and continued independence.
direction of the Company, has enabled Hunting to The Company has procedures in place to deal with potential successfully execute four acquisitions in the year, conflicts of interest whereby actual and potential conflicts of whilemaintaining significant internal investment in our interest are reviewed, and appropriate authorisation sought, prior operations.
Both elements of this strategy should mean that to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
Huntings long-term future is built on a firm foundation.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, only non-conflicted Directors are involved in the authorisation process.
The Board is of From Richard Hunting, Chairman of the Company the view that these procedures operated effectively throughout the year.
The Group operates a decentralised management structure to UK Corporate Governance Code allow for rapid responses to customer requirements.
A framework This statement, which has been approved by the Board, of controls with discretionary limits and powers for local reportson the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate management is contained within a group manual.
Governance Code the Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 available on its website Appointment and Replacement of Directors www.
uk and how the principles of the Code have been Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are applied during 2011.
Compliance with the principles relating to setout in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are Directors remuneration is reported within the Remuneration appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general Committee Report on pages 40 to 46. meeting of holders of Ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company The Company was fully compliant with the Codes provisions may also remove a Director.
Additional details of the workings throughout the year.
of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 49.
Board Composition and Committee Membership Following the Codes guidance on the election of Directors, at The Board of Directors currently comprises the non-executive the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in April 2011, Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and three all of the Board submitted themselves for re-election.
All independent nonexecutive Directors are appointed to the Companys Nomination, The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Changes to the Board and threeyear term with subsequent reappointment conditional its committees during the year are as follows: upon an appraisal and review process described below.
David Barr was appointed to the Board as an independent Lettersof appointment for each of the independent nonnon-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
Following his executive Directors are available from the Company upon appointment to an external executive role, Mr Barr stepped request and their terms of appointment are summarised on page down from the Board on 8 April 2011.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are set Andrew Szescila was appointed as an independent nonout on page 42. executive Director on 16 September 2011.
George Helland retired from the Board after ten years On appointment to the Board, each Director receives service on 30 September 2011 and following his retirement, comprehensive induction tailored to their experience and Mr Szescila was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration needs.
Andrew Szescila is receiving an induction to the Group, Committee.
including site visits to subsidiaries and is also available to meetshareholders.
All Directors have access to the Company On 1 August 2011, Richard Hunting moved from an executive to Secretary and to independent professional advice, at the anon-executive role.
Mr Hunting is not regarded as independent, Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors given his former executive position since joining the Company are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to best in1989.
practice standards and, where appropriate, attend update training courses on relevant topics.
During the year, the This composition, with a separate Chairman and Chief Executive, Chairman also met each individual Director to discuss training ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
The Company Secretary, Directors letters of appointment include details of their duties and through the Chairman, is responsible for keeping the Board Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Governance v27.
indd 47 09 03 2012 19:53 Job: Governance v27 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:53 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Corporate Governance Report continued informed of Corporate Governance developments and maintaining corporate awareness of legislative and regulatory changes.
Theappointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Board and Committee Meetings The Board normally meets formally five times a year and convened ten times during 2011, of which one meeting was held in North America.
The additional Board meetings were convened to discuss and approve the acquisitions made during the year.
Meeting dates are set a year in advance.
Attendance by each of the Directors at Board or committee meetings is detailed below maximum possible number of meetings attended shown in brackets.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Notes Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2011 10 2 4 4 Number of meetings attended: Richard Hunting 10 2 Dennis Proctor 10 2 Peter Rose 10 George Helland i 8 8 2 2 3 3 3 3 John Hofmeister 10 2 4 4 John Nicholas 10 2 4 4 Andrew Szescila ii 2 2 0 0 1 1 1 1 David Barr iii 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 Notes i.
Appointed 1 January 2011 and resigned 8 April 2011.
Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
Board Performance Evaluation These include detailed financial reports on the Groups The Board, its committees and each individual Director activities, reports on each operating division, health and safety, participate in an annual performance evaluation appraisal, risk management and investor relations reports.
In addition, the thepurpose of which is to confirm the continued effective meetings held in February and August focus on the full and half contribution and performance of the individual or committee in year results respectively and the meeting in December focuses line with the Codes recommendations.
Evaluation of the Board on the budget for the following financial year.
was undertaken by the non-executive Directors and took account of the Directors attendance and their contribution at The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees meetings, financial performance of the Group against budget, are formally agreed by the Board in writing.
In addition, the compliance with corporate governance and best practice division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief guidelines and market perception of the Group.
The Executive is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Matters Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were specifically reserved for the Board include, but are not limited evaluated by the executive Directors and took account of to, the following: communication with the Board and compliance with terms compliance with UK Company Law and the UKLAs Listing ofreference.
The evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken Rules: bythe independent non-executive Directors, led by the Senior review of the Groups system of risk management, internal Independent Director, and included an assessment of his control and assess its effectiveness: leadership and direction of the Board.
The appraisal of the approve all Stock Exchange announcements: ChiefExecutive was completed by the non-executive Directors approve the full and half year financial statements, including together with the Chairman.
Evaluation of the other individual the approval of dividends: Directors took account of their contribution and, in the case of consider the Groups commercial strategy and approval of the Finance Director, the performance of his executive duties.
the annual budget: The Board is also considering the use of external facilitators consider recommendations of the Board subcommittees toevaluate its practices as recommended by the Code.
including Board remuneration, appointments and their terms ofreference.
48 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance v27.
indd 48 09 03 2012 19:53 Job: Governance v27 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:53 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board Committees MrHelland.
Details of the Remuneration Committees activities The Board has three main committees to which it delegates are contained within its report on page 40.
The Committee responsibility and authority: convened four times during the year and the attendance of Committee members during the year is noted on page 48.
The Nomination Committee Committee has written terms of reference approved by the Board Members of the committee are Richard Hunting committee which are published on the Groups website.
During the year, the chairman, Dennis Proctor and the independent non-executive Committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Chairman reported Directors.
The committee convened twice during the year and these findings to the Board.
has written terms of reference approved by the Board, which arepublished on the Groups website.
The role of the committee Audit Committee includes leading the process for Board appointments and Members of the committee, which is chaired by John Nicholas, determining the terms of new appointments.
The committee comprise exclusively the independent non-executive Directors.
also considers succession planning which takes into account theexperience and skills required of Board members.
The committee met four times during the year and operates under written terms of reference approved by the Board, which In April 2011, the committee commenced a process to appoint are published on the Companys website.
The committee anew independent non-executive Director.
The committee normally meets in February, April to coincide with the Annual considered the balance of experience currently represented General Meeting of the Company, August and December.
The bythe Board of Directors and the need to regularly refresh Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and the external theBoard and concluded that a Director with oil services auditors are invited to attend all meetings.
During the year, the knowledge would enhance its capabilities.
The committee committee reviewed its effectiveness and the Chairman appointed Boyden Associates to assist the search process, and reported these findings to the Board.
after reviewing the available candidates completed a formal interview process.
The committee met on 23 August 2011 and The auditors present an audit report at the March, April, 16 September 2011 to consider the appointment of Andrew Augustand December meetings for consideration by the Szescila and recommended his appointment with effect from committee.
Their full year report includes a statement on their 16September 2011.
Mr Szescila has considerable experience in independence, their ability to remain objective and to undertake the global oil services sector and is a valuable addition to the an effective audit.
The committee considers and assesses this Company as it continues its growth strategy.
independence statement on behalf of the Board taking into account the level of fees paid particularly for non-audit services.
In February 2011, the Davies Report Women on Boards was The committee considers the effectiveness of the audit by published.
The Board has considered the recommendations of reviewing and taking account of any Financial Reporting the report and, in February 2012, issued its gender diversity policy Council reports on the auditors, together with input from for Board appointments.
Given the current size and balance of executive management.
 LLP and its experience of Huntings Board and the recent refreshing of the predecessor firms have been the Groups auditors for many Boards independent non-executive Directors it is unlikely that years.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with their effectiveness Hunting will be compliant with the recommendations of the and their independence and has not considered it necessary to Davies Report in the short term.
However, in line with the Davies require an independent tender process.
The Audit Committee Reports recommendations, Huntings diversity policy commits considers the reappointment of the auditors annually and makes the Group to: a recommendation to the Board.
An embedded culture of equal opportunities for all employees, regardless of gender: During 2011, the committee continued to closely monitor fees Require external recruitment consultants to submit their paid to the auditors in respect of non-audit services, which are diversity policies to the Group prior to appointment: analysed within note 6 on page 74.
In 2011, fees for non-audit Ensure that external consultants appointed by Hunting submit services exceeded the annual audit fee largely due to fees candidate shortlists comprising at a minimum 25% of women charged of 1.5m for due diligence support on the four for consideration by the Nomination Committee: acquisitions completed during the year.
In addition, taxation A target of at least one female Director of the Company advice amounted to 1.0m and other services 0.2m, bringing whenpracticable: the total non-audit services fee to 2.7m.
The scope and extent An annual review by the Nomination Committee of of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor is itsprogress complying with the Davies Reports monitored by, and, above certain thresholds, requires prior recommendations.
approval from the committee to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Remuneration Committee At the August meeting, which was held immediately prior to the The Remuneration Committee comprises solely the independent announcement of the half year results, the auditors presented non-executive Directors of the Company.
Andrew Szescila was their interim report to the committee, which included audit appointed to the Committee on 16 September 2011 following scope and fee estimates for the annual audit.
The committee hisappointment to the Board and on 1 October 2011 became normally meets with the auditors without executive Directors thechairman of the Committee following the retirement of present at the end of each formal meeting.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Governance v27.
indd 49 09 03 2012 19:53 Job: Governance v27 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:53 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions Corporate Governance Report continued Other responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Management Structure within operational parameters set by monitor and review of reports on the Groups system the Board, management is delegated to the executive Directors.
ofinternal control: Subsidiaries operate within clearly defined policies and authorities review of reports from the Groups internal audit programme: contained within a group manual under a decentralised review of internal audit scope: management structure.
All senior management changes review of the external auditors independence and requirethe prior approval of the Chief Executive.
effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level and quality of service in relation to fees paid: Reporting and Consolidation all subsidiaries submit detailed monitor the Groups financial statements and financial information in accordance with a pre-set reporting announcements: and timetable.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury monitor and approve engagements of the external auditor to reports, monthly management accounts, annual budgets and provide non-audit services to the Group.
two-year plans, together with half year and annual statutory reporting.
The Groups consolidation process is maintained and The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the updated with regular communication, including distribution of a AuditCommittee.
group manual to all reporting units.
The Group monitors and reviews new UK Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency The Senior Independent Director, John Hofmeister, is the primary Rules, accounting standards, interpretations and amendments and point of contact for staff of the Company to raise in confidence, legislation and other statutory requirements.
Subsidiary reporting concerns they may have over possible improprieties, financial or entities are supported by instruction from Group and structured otherwise.
All employees have been notified of this arrangement training.
All data is subject to review and assessment by through the corporate magazine, Group notice boards and the management through the monitoring of key performance ratios Groups website.
and comparison to targets and budgets.
The content and format of reporting is kept under review and periodically amended to Institutional Shareholders ensure appropriate information is available.
The Company uses a number of processes for communicating with shareholders, including stock exchange announcements, Strategic Planning and Budgeting strategic plans and annual theannual and half year reports, interim management statements budgets containing comprehensive financial projections are issued twice a year, and the Annual General Meeting to which formally presented to the Board for adoption and approval allshareholders are invited.
In addition, the Chief Executive and andform the basis for monitoring performance.
Clearly Finance Director meet on a one-to-one basis with all principal definedprocedures exist for capital expenditure proposals shareholders at least twice a year, following the Groups half and andauthorisation.
full year results, or when requested to update them on Group performance and strategy.
The Board is in turn briefed by Quality Assurance most of the business sectors within theChief Executive, when appropriate, on matters raised whichthe Group operates are highly regulated and subsidiaries byshareholders.
are invariably required to be accredited, by the customer or anindustry regulator, to national or international quality During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent organisations.
These organisations undertake regular audits Directormet with a number of shareholders to discuss strategy, andchecks on subsidiary procedures and practices ensuring governance and other matters.
Their comments were passed on compliance with regulatory requirements.
to the Board by the Chairman.
The non-executive Directors are also available to meet shareholders.
The Companys major Monitoring Process in addition to reports from the external shareholders are listed, together with the information required auditors, the Audit Committee receives reports from the internal under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules 7.2.
6, within the auditor and monitors the internal audit process, as part of the Report of the Directors on page 38.
Groups internal audit and risk assessment programme.
An annual programme of internal audit assignments is reviewed Internal Controls bythe Audit Committee.
All subsidiaries undertake formal The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups self-assessment risk reviews a minimum of three times a year system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and ontheir internal control environment.
These reviews encompass forcompliance with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control the identification of the key business, financial, compliance system, which has been in place throughout 2011 and up to andoperational risks facing the business, together with an thedate of approval of these accounts, is an on-going process assessment of the controls in place for managing and mitigating designed to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to these risks.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for their potential which the Group is exposed.
These systems of internal control impact on the business.
The results of these reviews, together are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks, therefore with a review of risks facing the Group as a whole, are reported they only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance to the Board.
against material misstatement or loss in the financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
The Directors have Bribery Act Compliance On 1 July 2011, the UKs Bribery Act reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal became law.
To comply with the Act, Hunting has implemented control for the period covered by these financial statements, procedures including the publication of Bribery and Corruption thekey features of which are as follows: policies and detailed guidelines on interacting with customers, 50 Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance v27.
indd 50 09 03 2012 19:53 Job: Governance v27 Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: kevin Date: 9 March 2012 7:53 PM Server: studio 2 Set-up: paul First Read Revisions COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS suppliers and agents, including specific policies for gifts, Pursuant to the Financial Service Authoritys Listing Rules and entertainment and hospitality.
Senior managers across the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, each of the Directors, Group are required to report their compliance activities whose names and responsibilities are listed on page 35, confirm including an evaluation of risk areas.
The Group has completed that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: a screening exercise to determine relevant employees who the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs facea heightened risk of bribery with all relevant personnel as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, completing a formal training and compliance course, in line liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the with the Groups procedures.
loss of the Company: and the Business Review on pages 6 to 35 includes a fair review Code of Conduct The Groups Code of Conduct contains of the development and performance of the Groups policies and procedures covering how the Group conducts operations and the position of the Group and the Company, business and maintains its relationships with business partners.
together with a description of the principal risks and The Code of Conduct is available on the Groups website.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities By Order of the Board The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Peter Rose Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Company Secretary Union EU.
Under Company Law, the Directors must not 8 March 2012 approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy atany time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and theRemuneration Committee Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Governance v27.
