Corporate Governance  The Board is accountable to shareholders for the effective direction and control of the Group and this Annual Report provides details of the framework of corporate governance and internal controls that the Directors have put in place to enable them to carry out this responsibility.
The Group has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code 2008 and applied the principles of the Code during the year.
Any areas of non-compliance of the Code are noted at the end of this section.
 The Company operates through the Board of Directors and after the appointment of David Anderson on 25 November 2010, the Board comprised six Directors, three Executive Directors including the Chairman who carries out his duties on a part-time basis of 40 days per annum and three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on pages 31 to 32.
Chairman The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and management of the Board.
He ensures its effectiveness on all aspects of its role, setting its agenda and ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensures constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman maintains the proper and appropriate level of communication with shareholders.
During the year the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executives being present.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans other professional commitments listed on page 31 do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
He is the key driver for proposing, developing and implementing the Groups strategy as agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer carries out his duties in consultation with the Chairman, the Board and Executive Management Board EMB which in turn are responsible for the commercial and operational activities of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible, with the Executive team, for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company is Ian Pearson.
He has appropriate dialogue with institutional shareholders to ensure their views are communicated to the Group and ensures that the performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Mr Pearson and Mr Hurst-Brown became Directors of the Company in 1998 and 2000, respectively, and have therefore been connected with the Group for more than 9 years.
Non-Executive Directors have shareholdings in the Company as disclosed in the table on page 47.
The Board continues to monitor the composition of the Board in line with the recommendations of the Code.
Taking into account that both Mr Pearson and Mr Hurst-Brown have been connected with the Group for more than 9 years, the Board has reviewed and considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors with particular care and scrutiny.
All Directors contribute significantly through their individual skills and their considerable knowledge of both the Group and the industry, and they currently provide continuity and an overall balance to the Board.
In particular, they continue to demonstrate a strong independence of management in the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Accordingly, the Board considers that Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall direction, strategy and performance of the Group.
The Board usually meets formally on a monthly basis.
There is a formal agenda of items to be addressed at Board Meetings which includes matters specifically reserved for the Board, principally comprising: Group wide business and financial reviews, major capital or revenue expenditure, acquisitions or disposals, onerous business terms, treasury, risk items and board appointments.
At each meeting both the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer present their respective reports, the Chief Executive Officer giving a full business update with focus on the Groups relationships with current and potential partners and highlighting business-critical issues, and the Chief Financial Officer presenting the financial results for the year to date together with latest financial forecasts.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who attends the monthly Board meetings and is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with and that good information flows within the Board and Committees.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a matter for the Board as a whole.
38 By also attending and monitoring the content of meetings and agendas, the Directors consider that there is sufficient structure to ensure the Companys strategy and control remain in its hands.
The Board also meets periodically with senior management from the Groups Technology and PURE divisions in order to review the strategic direction of the business.
The main objectives are to assess and decide upon the key technologies products markets for the business to exploit by assessing the potential returns against the risks.
The result is a common vision of the future aspirations of the business and an understanding of the function and goals that each division has within the strategy.
Divisional business plans are built around executing the strategic plan.
The Companys EMB meets on a weekly basis, with attendance by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
At a formal monthly meeting of the EMB, each member provides a monthly operational report in which progress against plan is reviewed to ensure that this is in line with the Groups strategic and business targets.
Performance Evaluation During the year, the Board reviewed its performance along with that of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
This assessment of performance is carried out by considering the objectives of each body and assessing the degree to which these objectives have been met.
In the case of each Director, the performance review takes into account an individuals level of commitment to the role, effective contribution and achievement in carrying out the role.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
During the year, the Chairman periodically held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present and, in addition, the Non-Executives periodically held meetings without the Chairman or the Executive Directors being present.
Board Appointments and changes All nominations to the Board will be considered by the Board and, during the year David Anderson was appointed a Non-Executive Director to the Board.
On the 1 July 2011 Trevor Selby will leave the Board and Richard Smith will be appointed as a Director and replace him as Chief Financial Officer.
The Board considers the appropriate composition of the Board from time to time and in future will continue to review its make up.
As the Board is small, a Nominations Committee has not been appointed.
AuditCommittee Members of the Committee During the year, the Audit Committee comprised David Hurst-Brown as Chairman, Ian Pearson and David Anderson as members.
With effect from 8 June 2011, David Anderson took over as Chairman of the Audit Committee from David Hurst-Brown.
The Code requires that the Board be satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has considered this requirement and, taking into account the financial background of the Chairman of the Committee, is satisfied that this requirement has been met and that the Committee has sufficient experience to fulfil its obligations in an effective manner.
Responsibilities The Committee is required to satisfy itself as to the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls and compliance procedures within the Group and that the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the accounts of the Group and the annual financial statements comply with statutory requirements.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are available to be viewed at the AGM, and are available at www.
In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee reviews the interim and annual financial statements and the terms and scope under which the external auditors are appointed or reappointed.
The Committee also reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee holds meetings with the external auditors whenever it feels it needs advice or clarification of issues, but in any case the Audit Committee meets formally with the external auditors at least once per year with, if required, a portion of the meeting without the Executive Directors present.
The Committee is also responsible for determining and reviewing the policy for engaging the external auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The Audit Committee reviews arrangements by which staff of the Group may in confidence raise concerns over possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
39  A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 47 which is prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Board and Committee Meeting Attendance The attendance of Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is set out below: Main Board Audit Remuneration Meetings Committee Committee No.
of meetings 9 3 5 G S Shingles 9 1 3 H Yassaie 9 3 T Selby 9 3 3 I R Pearson 7 2 5 D A Hurst-Brown 9 3 5 D Anderson 6 2 2 Denotes attendance by a Director, who is not a member of the Committee, at a Committee meeting, as requested by the Chairman of the Committee.
 The Directors are able to bring necessary matters to the attention of the Board so that the appropriate professional advisers can be briefed and authorized to provide the required independent advice.
However, all Directors can, if they feel it necessary, take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties, at the Companys expense.
ShareCapital The share capital details are provided in the Directors Report on page 35.
FinancialReporting The financial position of the Group is discussed in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Directors Report, giving a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
After reviewing current performance and plans, and making enquiries considered appropriate, the Directors are satisfied that at the time of approving the Financial Statements adequate resources are available to the Group to enable it to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors believe it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
 The Company actively encourages open communications with shareholders.
Principally through the Board, the Company endeavours to establish and maintain healthy relationships with its institutional shareholders by holding regular meetings after results with further dialogue as requested.
Shareholders can register to receive the Companys press releases via the internet and any queries from individual shareholders are answered promptly by a nominated person.
The Company is involved in a weekly dialogue with private shareholders, the comments and concerns from these shareholders who participate in this forum are circulated to management within the Company at the end of each week.
The Company gives shareholders 21 days notice of the AGM.
At the AGM, the Directors make a full presentation to shareholders to explain recent and future developments in the business, followed by an open question and answer session which provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask Directors and senior employees questions about the business.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of proceedings.
The AGM is held at the Companys headquarters in Kings Langley where shareholders can visit demonstration rooms displaying the Groups technology in Company or partners products and PURE products with senior divisional employees available to give in-depth detail of the Companys technologies and products.
The Board makes itself accessible to meet with shareholders on an informal basis.
The Non-Executive Directors have access to independent feedback from shareholders after results presentations which, supported by periodic attendance at analyst and shareholder presentations, provides them with an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Senior Non-Executive Director is available for dialogue with major shareholders if required.
 The Company understands and appreciates the importance of effective communication with its employees worldwide.
Where there are matters arising in the Company which could impact staff there is an appropriate consultation process.
This is mainly achieved through monthly divisional meetings where employee-related items are initially discussed.
Divisional Vice-Presidents and or General Manager will in turn consult their employees and feedback any constructive responses before the Company proceeds in making 40 decisions.
The Company is re-developing its Headquarters in Kings Langley to have a state of the art building providing substantial improvement in our working environment for our employees and the Company will continue to have a dialogue with employees to ensure their views and observations are taken into consideration in the re-development process.
 The Company recognizes that it has responsibilities to all stakeholders which include the interests of employees and their families: the need to foster the Companys business relationships with partners, customers, suppliers, and others: the impact of the Companys operations on the local community and the surrounding environment where it operates.
Employees are highly regarded and valued, and their employment and other rights are respected.
The Group is committed to the important principle of equal opportunity which is reflected in the Companys recruitment, disciplinary and grievance policies.
The Company is dedicated to supplying products of top quality to meet its customers requirements in a manner that is consistent with high environmental and ethical standards.
The Company makes contributions to local charities and communities in the areas which it operates its business.
 The Board understands and recognizes the increasing importance of environmental issues, although it has limited direct impact on the environment since it is not involved in heavy industry or any direct manufacturing activity.
Company premises are offices, with the main activity in the Group being the development of hardware and software designs by employees working on computers, involving neither the use of hazardous substances or complex waste emissions.
The Group continues its promotion and support of practices for the use of resources in an environmentally friendly manner.
The Group has energy saving measures in place for recycling components, such as printed circuit boards, toner cartridges, surplus packaging and paper.
The Group discourages Company vehicles with only a small number of vehicles throughout the Group.
PUREs commitment to ethical and environmentally sustainable manufacture is encapsulated within EcoPlus www.
com ecoplus, which remains at the heart of all PUREs design, manufacturing and logistics decision-making.
PURE has worked throughout 2011 to reduce the power consumption of all of its radio products, and has made particular strides with reduction in the power of internet radio with the introduction of ONE Flow the first internet radio to meet the stringent requirements of the EST specification for digital radio.
In total, PURE now has fifteen EST accredited radios, with more to come.
During the peak trading period of 2010, PUREs Make a Difference trade and consumer campaign promoted the sale of these EST recommended radios.
PURE have met their obligations under the EC Directive on Batteries and Accumulators and Waste Batteries and Accumulators 2006 66 EC through their membership of the compliance scheme eBatt.
With respect to the Groups sub-contract manufacturing activities, all facilities are regularly SEDEX audited to ensure that good employment standards and practices are in place, and the Company has taken the necessary action to comply with the provisions of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment Regulations 2005 RoHS and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE.
The Company is a member of the compliance scheme REPIC to meet our obligations as a producer of WEEE and are members of the Distributor Takeback Scheme run by Valpak to meet our obligations as direct sellers.
The Company complies with EC Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC 1907 2006, known as Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH.
The Company also complies with The Energy Using Products Directive EuP 2005 32 EC which sets out the minimum requirements for eco-design for energy using products.
The Group continues to provide information to shareholders electronically and make documents available through the website rather than via paper copies.
The Group can report that with support from shareholders less than 1% of shareholders now receive paper copies, thereby providing significant environmental and cost benefits.
The Group has a Ride 2 Work scheme for employees which gives benefits to the environment.
 The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment Programme GRP with universities and colleges throughout the UK having developed strong relationships with a number of universities including the University of Southampton, Imperial College of London and the University of Bristol.
As a direct result of our GRP we have had 20 undergraduates on internship during the year.
In 2011 12 we have a much higher target for the GRP and will continue to expand the number of universities and colleges who can participate with placements and or internship, as well as graduate recruitment.
We have linked up with universities which reflect our technical skillset and are supporting and developing these into centres of excellence for students in line with our intellectual property activities around the Company.
In 2011 the Company sponsored the EPSRC UK ICT Pioneers Event which was open to all second and third year PhD students in the UK.
The Event was created to showcase and reward research with exploitation potential in the UK with five cash prizes of 2,000 available.
The Company is increasingly working closer with funding bodies such as EPSRC to support and contribute to research in the UK.
41 Scholarships,  The Group offers a wide range of other incentives to young people varying from the sponsorship of electronic courses at local schools: giving scholarship awards to students at University to promote career opportunities at our Company and financial awards to successful internships with the intention that the students come to work for the Group in the future.
The Company continues to run an apprenticeship programme for 16 year olds, and also invites 10-15 young people annually for structured work experience to learn more about and experience some of the careers available in our sector.
ConflictsofInterest The Company has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorization of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorize a conflict, or potential conflict, the Directors have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The authorization of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorization, may be reviewed at any time and are reviewed formally by the Group on an annual basis.
There have been no conflicts of interest in the year.
HealthandSafety The Group takes the health and safety of its employees, business partners, contractors and any visitors to Group premises seriously.
During the year the Group has continued working with its insurance broker, Henderson Risk Management in health and safety matters.
The Group has a health and safety committee and it held meetings at all three UK sites to consider health and safety issues.
The Committee reviews new relevant and appropriate legislation and regulations governing the workplace and responds to feedback from employees on any particular items in their division or building.
The Company Secretary is Chairman of the Committee which meets on a quarterly basis.
InternalControls RiskManagement The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the system of internal control is effective.
This covers all material controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk management systems.
This system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides only reasonable and not absolute assurances against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors reviewed the existing risk management processes within the operating businesses to document and report on significant areas of business risks and their controls and that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
There is an ongoing process for the effective identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place throughout the year and as at the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Under this process the Board receives a detailed report outlining all the main risks associated with both the Technology and PURE businesses and the report is reviewed thoroughly to consider if any necessary action is required to address these risks.
If the Board concludes that action is required, it is given regular updates on progress and is also made aware of any new risks that are identified as an on-going process continues throughout each year.
Executive members of the Board have day to day involvement in all aspects of the business and attend monthly management meetings at which both financial and operational performance against targets are reviewed.
Any items found during the monthly review which do not meet previously agreed targets are discussed in order to ensure that any corrective actions are implemented.
A comprehensive budget is presented for the forthcoming year and approved by the Board.
Expenditure is controlled against formal authorization limits.
Major items of capital and revenue expenditure and all treasury matters are reserved for members of the Board alone.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the need for an Internal Auditor, and, after taking into account the size of the organization, have concluded that at this stage there is no requirement.
ComplianceStatement The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period.
Save the exceptions listed below, the Company has complied throughout the current accounting year ended 30 April 2011 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
As the Board is small, a Nominations Committee has not been appointed consisting solely of Non Executive Directors.
All nominations to the Board will be considered by the full Board.
The Board are aware that both Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown have been Non-Executive Directors for more than nine years and that, in accordance with the Code, they will be submitting themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has carefully considered their roles in the Company and believes that they are Independent Directors.
The Board have appointed a new Non-Executive Director during the year and continue the search to appoint another Non-Executive Director in the forthcoming financial year.
