BUSINESS O BUSINESS OV VER ERVIEW VIEW NICHE LEADERSHIP OUR PEOPLE We concentrate on global niche markets where we already hold, or can achieve, a market leadership position and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves from our competitors with end-user insight and application of innovative technology.
The disciplines of Key Account Management and STRATEGIC CONVERGENCE MARKET LEADERSHIP IN GLOBAL NICHES KEY ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT We are focused on working with industry or World class Key Account Management KAM sector leading customers in global niche markets and project management are important who have good exposure to the key global trends disciplines for the effective delivery of bespoke which are driving growth.
We currently operate solutions to our customers.
We focus on the in around 40 niche markets globally across our key elements of the IMI KAM model, including businesses, where in many cases we benefit from customer segment selection and end market being market leaders through our innovative drivers, Engineering Advantage through bespoke customer solutions.
ideation and innovation, capturing value through pricing and negotiation, and delivering TA Hydronics have demonstrated their market sustainable results by first class execution.
leadership in such niche markets by setting up the Hydronic College.
Gilbert Gremont, who is Lucy McQuillan is the Key Account Director for responsible for knowledge and training in France, the IMI Group and in this role drives profitable has developed a range of training courses covering growth through best practice approaches to KAM.
The internal training Previously, as the Global Vice President of Yum!
ensures continuous improvement and that we Brands Account with Cornelius, Lucy helped to remain leaders within the industry.
broaden the offer into new categories of more profitable beverages directly as a result of the The external programme allows us to educate customers need to expand their menu offering.
amongst others our customers and stakeholders: installers, consultants, contractors, commissioners Applying the insights of profitable category and developers.
We help them to solve their specic development with the customers application, problems in respect of complex indoor comfort such as labour utilisation and speed of service, requirements, whilst addressing global issues such has consistently delivered unique differentiated as energy efficiency.
Our seminar programme covers products for both the customer and IMI.
a wide range of topics including our core hydronic competencies: pressurisation and water quality, balancing and control, and thermostatic control.
Over the last three years more than 160,000 people have participated globally.
Gilbert Gremont, Knowledge and Training Manager, Lucy McQuillan, Key Account Director, IMI France, TA Hydronics 8 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Engineering Advantage are central to achieving this aim.
IMI is increasing its investment in these two key areas to underpin the Groups aspirations of accelerating top line growth and delivering further margin improvement.
We also target markets where we can provide aftermarket support in the form of service and spares to our customers installed product base.
AFTERMARKET ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE IMI converts industry knowledge and market We have developed an agile service business insight into design-engineered solutions, which that provides maximum exibility across the creates competitive advantage for our customers.
Our global footprint We call this Engineering Advantage.
is expanding in order to support customer demands in the emerging markets.
We deliver Engineering Advantage to our customers through the unique combination Across the Group, many of our businesses of engineering know-how and uid controls are unique in the industry for our direct sales technology.
We focus on solving our customers approach and dedicated support for customers problems, enabling them to operate faster, more worldwide.
We will continue to nd innovative efficiently and more cost effectively.
ways to provide even greater aftermarket support for our customers.
Mark Sealy, Global Engineering Director for Norgrens Commercial Vehicle CV Sector, is The North American aftermarket group is responsible for dening product strategy and responsible for supporting approximately 10,000 co-ordinating technology development across the CCI valves installed at roughly 1,000 sites.
seven Norgren sites that comprise our international The aftermarket group consists of sales teams, CV business.
Increasingly, his team is stepping up engineering support, repair capabilities, a dedicated from delivering components, to developing bespoke cross-functional operations team and a eld-service modules and complete systems to OEMs all over support team dedicated to proactively delivering the world, helping them to meet emissions custom aftermarket solutions to our customers.
legislation and improve vehicle performance.
Recently, a US electricity company turned to CCI for some spare valve parts for a new generation Our Engineering Advantage comes from responding unit.
Working together, the aftermarket team quickly to new opportunities through creative delivered over 60 parts in just three weeks normally solutions, often leveraging proven elements from 12 so that the plant could be commissioned on the different business units.
We specialise in precise designated start-up date.
uid and motion control products which are t for purpose, in the hostile environments on trucks.
Mark Sealy, Director, Commercial Vehicle Sector, Norgren Nengi Krukrubo, Senior Manager, Operations, CCI Steve Martens, Director of North America Aftermarket, CCI 9 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROWTH DRIVERS OUR INSIGHTS We have identied a set of mega trends that will impact on our business and markets over the coming years: climate change, resource scarcity, urbanisation and ageing population.
Our products and services are ideally positioned to respond to these key environmental and demographic trends that are shaping the future.
Integrating these trends, or growth drivers, into our business strategy has enabled us to identify a set of new product opportunities: meeting the energy challenge will require alternative solutions that rely on highly engineered bespoke CLIMATE CHANGE CASE STUDY: BEVERAGE DISPENSE CORNELIUS HELPS CUSTOMER WITH SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENT IMI Company: Cornelius Customer: The Kroger Co.
Location: USA Requirement Solution The Kroger Co. is one of the largest US grocery retailers.
The Kroger Co. chose Cornelius high quality, reliable, Viper Sustainability is an integral part of their business and is Frozen Carbonated Beverage FCB machine, which has embedded in the companys core values and mission.
a patented energy saving design resulting in an average saving of 25% compared with traditional FCB equipment.
A key new concept was introduced in 2010 to increase revenue, whereby an area at the front of a select number Cornelius applied its expertise to create Vipers efficient of stores was designated for a convenience-store C-store refrigeration design, compressor technology and novel concept, including a retail food service area and fountain adaptive Intelligent Defrost feature which allows and frozen beverage dispense sections.
maximum uptime, and reduces wear on components.
Additionally, Cornelius experience in valve technology Consequently, The Kroger Co. needed a sustainable frozen ensures Viper properly mixes the syrup and water to dispenser solution with high performance and reliability, directly reduce the number of refrigeration system cycles and which was in line with their legacy in sustainability required to keep the product frozen.
leadership, to include in their new C-store outlets.
Vipers LED lighting provides seven times the life expectancy of uorescent bulbs which reduces its carbon footprint, and also eliminates waste and disposal fees.
The insulating foam is environmentally friendly with zero Global Warming Potential GWP and zero Ozone Depleting Potential ODP.
All of Vipers electronics are compliant with the RoHS directive Reduction of Hazardous Substances.
Viper FCB machine 10 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS technology, the development of mega cities will require energy-efficient building solutions, and the development of new transportation networks will require technology that meets stringent legislation.
STRATEGIC All our platform businesses continue to focus on Engineering Advantage to deliver sustainable solutions CONVERGENCE whilst also limiting the impact our operations have on local communities and the environment.
RESOURCE SCARCITY CASE STUDY: SEVERE SERVICE CCI IMPROVES PERFORMANCE AND REDUCES NOISE LEVELS AT SEA IMI Company: CCI Customer: Statoil Location: Norwegian North Sea Requirement Solution Statoil owns two oil and gas platforms in the Snorre eld The CCI Valve Doctors recommended a more advanced in the Norwegian North Sea.
The Snorre B inlet gas severe service valve to signicantly reduce the noise and separator pressure control system is used intermittently vibration.
The custom-built 34-stage 100D control valve each month for periods ranging from as little as five boasts a high ow 10 stroke.
Offering one of the lowest minutes to as long as five hours.
The control valve within outlet energies in the industry, the 100D is capable of the system regulates the transfer of uid to a buffer tank.
achieving noise levels as low as 85 decibels - levels If the pressure within the tank rises above a set point, the similar to that heard inside a car.
Employing CCIs patented DRAG technology, the 100D When the gas separator pressure control system onboard incorporates experience and expertise drawn from over Snorre B began experiencing excessive noise and higher 40 years of preventing the development of high uid than expected use, Statoil turned to CCI to evaluate the velocities across all valve settings in multiple industries.
Referred to as the organ by By incorporating multiple disk stacks featuring varying platform employees, the existing valves inadequate ow numbers of pressure reducing stages, CCI DRAG valves control created very high noise levels in excess of 130 offer superior control that improves plant performance, decibels - louder than a 747 aeroplane.
Additionally, the prevents vibration damage, eliminates excessive noise valve leakage and extensive production losses were and reduces maintenance and operational costs.
CCIs DRAG technology solution 11 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROWTH DRIVERS URBANISATION CASE STUDY: INDOOR CLIMATE INNOVATIVE COOLING SYSTEM SOLUTION CUTS ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY 17% FOR SALVADORS NEWEST SHOPPING CENTRE IMI Company: TA Hydronics Customer: Grupo JCPM Owner Interplan HVAC Consultant Location: Salvador, Bahia, Brazil Requirement Solution The Salvador Norte Shopping Centre in Salvador, Brazil, In the early design phase TA Hydronics supported 2 covers a total area of 107,000m, and spreads over four the choice of design principles and cooling system levels creating space for 229 shops.
technology, and was involved in hydronic calculations and component specication until project completion.
From the project outset, energy efficiency through the use of state-of-the-art cooling technology, and a total The required key features were implemented in system solution, were dened as key requirements for TA Hydronics system solution using products such as this new shopping complex.
Key features of the cooling the Compresso to ensure a well pressurised system, and system included the use of thermal energy, decoupling of the STAD valve to provide accurate hydronic balancing.
cooling and dehumidication processes, and the local They not only help to meet the energy efficiency targets, production of cooling energy to avoid energy loss during but also provide the buildings tenants with an accurate transportation.
All features are aimed at achieving and controllable room temperature and offer visitors a optimum energy efficiency.
Following successful co-operation on previous projects Salvador Norte Shopping Centre is the first building in Brazil to be awarded the Procel Edica, Brazils with both the developer and the cooling system designer, classication scheme to evaluate energy efficiency in TA Hydronics was involved right from the very beginning.
buildings, and it received an A rating!
Compresso precision STAD valve for accurate pressurisation system hydronic balancing 12 BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AGEING POPULATION CASE STUDY: FLUID POWER NORGREN SAVES MEDICAL MANUFACTURER TIME AND MONEY WITH NEW INTEGRATED VENTILATOR COMPONENT IMI Company: Norgren Customer: Shenzhen, Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd Location: China Requirement Solution Shenzhen Mindray Electronic Co. Ltd is a developer, The customised Engineering Advantage solution was manufacturer and exporter of medical devices for patient developed between the Mindray Research and monitoring, diagnostics and ultrasound imaging systems.
Development team and the Norgren Asia Technical They required a pre-assembled regulator to control the Centre ATC.
The Norgren ATC produced a fully inlet gas for a ventilator, which had to meet stringent integrated pneumatic sub-module in a compact size, dimensional requirements and critical performance with Norgrens cartridge components, including specications.
proportional valves and high precision regulators.
The regulator is at the core of the precise control of The Norgren regulator manifold can be installed directly medical level gas for the ventilator, including the inlet into the ventilator - it is real plug and play.
Each of the pressure control, ow control and pressure monitoring to components, and the fully assembled regulators, are 100% deliver a clean, safe, and stable ow of air and oxygen to pre-tested before they are delivered to the customer.
With the Norgren solution, the ventilator is 15% lighter The unit had to be compatible with both the upstream and 20% smaller, making it much more portable and and downstream pneumatic and electronic circuit of the convenient.
This solution also saves approximately 60% ventilator, and make the machine more compact and in assembly time, and 10% in cost, which is allowing power efficient.
It also had to be user friendly, and easy Mindray to rapidly supply more ventilators across China, to set up and test.
and the world, as the need grows for use with life support systems, due to the worlds ageing population.
