BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD REPORTS THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Set out below is the Boards formal report on corporate governance.
Compliance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and complied with its best practice provisions as set out below in the Boards report on corporate governance and in its Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67.
The Board is able to report compliance with the Code throughout 2011, subject to the need to ll one vacancy for a non-executive director which arose in November 2011.
The Board At the end of the year the Board comprised ten directors: the Chairman: Chief Executive: four independent non-executive directors: the Finance Director and three operational executive directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted below and in the Directors Report.
In order to balance the mix of non-executive and executive directors, at least one additional non-executive director is to be appointed and a search is underway.
The non-executive directors are all free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
All of them meet the criteria for independence under the Code and are regarded by the Board as independent of the Groups executive management.
The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, was also regarded as independent at the date of his appointment to the Board.
Terry Gateley is the senior independent director.
The nonexecutive directors are from varied backgrounds and bring with them a wide range of skills and experience of senior management in commerce and industry.
Biographical details of the current directors are shown on pages 36 and 37.
In line with the Code, all continuing directors submit themselves for re-election at annual general meetings.
The Board provides leadership, direction and governance for the Company and oversees business and management performance.
In December 2010, the Board adopted a Corporate Governance Framework which defines Board roles and includes the list of matters reserved to it and written delegations of authority for its committees and the executive management.
Board reserved matters include strategy and key areas of policy, major operational and strategic risks, significant investment decisions and material changes in the organisation of the Group.
The Board reviews budgets, forecasts and plans for the businesses of the Group on an annual basis.
Quarterly meetings of the Board consider detailed financial and management reports on the operational and strategic progress of the Group, as well as regularly tracking changes in risk assessment and controls.
Senior executives from around the Group are regularly invited by the Board to attend meetings to make presentations and join in discussion.
The Companys articles of association include certain provisions relevant to the activity of the Board and its committees and can be viewed on the Company website.
These provisions include requirements for disclosure and approval by the Board of potential conicts of interest.
These procedures apply, inter alia, to external directorships and it is the Boards view that they operated effectively during the year under review.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which is reected in the written Corporate Governance Framework approved by the Board.
In summary, the Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board but does not have any executive powers or responsibilities.
The Chief Executive leads the executive management team in running the businesses and implementing operating and strategic plans under authority delegated by the Board.
The five executive directors are: the Chief Executive, Martin Lamb: Finance Director, Douglas Hurt: and three operational executives, Sean Toomes, Roy Twite and Ian Whiting.
Changes in executive responsibilities were announced effective from 1 September 2011.
Roy Twite, in addition to continuing in his role as President of Fluid Power, assumed responsibility for the Severe Service businesses.
Ian Whiting, has responsibilities for corporate development, including M&A and developing IMIs interests in the emerging markets, and for the Group procurement function.
Sean Toomes runs the Indoor Climate business and has functional responsibility for compliance, environmental, health and safety matters.
Non-executive directors are supported in becoming familiar with the businesses during and after induction and there is regular contact between management and non-executive directors during site visits and formal meetings and events like the annual management conference.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board meetings operate to an appropriate agenda, and that adequate information is provided sufciently in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration.
He is supported by the Company Secretary, who also assists in ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the standing committees of the Board.
The Board has a recognised procedure for any director to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense and all directors have access to the Company Secretary who is a solicitor.
The Board met on nine occasions during the year including four quarterly reviews, strategy discussions, visits to operations and meetings convened for special purposes as the need arose.
All members of the Board were in attendance at each of the meetings held during their tenure save that Kevin Beeston, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite missed one special purpose meeting but none of them missed a quarterly or strategy meeting.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 43 BOARD REPORTS THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board continued The non-executive directors met individually and as a group with the Chairman on a number of occasions during the year.
The senior independent director, Terry Gateley, met with the other non-executive directors in the absence of the Chairman, inter alia, to review the Chairmans performance as contemplated by the Combined Code.
Board induction, continuing professional development and evaluation A formal induction process for new directors has been well established for several years and is the responsibility of the Chairman with support from the Chief Executive, Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
A revised, standard induction programme for new directors has been set by the Chairman following his own experience of joining the Board in 2011.
During and after induction directors are expected to visit business units around the Group and to meet with operating management and corporate staff.
Appropriate coaching and access to training and other continuing professional development is available to all directors and all directors participated in some appropriate training during the year at Board meetings.
In line with the Code, the Board has agreed that the Chairman should arrange an externally facilitated evaluation process at least once every three years starting from 2012.
An internal evaluation of the Board and its committees was completed in 2011, the results of which the Chairman reported to the Board.
This process included questionnaires and appropriate face to face discussions including individual meetings between the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
In addition, the other directors met with the senior independent director regarding the performance of the Chairman.
The Board received the findings of the evaluation in March 2011 and the directors confirmed that the Board is fullling its responsibilities appropriately.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its committees were effective and that each director demonstrated a valuable contribution.
The contribution and performance of the directors, all of whom are standing for election or re-election at the 2012 annual general meeting, is further commented on in the notice of the annual general meeting.
Following his appointment as Chairman in November 2011, Roberto Quarta held Board effectiveness workshops with an external facilitator as mentioned in the introduction on page 42.
Standing committees of the Board The standing committees of the Board are: the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Each of these committees operates under written terms of reference which clearly set out their respective delegated responsibilities and authorities.
The full terms of reference of these committees were updated in December 2010 and are part of the Corporate Governance Framework which appears on the Company website.
The committees report to the Board on their work, normally through their respective Chairman, at quarterly or more frequent intervals as appropriate.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Terry Gateley.
All of the other independent non-executive directors were also members of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
Terry Gateley is a qualied Chartered Accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee acts in an oversight role in respect of the financial statements and reports that are prepared by executive management.
The committee received reports from the external auditor who attended its meetings when required to do so.
The committees work included reviewing the financial statements, accounting policies, significant issues of judgement and, as described below under the section headed Internal Control starting on page 47, it looked at the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The committee approved the proposed external audit approach and scope as well as the internal audit programme.
The committee takes a risk based approach to audit and other assurance activity.
The committee considered the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
In assessing auditor independence the committee had regard to the Smith Guidance for audit committees and required the auditor to confirm that its ethics and independence policies complied with the requirements of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Group policy on the use of the auditor for non-audit work is monitored by the committee and requires approval by the Chairman of the committee for any non-audit engagement where fees exceed 150,000 and does not allow work to be placed with the auditor if it could compromise auditor independence, such as functioning in the role of management or auditing its own work.
The committee also receives reports from and monitors the work of the internal audit function, known as the IMI Group Assurance Department, and reviews the operation of the Group whistle-blowing policy and the independent hotline www.
During the year the committee received an independent report on the effectiveness of the internal assurance function and will be monitoring progress of the implementation of agreed recommendations.
The committee surveyed the main subsidiaries to assess the performance and efficiency of the external auditor and believes the work has been satisfactory.
The committee recommended and the Board approved the proposal to reappoint Ernst & Young as the external auditor at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Ernst & Young was first appointed as auditor in 2009 following a formal selection process.
The term of appointment is annual and there are no contractual restrictions on the committees choice of auditor.
44 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The committee met on four occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
Minutes and papers are normally circulated to all members of the Board.
The committee normally calls upon the Chairman, all of the executive directors, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Assurance Director to attend meetings but holds at least part of several meetings each year alone with the auditor and Group Assurance Director.
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing report on its work.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Bob Stack and he, Kevin Beeston, Anita Frew and Terry Gateley were all members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Norman Askew was a member until his retirement on 31 October 2011 and Roberto Quarta joined the committee on 1 June 2011.
The committees main responsibilities are to determine the remuneration policy and individual terms and conditions in respect of the executive directors including new appointments and to set the Chairmans remuneration.
As well as salary and annual bonuses, the committee is responsible for the structure and level of the performance related elements of executive remuneration and other benets.
The committee also reviews the packages of those at the next most senior level of management and has regard to pay for employees across the Group when determining executive remuneration.
The committee met on six occasions during the year with all members in attendance.
External consultants are engaged by the committee to provide independent advice and the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Group Human Resources Director attended its meetings when required.
The committee reviewed its own performance and terms of reference and approved the foregoing summary report on its work.
More details in respect of remuneration matters are given in the Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Roberto Quarta who chairs the committee, all of the independent non-executive directors and the Chief Executive.
Norman Askew was committee chairman until he retired on 31 October 2011 and was succeeded by Roberto Quarta, who joined the committee on 1 June 2011.
During the year the committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its committees and made nominations for appointments to the Board and its committees.
External consultants are engaged by the committee in relation to any search for successor non-executives.
Appointments of non-executives are made on the basis of a standard form of appointment letter.
Each non-executive director and the Chairman were appointed on the basis of a stated minimum time commitment judged appropriate by the committee.
The committee considers that the time given by each non-executive was sufficient.
The committee also reviewed the roles of the non-executive directors and during the year it made recommendations, which were approved by the Board, concerning the appointment of Sean Toomes as an executive director.
During the year the committee spent a substantial part of its time on executive talent development and succession planning.
The senior independent non-executive director, Terry Gateley, led the search for the new Company Chairman along with the other members of the committee, excluding the outgoing Chairman, and external search consultants were engaged for this purpose.
In response to Lord Davies report on Boardroom Diversity, the Company issued a policy statement, approved by the committee and the Board, which appears on the corporate website.
Our policy is to recruit the very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reect the diverse nature of the global footprint of our businesses, reecting the location of our customers and markets.
We will continue to review the composition of our management teams and Board to ensure that we have the right mix of skills and experience while maintaining our effectiveness and execution capabilities.
We will seek a diverse pool of the best quality candidates to draw from, both internally and when recruiting externally, to maximise the continuing effectiveness of the Company.
At Board level, there are three nationalities, one of four non-executives is female and there is a broad mix of backgrounds and experience.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee of the Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and consists of all the executive directors and the Group Human Resources Director.
The secretary to the committee is the Company Secretary.
Senior executives and line managers from around the Group are regularly called upon to attend meetings of the Executive Committee.
It normally meets monthly and more often as may be required and all members attended at least ten of the twelve meetings in the year, several of which were held over two days.
The committee is the senior management body and as part of its broad remit it will monitor performance, review progress against strategic objectives, consider business management issues and formulate budgets and proposals on strategy, policy and resource allocation for consideration by the Board.
It also acts as the risk committee of the Board and receives regular reports on health and safety, compliance and legal and corporate affairs.
Its minutes are circulated to all members of the Board.
Investor relations The annual general meeting is regarded by the Board as an important opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, particularly private investors.
The 2011 annual general meeting was chaired by the Chairman, and attended by the chairmen of the standing committees of the Board and all of the other directors.
The Chairman encouraged debate and questions at the formal meeting and informally during refreshments afterwards.
IMI plc Annual Report 2011 45 BOARD REPORTS THE BOARDS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Investor relations continued Each substantially separate issue was put to the 2011 annual general meeting as an individual motion and the meeting was invited to adopt and approve the financial statements and the Directors Report for 2010.
A separate resolution for the approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to the meeting.
Notice of the 2011 annual general meeting was issued more than twenty working days in advance and the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, together with details of abstentions, were disclosed at the meeting and are shown on the Companys website.
The Board values its good relations with shareholders and resolutions proposed at the 2011 annual general meeting received great support.
In addition to the Annual Report, the Company issues preliminary results and interim results announcements in March and August, respectively, as well as, interim management statements.
The Company website includes recordings of certain key presentations made by senior management, recent annual and interim reports, interim management statements, other corporate announcements and links to the websites of Group businesses.
The Company has arranged a dealing service for the convenience of shareholders with Equiniti details are shown on page 134.
A sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme was established on 16 February 2011 for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary details on page 134.
The Board as a whole seeks to maintain a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and to assist them in the stewardship of their investments.
Dialogue is maintained with shareholders and the executive directors meet regularly with institutional investors.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have primary responsibility at board level for investor relations and report thereon to the Board at least quarterly.
They are supported by the Investor Relations Director, Will Shaw.
In addition, financial analysts notes are circulated to the directors and regular feedback reports from the Companys brokers are supplemented by periodic, independent surveys of major investors views.
The Chairman, senior independent director and other non-executives do meet with major shareholders upon request, and will do so if any of them considers it appropriate: informal meetings of this type did take place in 2011 and there were also consultations with the larger shareholders and institutional shareholder representative bodies in respect of remuneration matters.
Information about share capital, substantial shareholdings, voting and other rights of shareholders, directors appointments, removal and powers is set out in the Directors Report on pages 38 to 41.
Risk management processes The Board has assigned specic responsibility to the Executive Committee to act as the risk committee of the Board.
This is a key feature of the remit of the Executive Committee, which is part of the IMI Corporate Governance Framework.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements of risk management systems in respect of which the Board has oversight.
The annual strategic risk review process is integrated into the annual forecasting and business planning requirements of the Group and monitoring and updates are carried out between annual reviews.
Each operating unit and corporate function is therefore required to undertake a regular process of business risk assessment and reporting.
The President of each business division has appointed a Risk Champion with responsibility for embedding the Group risk assessment process in their business.
The businesses risk reports, including mitigation action plans for significant risks, are reviewed by the most senior executive within the relevant business and then considered by the Group Assurance Director who puts regular reports to the Executive Committee, which in turn submits a full annual risk review and at least two updates each year to the Board.
The other corporate functions go through a similar process and their input is reected in these reports.
The Chairman and Terry Gateley, the senior independent non-executive and chair of the Audit Committee, attended the Executive Committees annual risk review meeting.
The divisional business Presidents present their strategic risks to the Board as part of the annual business plan session and the Board explicitly considers the risks associated with the Companys strategic objectives.
The Executive Committee also reports to the Board on major business and other risks involved in specic investment decisions including acquisitions.
During the year the Board received reports on risk issues from the Executive Committee and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in relation to financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered and reported to the Board on the financial aspects of internal control.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit work carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.
The Remuneration Committee conducted a review of incentive arrangements with reference to their alignment with strategic objectives and appropriate risk-taking.
Through these processes significant risks are identied, assessed and ranked according to their probability and materiality and, following Executive Committee review, the Board considers what measures are appropriate in order to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.
Risk appetite across the range of strategic objectives of the Group was also reviewed by the Board.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on pages 34 to 35.
Financial reporting processes The use of the Group accounting manual and prescribed reporting requirements by finance teams throughout the Group are important in ensuring that the Groups accounting policies are clearly established and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting package by 46 Board reports BUSINESS OVERVIEW GROUP OPERATING REVIEW RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BOARD REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS all entities in the Group ensures that information is presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
Internal control The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups system of internal control and confirms that the system of internal control takes into account the Combined Code and relevant guidance as updated in 2005 by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
In the IMI Corporate Governance Framework the Board has clearly dened in writing those matters which are reserved to it and the respective delegated authorities of its committees and it has also set written limits of authority for the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
The Group has a clear organisational structure and well established reporting and control disciplines.
Managers of operating units assume responsibility for and exercise a high degree of autonomy in running day-to-day trading activities.
They do this within a framework of clear rules, policies and delegated authorities regarding business conduct, approval of proposals for investment and material changes in operations and are subject to regular senior management reviews of performance.
All operating units prepare forward plans and forecasts which are reviewed in detail by the Executive Committee and consolidated for review by the Board.
Performance against forecast is continuously monitored by the executive directors, reviewed at monthly meetings of the Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis by the Board.
Minimum standards for accounting systems and controls, which are documented and monitored, are promulgated throughout the Group.
Certied quarterly reports are required from senior executives of operating units, conrming compliance with Group financial reporting requirements.
There is also a central internal audit function, the IMI Group Assurance Department, which operates a rolling programme of internal assurance reporting and reviews.
These include on site reviews of selected operating units which are carried out by the IMI Group Assurance Department.
Additionally, visits to operations are carried out by senior Group finance personnel.
These internal assurance processes are co-ordinated with the external auditor.
Capital investments are subject to a clear process for investment appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review, with major investment proposals referred for consideration by the Executive Committee and, according to their materiality, to the Board.
In addition, the Executive Committee and the Board regularly review the operation of corporate policies and controls in relation to ethics and compliance matters, treasury activities, environmental issues, health and safety, human resources, taxation, insurance and pensions.
Compliance and audit reports are made to the Board, and to the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee, to enable control issues and developments to be monitored.
Control processes are dynamic and continuous improvements are made to adapt them to the changing risk prole of operations and to implement proportionate measures to address any identied weakness in the internal control system.
More information in relation to risk is given above under the heading Risk management processes.
Through the procedures outlined above the Board has considered the effectiveness of all significant aspects of internal control for the year 2011 and up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Board believes that the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Business model A description of how the Group preserves and generates value and the strategy for delivering its long-term objectives is given in the Business Overview section on pages 4 to 5 and 10 to 15.
Responsible business A major ethics and compliance programme, known as The IMI Way, has been adopted across the Group and is led by the Group Compliance Manager, Jo Morgan.
Reports on compliance and The IMI Way programme are considered at every regular meeting of the Board and the Executive Committee.
The Board takes account of the social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and The IMI Way Code of Responsible Business incorporates a series of corporate policies and standards for responsible business across the Group.
At a Group level, responsible business activity is co-ordinated through a steering group chaired by Sean Toomes and key issues of corporate social responsibility are identied, monitored and addressed through the Groups general business processes and risk management framework.
The Company satisfies the FTSE4Good global corporate responsibility criteria and has been awarded membership of the FTSE4Good Index.
In addition, IMI has membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
More information on corporate social responsibility matters is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the Company website.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 1 March 2012 IMI plc Annual Report 2011 47
