Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 46 Corporate Governance Report Our commitment to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and business conduct remains fundamental to ensuring our longterm sustainability.
All Directors are equally accountable for the longterm interests The Board and the Groups Key Committees of our shareholders and take account of the wider interests represented by our employees, customers and suppliers.
Board All Board and Committee meetings during the year were held At 30 September 2011 our Board was made up of nine people: in an open atmosphere with chairmen encouraging robust and our Chairman, ChiefExecutive, Finance Director and six constructive challenge and debate.
The Board met six times during the year.
The open atmosphere enabled our NonExecutive Directors to use their judgement, experience and independence to critically We believe that it is vital to our ongoing development and review and, where appropriate, challenge strategies proposed longterm sustainability that our Directors have the right mix of by management.
This ensures the further development of our backgrounds and experiences.
The biographies of our Directors business, effective use of our resources and that we maintain at 30 September 2011, on page 45, demonstrate such a mix our high standards of conduct.
Whereappropriate, papers including detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry, the wider presented to ourBoard include environmental, community, fastmoving consumer goods FMCG sector and a wide range ethical and reputational issues, fully integrating them into our of international business and financial experience.
Directors decision making and risk assessment processes.
In 2011 the during the year to 30 September 2011 are shown on page 49.
Board considered the retirement and appointment of Directors, On 3 October 2011, to further strengthen the Board, we our corporate and annual plans, our funding arrangements appointed Malcolm Wyman as a NonExecutive Director.
specifically refinancing through Bond issues and the outcome Mr Wyman, a chartered accountant, brings considerable of the Board evaluation.
In addition, as part of the strategy international experience in driving growth in the FMCG industry.
meeting senior managers from across the business presented on key strategic issues.
Board Operations Our Board manages overall control of the Groups affairs.
By reviewing the Groups results at each Board meeting Key to this control is the schedule of matters which are weensure Directors are kept informed of our progress.
reserved for consideration by our Board and on which any Between meetings, Directors are supplied with monthly final decision must be made by the Board.
These include performance reports, including detailed commentary and analysis.
Directors were fully informed of all Committee matters approving our strategy, corporate plans, major corporate by the Committee chairmen reporting on theproceedings activities, financial statements, payment of dividends of their Committee at the subsequent Board meeting, with andtheappointment or removal of Directors and the copies of Committee minutes distributed to allDirectors.
Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors Chairman 1 2 Executive 6 Non-Executive Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 47 Our NonExecutive Directors play a key role in corporate Following the annual Board evaluation, page 48, the Board accountability and governance through their membership of concluded at its meeting in September 2011 that all our theBoards Committees.
The membership and remit ofeach NonExecutive Directors continue to contribute effectively Committee are considered below, together with arecord of andconstructively to Board debate, to demonstrate eachDirectors attendance.
commitment to their role, to objectively challenge and robustly question management and at all times to have the best interests To ensure Directors are kept uptodate on developing issues of our shareholders in mind.
and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, our Chairman and chairmen of the Committees We, therefore, confirm that, with the exception of our Chairman, communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, members of the Operating Executive.
our NonExecutive Directors remain independent as defined in the Code.
Chairman and Chief Executive Our Chairman and Chief Executive have clearly defined Conflicts of Interest andseparate responsibilities whilst retaining a close working To address the provisions of Section 175 of the Companies relationship.
They meet regularly between Board meetings Act2006 the Act relating to conflicts of interest, our Articles toensure a full understanding of evolving issues and to facilitate ofAssociation allow the Board to authorise situations in which swift decision making.
They are responsible to our shareholders aDirector has, or may have, a conflict of interest.
for the successful delivery of our strategy.
Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational Through his effective leadership of the Board, our Chairman and or transactional conflicts which are considered at the ensures all Directors are able to effectively contribute to following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, discussions such that we fully benefit from their wide range situational conflicts are authorised.
We do not allow any Director of skills and experience.
The Chairman, supported by our to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their Senior Independent Director, is responsible for our effective own conflicts.
communication with our shareholders and ensuring they can The Board has considered and authorised a number of raise any concerns.
situations all of which relate tothe holding of external Our Chief Executive, supported by the Operating Executive directorships and have been entered in our Conflicts Register.
andthe Development Executive, is responsible for developing No actual conflicts have been identified.
The Board considers our strategy and presenting it to the Board, the successful that these procedures operate effectively.
implementation of the agreed strategy and thedaytoday As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting operational leadership of the Group.
in September 2011 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations Non-Executive Directors entered in the Conflicts Register.
We see having a Board with the right skill set as vital to In order to underpin his independence we entered into an ourongoing success.
Our NonExecutive Directors bring agreement with Mr B Setrakian on 25 June 2008 to minimise adiverse range of business and financial expertise to the the risk of any conflict of interest between Dewey &LeBoeuf LLP, Board, which complements and supplements the expertise of which he is a partner, and the Company.
This agreement remains of the Executive Directors.
This range of expertise and in full force and effect and the Board confirms his compliance experience enables them to evaluate information provided with its terms and, therefore, his continued independence.
and constructively challenge managements viewpoints and assumptions.
Following the annual review theBoard is satisfied there is no compromise to the independence of those Directors who have board appointments or relationships with companies outside theGroup.
Director Industry Background Experience 2 2 Energy Tobacco 1 1 Manufacturing Legal 3 FMCG Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 48 Corporate Governance Report continued Information, Support and Professional Development Our Senior Independent Director met with the NonExecutive New Directors receive a detailed induction and briefing Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to programme, tailored to their needs, which includes site visits consider the performance of the Chairman.
and meetings with our advisers and key senior managers.
The results of these meetings and the evaluation formed the Thesemeetings include briefings on strategy, operational issues, basis of a onetoone meeting between our Senior Independent corporate responsibility andcorporate affairs issues, legal Director and Chairman.
matters, product stewardship, environmental management, social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial The Chairman held meetings with the NonExecutive Directors riskmanagement.
to consider, amongst other things, the performance of the Executive Directors.
No training needs were identified this year, although ongoing training is available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
The main areas identified for review were the future size and We also provide regular briefings to Directors on relevant issues structure of the Board, including the ongoing succession plans such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate for Directors approaching retirement, ensuring the continuing governance developments.
development and delivery of the Groups strategy together with the further alignment of the Groups remuneration policies to Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received support this strategy.
briefings from our Auditors and remuneration adviser respectively to ensure they remain uptodate with current The evaluation did not identify any significant areas for concern regulations and developments.
nor any requirement to provide extra training for ourDirectors and, as such, the Board andits Committees are satisfied they Our Directors can also seek independent professional advice, are operating and performing effectively.
The evaluation also atour expense, if they think this is necessary for them to carry confirmed that all our Directors have sufficient time, knowledge out their responsibilities.
They also have access to the advice and commitment to contribute effectively to our Board and its and support of our Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, Committees and that it remains appropriately constituted.
who is also the Company Secretary, and, where appropriate, theservices of other employees, for all governance and To address the issues identified in the 2010 Board evaluation, regulatory matters.
during the year the structure and succession plans of the Board were reviewed together with theskill sets required of Performance Evaluation any potential new nonexecutive directors.
In order to continue to obtain the maximum benefit from our annual Board performance evaluation, new external facilitators, Insurance who have no other connection with the Group, were appointed We have purchased and, throughout the year, maintained to provide varying skills and a new focus for the2011 Board appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers evaluation.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, The facilitators obtained feedback from each Director through in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the detailed questionnaires individual and collective, interviews and Act.
These indemnities were in force throughout the year and up attendance at a Board meeting.
The feedback was collated into to the date of this Report.
a report which was presented tothe Board and used as the basis for onetoone discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
How the Board Spends its Time % Other 10 5 Feedback from 35 Committees Strategy 10 Governance 15 Financial 25 Operating performance performance and nancing Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 49 Structure of the Board and Board Committees Nominations Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Michael Herlihy Chairman Iain Napier Chairman Iain Napier Chairman Mark Williamson Chairman Pierre Jungels Alison Cooper Pierre Jungels Senior Ken Burnett Michael Herlihy Chief Executive Independent Director Susan Murray Michael Herlihy Pierre Jungels Susan Murray Graham Blashill Pierre Jungels Mark Williamson Susan Murray to 15 February 2011 Berge Setrakian Matthew Phillips Secretary Susan Murray Matthew Phillips Secretary Ken Burnett Mark Williamson to 7 September 2011 Berge Setrakian Robert Dyrbus Matthew Phillips Trevor Williams Secretary Mark Williamson Secretary from 7 September 2011 Michael Herlihy Matthew Phillips Secretary Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders Nominations Audit Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 6 2 4 4 1 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper 6 6 1 1 1 Mr G L Blashill 2 2 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 6 6 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 6 6 2 2 1 1 Dr K M Burnett 6 6 2 2 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 Dr P H Jungels 5 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 1 1 Ms S E Murray 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 1 1 Mr B Setrakian 6 6 2 2 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 1 1 1 Mr G L Blashill retired from the Board on 2 February 2011.
2 Due to prior commitments, Dr P H Jungels was unable to attend one Board meeting which was called at short notice.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is the number which they were eligible to attend.
As part of the Groups policy of annual review, the terms of reference for the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees were reviewed and, where necessary, updated during the year and are published on our website, www.
They are also available from the Company Secretary.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 50 Corporate Governance Report continued Operating Executive Development Executive Alison Cooper Chief Executive and Chairman of the Operating and Development Executives Members Members Alison Cooper Chairman Matthew Phillips Group Corporate Alison Cooper Chairman Claudio Righetti Director, and Legal Affairs Director Strategy and Foresight Graham Blashill Mike Ashton Director of to 15 February 2011 Walter Prinz Group Manufacturing, Business Performance Planning Conrad Tate Corporate Research & Development Director and Travel Retail Development Director Robert Dyrbus Kathryn Turner Group Human Graham Blashill Arthur van Benthem Group Sales Helen Clatworthy Group Supply Resources Director to 15 February 2011 Director from 1 March 2011 Chain Director Arthur van Benthem Group Sales Roberto Funari Group Marketing Fernando Dominguez Chief Director from 1 March 2011 Director from 15 November 2010 Operating Officer Cigar Business Matthew Phillips Group Corporate Roberto Funari Group Marketing and Legal Affairs Director Director from 15 November 2010 Overview Overview The Operating Executive comprises the Executive Directors The Development Executive meets on a monthly basis and andkey members of our senior management team, meets supports the Chief Executive with the management of key on a monthly basis and is responsible for assisting our Chief planning processes and development activities, including Executive in developing and implementing our strategy and the evaluating and coordinating business development and daytoday management of the Group.
otherdevelopment initiatives and managing the corporate planning process.
Achievements During the year the Operating Executive met its responsibilities Achievements by assisting the Chief Executive in: During the year the Development Executive met its responsibilities by assisting the Chief Executive in: reviewing and subsequently recommending to the Board changes to Group strategy: leading the process to define and develop the Groupsstrategy: ensuring effective implementation of Group strategy: providing specific focus on the planning and business daytoday operational management of the Group within the development agendas and opportunities for theGroup: authorities delegated by the Board: evaluating regulatory developments: and monitoring the detailed operational performance of all aspects of the business: managing the corporate planning process.
risk management and internal control within the framework set by the Board: ensuring the Group achieves its financial and nonfinancial targets: managing daytoday cross functional issues: and ensuring the use of the Groups resources areoptimised.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 51 Main Activities During the Year Nominations Committee Following a rigorous process, including the identification of the desired skills and experience, the instruction of an external consultant, consideration of candidates against the required skills and formal interviews, the Committee recommended the appointment of Mr Wyman as a NonExecutive Director.
The Committee also considered and recommended to the Board the acceptance of the retirements of Mr Blashill and DrJungels.
Board Changes We continually review the composition and balance of our Iain Napier Chairman Board to ensure we have the right structure, skills and expertise in place for the effective management of our multinational business.
Members Iain Napier Chairman Berge Setrakian Mr Blashill retired as a Director on 2 February 2011 but Ken Burnett Mark Williamson remained an employee until 15 February 2011 to assist in the Michael Herlihy Matthew Phillips Secretary smooth handover of his sales and marketing responsibilities.
Pierre Jungels Mr Wyman was appointed as a NonExecutive Director with Susan Murray effect from 3 October 2011.
Dr Jungels, our Senior Independent Director, will be retiring from Overview the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting The Nominations Committee comprises all our NonExecutive AGM and will not be seeking reelection.
Directors, meets as required, and ensures we have the best Re-election of Directors people on our Board.
Following a rigorous selection process and recommendation Achievements bythe Nominations Committee, all Directors are appointed During the year the Committee met its responsibilities by: bythe Board and are subject to annual reelection by shareholders.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of our Board: Before recommending such reelection the performance of each Director is considered as part of the annual evaluation of the developing role specifications: Board.
Following the 2011 evaluation the Board recommends formulating succession plans: and the reelection of all Directors who are standing for reelection atour 2012 AGM.
making recommendations tothe Board with regard to the appointment of directors.
We recognise that a number of shareholders have expressed concern that annual reelection of Directors could encourage Appointing the best people to our Board, regardless of gender, them to take a shortterm view.
We are, however, confident that race, religion, age or disability, is crucial.
Board appointments our remuneration policies encourage Directors to act in the best are made purely on merit so that we have the right skill set longterm interests of stakeholders, for example through bonus tobuild on our long track record of success.
We appoint targets and claw back provisions, the longterm focus of our individuals from diverse backgrounds to ensure the Board remuneration strategy and shareholding requirements.
has a wide range of business and financial expertise.
The composition, skill set and balance of our Board, together with the length of service of each Director, is reviewed regularly to identify the skills required of future directors.
We are confident the Directors have Tenure of Non-Executive Directors the skills and expertise to successfully deliver our strategy.
Iain Napier, Chairman 2 8 and over years 3 3 to 4 years The Committees terms of reference are published onour website, www.
2 They are also available from the 5 to 7 years Company Secretary.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 52 Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee metits responsibilities by: Audit Committee approving our accounting policies: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of our financial statements and any announcements or judgements they contain including our Half Yearly Report and Annual Report and Accounts and recommending that these be approved byour Board: receiving reports from, and questioning, members of Group Compliance, Group Finance and other functions.
This provides the Committee with the information required to Mark Williamson oversee our systems of internal control for financial reporting, Chairman internal control policies, corporate governance procedures, the system of risk management and to assess the review and Members mitigation of associated risks: Mark Williamson, CA SA Susan Murray Chairman reviewing the Auditors presentation of their proposed audit Matthew Phillips Secretary Michael Herlihy plan, fee proposal and confirmation of their independence.
Pierre Jungels This, together with managements assessment of the Auditors effectiveness and independence, allows the Committee to establish the scope, effectiveness, Overview independence and objectivity of our Auditors and, if The Audit Committee oversees our financial reporting and appropriate, recommend their reappointment to the Board: internal controls and provides a formal reporting link with receiving and, after due consideration, approving Group ourAuditors.
Compliances proposed work plan and compliance Structure programme for the year.
Reports from Group Compliance The Audit Committee comprises four Independent are then used to monitor the performance and effectiveness NonExecutive Directors.
Mr Williamson is a qualified of controls operating throughout the business: accountant and, therefore, we met the requirements of the overseeing our public interest disclosure whistleblowing Code and the Committees terms of reference that at least policy by receiving reports of its distribution through our one of its members is a financial expert.
nonfinancial reporting system and receiving reports in The Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Head respectof all disclosures made via the policy: ofGroup Compliance, the Deputy Company Secretary and other consideration of managements report that there were no financial managers are invited to attend each meeting of the material related party matters: and Committee.
The Head of Group Compliance meets formally with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager consideration of the accounting treatment relating to ongoing being present, at each meeting.
Our Auditors also attend each enquiries detailed on pages 58 and 59. meeting and have the opportunity to meet Committee members without any Executive Director or other manager present.
Accountability and Audit The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of theBoard performance evaluation process, the outcome of Overview which was that it continues to operate effectively.
Our Board members recognise their responsibilities to ensure that the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and Responsibilities understandable assessments of the Companys position are The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: metand they are satisfied these responsibilities are achieved approval of accounting policies: through our financial systems and internal control processes.
reviewing financial statements and announcements: During the year these responsibilities were met by: overseeing the Groups internal control processes: using an appropriate system of accounting records operating in compliance with local and international financial and appointment of Auditors and monitoring their performance legal reporting requirements.
The basis used to prepare our and independence: and Group financial statements is the International Financial overseeing our public interest disclosure Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European whistleblowing policy.
Our parent company financial statements and ourDirectors Remuneration Report are prepared in During the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Report and Accounts, our Audit Committee achieved its Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP : responsibilities by working with a structured agenda of matters focused to coincide with key events of our financial reporting using IFRS to ensure we give a true and fair view of the cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is stateof affairs of the Group, including our profit or loss required to consider at each meeting.
fortheperiod: Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 53 Internal Control Framework Matters reserved for the Board and Committees Terms of Reference Risk Code of Co-ordination Internal Organisational Commercial Conduct Committee Year end Group Disclosure control structure Integrity and risk certification Finance Committee questionnaires Policies assessment summaries Group Compliance deploying appropriate accounting policies within within clearly defined terms of reference, to oversee our control theframework of IFRS and ensuring these are activities.
These committees include an Audit Committee, consistentlyapplied: a Disclosure Committee and a Risk Coordination Committee.
Our Board and Committee processes, together with those making judgements and preparing estimates that are embedded in the business, are fundamental to the effectiveness reasonable and prudent: of our internal control measures and the delivery of the operating within the guidelines of all the disclosure appropriate degree of control.
adviceprovided by UK and international statute: Organisational Structure disclosing that the business is a going concern: and The Board regularly reviews the Groups organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility maintaining robust assurance processes and controls with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of overour financial reporting procedures, including suitable duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place Disclosure Committee, Audit Committee and Board reviews.
The aim of such delegated authority is that Internal Control decisions, significant because of either their value or impact Several ongoing activities, which satisfy the requirements ofthe on other parts of the Group, are taken at anappropriate level.
Code, reassure our Board that a sound and robust system of The Groups Treasury, Tax and Occupational Health, Safety internal control exists throughout our Group.
and Environmental policies are also regularly reviewed by the The Board recognises that we operate in an environment with Board.
TheGroups Treasury function operates within a well some unavoidable risks see pages 16 to 19 and ensures defined policy and framework designed to manage the Groups these risks are properly understood and suitably managed, financing and liquidity arrangements and to manage its exposure either directly or by exercising oversight of the internal control to, amongst others, treasury risks and interest rate and foreign framework detailed below.
The analysis of risk and oversight exchange risks.
In addition, the Group operates well defined ofthe resulting internal control measures taken to mitigate procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital the effects of such risks are essential inenabling the Board and strategic expenditure, including acquisitions.
to discharge its responsibilities to safeguard shareholders Commercial Integrity investments, protect our assets andprovide reliable financial Our Commercial Integrity Department, together with the Group information.
Given the size andcomplexity of the Group Company Secretariat, supports our framework of policies and such systems can provide only reasonable and not absolute procedures, with which all employees are expected to comply.
assurance of meeting our internal control objectives, as they Group Policies and Standards cover responsible operation of manage rather than eliminate risk.
They can, therefore, only the Group in terms of commercial, employment, manufacturing provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and trading practices.
We thoroughly investigate all allegations of misconduct Internal Control Framework and irregularity and consider the implications for our The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups control environment.
systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
We operate a robust control environment, thekey features Code of Conduct and Policies of which are outlined in the above chart and detailed in the Our Code of Conduct sets out the standards of responsible paragraphs below.
behaviour that all our employees are expected to follow.
The Code of Conduct has been rolled out to our senior Terms of Reference management population in a series of face to face workshops.
Clear terms of reference govern the operation of our Board.
The rollout continues to be progressed with further face to face Akey control within the terms of reference is ensuring that only workshops, prioritisation of risk topics, development of the the Board can approve certain significant items.
Our Board supporting elearning system and communication to the wider has established appropriate Committees, which also operate employee population.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 54 Corporate Governance Report continued The Code of Conduct is aligned with our long established Disclosure Committee and embedded policies that provide guidance for business The Disclosure Committee comprises senior management from integrity, responsible commercial practice, trust, respect across our business and meets, as required, in order toconsider and responsibility.
Risk Coordination Committee Risk Assessment Summaries During the year the Disclosure Committee reviewed all major Our Risk Coordination Committee RCC assists the financial disclosures including Trading Updates, Interim Operating Executive and the Audit Committee in overseeing Management Statements, Half Yearly Report, Annual the management of material risk tothe Group.
The RCC Report and Accounts and appropriate corporate financing comprises senior managers representing a cross section documentation.
To meet its responsibilities when reviewing of the Groups functions.
these major financial disclosures, the Committee members made enquiries into all aspects of the business which, together During the course of the year the RCC has continued to develop with their own business knowledge, ensured disclosures were our risk register by identifying, assessing and monitoring the key complete with no material issues omitted.
The Committee risks we face and how such risks are mitigated and managed.
reported on its reviews to our Senior Officers and, where This topdown approach is complemented by a bottomup appropriate, our Audit Committee.
approach requiring individual markets, factories, regions The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee were and functions across the Group to produce annual risk reviewed during the year to ensure they continued tobe assessment summaries which are compared to the Group appropriate.
These rolling risk assessment summaries identify major areas of business risk including any specific local risks Group Compliance and demonstrate how these are mitigated and managed by Our Group Compliance Department monitors and measures controls embedded in business processes.
themitigation of risks across the Group in addition to performing its internal audit role.
It follows best practice guidance including Further detail on the risks we face and how we manage them the Code.
Group Compliance undertakes a programme of reviews Year End Certification covering all our business entities on an annual, three or five Our year end certification process requires each of our business yearly cycle dependent upon materiality and perceived risk.
entities to confirm compliance with our policies and fraud These include both targeted scheduled and ad hoc reviews prevention processes, and that risk mitigation controls have based on our ICQs.
operated effectively throughout the year.
All our senior managers are also required to certify that there have been no related party Each review results in a report to local management identifying transactions within their areas of control.
any potential control weaknesses which the business entity is responsible for remediating.
The most significant potential Internal Control Questionnaires weaknesses are also elevated to the Operating Executive to Each of our business entities is required to maintain a suite monitor the remediation undertaken by management of the ofinternal control questionnaires ICQs based on templates business entity.
At each year end Group Compliance also produced by Group Compliance.
Management within each conducts a review of risk assessments submitted by all markets, business entity is required to continually update the ICQs factories, regions and functions across the Group and obtains detailing the internal control processes in operation within certificates of confirmation from local management teams that that entity.
appropriate internal controls and processes have been operating These ICQs form the basis of periodic reviews by Group within their businesses throughout the year.
Compliance who ensure that appropriate controls are operating To support the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the in practice and provide adequate protection for thebusiness.
effectiveness of internal controls, Group Compliance formally Group Finance reports to the Audit Committee on the outcome of its ongoing Our Group Finance Department sets financial policies and activities, including its programme of compliance reviews and standards.
It also manages our financial reporting processes to any more general business reviews.
This process ensures ensure the timely and accurate provision of information which that the Audit Committee remains satisfied that the Groups enables our Board to discharge its responsibilities, including exposure to major business risks is minimised and the levels the production of ourHalf Yearly and Annual Accounts.
It is ofretained risk are acceptable.
supported by a network of finance managers throughout the The above processes, together with reports from Group Group who have the responsibility and accountability to provide Compliance, enable the Board, either directly or through the information in keeping with our policies, procedures and internal Audit Committee, to regularly review the effectiveness of the best practices as documented in our Group Finance Manual.
keyprocedures which have been established in order to provide Monitoring of our financial position is based on our strategic and appropriate internal controls.
operational plans the Plans which we use to identify specific The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, targets and objectives.
evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has Throughout the year we produce latest estimates to predict the operated throughout the year and up to the date of the likely year end position.
The latest estimates are compared with approval of this Annual Report and Accounts in accordance the Plans and enable us to monitor and check our performance with the requirements of the Code and Turnbull guidance.
and, where appropriate, challenge sections of the business if actual or anticipated performance varies from the Plans.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 55 External Audit Relations with Shareholders Auditor Independence Policy Dialogue with our shareholders is given the highest priority.
We In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent communications ourAuditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor which allow our shareholders to understand how we see our Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear definitions prospects and the market environments in which we operate.
ofservices that our Auditors can and cannot provide.
Our Communication with Shareholders Auditors may only provide nonaudit services where those The primary means of communication with the majority of our services do not conflict with their independence, for example shareholders isvia our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Yearly taxcompliance work.
The policy also establishes a formal Report andwebsite on which we publish Interim Management authorisation process, including the tendering for nonaudit Statements and Trading Updates.
These are supported by a services expected to generate fees in excess of 250,000, and combination of presentations, conference calls, onetoone preapproval by the Audit Committee for allowable nonaudit meetings and investor meetings in the UK, Europe and America.
work that they may perform.
Our policy also establishes We have also attended numerous investor conferences, where guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees we presented various aspects of the business to shareholders of our Auditors and for the recruitment ofour employees by the and potential shareholders.
Details of the audit and nonaudit fees paid to the Auditors are shown on page 90.
Proactively Engaging with Shareholders In July 2011 over 50 investors, potential investors and To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year our analysts attended an investor day held in the UK giving them Audit Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration the opportunity to meet members of the Board and senior received by our Auditors for audit services, auditrelated services management.
Presentations were given by the Chief Executive, and nonaudit work.
The outcome of these reviews was that Finance Director, Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, performance of the relevant nonaudit work by our Auditors was Group Marketing Director and Group Sales Director.
The theme in compliance with the policy and was the most costeffective of the day was Unlocking our Potential with a particular focus way of conducting our business.
No conflicts of interest were on our four sales growth drivers and how they, coupled with our found to exist between such audit and nonaudit work which high margins, help drive sustainable shareholder returns.
principally related to tax advisory work.
The Audit Committee confirms that we continue to receive an efficient, effective and During the year our Chairman, Senior Independent Director independent audit service.
and the Remuneration Committee Chairman met with a number of key shareholders.
Further, when requested, we Statement of Auditors Responsibilities met with shareholder representative bodies onsignificantissues Our statutory Auditors are responsible for forming an of interest and with corporate governance representatives independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group of investors.
as a whole and on the financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as presented by the Directors, on other elements Through an external consultancy we undertook our annual of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or perception study of institutional investors views ofour business.
regulation and for reporting their opinion to members page 76.
Together, the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and  LLP PwC have been the Companys Director of Investor Communications ensured the Board was Auditors since its demerger in 1996.
The Audit Committee, fully briefed on shareholders views to ensure that any issues or following a review during theyear, remains satisfied with the concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board.
effectiveness and independence of PwC.
It has not, therefore, Annual General Meeting considered itnecessary to require the audit to be put out to To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual tender.
Inline with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group Report and Accounts andNotice of the AGM and lodge their Audit partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years proxy votes, the documents are made available more than seven years for subsidiary companies.
There are nocontractual 20working days prior to the meeting.
or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of auditors.
We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors votes either electronically or in paper format.
We also offer them Each of the Directors in office at the date of approval of this the facility to abstain.
Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: At the AGM, our Chairman and Chief Executive give so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information presentations on our performance and current business that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in activities and all Directors make themselves available to meet connection with preparing their report of which the shareholders after the conclusion of the formal business.
Companys Auditors are unaware: and To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any resolutions are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys votesfor, against and abstentions for each resolution are Auditors are aware of that information.
Votes received at the meeting are added to the proxy A resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company will votes andthe final results published through a Regulatory be proposed at the AGM.
Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
At our 2011 AGM we received votes representing approximately 74 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held intreasury.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 56 Corporate Governance Report continued Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 1 February 2012.
The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: Full details are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on million 2011 2010 our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
Ordinary Shares Share Capital Interim paid, 28.1p per share Details of our share capital are shown in Note 20 to the 2010: 24.3p 284 246 Financial Statements page 118.
All shares other than those Proposed final, 67.0p per share held in treasury are freely transferable and rank pari passu for 2010: 60.0p 674 609 voting and dividend rights.
Total ordinary dividends, 95.1p At our AGM on 2 February 2011 shareholder authority for the 2010: 84.3p 958 855 buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each was obtained.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2012 to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close As at 30 September 2011 we held 57,007,000 of our ordinary ofbusiness on 20 January 2012.
The associated ex dividend shares in treasury, which represent 5.3 per cent of issued share date will be 18 January 2012.
We paid an interim dividend on capital and have an aggregate nominal value of 5,700,700.
19August 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury ofbusiness on 22 July 2011. shares reserve within our profit and loss account reserve and they represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
Treasury shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
Relations with Other Stakeholders At 31 October 2011 we had been notified of the following Charitable and Political Donations interests in 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
We continue to support the communities in which we operate by allocating 3 million 2010: 3 million to partnership Number of Percentage investment.
From this figure, we have donated 0.2 million ordinary shares of issued millions share capital 2010: 0.2 million to UK registered charities operating in the 1 UK, 0.3 million 2010: 0.3 million to UK registered charities Invesco Limited 61 6.03 2 operating abroad and 1.3 million 2010: 1.3 million through BlackRock Inc 53 5.25 the UK Charities Aid Foundation to charities based overseas.
Morgan Stanley Investment 1 Management Limited 42 4.17 No political donations were made to EU political parties, 2 organisations or candidates 2010: Nil.
Franklin Resources Inc 41 4.04 Legal & General Investment Creditor Payment Policy 1 Management Limited 41 3.99 Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority of our trade creditors is to follow the Prompt Payment Code 1 Direct holding.
sponsored by the Department for Business, Innovation and 2 Indirect holding.
Skills copies are available from the Prompt Payment Code We have not received notification that any other person holds website at www.
For other 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
suppliers, our policy is to: The share interests of the Directors, their families and any agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when connected persons are shown on page 64.
Other than agreeing the terms of each transaction: disclosed on page 57, there are no agreements between ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of the Company and its Directors or employees providing payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and for compensation for loss of office or employment due to atakeover.
pay in accordance with our contractual and other legalobligations.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in Note 4 to the Financial Statements page 91 and in This policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue the Directors Remuneration Report.
andcapital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible, UK subsidiaries follow the same policy Financial Results and Dividends and international subsidiaries are encouraged toadopt similar We include a review of our operational and financial policies by applying local best practices.
performance, current position and future developments in our Directors Report: Strategy, Risks, Performance and The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September Governance sections on pages 8 to 74.
2011 was equivalent to 40 days 2010: 43 days of trade purchases.
The profit attributable to equity holders of the Company Employees for the financial year was 1,796 million, as shown in our Our employees are key to our ongoing success.
Our consolidated income statement on page 77.
Note 1 to the employment policies aim to attract the very best people.
Financial Statements gives an analysis of revenue and profit Byapplying universally accepted standards for human rights from operations page 88. we ensure they are treated with fairness, dignity and respect.
This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated giving fair consideration to applications for employment, Balance Sheet on page 79 and the related Notes to the career development and promotion, without having regard Financial Statements.
to an employees gender, race, religion, age or disability.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 57 These policies also cover the continuation ofemployment and Tobacco Limited must repay the Letter of Credit utilised by it appropriate training for employees who become disabled during under the Letter of Credit and the total commitments under the their employment.
Our policies ensure that candidates are Letter of Credit will be immediately cancelled.
chosen on merit which involves the consideration of women for Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds all positions within the organisation.
under the Euro Medium Term Notes Debt Issuance Programme To ensure employees can share in our success we offer as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
The final competitive pay and benefit packages linked, wherever possible, terms of this series of notes contain change of control provisions to performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake under which the holder of each note will, subject to any earlier in the Company through ownership of the Companys shares, exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to require the with a number of employee share plans offered during the year.
Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase that note at its nominal value if: a any person, persons acting in concert or We encourage all areas of our business to keep employees on behalf of any such person s becomes interested in: i more informed of the financial and economic factors affecting than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share capital ourperformance.
More information on our employees is of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital of included on page 91. the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting rights Our annual talent review process is designed to identify the normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: most capable successors for critical roles at all levels in our and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a business.
It is a bottomup process initiated at a local level reduction to a noninvestment grade rating or withdrawal of the androlled up through our regions and business units.
This investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, culminates in a final talent review meeting conducted by the reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during Operating Executive.
This is a practice that is embedded across the change of control period specified in the final terms: or ii to the Group and seeks to provide a continuous talent pipeline.
the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit Pension Fund rating of the notes within the change of control period as a result Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is of the change of control.
not controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: one director chosen by employees and two by current and 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent deferred pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the guaranteed notes due 2024: assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
15 September 2008 750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with notes due 2014: the funds rules and for no other purpose.
Further details are 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed contained in our Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 74. notes due 2022: 17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed Other Information notes due 2016: Significant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or 24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes Terminate on Change of Control due 2019: The following agreements, summarised below, are those which 24 June 2009 1,250,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed notes we consider to be significant to the Group as a whole and which due 2012: contain provisions giving the other party a specific right to terminate them if we are subject to a change ofcontrol following 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes a takeover bid.
due2018: and Some companies within the Group entered into a credit facilities 26 September 2011 500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed agreement the Agreement on 16 December 2010 under which notes due 2026. certain banks and financial institutions the Lenders made Research and Development available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco We support our sales growth strategy by our investment Enterprise Finance Limited committed and uncommitted credit inresearch and development, which brings innovative facilities.
The Agreement provides that, unless the Lenders improvements to the Group both in the products supplied to otherwise agree, if any person or group of associated persons our consumers and in production and marketing techniques.
acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent of the votesat a general meeting of the Company, Imperial Tobacco Disclosure and Transparency Rules Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: must repay each loan utilised by them under the Agreement the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the andthe total commitments under the Agreement will be applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair immediately cancelled.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Some companies within the Group entered into a letter of credit loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the facility agreement the Letter of Credit dated 2 March 2011 consolidation taken as a whole: and under which the Lenders made available to Imperial Tobacco the Directors Report: Strategy, Risk, Performance and Limited a Letter of Credit.
The Letter of Credit provides that, Governance sections on pages 8 to 74 includes a fair review unless the Lenders agree, if any person or group of associated of the development and performance of the business and the persons acquires the right to exercise more than 50 per cent position of the Company and the undertakings included in the ofthe votes at a general meeting of the Company, Imperial consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description ofthe principal risks anduncertainties that they face.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 58 Corporate Governance Report continued Business Review Settlement was made at no cost to the Imperial Tobacco A review of the Groups activities and future developments is Group of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities included in the Directors Report: Strategy, Risk, Performance being investigated.
This review fulfils the requirements In September 2006, charges relating to smuggling were of the Business Review contained in section 417 of the Act, brought in connection with one of the investigations against including the financial performance during the year on pages 18 individuals, one of whom is a former Reemtsma employee.
30 to 32, key performance indicators on pages 11 to 13 and In October 2008, the German court agreed to open trial in a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the relation to these charges and has made various procedural Group on pages 16 to 19. decisions, but no final hearing has yetbeen held.
The purpose of the Annual Report and Accounts is to provide In November 2006, in connection with a separate investigation, information to the shareholders of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
charges relating to violations of the German foreign trade act The Company, its Directors, employees, agents and advisers were brought against four other former Reemtsma employees.
donot accept or assume responsibility to any other person In March 2010, in accordance with an agreement with the to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it authorities, the individuals pleaded guilty and financial penalties may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly were ordered against them and Reemtsma.
These were paid at disclaimed.
The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain no cost to the Imperial Tobacco Group.
forwardlooking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Company and the Office of Fair Trading Group as a whole.
By their nature, these statements involve As previously reported, in 2003 the UK Office of FairTrading uncertainties since future events and circumstances can cause OFT informed Imperial Tobacco Group that it had commenced actual results to differ materially from those anticipated and an investigation under the Competition Act 1998 into the no reliance should be placed on them.
The forwardlooking operation of the UK tobacco supply chain.
statements reflect knowledge and information available at On 24 April 2008, the OFT issued a Statement of Objections the date of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts SO which set out the OFTs allegations against Imperial and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these Tobacco Group, Gallaher, and a number of retailers.
Nothing in this Annual Report These alleged infringements relate to the period prior to 2004. and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
On 15 April 2010, the OFT reached a Decision.
Although The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown theOFT dropped a number of the allegations made in the on pages 129 and 130.
SO, itfound that Imperial Tobacco Group and Gallaher had Going Concern separately engaged in unlawful practices with 10 tobacco In order to satisfy themselves that we have adequate resources retailers in breach of Chapter I of the Competition Act 1998. for the future, the Audit Committee and, subsequently, the TheOFT imposed total fines of 225m on the parties involved, Board reviewed the Groups committed funding and liquidity including a fine of 112.3m on Imperial Tobacco Group.
positions, its ability to generate cash from trading activities and Under the Competition Act 1998, parties have the right to its ability toraise external funding in the future.
Our performance, appeal OFT Decisions to the Competition Appeal Tribunal as described in the Financial Review on pages 30 to 32, our CAT, and ultimately, on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
future plans and the risks we face as described in the Chief The CAT has jurisdiction to conduct a full rehearing of the facts Executives Review on pages 8 to10 were also reviewed.
and has the power to uphold, vary or quash the Decision and In performing their reviews, the Audit Committee and the the fineimposed.
Board have acknowledged the current level of uncertainty in Imperial Tobacco Group does not accept the findings in the the financial markets and have considered various sensitivity OFTs Decision.
Accordingly, Imperial Tobacco Group submitted analyses when assessing the forecast funding and headroom an appeal to the CAT on 15 June 2010 against the OFTs requirements of the Group.
findings of infringement and the level of the fine.
Five retailers Consequently, based on the reviews noted above the Audit Asda, the Cooperative Group, Morrisons together with Committee recommended to the Board that the Group as Safeway and Shell have also appealed against the Decision a whole and Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have adequate and the fines imposed on them by theOFT.
resources to meet their operational needs forthe foreseeable Although the CAT began hearing these appeals on future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going 21 September 2011, it is unlikely that the CAT will deliver concern basis inpreparing thefinancial statements.
judgment on liability before the second quarter of 2012 at the Update on On-going Enquiries earliest, while any subsequent appeal to the Court of Appeal German Investigations that may be necessary is unlikely to be determined before the Certain investigations were initiated by German authorities fourth quarter of 2012. inJanuary 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related Update on Tobacco-Related Litigation violations by a number of people, including Reemtsma We are not facing any tobaccorelated litigation in the UK.
In the employees, during a period prior to its acquisition by Republic of Ireland, the number of tobaccorelated claims has ImperialTobacco Group in May 2002.
A Board Committee fallen from 307 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims are subject established in 2003 remains in place to monitor the progress to dismissal motions.
The other claim is inactive.
The dismissal ofthe investigations and the Groups responses on behalf motion in respect of one claimant was heard by the Dublin oftheBoard.
In April 2007, the court ruled that this Between 2005 and 2007, the investigations against all but five claim should be dismissed.
This Decision has been appealed of the individuals were terminated, either for lack of evidence and the dismissal motions in respect of the nine other active or on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities.
claims have been stayed pending the appeal.
No date has been set for the appeal hearing but it is expected to be within the next six months.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 59 Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative the parent Company financial statements in accordance with Court on behalf of the Regional Government of Andalucia for United Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards reimbursement of hospitalisation expenses allegedly incurred in and Applicable Law.
Under company law, the Directors must treating smokers.
The claim was served on Altadis in July 2009. not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied In May 2010 preliminary objections were filed by Altadis and the that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the other tobacco company defendants.
These were rejected by the Group and the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Court in May 2011 but the proceedings remain stayed until the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, codefendants are provided with a full set of the documentation the Directors are required to: which was attached to the claim.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply We are not facing any claims in France.
Following our acquisition themconsistently: of Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing two claims in make judgements and accounting estimates that are Italy.
One is at an initial stage and the other has been dismissed reasonable and prudent: but appealed.
A purported collective claim was filed against us and other state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and tobacco companies by an individual in Bulgaria in March 2008 applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, but we were never formally served with any court documents.
subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained Following a hearing on 18 November 2010, the Sofia City Court in the Group and parent Company financial statements ruled that the conditions for bringing a collective action had not respectively: and been satisfied by the Claimant and refused to allow the claim to proceed.
That decision was affirmed by the Appellate Court and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis by the Supreme Court of Cassation.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In September 2009 an individual claim was brought against us and others in Turkey.
We filed a statement of defence at a The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting preliminary hearing on 3 November 2009.
The Claimant failed records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys to pay the necessary Court charges and on 29 November 2010 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Court ordered that the claim be deemed never to have been the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable filed.
The Claimant has not appealed this Decision and the time them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors for any appeal has expired.
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 2007, we are currently facing one claim brought by an Company and the Group and hence taking reasonable steps individual in the United States.
A motion for summary judgment for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
was filed by Commonwealth Brands in October 2005 and remains pending.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthe Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued governing the preparation and dissemination of financial legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical care to individuals.
No Imperial Tobacco Group company has Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on been served with any court documents in relation to this claim.
page 45, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: We understand that the Ministry of Health sought a six month the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in stay of proceedings at a hearing on 11 December 2010 and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and has not applied for the case to be reopened following the expiry fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of that stay.
The Ministry of Health may still apply to reopen the ofthe Group: and case but we are not aware that it intends to do so.
the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of and performance of the business and the position of the any claimant in any tobaccorelated litigation against Imperial Group, together with a description of the principal risks and Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been uncertainties that it faces.
advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue to vigorously By order of the Board contest all such litigation against us.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the Matthew Phillips parent Company financial statements in accordance with 1 November 2011 applicable law and regulations.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
