Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 44 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors 1.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 45 wasaNon-Executive Director of Investcom, 1.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD, M Inst M atelecommunications company which was Chairman Non-Executive Director acquired in 2006 by MTN, a : Appointed Chairman, January Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive based company.
Committee membership: Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, the Committee membership: Chairman of Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: largest philanthropic Armenian organisation in Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Ken is an independent management consultant the world.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Iain was formerly main board Director of Bass and a co-founder and Director of K-Energy, an Director on various not for profit organisations.
PLC, Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then alternative energy company.
He was President, External appointments: Non-Executive Director of Bass Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
Asia-Pacific of Allied Domecq from 1996 of Interaudi Bank of New York, Executive He was then Vice President UK and Ireland for untilits acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive Interbrew SA until August 2001.
He was Chief Priorto joining Allied Domecq, he held senior Director of The Morganti Group, Inc. Executive ofTaylor Woodrow International management positions in the Asia Pacific Housing and Development from 2001 to 2005. region with Seagram, Interbrew and 9.
Mark Williamson, CA SA External appointments: Non-Executive International Distillers & Vintners Ltd now Non-Executive Director Chairman of McBride PLC and John Menzies partof Diageo plc.
External appointments: Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive plc, and aNon-Executive Director of Molson Director of K-Energy Pty Limited and Elemental Director, July 2007.
Committee membership: Coors Brewing Company and William Grant Energy Technologies Limited.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and &Sons Holdings Limited.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor andRemuneration Committee.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Non-Executive Director experience: Mark has considerable international Chief Executive Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive financial and general management experience.
Appointment: Appointed Chief Executive, Director, July 2007.
Committee membership: He joined International Power in 2000 as Group May 2010.
Skills and experience: Alison Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Financial Controller and was appointed to hasheld a number of senior roles in the Member of the Nominations Committee and theboard as Chief Financial Officer in 2003.
Groupincluding Director of Finance and the Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Previously, he was Group Financial Controller Planning, Regional Director Western Europe, Michael was formerly General Counsel and and Group Chief Accountant at Simon Group, Corporate Development Director and Chief Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI the engineering and bulk chemicals storage Operating Officer.
Previously she was with PLCwith overall responsibility for corporate group.
External appointments: Chief Financial  where she had acquisitions and divestments and has extensive Officer of International Power plc.
worked with Imperial Tobacco for several years experience of both private and public market in a number of areas, including acquisitions.
Malcolm Wyman, CA External appointments: Non-Executive Serveson the Board of Compass Partners Non-Executive Director Director, Inchcape plc since July2009.
International LLP and is currently General Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA membership: Nominations Committee, Audit Finance Director 7.
Susan Murray Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Appointment: Appointed Finance Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Malcolm was formerly ondemerger in 1996.
Skills and experience: Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller plc.
Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Director, December 2004.
Committee He joined the company in 1986 and the Limited from November 1989 and was one membership: Nominations Committee, board asCorporate Finance Director in 1990. ofthe three-man Hanson team involved in AuditCommittee and Remuneration Committee.
The company was listed on the London Stock thestrategic reorganisation of the Group.
Skills and experience: Susan was a board Exchange in 1990 and he became Chief Sincethen he has played an integral part in member at Littlewoods Limited from October Financial Officer in 2001.
His responsibilities shaping the strategic direction of the Group.
1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief included the groups finance operations, External appointments: No external Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
corporate finance and development, and Directorappointments.
Priorto this she was worldwide President and groupstrategy.
External appointments: Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, SeniorIndependent Non-Executive Director of a part of Diageo plc.
Pierre Jungels, CBE HON, Nedbank Group Limited and a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of SSL International PHD, C ENG Director of Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited, both plc, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Senior Independent listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
WmMorrison Supermarkets plc and a Non-Executive Director former council member of the Advertising Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive 11.
Matthew Phillips, LLB Standards Authority.
Pierre will retire from Group Corporate & Legal Affairs Director Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and theBoard at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM and Company Secretary Non-Executive Director of Pernod Ricard SA, and will not be seeking re-appointment.
Appointment: Appointed Company Secretary, Compass Group PLC and Enterprise Inns Plc.
Committee membership: Nominations October 2004 and Group Corporate & Legal Susan is also a fellow of the Royal Society Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Affairs Director, October 2010.
Skills and experience: Pierre has experience: Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos held numerous senior international positions legal department in 2000 and was closely 8.
Berge Setrakian within the oil industry with Shell International, involved in the acquisitions of Reemtsma and Non-Executive Director Petrofina SA and British Gas PLC.
Previously he worked for law firms Appointment: Appointed Non-Executive CEO of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading the Linklaters and Burges Salmon.
He was appointed Director, June 2008.
Committee membership: business to substantial geographic and General Counsel in November 2007 and Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: financial growth until retirement in November subsequently Group Corporate and Legal Berge is a senior partner in the law firm 2001.
External appointments: Chairman Affairs Director in October 2010.
Dewey& LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive ofOxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of expertise in international transactions.
He was Baker Hughes Inc, Chairman of Rockhopper a Non-Executive Director of Altadis, S. A.
Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director havingbeen appointed in May 2004 and of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
