Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report Governance is at the heart of everything we do development which, in turn, will provide a diverse range Introduction from the Chairman of potential candidates for future roles on the boards of UK One of the key topics the Board discussed during the year was companies.
As a result the Nominations Committee has proposed that of Board composition.
The Nominations Committee spent that succession planning for executive management will again time defining the current skills set represented by the Directors be an agenda item for the full Board during 2012. and identified several areas where additional knowledge and Another key activity during 2011 was our Board evaluation experience would enhance the Board.
The evaluation was carried out by an external In identifying the appropriate skills now required on the Board, independent consultant.
The Board was encouraged to give the Nominations Committee began developing a set of criteria open and thoughtful feedback on its performance and that of the for potential candidates including knowledge and experience Committees.
The exercise was a very positive experience, assisting and key skills in order to commence the recruitment process, the Board in seeking to continually improve its performance and taking into account our strategy of expansion in Asia Pacific effectiveness.
An outline of the Board evaluation can be found and the Emerging Markets.
As a result of this process I am pleased to report that we recruited The Board carried out a review of the Non-Executive Directors fees two excellent Non-Executive Directors during the year, Vicky Bindra during the year.
Traditionally the Non-Executive Directors fees are and Till Vestring, both of whom are based in Singapore and who reviewed annually, however there had been no increase in fees bring a wealth of Asian and operational business experience to since 2007.
The fee structure was updated to reflect current market our discussions.
An in-depth induction programme was provided practice and details of the new fee structure is shown on page to each of them, details of which can be found on page 43.
54 of the Directors report on remuneration.
In addition to the new appointees, Michael Wemms retired from Statement of Code compliance the Board in May 2011 after seven years of valued service.
The The Board has been fully compliant with the UK Corporate Board members and I would like to thank Michael for his advice Governance Code the Code during 2011.
For Code provision and assistance, both as a member of the Board but also during B7.1, annual re-election of all directors at the AGM, as the Code his time as our Remuneration Committee Chairman.
applied to accounting periods on or after 29 June 2010 we Diversity of our Board members has also been a particular focus decided not to re-elect all the directors at the 2011 AGM but during the year and with the publication of the report Women all directors will be up for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
on Boards by Lord Davies, gender has been a specific discussion The information required under DTR 7.2.
The report provides recommendations to address the lack 58 to 59 and forms part of the Corporate Governance Report.
of balance in the number of women on boards, including a recommendation for listed companies to set out their targets for In the following report we show how the Board and the Executive the proportion of women who serve on their board.
Additionally, Committee have run the Company over the last year, how the Financial Reporting Council has recently consulted on whether we made decisions, how we managed risks, how we monitored to make further changes in light of the Davies Report.
Within the UK controls and how we engaged with our stakeholders.
I hope that Corporate Governance Code there is a requirement for this information will help put into context our strategy and the organisations to actively consider the make up and diversity of financial results we have achieved.
Our Board already benefits from having a broad range of skills, backgrounds and experience, which has been further enhanced by our two new appointments.
We will continue to take diversity considerations into account when making appointments to the Board, including those raised by Lord Davies.
The Davies Report sparked a further discussion for the Board this year on how to develop our senior management to ensure Ken Hanna, that we can provide opportunities for long-term executive Chairman www.
com 41 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Inchcape committee structure Inchcape plc Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy Group Strategy Balance of the Board Oversight of the Financial Risk Management Incentive Plans Operational Management Leadership of the Group Group CR Programme Internal Control Performance Targets Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Risk Oversight Oversight of Group iPOM Committee Group Capital Committee Principal Risks Assessment Capital Expenditure Control Processes monitoring the performance of the Group and the members Leadership of the Board: The Board Board Meetings ensuring that the systems of controls remain sound and relevant: Name of Director Scheduled Attended ensuring there is a comprehensive risk management and Chairman mitigation programme and process in place.
Ken Hanna 7 7 To help the Board discharge its duties a formal schedule of Matters Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Reserved for the Board sets out the decisions it is responsible for Non-Executive Director and can be found on our website www.
Will Samuel 7 7 If a Director has any concerns about the running of the Company, Group Chief Executive his or her concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
Andr Lacroix 7 7 No concerns were raised in 2011.
Group Finance Director The Board delegates some decisions to its Committees John McConnell 7 7 and further information on the decisions that they make Non-Executive Directors can be found in their reports on pages 47 to 50.
Day to day management is the responsibility of the Executive Directors Vicky Bindra appointed 1 July 2011 3 2 and the Executive Committee.
Simon Borrows 7 7 Division of responsibilities Alison Cooper 7 7 David Scotland 7 6 Nigel Northridge 7 7 Till Vestring appointed 1 September 2011 2 2 The Role The Role of the of the Group Chief Michael Wemms retired 11 May 2011 2 2 Chairman Executive David Scotland was unable to attend the meeting on 8 April 2011.
Vicky Bindra was unable to attend the meeting on 27 July due to commitments prior to his appointment to the Board.
Leads the Board, sets the Leads the Executive Committee Biographies of the Directors can be found on page 38. agenda including agreeing Is responsible for the Statement of how the Board operates strategy and risk appetite day to day operational The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success Is responsible for ensuring management of the Business of the Group, setting the strategic agenda and establishing its that information is accurate risk appetite.
This is achieved by: Manages the Groups risk and and relevant to enable ensuring that the Board comprises competent individuals internal control framework decision making with a breadth of knowledge and experience that brings Reports to the Board on independent views to the decisions being made: As Chairman of the signifi cant developments and Nominations Committee, ensuring that the Board has appropriate, timely information performance of the Group is responsible for and access to professional development and advice: succession planning Regularly engages in dialogue ensuring that the Executive Committee have the necessary with shareholders to ensure that Leads the Board skills and experience in order to further the strategic goals they are up to date with the evaluation process of the Company: Groups activities 42 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Non-Executive Directors Will Samuel and David Scotland both completed six years service The Non-Executive Directors as members of the Board and in 2011.
Their length of service was taken into account when its Committees have the responsibility for the following: considering succession planning and it was felt that their detailed knowledge of the Groups operations was crucial during this time r Assisting in the development of the Groups strategy: of Board changes.
r Scrutinising the performance of management by measuring Commitment performance against targets at each Board meeting through The time commitment required by Non-Executive Directors is set strategic and market reviews and a monthly performance report: out in their Letter of Appointment and is reviewed annually by the r Monitoring the reporting of performance at Board and Audit Nominations Committee to ensure that it remains appropriate.
The Committee meetings: Company recognises that its Board members may be invited to r Ensuring the integrity of financial controls and that systems become directors of other companies and that this additional of risk management are robust and defensible at Board experience is likely to benefit the deliberations of the Board.
Details and Audit Committee meetings: of other directorships held by the Executive and Non-Executive r Determining the levels of remuneration at the Remuneration Directors are given in their biographies on page 38.
The Executive Committee meetings: Directors are generally permitted to take one Non-Executive r Appointment and removal of Directors and succession Directorship as long as it does not lead to conflicts of interest planning for the Executive Committee at the Nominations or undue time commitment.
Andr Lacroix holds two such positions: Committee and Board meetings.
Non-Executive Director for Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for which he received a fee of 85,000 and as Non-Executive Chairman of All Committee Chairmen report to the Board on the Committees Good Restaurants AG for which he does not receive a fee.
activities at each Board meeting.
Will Samuel is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Development New Directors receive a tailored induction programme designed Director and in this role he acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, should the need arise, is available to shareholders to give them a comprehensive understanding of the values, operations and strategy of the Group.
Our two new Non-Executive whose concerns have not been resolved by the Chairman or the Executive Directors or should such contact not be appropriate.
Their programmes were split into two parts, an operational induction programme and a head A series of meetings were held in March 2011, where Ken Hanna office induction programme.
met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, Will Samuel also met with the Induction programme for Vicky Bindra and Till Vestring Non-Executive Directors without Ken Hanna or the Executive Part 1 r A tour of the head office in Singapore Directors present.
r Market overview of Inchcape South Asia Effectiveness r Site visit to the Toyota and Lexus showroom, To ensure that the Board remained effective throughout the service and body and parts facilities in Singapore year the Board reviewed its effectiveness within the context r Site visit to the New Vehicle Delivery Centre and of the principles and provisions of section B of the Code and Suzuki showroom and service centre Vicky only examined each area throughout the year.
The Board also reviewed the Financial Reporting Councils guidance of board Part 2 r UK business overview with UK Chief Executive and effectiveness and the Association of British Insurers report on UK Finance Director board effectiveness, both of which were published during 2011. r Site visit UK Retail Head Office Mercedes-Benz Composition r Site visit Toyota Oxford r Chairman the Board, its committees, history of Industry Balance of Nonthe Group, vision and values background Executive Directors Length of service r Group Chief Executive strategy, overview 3 of operational businesses, analyst and investor engagement r General Counsel & Group Company Secretary 2 Directors duties and regulatory rules, governance and Board administration r Group HR Director key management, succession 1 Q Financial 50% Q Non-Executive planning, remuneration policy Directors 70% Q Retail 40% r Group Finance Director financial review, current KPIs Q Executive Directors 20% Q Consultancy 10% Q Chairman 10% r Group Financial Controller operational 0 0-2 2-5 5-9 financial review, reporting systems and processes years years years r Group Chief Information Officer overview of the Groups IT strategy and structure All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent r Group Strategy and Business Development Director in accordance with the Code.
strategy and Inchcape Advantage r Director of Taxation overview of the Groups Appointments to the Board tax structure The Nominations Committee has responsibility for referring potential r Group Treasury Director structure of the appointments to the Board for approval and is assisted by external Groups banking relationships, committed and search consultants.
Further information on its activities can be uncommitted facilities found in the Nominations Committee report on page 47. r Group Communications Director brand, marketing, internal and external communications www.
com 43 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued In order to ensure that the Non-Executive Directors continue to The Board discussed the fi findings of the Board evaluation including have up to date knowledge of the Groups operations, we hold the results for each of the Committees and determined the main a two day Board meeting at a UK or overseas retail centre which action points and the focus for the 2012 evaluation.
The Chairman includes a site visit, regional update and meetings with key also met each Non-Executive Director individually to discuss his or management and operational staff.
her performance throughout the year and personal commentary from the Board evaluations were provided to the Chairman The Chairman also reviewed any training and development needs to assist with the personal performance evaluations of the with Directors during his or her one on one performance review.
During 2011, the Non-Executive Directors attended a one day The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive investor relations event during which the Chief Executive gave Director met with the Non-Executive Directors to evaluate the an in-depth update on vision and strategy to shareholders.
Presentations were also given by the market Chief Executive and senior management of our businesses in Australia, Hong Kong, Accountability China, Singapore and Emerging Markets.
Financial & business reporting The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate Information and support internal controls over regular fi financial reporting for the Group, The information received by the Board is vital to ensure that members including the consolidation process.
are able to contribute fully to discussions.
The Chairman and the Group Company Secretary ensure that the information received There is a comprehensive system of internal controls in place, by Directors encourages open debate and enables the Board to including an Annual Operating Plan AOP which is reviewed make well informed decisions.
All Directors receive Committee and approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed papers regardless of whether they are members of that Committee by management against the AOP, and where appropriate, revised to ensure that each member has access to all available information.
forecasts are presented to the Board.
All data to be consolidated The Board also receives regular fi financial and governance updates into the Groups fi financial statements is reviewed thoroughly by to enable the Directors to keep informed of progress to date and management to ensure that it complies with relevant accounting best practice developments between Board meetings.
policies, and that fi financial reporting gives a true and fair refl ection of the fi financial position of the Group.
Independent professional advice and support are available to all Directors should they request it.
Internal controls over this fi financial reporting framework are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability Board evaluation of regular internal fi financial reporting as well as the preparation of In 2011 the Board was evaluated by an external independent third fi financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The evaluation consisted of a tailored questionnaire focusing Internal Audit conduct regular assessments of the eff ectiveness of on overall eff ectiveness, strategy, Board knowledge, training and internal controls over fi financial reporting based on the framework development, succession, risk management, the Committees and contained in the Turnbull Guidance.
There have been no signifi cant administration.
The evaluation employed a range of techniques changes in internal controls over fi financial reporting during 2011 including scoring and commentary from participants.
that have, or are likely to have, materially aff ected the Groups The three main areas where action points were identifi ed were: internal controls over fi financial reporting.
2011 Objectives 2011 Achievements Based on these statements, the Board concludes that as at 31 December 2011, the Groups internal system of control Strategic The implementation of the two day over fi financial reporting was eff ective.
planning Strategy Away Day gave the Board the opportunity to focus entirely on the Risk management strategic plan and review progress to date.
The Group has in place comprehensive processes to manage risks across its businesses which are regularly audited and the Succession The Board carried out an in-depth review results reported to the Audit Committee and the Board for their planning of succession planning for the Executive review.
Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is the Group wide risk Committee at the Strategy Away Day.
It provides a simple system which aims to: Structure and The Audit Committee membership was remit of the reduced to three Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee all with relevant fi financial experience to raise embed the enable the Committee to focus in more awareness identify prevention depth on the key issues.
through and reduce of risk within education and our risks our business training Focus for 2012 processes Enhance the process Review composition Continue to focus on strategy for succession of the Board and and processes planning at Board its Committees.
iPOM provides rewards for the right way of doing business: for measuring and Executive it is aligned to our Values and ensures that we drive the right performance to date Committee level.
behaviours across our business to embed compliance in all against objectives.
44 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Seven steps Market iPOM Committees Reporting into the Group iPOM Committee are the market iPOM All risk activities are benchmarked against seven key steps: Committees.
These are a sub-committee of each markets Step Purpose Executive Committee to ensure that risk management oversight remains at the highest level within each market or region.
Each Written compliance What are the rules?
1 market iPOM Committee operates through standard terms of standards and procedures reference which ensures that there is a consistent approach to identifying and managing systemic and dynamic risks.
Additionally, Oversight responsibilities Who is in charge?
2 the meeting dates are coordinated so that appropriate reviews assigned to appropriate are performed consistent with the Group iPOM Committee personnel schedule and the Board and Board Committee meetings.
Appropriate delegation 3 Each market iPOM Committee will review its own risk register using of authority FlexEye reports at its own market iPOM Committee meeting.
The FlexEye risk management system allows each business to identify Training and education What employee education 4 and assess risks to their business: propose actions to implement is in place regarding the rules preventative or detective controls to mitigate against these risks: and standards?
estimate the level of impact these actions will have and monitor progress against these actions, as well as seeing what other Group Routine monitoring, How do we know the rules 5 businesses are proposing as risks and assessing whether these are reporting and auditing are being followed?
also applicable in some way to their own business.
Enforcement and discipline What happens if the rules 6 Internal Audit will continue to monitor risks capture and actions and standards are not through Internal Audit reviews.
Response and prevention 7 2011 key areas of focus During 2011, we additionally focused on several areas to ensure that our processes refl ected not only best practice, but also key Principal Risks Accountability regulatory areas and developments that are pertinent to our As part of the risk governance process, the mapping of business.
Highlights of these key areas are below: risk accountability across key operational and functional areas was reviewed in 2011.
Whilst the Board has overall Focus area Activity risk management oversight, it has formally delegated this iPOM We continued to ensure that iPOM was responsibility to various Committees under formal terms of fully communicated throughout the Group reference.
Through these formal terms of reference, risk items and embedded into our processes through are tabled on a rolling basis over each 12 month period, a series of targeted communications either to meet external requirements e. g. company reporting and presentations.
obligations or internal governance requirements.
UK Bribery Act Starting in 2010 and continuing throughout Group iPOM Committee 2011, we carried out a risk analysis of our Key day to day risk oversight is managed through the Group exposure under UK, local and international iPOM Committee.
conventions relating to anti-bribery and The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and its corruption.
We have updated our policies members are the Group Finance Director, the General Counsel & and performed face to face training with Group Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and the Head our senior management population in of Internal Audit.
addition to developing an online training The Group iPOM Committees processes have been updated package suitable for use with the remainder of the organisation.
to refl ect the changing risk environment and, in particular, can address both systemic and dynamic risks.
This Group meets six Environmental We commissioned an independent third times a year to ensure that: Health and party to perform a benchmarking review a the right management focus is on key risks and actions Safety EH&S of our standards globally in respect of to mitigate identifi ed and emerging risks: EH&S.
We will use the fi findings of this review to improve, as needed, our performance b a compliance programme is in place which meets in this area during 2012. external benchmarks and is appropriate in terms of the legal requirements, content, sector, cost and Data privacy We carried out an internal review of our resources: and practices and compliance in respect of c appropriate defences are in place to mitigate exposure data privacy requirements in our markets and eff ect a response to any risk that may crystallise.
globally to ensure that we continue to treat not only our employees but our The Group iPOM Committee is also responsible for developing and customer data in the right way and to managing the Groups overall Principal Risk Register, which is based ensure that we continue to have a strong on risks identifi ed at market region and Group level.
foundation for our Customer 1st initiative.
com 45 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued In order to harmonise and simplify the Groups approach to risk 2012 key areas of focus under iPOM, two key areas have been reviewed during 2011: Again for 2012 we have identified areas of focus.
These include: Principal risk categories Activity Focus area To ensure consistency across our risk reporting we have updated iPOM We will continue to ensure that iPOM our principal risk categories.
We now track risks under one of is fully communicated throughout the eight categories: Group and embedded into our processes.
r Strategy including customer and consumer: An iPOM website, with access to key r Finance and Treasury: information and policies and procedures, r Brand partners, key relationships and reputation: will be launched, along with continued emphasis on targeted communications r Systems and technology: and presentations.
r People, including EH&S: r Economic, political and environmental: Risk management We will focus on ensuring that FlexEye is r Legal and regulatory: reporting fully operational within the Group as the r Tax, pensions and insurance.
primary risk reporting and action planning mitigating tool.
These were implemented in the 2010 Annual Report and are used consistently throughout the Group.
Business Risk Assessment BRA Audit Committee and auditors The BRA process has been our key risk capture and tracking The Board has delegated responsibility for risk management methodology in recent years.
The BRA was used to identify key and internal controls to the Audit Committee.
Details of the strategic risks which may impact the Groups risk profile.
Owners Committees activities during the year can be found in the Audit were assigned to each risk and action plans prepared.
The BRA Committee Report on pages 48 to 49.
A statement of the Directors was cascaded through the organisation with local owners and responsibility for reporting the financial statements is set out on action plans also being assigned which either reflected the Group page 58. risk or a sub-set of that risk as it pertained to that local market.
Remuneration Additionally, the BRA has been reviewed as part of the AOP The Board has delegated responsibility for setting the level and process and monitored through the internal audit reviews.
components of remuneration and for developing remuneration Improvement actions policy to the Remuneration Committee.
Details of the Committees As part of the on-going efforts to enhance the risk management activities during the year can be found in the Remuneration process within the Group, FlexEye has been introduced to better Committee Report on page 50 and the Directors report on manage risks.
This new approach is improving the visibility of risk remuneration can be found on pages 51 to 54. reporting and of action planning to mitigate risks, both at market, Relations with Shareholders regional and Group levels.
By using technology, we are also The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director met with making the process of risk capture more efficient.
institutional investors throughout the year.
We also held an investor We propose to continue to review the Groups principal risks at day in which institutional investors were invited to receive an the Board Strategy review each October, with the Board having update on performance to date.
The investor seminar in May primary responsibility for this.
Risk identification, action plans and focused on Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets in line with the mitigation also remain part of the Strategic Plan and AOP process Groups strategy.
Shareholders received an in-depth overview and monthly budget review process.
and strategy update from the Group Chief Executive and regional presentations with Q&A sessions from the senior management However, the Group iPOM Committee formally reviews the Group teams in Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Australia, the Balkans, and market risks at each Group iPOM Committee six times a year Africa, South America, Russia and the Baltics.
using reports generated through FlexEye.
This will: The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good r allow better cross market region trend analysis: communications with all shareholders to ensure understanding r allow better cross risk analysis: of the Groups performance and strategy.
The Annual General r allow increased visibility of actions and mitigation plans progress: Meeting AGM gives institutional and private shareholders an r remove duplication of reporting through the adoption of a single opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions they may automated system: have regarding the Group.
Each year we send shareholders a r ensure both dynamic and systemic risks are identified prepaid reply form which gives any shareholders unable to attend and managed.
the AGM an opportunity to give their views.
At the 2011 AGM we were pleased to invite shareholders to the launch of the Inchcape book Pioneering Spirit.
The book celebrates the energy, foresight and business acumen that has built the Group into a global force.
The Group is committed to reducing its impact on the environment in line with its CR policy and encourages shareholders to receive communications electronically in order to reduce printing and paper usage.
Shareholders can register for email alerts on our website at www.
It is important for investors to receive communications in the form most appropriate to their needs and they can change the way in which they receive shareholder communications at any time.
46 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued r The Committee reviewed the policy on multiple board Nominations Committee report appointments and confi rmed that it had been complied with throughout the year.
r The Committee evaluated its processes and agreed to update its terms of reference, approved standing agenda items and agreed that the full Board should review Executive Committee succession planning at the Strategy Away Day in October.
It also agreed that two scheduled meetings would continue to be held each year.
The Committee approved the recommendation to the Board of the appointment of Vicky Bindra.
Ken Hanna July Chairman Additional meeting.
The Committee approved the recommendation to the Board of the appointment of Till Vestring.
Key responsibilities The Committee also discussed changes to the Audit Committee r Evaluate balance of skills, knowledge and experience on membership and the need to ensure that a range of skills were the Board represented on each Committee as well as taking into account r Agree skills profi le for candidates to fi ll vacant Board positions balancing the time commitments of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee agreed that Nigel Northridge and David r Nominate suitable candidates to the Board for approval Scotland would step down from the Audit Committee r Succession planning particularly taking into account their recent appointments as Remuneration Chairman and CR Committee The Terms of Reference for the Nominations Committee Chairman respectively.
can be found on the website www.
com aboutus governance November The Committee reviewed the membership of the CR Committee Committee Meetings and agreed that Vicky Bindra would be an excellent addition Members ScheduledAttended to the Committee.
The Committee recommended his Ken Hanna Chairman 2 2 appointment to the Board for approval.
Will Samuel 2 2 Governance Andr Lacroix 2 2 r The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and confi rmed David Scotland 2 2 that it had been fully compliant throughout the year.
Michael Wemms retired 11 May 2011 1 1 r The Committee reviewed the job description of the Senior Independent Director and agreed that Will Samuel should Only members of the Committee have the right to attend continue in this role.
Committee meetings, however other individuals such as the r The Committee reviewed its membership and confi rmed that Group HR Director and external consultants attend by invitation.
it complied with the Code and approved the recommendation Committee activities during the year for Ken Hanna to continue as Chairman of the Committee.
March The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board.
The Committee spent time defi ning the current skills set represented on the Board and in particular discussed the position in respect of diversity, including gender, and the fi findings of the Davies Report.
The Committee identifi ed several areas where additional knowledge and experience would enhance the Board and the desired skill set for potential candidates was agreed in order to commence the recruitment process.
The Committee also agreed that the external search consultants would prepare a summary of recommendations for circulation to the Committee.
Governance r The Committee discussed the retirement and re-election of Directors and agreed to adopt the principles of the Combined Code for 2011 and adopted the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code for 2012.
The Committee agreed that all Directors would stand for election or re-election at the 2012 AGM.
r The Committee reviewed the length of service of the Directors and discussed succession planning.
r The Committee discussed the time commitment required by the Non-Executive Directors in order for them to discharge their duties eff ectively and it was agreed the current requirements remained appropriate.
com 47 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued May CR Committee Report The Committee agreed the process for reviewing the CR Report annually to ensure that its message was being clearly communicated to shareholders and employees.
The fi first of the core areas, People, was explored in detail by the Committee.
The presentation included data from industry experts and best practice examples on employee engagement.
The Committee discussed strategic messaging and agreed that the Groups intranet site should be developed in order to communicate the Groups CR messages globally.
The Committee received an update on the Groups CO2 data collection process and discussed the KPIs to ensure David Scotland that they remained relevant to the Group.
Chairman November Key responsibilities Aft er a review of the membership of the Committee, Vicky Bindra r Develop Groups CR strategy and monitor joined the Committee.
external developments The Committee developed the key themes for the 2011 CR Report r Review Groups CR Policy and discussed the reporting processes.
r Monitor Groups CR risk exposure The Committee agreed that internal communication and r Review annual CR report engagement in CR would be a key priority for 2012.
The Terms of Reference for the CR Committee can be found The CR risk strategy was discussed by the Committee.
com aboutus governance The Committee received an update on the new technologies which could be introduced to assist with the Groups CO2 emissions Committee Meetings and the Groups own best practice approach.
Members Scheduled Attended Governance David Scotland Chairman 3 3 r The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and confi rmed Vicky Bindra that it had been compliant throughout the year.
appointed 30 November 2011 1 1 r The Committee agreed that a rolling agenda would be draft ed Claire Chapman 3 3 for review in 2012.
Andr Lacroix 3 3 Tony George 3 2 Audit Committee Report Michael Wemms retired 11 May 2011 2 2 Tony George was unable to attend the meeting on 29 November 2011.
The CR Report can be found on pages 34 to 37.
Committee activities during the year January The Committee discussed the themes to be included in the CR section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The draft report was Simon Borrows reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The Committee Chairman recommended that the CR Report be approved by the Board.
Key responsibilities The Committee also reviewed its approach to reporting and discussed ways in which the Group could improve its reporting r Monitor integrity of fi financial statements procedures in the future.
r Review and approve the Annual Report & Accounts The Committee looked at ways in which new technologies r Review Group accounting policies could assist with decreasing CO2 emissions in dealerships r Review internal controls and risk management iPOM within the Group.
r Internal and external audit function The Committee discussed the process for engaging employees in CR and how to incorporate its vision and values into the The Terms of Reference for the Audit Committee Groups processes.
com aboutus governance Governance r The Committee agreed that the core CR areas should be added as an agenda item.
One core area would be explored in detail each year to ensure that it remains relevant and industry experts would be invited to advise the Committee on best practice.
48 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Committee Meetings The Committee discussed the Internal Audit and Risk Members Scheduled Attended Management Status report and in particular reviewed the Key Control questionnaire findings from the yearly review.
Simon Borrows Chairman 4 4 The Report included an update on the whistleblowing policy Alison Cooper 4 4 and procedures.
Nigel Northridge 2 2 The Committee was provided with an update on litigation.
Will Samuel 4 4 David Scotland 2 2 The Committee discussed the performance and reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor without the auditor Michael Wemms retired 11 May 2011 1 1 being present.
Nigel Northridge and David Scotland stepped down from the Committee in July 2011 July The Committee reviewed the processes adopted for the interim Only members of the Committee have the right to attend results and in particular reviewed the going concern statement.
Committee meetings, however other individuals such as the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group The Committee received the Auditor Report and Internal Head of Internal Audit and external auditors attend by invitation.
Committee activities during the year The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit and Risk Management Status Report and measured performance to date against the March internal audit plan.
The Report included an update on the The Committee reviewed the processes adopted for the year whistleblowing policy and procedures.
end results and in particular reviewed the going concern The Committee reviewed the non audit services provided by statement and the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Committee recommended that the 2010 Accounts be  LLP during the year and confirmed that they remained within the scope of the policy for non audit services.
The Committee received the Auditors Report from The Committee was provided with an update on tax  LLP.
The Committee reviewed and litigation.
and approved the auditors independence, the auditors October engagement letter, the management representation letter and the re-appointment of the auditors for 2011 subject to shareholder The Committee endorsed  LLPs 2012 Audit Plan recommending it for approval by the Board.
The auditors confirmed that they complied with the UK regulatory and professional requirements, including The Committee endorsed  LLPs fee Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Standards Practices Board, proposal recommending it for approval by the Board.
and their objectivity was not compromised.
The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit and Risk Management The Committee reviewed its policy on the provision of non audit Status Report and agreed that Internal Audit would review the risk services by  LLP.
The purpose of the policy management plans as part of the audit process in addition to the is to ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent.
The Report included an update on the The Committee confirmed that the policy guideline of a 1:1 fee whistleblowing policy and procedures.
ratio continued to be applicable and reviewed the engagement The Committee was provided with an update on tax and litigation.
of auditors for any non audit work and the restrictions on permitted areas of non audit work.
The Committee tested the performance Governance of the auditors against the policy.
A statement of the fees paid r The Committee reviewed, with  LLP, for audit and non audit services is provided in note 3d on page 84. emerging regulatory issues.
The Internal Audit Charter setting out the responsibility, authority November and processes of the Internal Audit function was reviewed and The Committee discussed the iPOM framework, the structure for approved by the Committee.
managing and monitoring risks through the Group and Market The Committee reviewed the Internal Audit and Risk Management iPOM Committees, linking the risk and control framework and the Status Report and measured performance to date against the mapping of responsibility and oversight across various Committees, internal audit plan.
The Committee confirmed it was satisfied with both at Board and Executive level.
the level of internal controls across the Group however it agreed The Committee approved the 2012 Internal Audit Plan.
The that it would continue to focus on controls to ensure that they discussion included a review of internal processes to ensure that remain effective.
The Report included an update on the they remained robust.
The remit and effectiveness of the Internal Audit Charter was The Committee was provided with an update on tax and litigation.
Governance The Committee was provided with an update on tax and litigation.
r The Committee reviewed the processes in place within the Group to meet the accountability and audit requirements of the Governance Code and confirmed that these remain robust and defensible.
r The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and confirmed r The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and approved that it had been compliant throughout the year.
the changes recommended to the Committee.
r The Committee confirmed that Will Samuel satisfied the recent and relevant financial experience criteria under the provisions May of the Code.
 LLP presented its report on Internal Internal and external auditor private sessions took place Controls to the Committee.
throughout the year as requested.
com 49 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued The Committee reviewed the 2010 Directors Report on Remuneration Committee Report Remuneration to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts and recommended it for approval by the Board.
The performance targets for the 2008 executive share option grant and 2008 co-investment plan were reviewed by the Committee.
The rules of the performance share plan were reviewed by the Committee along with the draft Notice of Meeting to be issued to shareholders for voting on the approval of the new plan at the AGM.
The Committee approved the rules and the wording of the Notice.
The Committee approved the grant of awards under the performance share plan and co-investment plan subject to Nigel Northridge shareholder approval being received at the AGM.
Chairman The Committee approved the operation of the SAYE scheme Key responsibilities during 2011. r Remuneration Policy The Committee reviewed the status of headroom limits in line with r Annual bonus targets Association of British Insurers Guidelines and agreed that headroom r Performance targets for share incentive plans limits would continue to be reviewed twice a year.
r Executive Committee remuneration Governance r The Committee reviewed the Terms of Reference of the The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration Committee sub-committee established to deal with the administration can be found on the website www.
com of its share plans and agreed that, subject to shareholder aboutus governance approval, the new plans should be added.
Committee Meetings Members Scheduled Attended November Nigel Northridge Chairman 3 3 The Committee reviewed the SAYE grant made in 2011 and the Ken Hanna 3 3 performance to date of the targets for the 2009 Executive Share Will Samuel 3 3 Option Plan.
David Scotland 3 3 The Committee reviewed the status of headroom limits in line with Michael Wemms retired 11 May 2011 2 2 Association of British Insurers Guidelines and confi rmed that the Company was compliant during the year.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend The Committee reviewed the progress to date for the performance Committee meetings, however other individuals such as the Group targets of the 2011 bonus scheme.
Chief Executive, Group HR Director and external consultants advise Kepler Associates Kepler gave an update to the the Committee and attend by invitation.
Committee on recent developments in Corporate Governance, Committee activities during the year remuneration trends and current best practice.
The Committee agreed that the Remuneration Policy remained in line with January governance requirements.
The Committee received an update on progress to date for the performance targets for the 2010 annual bonus scheme and the It was agreed that the Pension Policy would be reviewed by the Board in 2012. share incentive plans.
The Committee reviewed the proposed performance measures Governance and targets for the 2011 annual bonus scheme.
r The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and confi rmed that it had been fully compliant throughout the year.
The Committee received an update on the Shareholder r The Committee reviewed the Terms of Reference of the Consultation which began in 2010.
The Committee noted the sub-committee established to deal with the administration comments from its institutional shareholders and agreed that the of its share plans and agreed to the proposed amendments.
new Remuneration Policy was of suitable quality to attract, r The Committee reviewed its membership and confi rmed that motivate and retain employees, was in line with the Groups it complied with the Code.
strategic focus and was aligned with stakeholders interests.
March The Chairman updated the Committee on the conclusion of Shareholder Consultation in respect of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee assessed the measurement and the achievement of the performance targets set for the 2010 bonus scheme and approved the recommendation for the 2010 bonus payments.
The Committee approved the remuneration packages of the Executive Committee for 2011.
No executive was present when the Committee discussed his remuneration.
50 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
