Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for r reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies its standards of governance and is therefore committed to the of the Group: principles of corporate governance contained in The UK r approving appointments to, and removals from, the Corporate Governance Code the Code published in June Board and of the Company Secretary: 2010 previously the Combined Code.
r approving policies relating to Directors remuneration: and As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, Informa is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority r reviewing the dividend policy and determining the the FSA and complies with the provisions of the Code and amounts of dividends.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the As Informa is incorporated in Jersey, it is not subject to the UK Executive Directors: Companies Act.
However, the Board considers it appropriate to r the development and recommendation of strategic plans provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term apply to a UK registered company and are consistent with the objectives and priorities established by the Board: relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act.
r implementation of the strategies and policies of the This report describes how Informa has applied the main Group as determined by the Board: provisions of the Code.
It is in the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant with all the Code provisions throughout r monitoring of the operating and financial results against the year ended 31 December 2011.
Together this report and the plans and budgets: Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 59, explain how the Company has applied the principles and supporting r monitoring the performance of acquisitions and principles of good Governance set out in the Code.
investments against plans and objectives: THE BOARD r prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and Informa plc is the ultimate holding company of the Group and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
The Board, chaired by r developing and implementing risk management systems.
Derek Mapp, has seven Directors, comprising two Executive Full details of the matters reserved for the Board are available Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
members are noted on pages 36 to 37.
There were no changes to the Board throughout the year under review.
The Boards THE ROLES OF THE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the financial and human resources are made available to enable Board, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent those objectives to be met.
Director comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and as such are MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD clearly defined.
These are set out in writing and have been approved by the Board.
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
The specific Derek Mapp has been Non-Executive Chairman since 17 March responsibilities reserved for the Board include, but are not 2008 and as Chairman, he leads the Board and is responsible for limited to: setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely r responsibility for the overall management of the Group: and clear information and for effective communication with r approving the Groups long-term objectives and shareholders.
He promotes a culture of openness and debate to commercial strategy: facilitate the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Nonr approving the Groups annual operating and capital Executive Directors.
He also acts on the results of the Boards expenditure budgets: performance evaluation by leading on the implementation of any required changes to the Board and its Committees including r reviewing operational and financial performance: recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the r approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: Board, and, where appropriate, proposes new members be appointed to the Board or seeking the resignation of Directors.
r reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and The Chairman holds periodic meetings with Non-Executive risk management: Directors without the Executives present.
44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc Peter Rigby was appointed as Chief Executive of Informa on updated on the Groups business and the environment in 17 March 2008 and has the responsibility of running the which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with Company.
As Chief Executive, he has direct charge of the senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on for its operational and financial performance.
He is also any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the primarily responsible for implementation of the Companys Group and those which affect themselves as Directors and are strategy including ensuring the achievement of the Groups able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they budgets and optimising the Groups resources.
He also has are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and changing primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, commercial risks.
identifying and executing new business opportunities and for Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in management development and remuneration.
a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as Senior Independent Director meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any on 17 March 2008 and is available to meet shareholders on information specifically requested by the Directors from request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly shareholder concerns not resolved through existing management reports from the Chief Executive and the mechanisms for investor communication.
She acts as a Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups sounding board for the Chairman and, if and when and managements performance against agreed objectives.
appropriate, serves as an intermediary for the other Directors.
More details on Board and Committee meetings can be found on page 47.
DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE BOARD AND The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors ITS COMMITTEES who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The Chairman, for the annual internal evaluation of the performance independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number of the Board, its principal Committees and individual Directors.
that their views carry significant weight in the Boards On appointment the Directors are made aware that their decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its performance will be subject to evaluation.
The Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and Directors led by the Senior Independent Director meet at least judgement.
In particular none of them has any personal or annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
business relationships which give rise to any conflict or A full and extensive external board evaluation was carried potential conflict and each freely contributes to Board and out in 2010 of the corporate governance of Informa plc, Committee discussions and decision making.
including an evaluation of its Chairman.
The review resulted in There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to a detailed analysis of the operation and effectiveness of both obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups the Board and its Committees and of compliance with the expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order to Code.
The feedback was provided both orally and in a written carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors contracts are report.
The conclusions provided a very positive report on the available for inspection at the registered office and principal Companys governance and provided some suggestions for office during normal business hours and will be available for improvement.
These findings were considered by the Board as inspection at the AGM.
part of its decision making for 2011.
In accordance with the Code the next external board evaluation will take place within INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT the next two years.
On appointment the Directors receive relevant information RE-ELECTION about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and The Companys Articles of Association provide for all Directors membership of the principal Board Committees and the to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Board is powers delegated to those Committees, the Groups corporate satisfied, following independent formal evaluation, that each governance policies and procedures and the latest financial Director continues to be effective and to demonstrate information about the Group.
This is supplemented by commitment to their role.
introductory meetings with key senior executives.
On DIVERSITY appointment the Directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Informa operates a successful business based on a proven track record of equal opportunity and reward for performance.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 45 Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED Across the management of the Group around 50% are women perceptions.
The Companys brokers reports on the Group are and we are committed to maintaining this level.
In 2011, also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of women accounted for 59% of all internal promotions.
significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
At Board level, we believe that the current representation of The AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given one female Non-Executive Director 14% is the minimum and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during the acceptable and whilst below the target that has been set for meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after the 2015, with a small number of Directors this percentage can meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
The number increase quickly with a new appointment.
However, we are of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each reluctant at this stage to increase the size of the Board as a resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is small Board fits Informas entrepreneurial culture and approach proposed for each item.
to fast commercial decision making and we do not want to The Groups corporate website at www.
com provides accelerate the departure of existing male Non-Executives, who a wide range of information about the Group which is of are both high quality and high contributors to the Board and interest to both institutional and private investors.
As opportunities arise through natural vacancies includes all announcements made by the Company to the FSA and rotation, our intention is to ensure we achieve an as well as video recordings of the half year and full year increasing level of women membership of the Board.
presentations made to analysts, and details of the Groups business and sectors in which it operates.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY During the year, John Burton resigned from the Company with PROCEDURES TO DEAL WITH DIRECTORS CONFLICTS effect from 31 August.
Adam Walker was appointed as OF INTEREST Company Secretary on an interim basis on 1 September until The Companys Articles, which were adopted by shareholders Rupert Hopley was appointed Company Secretary and Group on 2 June 2009, include provisions covering Directors conflicts General Counsel with effect from 1 November.
Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters and all Directors have The Articles allow the Board to authorise any matter that access to his advice and services.
would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in place to RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of interest.
As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Derek Mapp as Chairman r consider each conflict situation separately on its and Dr Pamela Kirby as Senior Independent Director particular facts: provides the Board with feedback on any issues raised with them by shareholders.
r consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the Companys Articles: Financial results are announced on a quarterly basis.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director give presentations on the half r keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations year and full year results in face to face meetings with granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals institutional investors, analysts and the media, which are also given: and accessible via webcast on www.
After the release r regularly review conflict authorisations.
of the Interim Management Statements in respect of the first and third quarters, the Company holds webcasts for INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT institutional investors, analysts and the media.
In addition to these presentations, the Executive Directors have frequent The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues, control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is including governance and strategy, affecting the Groups designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure performance.
Meetings are also held with the Groups largest to achieve business objectives and can only provide institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material announcement of the Groups half-yearly and full year results misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance and on other occasions.
In addition, the Group responds to recognises that the cost of control procedures should not individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional exceed the expected benefits.
Following meetings held with shareholders after The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating the half-yearly and full year results announcements, the Board and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This is provided with feedback from the Executive Directors, the process was in place throughout the year under review and up Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and cross section of senior officers and managers of the Group is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: and is chaired by the Finance Director.
The Risk Committee Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
supports the Board in its consideration of current and forward-looking material business risk exposures.
The key features of Informas system of internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting r The external auditor present their proposed annual audit process include: plan for approval by the Audit Committee and report on any issues identified in the course of their work, including r Business planning all business units produce and agree internal control reports on control weaknesses, which an annual business plan against which the performance of were provided to the Audit Committee as well as the business is regularly monitored.
r Financial analysis each business units operating r Internal Audit present their proposed annual audit plan profitability and capital expenditure are closely for approval by the Audit Committee and reports on monitored.
Management incentives are tied to financial reviews and tests of key business processes and control results.
These results include explanations of variances activities, including following up the implementation of between forecast, actual and budgeted performance, and management action plans to address any identified are reviewed in detail by executive management on a control weaknesses and reporting any overdue actions monthly basis.
Key financial information is reported to the to the Audit Committee.
During 2011, KPMG LLP were engaged to provide the Group r Group Authority Framework the framework provides with Internal Audit services and act as Head of Internal Audit.
clear guidelines for all business units of the approval limits for capital and operating expenditure, and other key The Board confirms that no significant failings or business decisions.
weaknesses have been identified from the reviews performed by Internal Audit.
r Risk assessment a risk assessment is embedded into the operations of the Group and a bottom up risk assessment BOARD MEETINGS AND COMMITTEES is submitted to executive management and the Board for At each meeting the Board received information regarding approval.
Each business unit considers the significant risks current trading, business unit performance, and treasury to its business and to the achievement of the proposed information.
At certain times of the year the Board reviews and plan.
In doing so, each unit considers risk in terms of discusses budgets, capital expenditure, risks, financial probability of occurrence and potential impact on statements and strategy.
The Board is also provided with performance, and mitigating actions, control updates when appropriate on aspects such as changes in effectiveness and management responsibility are legislation, acquisition potentials and changing business identified to address these risks.
environment, in addition to regular investor relations feedback The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups and analysis.
system of internal controls, including financial, operational and Each Committee reports to, and has its Terms of Reference compliance controls, risk management and the Groups approved by the Board, and all Committee minutes are high-level internal control arrangements.
In performing its circulated to the Board as soon as possible after each meeting.
review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee considered the No unscheduled meetings were held during the year.
The following reporting: number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee r The Risk Committee reports on the effectiveness of risk meetings attended as a member by each Director during management, governance and compliance activity within the year are set out below.
This Committee comprises the Chief Executive, a Scheduled Board Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee meetings of 7 meetings of 6 meetings of 3 meetings of 1 Derek Mapp 7 1 Peter Rigby 7 Adam Walker 7 Pamela Kirby 7 6 1 John Davis 7 6 3 1 Brendan ONeill 7 6 3 Stephen Carter 7 3 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 47 Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external AUDIT COMMITTEE auditor.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditor is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also, in accordance with Turnbull Guidance, reviews annually, and has done so during the year and up to the date of this report, the Groups system of internal controls and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
These responsibilities are principally carried out through the Risk Committee whose activities are overseen by the Chairman of Chair: Dr Brendan ONeill the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Other members: John Davis, Stephen Carter Secretary: John Burton until 31 August 2011 The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive Adam Walker 1 September 31 October 2011 Directors and management, as well as privately with both the Rupert Hopley after 1 November 2011 external and internal auditors.
The Committee has during the year to 31 December 2011 received sufficient, reliable and Objective: To be responsible for corporate reporting, risk timely information from the senior managers to enable it to management and internal control procedures, and for fulfil its duties.
maintaining the relationship with the Companys auditor.
In 2011 the Committee has fulfilled its duties under its terms of The membership of the Audit Committee is set out above.
reference during the year and discharged its responsibilities primarily by: The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and last amended in July 2011 and are available on the Companys r reviewing the Groups draft full year and half-yearly results website.
The Committees terms of reference allow it to obtain statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the independent external advice at the Companys expense.
No external auditors detailed reports thereon.
In particular such advice was obtained during 2011.
The Audit Committee reviewing the opinions of management and the auditor in has at least one member possessing recent and relevant relation to the carrying values of the Groups assets and experience, as recommended in the Financial Reporting any contingent liabilities: Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
Its Chairman, Dr Brendan ONeill, has extensive experience of Audit r reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups Committee procedures, and John Davis is a qualified Chartered accounting policies: Accountant and until November 2010 was the Chief Financial r reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial Officer of Yell Group plc.
The meetings of the Committee statements of matters such as the adoption of operate so as to investigate the key accounting, audit and risk International Financial Reporting Standards: issues that are relevant to the Group.
The mixture of experience of its members assist in providing a challenging r recommending to the full Board, which adopted the environment in which these issues are debated.
The Finance recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Director, Deputy Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and the Groups external auditor: Head of Group Tax attend all or part of its proceedings in order to provide information to, and be questioned by, the r reviewing and recommending the audit fee and Committee.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external during the year and the Board and Committee are satisfied that auditor to the Board: it has the expertise and resource to fulfil its responsibilities r reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the effectively including those relating to risk and control.
Groups financial statements, which included key areas of scope of work: key risks on the financial statements: The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups confirmations of auditor independence and the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to proposed audit fee and approving the terms of the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for engagement for the audit: monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 GOVERNANCE Informa plc r a report from the external auditor describing their r reviewing the Groups system of controls and its arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts effectiveness.
In particular, it approves the annual internal of interest: and audit plan and it reviews the work done by Internal Audit and actions which follow from the work: r the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the r approving the decision to outsource the Internal Audit external auditor, in addition to its approval of the function, and the overseeing and appointment of KPMG provision of non-audit services by the external auditor LLP in this role: that exceed the pre-approval threshold.
r reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit risks including regular consultation with the Head of Committee reviewed: Internal Audit and in particular the operation of the r the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Groups Risk Committee : and independence and objectivity: r reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and r the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan performance of significant recent acquisitions compared and any variations from the plan: to plans.
r the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise r the content of the external auditors reporting on matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable internal control.
Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended The Audit Committee also undertakes a thorough performance to the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
Deloitte LLP has evaluation which is led by the Chairman of the Committee.
been the Groups external auditor since 2004.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the external EXTERNAL AUDITOR auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The external auditor is required to rotate the The Audit Committee is also responsible for the development, audit partner responsible for the Group and parent company implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on audits every five years and the current senior statutory audit external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for partner has been in place since 2009.
There are no contractual monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility to the Finance The Group has in place a policy for the provision of non-audit Director.
It states that the external auditor is jointly responsible services by the external auditor.
This policy provides that the to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit firms services may only be provided where 1 auditor Committee is the primary contact.
The policy also sets out the objectivity and independence may be securely safeguarded categories of non-audit services which the external auditor will and 2 where the fees payable either in respect of the and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide assigned work or overall in any year do not exceed the amount minimis levels.
of fees payable in respect of its audit work.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the Non-audit services, other than audit related services, provided external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed: by the external auditor during 2011 related to tax advisory services and services to improve clarity over working capital r the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the balances and reporting.
The tax advisory services were below role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the the Groups pre-approval threshold.
The services to improve audit report and who, in accordance with professional clarity over working capital balances and reporting related to a rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any monitoring tool being installed.
A separate team, independent changes in the key audit staff: from the audit and tax audit team provided the service.
r the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 49 Informa plc Corporate Governance Statement CONTINUED NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Chair: Derek Mapp Chair: Dr Pamela Kirby Other members: Dr Pamela Kirby, John Davis Other members: Dr Brendan ONeill, John Davis Secretary : John Burton until 31 August 2011 Secretary : John Burton until 31 August 2011 Adam Walker 1 September 31 October 2011 Adam Walker 1 September 31 October 2011 Rupert Hopley after 1 November 2011 Rupert Hopley after 1 November 2011 Objective: To ensure there is a formal, rigorous and Objective: To set, review and recommend for transparent procedure for the appointment of new approval the remuneration policy and strategy, and Directors to the Board and its Committees.
individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and to approve the introduction and rules The membership of the Nomination Committee is set out above.
of all Group share-based incentive schemes.
The Chief Executive usually attends meetings by invitation.
The The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set out above.
Committees terms of reference were reviewed and amended in February 2011 and are available on the Companys website.
The All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and independent Non-Executive Directors, with the Chairman of the experience that the Board requires and seeks the appointment Board only attending meetings by invitation.
The Committees of Directors who meet those requirements to ensure that the terms of reference were reviewed and amended in February Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
2011 and are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities are to: r set, review and recommend to the Board for approval the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: r set, review and approve the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors including terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and r approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
A full Remuneration Report is provided on pages 51 to 59.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Rupert Hopley Company Secretary 23 February 2012 50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2011
