2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A robust governance structure underpins the ANDREW SUKAWATY Chairman delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Board believes that a robust governance structure Our Board is ultimately accountable to the shareholders for contributes to the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Transparency the performance of the business.
Responsibility for implementing and accountability are key elements of the Boards decision strategy within the Groups operations and for day-to-day making in setting the direction for the Group.
This report management of the business is delegated to the Chief Executive shows the approach taken by the Board to achieve the Of cer who, with and through his executive team, cascades it Groups governance.
Management of the business is delegated to the Companys Executive Staff team, details of whom are The Board listed on page 7.
Responsibilities Our Board, collectively, is the primary decision-making body A formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved for decision for all material matters affecting the Group.
It also provides or consideration by the Board as a whole has been agreed by leadership, guidance and sets strategic direction.
This schedule covers areas such as the Groups composition of the Board and its various Committees is regularly business strategy, major investments and acquisitions.
Where reviewed and evaluated so as to re ect the balance of skills, appropriate, speci c responsibilities are delegated to Board knowledge, experience and ability of Directors to provide Committees or to committees convened for special purposes.
suf cient time to ful l their Board responsibilities.
The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved to the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
9 8 1 7 2 6 3 4 5 Number of scheduled meetings held and meeting attendance in 2011 Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee 1.
John Rennocks 8 8 4 4 - 2 2 Chairman of the Board and Nominations Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee INMARSAT PLC 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Constitution and appointments Non-Executive Directors have been appointed initially for three Our Board is comprised of Directors drawn from a wide range years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless agreed by of professional backgrounds.
It was further strengthened by the the Board, remain in of ce for a period longer than six years, or appointment of Rupert Pearce, who took of ce as an Executive two terms in of ce, whichever is the shorter.
Currently, our Board is made up of three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The names Four of our Non-Executive Directors were appointed for the of the directors who served during the year, their relevant skills first time at the 2006 AGM and therefore will be reaching their and experience are set out in their biographical details on pages six-year term at the 2012 AGM.
The Board has approved that 32 and 33.
The Board also considers the need for diversity on these Directors: John Rennocks, Stephen Davidson, Sir Bryan the Board and within the Group as a whole.
Succession planning Carsberg and Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd should remain in of ce, for the Board and within the Group takes account of diversity subject to being re-appointed by shareholders.
The Board has two female Non-Executive Directors out of six Non-Executive Directors.
Rupert Pearce, who joined the Board on 6 July 2011, will stand Female representation as a percentage of the full Board is 22%.
for election in the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Additionally, in The Board is comfortable with its current composition.
accordance with the provision of the Code, all directors will stand for re-appointment annually.
Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer We announced in last years annual report a planned intention The Nominations Committee con rmed to the Board that the to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for to comply with the UK Corporate Governance code the Code.
re-appointment at the 2012 AGM continued to bene t the This change was advised to shareholders in July 2011 and Board and the Company should support their re-appointment.
Governance With effect from 1 January 2012, Andrew Sukawaty remains Our Board meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its Executive Chairman and Rupert Pearce became Chief Executive business.
During the year, the Board met eight times, with one Of cer.
There is a clear division of their respective executive of those meetings being held in Washington DC where the responsibilities.
John Rennocks, our Senior Independent Director, Board met with senior members of the US management teams, continues to act as Deputy Chairman and we continue to value enabling it to develop its relationships with these employee his contribution in this dual role.
John is available to discuss groups.
The rest of the meetings are held in the UK.
Unscheduled issues or concerns from our shareholders where they have been supplementary meetings also take place as and when necessary.
unable to resolve them through existing channels for investor communications.
In instances where a Director is unable to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which he or she may have Independent Non-Executive Directors arising out of the papers to be considered at the meeting are The diverse experience and backgrounds of the Non-Executive relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or the Company Directors ensures that they can debate with, and constructively Secretary who would then report to the Board.
challenge management both in relation to the development of strategy and in relation to operational and financial performance.
Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of To determine their independence, all Non-Executive Directors the relevant meetings.
Typically, at each meeting, the Chief are reviewed annually against any circumstances relevant to their Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer provide reports to current or ongoing independence as set out in the Code.
the Board and several senior executives, by invitation, present updates on strategy and the Groups operations.
All Committee Following such review, the Board considers all the Non-Executive Chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their Committees Directors to be independent and free of any circumstances that at the following Board meeting.
Meeting proceedings and any could materially interfere with their ability to provide a strong, unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by valuable contribution to the Boards deliberations, or which could the Company Secretary.
interfere with the Directors ability to also act in the best interests of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually and on an ad-hoc basis, without the Chairman and other Executive Directors in Appointment and re-appointment attendance, to assess the Chairmans performance, discuss The Directors may appoint additional members to join the Board Board balance, monitor the powers of individual Executive during the year.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the Directors and raise any issues between themselves as recommendation of the Board, offer themselves for election by appropriate.
An example of this would be the succession shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after planning for the CEO role.
As part of its regular Board meeting schedule, the Board also The re-appointment of Directors is subject to their ongoing holds a two-day strategy meeting each year at which it considers commitment to Board activities and satisfactory performance.
the future direction of the business.
Strategy is also reviewed at each regular Board meeting.
Strategy sessions are attended by several senior executives who present on specialised agenda items.
38 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Board effectiveness External directorships The effectiveness of the Board is an essential element of the The Board believes, in principle, in the bene t of Executive Companys overall performance.
During 2011, the Board and Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the completed an internally facilitated performance evaluation bene t of the Company.
All such appointments require the prior designed to assess the quality and effectiveness of the Boards approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not take on more decision making.
The Directors re ected and commented on than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or decisions taken over the previous 12 months and how debate any chairmanship of such a company.
Messrs Sukawaty and and presentations could be improved going forward to enhance Medlock have external directorships and are permitted to retain their own impact and contribution to the success of the any directors fees from these appointments.
Mr Pearce does Company, and its preparation for future challenges.
not currently have any external directorships.
Details of these directorships can be found in their biographies on page 32 and The main elements in the evaluation process included individual details of the fees paid to them can be found on page 47.
To Directors and Committee members completing separate avoid potential con icts of interest, Non-Executive Directors evaluation questionnaires regarding the processes of the Board are expected to inform the Chairman before taking up any and its Committees, their effectiveness and where improvements additional external appointments.
They also undertook a peer review in which they assessed their fellow Directors performance and each of Induction and on-going developments the Non-Executive Directors had a discussion with the Company To ensure that each director receives the appropriate support on Secretary.
The results were compiled and analysed by the joining the Board, they are given a comprehensive, formal and Company Secretary and circulated to the full Board and tailored induction programme organised through the Company considered as a speci c item of Board business.
Secretary, including the provision of background material on the Company and brie ngs with senior management.
Each Directors The evaluation process concluded that during the year, the individual experience and background is taken into account in Board and its main Committees had functioned well with a developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
good balance of the necessary skills required and that the individual Directors had also met the standards expected of For professional on-going developments, the Board receives them, with each making strong contributions, generally and presentations appropriate to the Companys business and through the knowledge derived from their specialised areas.
The Company Secretary supplies all With the Non-Executive Directors generally having five to six Directors with information on relevant legal and best practice.
years experience of the Companys business, this gave them Directors remuneration greater business sector maturity and understanding of competitors activities and their impact on the Group, thus Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors aiding their understanding of the strategy for the business remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration and new technologies being considered.
Company Secretary A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will be The Company Secretary is responsible for developing and reviewed by the Board, considering the Code recommendation maintaining the information systems and processes that enable that an external review is undertaken at least every three years.
the Board to ful l its role.
She is also responsible to the Board for It is expected that an external evaluation will be undertaken ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising in 2012. the Board on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive Directors unanimously supported the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the appointment of Rupert Pearce as Chief Executive Of cer and Company Secretary and are able to take independent advice in continue to be highly supportive of all the Executive team.
The the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
No requests for culture of openness and transparency with the sharing of updates external professional advice were received during the year.
on Group activities has remained evident following the senior Board Committees management changes.
The reorganisation of the business, which was announced in late 2011, had been briefed to the full Board, The Board has established Committees to assist it in exercising particularly in the last quarter of 2011, to ensure that there was its authority.
The permanent Committees of the Board are the full knowledge of, and support for the changes in management Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
structure, and in the reporting team to the new Chief Executive Of cer.
The Board supported the rationale for the changes in Each of the permanent Committees has Terms of Reference business approach to bring together all the Groups subsidiaries under which authority is delegated by the Board.
The Terms of as a uni ed Inmarsat presence, enabling a more fide ned market Reference for each Committee can be found on our website at approach to revenue generation.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to these Board Committees and the of ce of the Company Secretary provides secretariat services for each of the Committees.
INMARSAT PLC 39 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Committees BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Oversight and review of Oversight and review of Oversight and review of financial, audit and remuneration, bonus Board and senior management internal control issues.
Reports from each of the Committees are as follows: to the Committee.
Reviews by the Committee of audit plans and risk reports include all Group operations.
Detailed standardised Audit Committee risk reporting is used for all Group companies, including Ship All members of the Audit Committee are independent, Equip which was acquired during the year under review.
During Non-Executive Directors and the majority have signi cant, recent 2011, the Senior Statutory Auditor of the external Auditor.
The Board is con dent that the completed his five-year term working with the Company.
The collective experience of the Audit Committee members enables process of introducing a new Partner has gone smoothly, with them, as a group, to act as an effective Committee.
Committee brie ngs from the Committee Chairman and management to membership and attendance at meetings are shown on page 37. provide transparency of business activities.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Committee the role of which is detailed on page 42, reported Financial Of cer and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Deloitte on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner is present at all Audit financial and other material information to the Board, to the Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit relating to the audit.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial meets regularly with the internal and external auditors.
reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring External Auditor the financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness The audit engagement partner rotates every five years and a of the operation of internal controls and risk management and new audit partner took responsibility for reporting on results the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review for the 2011 financial year.
of signi cant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
Its duties include keeping under review the scope and results Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded through of the audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of a variety of mechanisms.
To ensure the Auditors independence, managements response to any major external or internal the Committee annually reviews the Companys relationship audit recommendations and the independence and objectivity with Deloitte.
Following the review in 2011, the Company of the internal and external auditors.
concluded that it continues to have an objective and professional relationship with Deloitte and that there are suf cient During the year to 31 December 2011, the Audit Committee controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, independence.
In addition, the Auditor is required to review and half-year and full-year financial statements, interim management con rm their independence to the Committee on a regular basis.
It considered internal audit reports and risk management updates, agreed external Non-audit services and internal audit plans, received updates on management The Companys Auditor may also be employed where, as a result responses to audit recommendations and approved the review of of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed accounting policies.
Progress on implementation of processes to to, perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in meet the requirements of the UK Bribery Act were also provided relation to the provision of non-audit services by the Auditor to ensure that there is adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
40 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services require During 2011, a signi cant activity for the Committee was the the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee succession planning for the Chief Executive role.
The Deputy does not exceed more than 5% of the total audit fees paid to the Chairman, Mr Rennocks, chaired the Committee for these Auditor in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has agreed meetings and throughout the process would additionally call that the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory meetings of all the Non-Executive Directors to brief them on and tax compliance work from the Auditor, in aggregate, of up to progress.
An external consultant, RHR International, was engaged 20% of the total audit fee each year, with up to 50,000 for any to benchmark Mr Pearce against the requirements of the one project, without the need to seek approval for individual position, assessing his capabilities and identifying where projects.
A breakdown of the fees paid to Deloitte during the a development programme would be helpful as he took on year is set out in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Committee was also involved in the succession planning for the Chief Technology Of cer role and It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several endorsed managements recommendation of the internal rms, including the Auditor, before work on non-audit projects is candidate for the position.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
The Committee and the Companys Another area of activity, which the Committee debated, and management are aware that the level of fees paid to Deloitte LLP which was also discussed with the full Board, related to Board for non-audit services compared to audit services is, and has diversity and agreement to the issue of a statement of how the been, signi cantly higher over the last few years.
The increase is Board considers diversity as part of its succession planning.
due to work undertaken on recent acquisitions and re nancing Gender is one element of the considerations made in appointing activities.
The Committee does not believe that this is an issue for senior management, Board appointees and as part of general the Company as it is happy with the quality of work and advice recruitment practices across the Group.
The Nominations provided and that where non-audit work is undertaken Committee gives full consideration to succession planning in management will have negotiated competitive rates for each the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and piece of work.
opportunities facing the Company, how to take account of diversity, including gender, and what skills and expertise are Remuneration Committee needed on the Board and from senior management in the future.
The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent, Relations with shareholders Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, meets as and when necessary to review and The Company recognises the importance of communicating with approve, as appropriate, the remuneration of the Executive its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is Directors and senior management and major remuneration plans understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
Full details of areas that the Committee focuses on Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 53. dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer ensure that the Nominations Committee views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Nominations Committee comprises a majority of The Board ensures that the Companys strategic plans have been independent, Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term Committee meets as and when necessary and details of the shareholder value.
This audited 2011 Annual Report will be membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings are made available to shareholders and all results are posted on shown on page 37.
The Nominations Committee has the Companys website, as are presentations made in respect responsibility for nominating to the Board, candidates for of the full-year results.
appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the need for diversity and a broad representation of skills across the Board.
The Company has undertaken regular investor roadshows in the UK and overseas and presentations were also made after The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations to publication of the Preliminary Results in March 2011 and also in the Board concerning the re-appointment of any independent, March 2012.
Investor and analyst conference calls took place after Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her speci ed the announcement of each set of quarterly financial results.
There term: the election and re-election of any Director by shareholders is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between in accordance with the provisions of the Code and changes to the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers senior management, including Executive Directors.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance The Nominations Committee agreed that it was appropriate to are discussed within the constraints of information which has adopt the recommendation of the Code that all Directors would already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional retire at the 2012 AGM and offer themselves for re-appointment.
shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company The Committee further agreed that it was appropriate that than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that directors approaching their six-year term of of ce should be any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, permitted to serve for a longer period.
institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
The Senior Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or such concerns have not been resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through the Company Secretary.
INMARSAT PLC 41 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In the past, the Board has consulted with shareholders in The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, connection with speci c issues where it considers it appropriate which have been in place throughout the year under review and and it would do so in the future.
up to the date of this report, include: The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, Risk management: an overarching risk management policy is in JPMorgan Cazenove and Credit Suisse, on the views of place which sets out the tolerance for risk within the Group and institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
how this is measured across identi ed macro and business risks.
Any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to the Board by the Chief Financial Of cer.
As a matter of routine, As required by the policy, management operates a risk the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share management process to identify, evaluate and report signi cant price, trading activity and details of movements in institutional risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided with current risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number analyst opinions and forecasts.
of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by Risk Committees across the Group, which identify the risk area, Annual General Meeting the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur Shareholders are welcome at the Companys AGM where they and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired will have an opportunity to meet the Board.
All the risk registers are available for review by senior AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before management of each business and provided quarterly to the the meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Board and to the Audit Committee.
With the reorganisation of Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as the Groups businesses, additional focus on how risk reporting will possible, will attend the 2012 AGM and be available to answer be managed going forwards will be key for management in 2012. shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by poll, by a show of hands or a combination of all three.
Facilities are Management structure: there is a clearly fide ned provided for shareholders to vote electrically either through organisational structure throughout the Group with Electronic Proxy Voting or through CREST.
The voting results will established lines of reporting and delegation of authority be noti ed to the UK Listing Authority through a Regulatory based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the Information Service immediately after the meeting and will be businesses, senior management meetings occur regularly published on our website.
to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
A process of self-certi cation is used where Directors and Internal controls senior managers are required to detail and certify controls The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and in operation to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives con rm annually, in writing, that risk management processes regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and are in place and are operating effectively.
managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and nonfinancial reasonable and not absolute assurance against material information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, misstatement or loss.
Management continues to focus on how forecasts, performance targets and long range financial plans internal control and risk management can be further embedded allow management to monitor the key business and financial into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of activities and the progress towards achieving the financial improvement which come to managements and the objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting process.
In addition, in line with the Transparency Directive, the The Company has an established Disclosure Committee with Company publishes interim management statements.
responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information Information systems: information systems are developed to and other procedures necessary to enable the Chairman, Chief support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer to provide their professionally staffed teams.
Appropriate policies and procedures certi cations in relation to publicly disclosed information.
are in place covering all signi cant areas of the business.
The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review Contractual commitments: there are clearly fide ned policies and of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during the procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
These year ended 31 December 2011 and for the period up to the date include detailed requirements that must be completed prior to of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in respect of in the Annual Report.
The review covered all material controls, the commercial, control and risk management aspects of the including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk obligations being entered into.
The Board con rms that the actions it considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from its review of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also con rms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in the part of the internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
42 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 2011 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts regular reports from the internal and external auditors and and covenant calculations were stress tested by applying a set of assures itself that the internal control environment of the downside scenarios.
After making enquiries, the Directors have Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies and a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
Accordingly, Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern Signi cant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
There are formal procedures by which Overall summary statement on corporate governance staff can, in con dence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters, including The Company is committed to the highest standards of pensions administration often referred to as whistleblowing corporate governance, taking into account the new UK Corporate procedures.
Arrangements are in place for proportionate Governance Code.
Throughout the year ended 31 December and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up 2011, the Company has been in compliance with the provisions action with the results being reported to the Audit Committee.
set out in Section 1 of the Code save as noted below.
Going concern Until 31 December 2011, Andrew Sukawaty acted in the dual The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going role of Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer.
Despite the current volatility in financial markets and Chairman in December 2003 and assumed the additional role of uncertain economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group Chief Executive Of cer at the Boards request in March 2004. has a robust and resilient business model, strong free cash ow The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience of the generation and is compliant with all its financial covenants.
In telecommunications industry in an executive capacity meant making their assessment of going concern, the Directors that he was extremely well quali ed to lead the Company in the considered the Board-approved budget, the 15-month rolling joint role.
This area of non-compliance is no longer applicable forecast, the cash ow forecast and the most recent Long Range following the split of the roles effective 1 January 2012.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity pro le of existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual Risk management process EXECUTIVE INMARSAT PLC AUDIT MANAGEMENT BOARDS BOARD COMMITTEE INMARSAT GLOBAL, STRATOS AND SEGOVIA fide fines the risk governance Reviews the risk management Review the risk management framework, risk culture framework and the effectiveness of framework and the effectiveness of and principles internal controls, risk management internal controls, risk management Sets overall risk strategy and policy systems and major risk initiatives systems and major risk initiatives Approves risk levels Reviews the internal audit across the Group Is responsible for an effective programme and reports system of internal controls Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities RISK COMMITTEES Review the risk pro le against risk appetite and make recommendations to management in relation to risk pro le, strategy and key controls Review the suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assess major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement mitigation strategies INMARSAT PLC 43 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
