44 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 diRecToRS RePoRT The Directors present their report for the financial year ended The Company has not utilised the authority given by shareholders at 31 December 2011. any of its Annual General Meetings to allot shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing shareholders.
Certain information required for disclosure in this report is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Share repurchases Financial Statements 2011.
These include the Business review, the Corporate Governance, Audit Committee, Nomination No shares were purchased or cancelled under the authority granted by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM held Committee and Remuneration reports and the Group financial statements, and these are, accordingly, incorporated into this on 27 May 2011.
The share buyback authority remains in force until the AGM in 2012, and a resolution to renew the authority will be report by reference.
put to shareholders at that AGM.
Activities of the Group Substantial shareholdings The principal activities of the Group are in hotels and resorts, with franchising, management, ownership and leasehold interests As at 31 December 2011 and 13 February 2012, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency in over 4,400 establishments, with more than 658,000 guest rooms in nearly 100 countries and territories around the world.
Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority, of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its ordinary shares: Business review This Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the At At Chairmans statement and the Chief Executives review on pages 31 December 13 February Nature of 2011 2012 interest 3 to 5, and the Business review on pages 8 to 40.
Taken together, Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. 14.01% 14.01% Indirect these provide a fair review of the Groups strategy and business, significant developments during 2011 and a description of the Cedar Rock Capital Limited 5.07% 5.07% Direct principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
IHG has set out how it BlackRock, Inc. 5.02% 5.02% Indirect manages some of the risks it sees as changing or dynamic on Capital Research and 5.02% 5.02% Indirect page 36 and the main risks that could materially affect the Groups Management Company business on pages 38 to 40.
The development and performance of Legal & General Group plc 3.96% 3.96% Direct the business during and at the end of the year are described, together with main trends, factors and likely developments, key performance indicators, environmental and employee matters, Directors and social and community issues.
Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, any relevant legislation and to any directions given by special resolution, the Results and dividends business is managed by the Board, which may exercise all the The operating profit before exceptional items was $559m: the powers of the Company.
These include the power to allot and to Groups income statement is set out on page 72.
An interim dividend purchase shares.
The Companys Articles of Association may only of 9.8p per share 16.0 cents per ADR was paid on 7 October 2011. be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 24.7p per share available on the Companys website www.
com investors 39.0 cents per ADR to be paid on 1 June 2012 to shareholders on under corporate governance.
the Register of Members at the close of business on 23 March 2012.
Biographical details of Directors who served on the Board as at Therefore, the full-year dividend will be 34.5p per share 55.0 cents 13 February 2012 are shown on pages 42 and 43.
The following per ADR 2010 30p per share 48.0 cents per ADR.
Total dividends were Directors during 2011 and held office throughout the year, relating to the year are expected to amount to $159m.
unless otherwise indicated: Share capital Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2011 consisted 29 1 of 290,548,089 ordinary shares of 13 47p each.
There are no James Abrahamson Graham Allan special control rights or restrictions on transfer attaching to these 2 Andrew Cosslett David Kappler ordinary shares.
During the year, 1,075,438 new shares were issued 5 Kirk Kinsell Ralph Kugler under employee share plans.
3 Tracy Robbins Jennifer Laing IHG operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT for the 4 Thomas Singer Jonathan Linen benefit of employees and former employees.
The ESOT purchases 6 Richard Solomons Luke Mayhew shares in the market and releases them to current and former 7 Dale Morrison employees in satisfaction of share awards.
During the year, the David Webster ESOT released 4,111,489 shares and at 31 December 2011 it held 1,464,231 shares in the Company.
The ESOT adopts a prudent Ying Yeh approach to purchasing shares, using funds provided by the Group, 1 Resigned on 13 June 2011.
5 Retired on 30 June 2011. based on expectations of future requirements.
No awards or grants over shares were made during 2011 that would 3 Appointed on 9 August 2011.
7 Appointed on 1 June 2011. be dilutive of the Companys ordinary share capital.
Current policy 4 Appointed on 26 September 2011. is to settle the majority of awards or grants under the Companys share plans with shares purchased in the market.
A number of Details of the beneficial share interests of Directors who were options granted up to 2005 are yet to be exercised and will be on the Board at the year end are shown on the following page.
settled with the issue of new shares.
No changes to these interests occurred between the year end and the date of this Annual Report.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION directors report 45 of the Business review and in notes 21 to 23 to the Group financial 31 December 2011 statements on pages 99 to 105.
InterContinental Hotels Group PLC 1 ordinary shares The Group is a party to the following arrangements which are Executive Directors terminable upon a change of control of the Company and are 2 considered significant in terms of their potential impact on the Kirk Kinsell 109,547 business of the Group as a whole: Tracy Robbins 43,108 t he Groups five-year $1.07bn syndicated loan facility agreement Thomas Singer dated 7 November 2011, under which a change of control of the Richard Solomons 252,166 Company would entitle each lender to cancel its commitment Non-Executive Directors and declare all amounts due to it payable: and 3 Graham Allan 12,000 t he terms of the 250m seven-year bond issued by the Company David Kappler 1,400 on 9 December 2009, under which a change of control would Jennifer Laing 3,373 oblige the Company to redeem or purchase the outstanding notes 4 Jonathan Linen 7,343 together with interest accrued.
Luke Mayhew 2,000 Dale Morrison Policy on payment of suppliers David Webster 35,828 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC is a holding company and has Ying Yeh no trade creditors.
Group companies apply standard payment terms which are considered reasonable, transparent and 1 These shareholdings are all beneficial interests and include shares held by consistent with prevailing commercial practices.
These are agreed Directors spouses and other connected persons.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary.
These shareholdings with suppliers and payments are contingent on goods or services do not include Executive Directors entitlements to share awards under the being supplied to the required standard.
Companys share plans, which are set out separately in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 68.
Auditors 2 1 08,910 ordinary shares and 637 American Depositary Receipts.
3 2, 000 ordinary shares and 10,000 American Depositary Receipts.
The Directors who held office as at the date of approval of this report confirm that they have taken steps to make themselves aware of 4 H eld in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
None of the Directors is aware of any relevant audit information which has not been disclosed to the auditors.
During the year, IHG has maintained cover for the Companys and its subsidiary companies directors and officers under a directors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue and officers liability insurance policy, as permitted by the in office as auditors of the Company and their reappointment will Companies Act 2006. be put to members at the AGM.
The Group has provided to all of its directors, indemnities in respect Annual General Meeting of costs of defending claims against them and third-party liabilities.
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the The Notice convening the AGM to be held at 11.00am on purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and are all currently in force.
Friday, 25 May 2012 is contained in a circular sent to shareholders at the same time as this Annual Report.
There were no indemnity provisions relating to the UK pension plan, for the benefit of the Directors of the Company, in place during the period.
Going concern Employees An overview of the business activities of IHG, including a review of IHG directly employed an average of 7,956 people worldwide during the key business risks that the Group faces is given in the Business review on pages 8 to 40.
Information on the Groups treasury 2011, whose costs are borne by the Group.
When the whole IHG estate is taken into account including employees working in the management policies can be found in note 21 to the Group financial franchised and managed hotels approximately 345,000 people are statements on pages 99 to 103.
The Group refinanced its bank employed globally across IHGs brands.
facility in November 2011 and put in place a new five-year $1.07bn facility.
The 250m seven-year bond issued in December 2009 Further information regarding the Groups employment policies, remains outstanding.
At the end of 2011, the Group was trading including its obligations under equal opportunities legislation, its significantly within its banking covenants and debt facilities.
commitment to employee communications and its approach towards employee development, can be found on pages 27 to 30 The Groups fee-based model and wide geographic spread means that of the Business review.
it is well placed to manage through uncertain times and our forecasts and sensitivity projections, based on a range of reasonably possible Charitable and political donations changes in trading performance and taking into account the risks During the year, the Group donated $1,540,000 2010 $649,760 in and uncertainties outlined in the Business review, show that the support of community initiatives and charitable causes.
In addition, Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
IHG employees and guests made contributions during 2011 to a After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable variety of causes through IHG facilitated channels.
Taking all these expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate contributions into account, total donations in 2011 are estimated at resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable $2,040,000 2010 $1,650,000.
future and, accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern The Group made no political donations during the year and basis in preparing the financial statements.
proposes to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
By order of the Board InterContinental Hotels Group PLC Financial risk management George Turner Registered in England, Number: 5134420 The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, Company Secretary 13 February 2012 including its use of financial instruments, are set out on page 26 46 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 coRPoRATe goveRnAnce Chairmans overview Internal control and risk management IHG takes its corporate governance responsibilities seriously and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control aims to implement and uphold robust and responsible business and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order processes and policies throughout the Group.
We believe good to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the governance supports high performance and the development procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating of long-term strategy and performance.
We are committed to procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
sustained high performance supported by good governance.
The Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating In this section of the Annual Report, we report on our compliance Committees have established processes, as part of the normal against the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate good management of the business, to monitor: Governance Code the Code.
As IHGs shares are also listed on s trategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject to Group and regional strategic reviews: the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
As required by and accounting framework: the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and Companys corporate governance practices and those followed authorisation processes: and by US companies may be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance r isk management processes relying upon assurance through NYSE differences.
reports from the Head of Global Risk Management, the Head of Global Internal Audit, and, as appropriate, from management As Chairman, I am responsible for providing leadership to the that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, Board necessary to promote the success of the Company and evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the create value for shareholders in the long-term, whilst ensuring balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
that sound effective corporate governance practices are embedded in the organisation and its decision-making processes.
I have In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: therefore continued to facilitate a good relationship between the regular reports from management, Global Risk Management, Executive and Non-Executive Directors and promote a culture of Global Internal Audit and the external auditor on the effectiveness openness and debate to ensure that we have in place effective of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk decision-making processes.
management: In 2011, there were a number of changes to the composition of the the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by Board.
Following Andrew Cossletts retirement, Richard Solomons management: and became Chief Executive in July 2011.
Kirk Kinsell became President, material financial and non-financial risks.
The Americas in June 2011 following James Abrahamsons The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the resignation and in August 2011, we announced the appointment system of internal control and risk management during the year of Tracy Robbins as an Executive Director, demonstrating effective ended 31 December 2011.
This covered all material controls, succession planning and strengthening the relationship between including financial, operational and compliance controls, the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
On 26 September 2011, principal risks affecting the Group and risk management systems, Thomas Singer joined IHG as Chief Financial Officer from global and took into account any material developments since the year end.
We also made two Non-Executive Director appointments: Dale Morrison joined the Board in June 2011 and The review was carried out through the monitoring process set Luke Mayhew joined as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman out above, which accords with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
of the Remuneration Committee in July 2011.
Ralph Kugler retired The system of internal control and risk management is designed to from the Board as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failing to achieve business Remuneration Committee in June 2011 after over eight years at objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable IHG.
The progressive refreshing of the Board ensures that we have and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
appropriate continuation and a multi-skilled and diverse Board.
Whilst areas for improvement have been identified and actions initiated as a result of the above process, no significant shortcomings Code compliance have been identified from the annual assessment.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with all the The key financial controls across all our business units have also principles and provisions of the Code, available at www.
uk, been identified and evaluated, in particular, to comply with our US throughout the year ended 31 December 2011. obligations, arising from the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
This has enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual David Webster Report on Form 20-F. Chairman The Group continues to insure against risks but certain risks 13 February 2012 remain difficult to insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.
In some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an economic price.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
Our approach to risk management, key risk mitigating activities and the principal risk factors that could affect the Group are set out in the Business review on pages 34 to 40.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate governance 47 presentations on a wide range of business issues in a more Board and Committee structure informal context the evening before formal Board meetings.
Should To support the principles of good corporate governance, the any Director be unable to attend a meeting, he or she would be Board and Committee structure operates as set out below.
provided with all the papers and information relevant to that meeting and be able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman The Board and the Chief Executive.
The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, During 2011, the Board held a two-day strategy meeting in four Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors meets the Shanghai, China.
The discussion topics included major trends in the requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, excluding industry, key responses and actions planned by IHG, new business the Chairman, to be independent non-executive directors.
In development opportunities, execution of IHGs strategy and the the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are progress being made and an overview of the mediumto long-term independent.
The Chairman was independent on his original financial impacts of our strategic choices.
Evening presentation appointment to the Board.
Collectively, the Board has an topics during 2011 included an update on the Crowne Plaza brand, appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence innovation and brands and the Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express and diversity to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games sponsorship.
The roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive are separate and have been approved by the Board.
Directors Conflicts of interest of the Company who served during 2011 are set out on page 44.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to Current Directors biographical details, including their main authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where external commitments, are set out on pages 42 and 43 of this appropriate.
The Board reviews potential conflicts of interest as Annual Report.
a standing agenda item at each meeting.
At the Board meeting in The Board is collectively responsible to the shareholders for the December 2011, each of the Directors was requested to disclose strategic direction, development, performance and control of any conflicts or potential conflicts by returning a questionnaire to the Group.
It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and the Company Secretary.
The Board considered all the responses to revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the questionnaires and approved potential conflicts of interest as it the performance of past investments and maintains an overview deemed appropriate.
and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, Chairman risk management, governance and compliance and considers David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout 2011.
He regulatory changes and developments in advance, to ensure that has responsibility for ensuring the efficient and effective operation of IHG is well-positioned to maintain the Groups trusted reputation the Board and its Committees, for overseeing corporate governance in these areas.
The Board also ensures that the necessary matters and ensuring they are addressed, for representing the Group financial and human resources are in place for the Group to externally and communicating particularly with shareholders.
Working closely with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive he also ensures that Directors receive a full, formal and tailored refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes induction to the Group and its business and that all Directors are and regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas.
It is the fully informed of relevant matters.
The Chairman also meets with Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive Directors present.
required skills, knowledge, experience, independence and Mr Webster is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell diversity of the Board, in a structured way.
Limited, Non-Executive Director of Amadeus IT Holding SA, a The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Boards member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and attention and decision may be found on the Companys website Mergers and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
com investors under corporate governance main board and executive committee.
Certain specific responsibilities Chief Executive are delegated to the Board Committees, namely the Audit, Richard Solomons became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Responsibility having succeeded Andrew Cosslett who retired from the Board on Committees, which are described below.
Mr Solomons has responsibility to recommend to the report regularly to the Board.
Board, and to implement, the Groups strategic objectives and to Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and manage business operations.
He is responsible for the executive additional meetings are held as necessary.
This includes a two-day management of the Group and ensures that the Board understands strategy meeting held in one of the Groups key markets, in which Executive Directors views on business issues.
He is also a member the Board considers the Groups strategy and related issues.
This of the Executive Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council, provides an opportunity for the business to have a wide-ranging a non-remunerated position.
dialogue with the Board and for the Board to meet many of our senior management and understand such key geographical Senior Independent Director markets.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout 2011. plans the agenda for each meeting.
Directors are briefed on the His responsibilities include being available to liaise with Groups financial performance and its operations, including shareholders who have concerns that they feel have not been commercial and operational matters, reports on relations with addressed through the normal channels, being a sounding investors and updates on key strategic plans, by means of board for the Chairman and leading the performance evaluation comprehensive papers in advance of, and by presentations at, of the Chairman.
The Board also receives more in-depth 48 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 coRPoRATe goveRnAnce continued Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary A team of seven experienced independent Non-Executive Directors, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman, represents a strong Secretary.
His responsibilities include ensuring good information flows source of advice and judgement.
Each Non-Executive Director to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and has significant external commercial experience and together the Non-Executive Directors.
He facilitates the induction of Directors, they have a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience the regular updating and refreshing of their skills and knowledge and and represent a wide geographical spread.
The Non-Executive assists them in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Directors, including the Chairman, meet during the year to consider Chairman, he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate the Groups business and management.
governance and generally for keeping the Board up-to-date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Committees Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and subject to review every year.
These are available on the Companys website www.
com investors under corporate governance committees or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
During the year, the terms of reference of all of the Committees of the Board were reviewed against the latest best practice guidance and the Code.
As a result, some minor amendments in respect of the Code were made to update the Remuneration Committees terms of reference.
A summary of each Directors attendance at the Board and its principal Committee meetings during 2011 is provided in the table below: Corporate Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Current Directors David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 8 8 n a 4 4 n a n a 1 Richard Solomons Chief Executive 8 8 n a n a n a 2 2 Kirk Kinsell President, The Americas 8 8 n a n a n a n a 2 Tracy Robbins Executive Vice President, 1 3 n a n a n a n a Human Resources and Head of Operations Support 3 Thomas Singer Chief Financial Officer 3 3 n a n a n a n a Graham Allan Non-Executive Director 8 8 5 5 4 4 n a 3 3 4 David Kappler Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 8 8 5 5 3 4 5 5 n a 5 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 8 8 5 5 3 4 n a 3 3 6 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 7 8 n a 3 4 4 5 n a 7 Luke Mayhew Non-Executive Director 4 4 n a 1 1 2 2 1 1 8 Dale Morrison Non-Executive Director 5 5 3 3 1 2 n a n a 9 Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 8 8 n a 4 4 5 5 2 2 Former Directors 10 Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive 3 3 n a n a n a n a 11 James Abrahamson President, The Americas 2 3 n a n a n a n a 12 Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 4 4 2 2 2 3 3 3 2 2 Total meetings held 8 5 4 5 3 1 Richard Solomons was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee effective 1 June 2011: attended all respective Committee meetings from this date onwards.
2 Tracy Robbins was appointed as a Director on 9 August 2011: attended all Board meetings from this date onwards except two due to illness.
3 Thomas Singer was appointed as a Director on 26 September 2011: attended all Board meetings from this date onwards.
4 David Kappler was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to other pre-existing meetings.
5 Jennifer Laing was unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to other pre-existing meetings.
6 J onathan Linen was unable to attend one Board meeting, one Nomination Committee meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a personal commitment.
7 Luke Mayhew was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings from this date onwards.
8 Dale Morrison was appointed as a Director on 1 June 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings from this date onwards except one Nomination Committee meeting due to an overseas travel commitment.
9 Ying Yeh was appointed to the Corporate Responsibility Committee effective 1 June 2011: attended all respective Committee meetings from this date onwards.
10 Andrew Cosslett retired as a Director on 30 June 2011: attended all Board meetings prior to this date.
11 James Abrahamson resigned as a Director on 13 June 2011: attended all Board meetings prior to this date except one due to illness.
12 Ralph Kugler retired as a Director and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 30 June 2011: attended all Board and Committee meetings prior to this date except one Nomination Committee meeting due to an overseas travel commitment.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate governance 49 The principal Committees of the Board are: Audit Committee Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Board The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has significant and all the Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman of recent and relevant financial experience and is the Committees the Board except when matters relating to this position are discussed, financial expert.
During 2011, the other Committee members were in which case it is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Graham Allan, Ralph Kugler until his retirement on 30 June 2011, Director.
It meets at least twice a year and additional meetings are Jennifer Laing and Dale Morrison.
The Committee is scheduled to held as necessary.
The Committee met four times during 2011. meet at least four times a year and met five times in 2011.
The Audit The Nomination Committees role is described on page 53.
Committees role is described on page 52.
Remuneration Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Luke Mayhew, also The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Jennifer Laing.
comprises the following independent Non-Executive Directors: During 2011, the other Committee members were Graham Allan, David Kappler, Jonathan Linen and Ying Yeh.
Luke Mayhew Ralph Kugler until his retirement on 30 June 2011, Luke Mayhew, succeeded Ralph Kugler as Chairman of the Committee on Richard Solomons and Ying Yeh.
Meetings are regularly attended 1 July 2011.
It meets at least four times a year and met five times by other members of the Board and Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committees role is described Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year and met three on page 55. times in 2011.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees role is described on page 31.
Other Committees that report to the Board are: Executive Committee General Purposes Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive consists of the Executive Directors and the most senior executives Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and from the Group and usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider and restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an Executive manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing Committee member.
It attends to business of a routine nature and the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been business.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
within levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to the Board the most significant investment proposals.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly represents the Groups position in all material respects.
