50 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 coRPoRATe goveRnAnce continued Director induction, training and development Board performance evaluation On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction IHG has always recognised the importance of evaluating the programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to performance of the Board, its main Committees and its Directors.
introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal Accordingly, an independent external facilitator assists in the activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
performance evaluation in alternate years.
Luke Mayhew and Dale Morrison, as Non-Executive Directors The 2010 evaluation, which was conducted internally by the Company appointed in 2011, participated in such a programme.
Secretary, identified the following areas as requiring action and By way of example, Luke Mayhew received an induction programme during 2011 we made progress on each of these as follows: covering a variety of areas including the Board structure and its Area identified Action taken Committees, Group structure and strategy, the principal activities of the Group and its approach to risk and risk management.
His The Board should devote Specific Board time was programme was supported by meetings with both senior executives sufficient time to consider scheduled into the Board and regional and central management from various functions strategic issues calendar to discuss strategy across the Group, including Human Resources, Corporate Affairs, more regularly Strategy and Corporate Development, Global Internal Audit and Financial Planning and Analysis.
Meetings were also arranged by Non-Executive Directors Separate meetings were Investor Relations for him to meet institutional investor groups and should be provided with scheduled and attended only key institutional investors to gain an understanding of their views.
enough opportunities to meet by Non-Executive Directors Mr Mayhew also visited our office in Singapore to provide him with together without Executive a greater insight into the business.
Directors being present Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for any Executive Director who may join the Group and tailored induction Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and is provided for Executive Directors appointed from within the Group, should provide an appropriate Non-Executive Directors focusing on their responsibilities as Board Directors.
Such amount of time for Board made themselves available programmes were implemented for Tracy Robbins and Thomas communication with to meet with institutional Singer on their appointments on 9 August 2011 and 26 September institutional investors investors on specific matters 2011 respectively.
We announced on 16 March 2011 that Richard in relation to the Board during Solomons would succeed Andrew Cosslett as Chief Executive.
the year Following a three and a half month transition and handover period, Richard became Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
All induction The 2011 evaluation was conducted with external assistance in programmes accord with best practice guidelines.
accordance with the guidance in the Code during January 2012.
The updating of all Directors skills and knowledge, ongoing training Our evaluation was conducted by Lintstock Limited, an independent and development and understanding of the Groups business and facilitator, who has no other connection with IHG.
This is accomplished at Board The Board evaluation involved the completion of comprehensive and Committee meetings through business presentations and by questionnaires in which Directors and the Company Secretary visits to hotels and other premises in the regions.
During 2011, the were asked to evaluate the Board, each of its Committees and their Directors also received briefings on a number of legal and regulatory respective Chairman and the Chairman of the Board.
The developments, including the impact of the UK Bribery Act 2010, questionnaires covered a variety of subjects, including Board reforms to the UK Takeover Code and a presentation from composition, appointments, succession planning and dynamics, Ernst & Young LLP on the European Commissions Audit Regulation induction and ongoing training and development, board expertise proposals.
The Chairman regularly reviews and agrees training and and how the Board spends its time.
Directors views were sought on development needs with each Director.
In addition, the Company the Boards strategic and operational oversight and its input into risk Secretary regularly asks the Board if they wish to receive training management and internal control.
They were also asked about or additional information to enable them to keep up-to-date and investor and stakeholder relationships.
The Board was asked to enhance their knowledge of the business.
provide views on how improvements could be made and key priorities that the Board should consider with respect to its performance.
Independent advice The Chairmans performance was appraised through feedback There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board and from the other Directors through the use of the externally any of its Committees may take independent professional advice produced questionnaire.
The results were reviewed by the Senior in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Independent Director together with the Non-Executive Directors In addition, they have access to the advice and services of the without the Chairman.
All the Non-Executive Directors, including Company Secretary, the Companys external legal advisers and the Chairman, met to appraise the Chief Executives performance.
The Chairman also separately discussed with each Non-Executive Director their own performance.
