THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION corporate governance 51 The Board received feedback on the outcomes through a report Shareholder relations compiled by Lintstock Limited, which was presented and discussed The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its at the Board meeting held in February 2012.
The results confirmed half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive that the Board and each of its main Committees continues to and the Chief Financial Officer give presentations on these results operate effectively and that each Director continues to make an to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in effective contribution and retains a strong commitment to the role.
facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these The following actions for the Board were identified for 2012: presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
improve meeting processes to enable more time for wider The data used in these presentations and conferences may be Board discussion: found at www.
com investors under financial library.
a llot adequate time on agendas to review the effectiveness of IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with past decisions: its major institutional shareholders, which provide an opportunity c ontinue to encourage discussion on key strategic issues facing to discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the the Group: and business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, b uild upon and improve oversight of the main risks affecting the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors the Group.
are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Facilitated, structured meetings are encouraged and any new Appointment, removal and re-election of Directors Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as a The rules governing the appointment and removal of Directors matter of course.
are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
New Directors A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee Meeting AGM following their appointment and those Directors and the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations.
who have not been subject to re-election by shareholders within the Additionally, the AGM provides a useful forum for one-to-one last three years, must retire and stand for re-election at the next communication with private shareholders, many of whom are also AGM.
The office of a Director shall be vacated in the circumstances customers.
At the AGM, shareholders receive presentations on defined in Article 85 of the Articles of Association, for example, the Companys performance and may ask questions of the Board, prohibition by law, bankruptcy, absence without leave.
including the Chairman and Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies IHG facilitates both postal and electronic voting and all resolutions submit themselves for annual re-election.
All members of the are voted on by way of a poll.
This ensures that all votes are counted Board have agreed to retire from office and offer themselves on the basis of one vote for every share held.
All votes cast in for election or re-election as appropriate at the next AGM.
respect of each resolution at the AGM are published on the The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders at the Companys website immediately after the AGM.
Information on share same time as this Annual Report, provides further information capital and substantial shareholdings in the Company is set out in about the Directors standing for election and re-election.
The the Directors report found on page 44.
Nomination Committee and the Board reviewed the independence A comprehensive range of information about the Group is maintained of each Non-Executive Director and concluded that each of them and available to shareholders through the Companys website, continues to remain independent in judgement and character.
Information on Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is set out on page 63.
All Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders in accordance with relevant legislation.
