The Board Corporate governance report The Board believes that it has the skills and experience necessary In this report we set out how we comply with the to provide effective leadership and control of the Company.
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and we explain our reasons for any At the end of 2011 the Board comprised the Chairman Dirk Beeuwsaert, three Executive Directors Philip Cox, areas of non-compliance during 2011.
Mark Williamson and Guy Richelle and a further nine NonThis report contains information on Board structure Executive Directors, three of whom in addition to the Chairman were appointed by GDF SUEZ in accordance with the rights and Committees for 2011 following the Combination.
of GDF SUEZ group under the Relationship Agreement Grard Mestrallet, Jean-Franois Cirelli and Isabelle Kocher and six The Code www.
cfm of whom are independent Sir Neville Simms, Bernard Attali, Tony Isaac, David Weston, Sir Rob Young and Michael Zaoui.
Since completion of the Combination, Sir Neville Simms has been the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Director of International Power.
There were changes to the Board during 2011 as part of completing the Combination.
Until February 2011 the Board comprised Sir Neville Simms Chairman, six Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Bruce Levy, Steve Riley and Ranald Spiers and five NonExecutive Directors Tony Isaac, Alan Murray, John Roberts, Struan Robertson and David Weston.
Additionally, with effect from 8 December 2011, Grard Lamarche ceased to be a Director of the Company and a member of each of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Appointments Committee: on the same date Isabelle Kocher was appointed to the Board and each of those Committees.
These changes were made at the direction of GDF SUEZ pursuant to its rights under the Relationship Agreement.
The full Board met six times during 2011.
Attendance by Directors at these meetings, and the Board Committee meetings held during the year, are detailed in the adjacent table.
Additionally a subcommittee of the Board, established for the purpose of oversight and decision in completion matters regarding the Combination and comprising Sir Neville Simms, Tony Isaac and Philip Cox, met four times in January February 2011.
In addition to the Board and Committee meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors was held without the Executive Directors being present.
The NonExecutive Directors also met without the Chairman being present.
This meeting was chaired by Sir Neville Simms, the Senior Independent Director, and included a review of the Chairmans performance.
88 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Name Board Audit Remuneration HS&E Appointments Insurance 6 meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 4 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover Dirk Beeuwsaert 6 n a 5 2 2 in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Philip Cox 6 n a n a n a n a Mark Williamson 6 n a n a n a n a Operation of the Board Guy Richelle 6 n a n a n a n a 3 Sir Neville Simms 6 4 n a 1 2 4 The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, ensuring Bernard Attali 6 n a 5 n a 1 Anthony Isaac 6 4 n a n a 2 the successful implementation of approved projects proposals David Weston 6 n a 5 2 n a and for reviewing the operations of the Group.
The Board also Sir Rob Young 6 n a 5 n a n a reviews annually the risk policies and profile of the Group and Michael Zaoui 6 4 n a n a n a it maintains a schedule of all matters requiring specific Board Grard Mestrallet 6 n a n a n a n a approval.
Throughout 2011 this included all strategy decisions Jean-Franois Cirelli 6 n a n a n a n a 2 1 1 Grard Lamarche 6 4 3 n a 0 and significant capital investment proposals, acquisitions 2 Isabelle Kocher n a n a n a n a 1 and disposals.
The Board receives information on capital expenditure projects and investment proposals in advance Notes of Board meetings, as well as management reports on the 1 Grard Lamarche did not attend the 5 August 2011 or the 8 December 2011 operational and financial performance of the business.
The Remuneration Committee meetings, or the 8 December 2011 Appointments Committee Board also provides oversight on the management of staff meeting in each case due to a conflict of business commitments.
Dirk Beeuwsaert was appointed and attended the former meeting as his alternate.
Financial performance is monitored 2 Grard Lamarche ceased to be a member of the Board and its Committees and Isabelle on a monthly basis and the overall performance of the Group Kocher joined the Board and certain of its Committees, each with effect from the close is reviewed against approved budgets.
At least once a year, of the Board meeting of 8 December 2011. the CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board for 3 Sir Neville Simms did not attend the 23 November 2011 HS&E Committee meeting due to a conflict of business commitments.
Each investment decision is made in 4 Bernard Attali did not attend the 15 December 2011 Appointments Committee meeting the context of this plan.
due to a conflict of business commitments.
The Board has established business values and standards for Biographical details of the Directors are set out on pages 84 to 85 the Group, which provide a framework for the Group to balance the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of its Board membership business.
The Companys Ethics Charter has been formally adopted by the Board in 2011 and made available to all In accordance with best practice all of the Directors submitted employees on the Companys intranet.
Comprehensive policies themselves for re-election in 2011 and, as recommended by the on the conduct of business to support and implement the Code, all Directors will do so every year.
Ethics Charter have also been adopted and, in addition to the Ethics Charter, actively disseminated throughout the business.
The Board has reviewed the independence of Sir Neville Simms and Tony Isaac, who have both served on the Board for more The Board has also reviewed potential conflicts of interest than nine years.
The Board considers them both to be effective of the Directors, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. and demonstrably committed to their role, considers that they are still independent of the Company in character and The Board carried out a review of its own performance during judgement and has concluded that it wishes them to continue 2011, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
in their role beyond the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM.
This included a review of the performance of the Board as a In addition, considering the changed nature of the Board as a whole, of each of its Committees and of the individual Directors result of the Combination, the significantly increased size of the including a review of the performance of the Chairman by the business and the new majority shareholder base, the Board Non-Executive Directors, taking into account the views of the regards these as effectively new appointments in 2011.
was demonstrated by the need for the shares in the Company to be relisted at the time of the Combination.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Board training Company between the role of the Chairman and the role of Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed the CEO.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and Directors receive a comprehensive briefing on the Company effective operation of the Board, in terms of its agenda, decisionand its business.
Training is provided for Directors on their making and the utilisation of the skills and experience of the roles and their legal obligations to ensure that they are fully Directors.
He monitors, with the assistance of the Company conversant with their responsibilities as Directors.
Secretary, the information provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
The Chairman is also Periodically, the Board meets at the site of one of the Groups responsible for ensuring that there is effective engagement power stations and briefings are also given at Board meetings and communication with shareholders.
The CEO is responsible on particular parts of the business, including regional and for the overall management of the Group and for leading functional reviews.
Due to the implementation of the the Executive Team and operational teams in implementing Combination there were no Board visits to local business the strategies approved by the Board.
However, the Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Committee visited First Hydro in Wales The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director appointed by during 2011.
Directors are also kept informed of changes to the GDF SUEZ in accordance with the rights of the GDF SUEZ regulatory regime, such as the Code.
All of the Directors have group under the Relationship Agreement.
He is an executive access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary of the GDF SUEZ group and through 2011 held the position and also to external independent advice should they so wish.
of Executive Vice President in charge of Energy Europe and International.
His current title and position within GDF SUEZ is Executive Vice President in charge of the Business Line Energy International.
89 Corporate governance report Non-Executive Directors and their function Executive Directors holding non-executive directorships Through membership of the Board Committees, the NonThe Company has a policy of encouraging its Executive Executive Directors have particular responsibilities for: Directors to hold a non-executive directorship in another company.
This broadens their experience and helps improve overseeing that systems of internal control and risk their contributions to the Group.
During 2011 Philip Cox was a management are appropriate and effective Non-Executive Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, managing the relationship with the external auditors where he is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
His remuneration for this role is retained by him and for the year evaluating the performance of management in meeting ended 31 January 2012 was 80,000.
During 2011 Mark targets and objectives Williamson was a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the setting the remuneration of Executive Directors Audit Committee of Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
He is entitled to retain his remuneration for this role, which was 86,875 in appointing Executive Directors 2011.
Similarly Steve Riley was a Non-Executive Director of planning senior management succession Shanks Group plc and his remuneration for this role which he is entitled to retain for the period 1 January 2011 to completion monitoring the reporting of perfomance of the Combination when he ceased to be a Director of satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information International Power was 3,042.
Umm Al Nar UAE 90 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Board Committees The Company also issues Interim Management Statements IMSs for the quarters ending 31 March and 30 September The Company has established the following Board Committees: in each year.
Each IMS is approved by a Committee of the the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, Board comprising the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit the Appointments Committee and the HS&E Committee.
Committee, the CEO and CFO.
Throughout 2011 no one other than a Committee member or other Non-Executive Director was entitled to attend the The Audit Committee is chaired by Tony Isaac.
Tony is a meetings of these Committees, but others were able to attend qualified accountant and, before becoming Chief Executive at the invitation of the relevant Committee.
A copy of the full of The BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
In terms of reference for each of these Committees is available accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement on the Companys website.
the other members of the Audit Committee as at the date of the Annual Report are Isabelle Kocher, Sir Neville Simms and www.
com investors corporate-governance Michael Zaoui.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to board-committees the Committee.
In addition to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at the Audit Committee meetings in 2011 Audit Committee included representatives of the external auditor, the Chairman, The Audit Committee manages the relationship with the external the CEO, the CFO, the Head of Business Control, the Head auditor.
The Committee annually reviews and approves the terms of External Reporting and the Head of Internal Audit.
of the appointment of the external auditor and its engagement.
It fixes the level of the auditors remuneration ensuring it is Remuneration Committee appropriate and does not compromise the effectiveness of The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring that the audit and reviews the scope and adequacy of the audit the overall remuneration of Executive Directors is maintained of the Groups annual consolidated financial statements.
The on a sensible and comparable basis and enables the Company Committee also puts in place policies and procedures to ensure to compete effectively for good calibre executives.
It monitors that the external auditor remains independent.
It reviews these, the performance of Executive Directors against targets, sets and the auditors independence and objectivity, each year.
This the performance conditions for the annual bonus and longincludes a review of the overall relationship between the auditor term incentive plan awards, and reviews the remuneration and the Company, including the safeguards established by the levels and other conditions of service of other senior managers external auditor for maintaining independence, the rotation of below Board level.
A copy of the terms of reference of the partners and staff who work on the audit, and the level and Committee can be found on the Companys website.
nature of non-audit services provided by the auditor.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on www.
com investors corporate-governance the Companys website.
com investors corporate-governance The Remuneration Committee, in accordance with the terms board-committees of the Relationship Agreement, is chaired by Bernard Attali and the other members of the Committee, as at the date of the Annual Report, are Dirk Beeuwsaert, Isabelle Kocher, David Since the formation of International Power plc in 2000, KPMG Weston and Sir Rob Young.
The Company Secretary acts as Audit Plc had been the external auditor of the Group and parent secretary to the Committee and the Head of Human Resources company financial statements.
Following completion of the acts as an adviser to the Committee.
In 2011 Towers Watson Combination and in accordance with the policy of annual acted as external adviser to the Committee.
review, the Audit Committee initiated and undertook oversight of a formal tender process for the external audit for 2011.
As Appointments Committee a result of assessment of the responses to tender, the Audit The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP of management succession and the identification and become the external auditor of the Group and the parent appointment of Directors.
It also reviews the Board structure, company.
KPMG Audit Plc resigned as auditor of the parent size and composition, and it makes recommendations to the company in June 2011 and of other companies in the Group Board with regard to changes that are deemed desirable.
following completion of the audit of their 2010 financial A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be statements and, in accordance with the Audit Committees found on the Companys website.
recommendation, the Board appointed Deloitte LLP as external auditor for 2011. www.
com investors corporate-governance board-committees The Committee reviews all financial reports which for 2011 consisted of the Preliminary Results Announcement, Annual The Appointments Committee is chaired by Sir Neville Simms Report and the Interim Report including consideration of the and, in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Groups accounting policies and major judgemental areas.
the other members of the Committee, as at the date of the The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Annual Report, are Bernard Attali, Dirk Beeuwsaert, Tony Isaac systems of internal control, and reviews the scope and the and Isabelle Kocher.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary annual plan of the internal audit function and satisfies itself to the Committee.
of its adequacy, particularly in terms of resources and performance against its annual plan.
In 2011 the work of the Appointments Committee included consideration of the benefits of diversity including gender In addition, the Committee reviews the report prepared by the Risk diversity to the Group, at all levels of management and staff, Committee to ensure all relevant risks are addressed in these including the Board.
The Committee made recommendations external and internal audit processes.
Time was set aside for the to the Board regarding aspirations and objectives in respect Committee to meet the external auditor and the Head of Internal of diversity, which were adopted in December 2011.
Audit without Executive Directors or management present.
91 Corporate governance report The Boards diversity commitment statement is set out International Power also undertakes, within the terms of on page 65 of this Annual Report.
the regulatory framework, frequent contact programmes with industry analysts and institutional investors to discuss In December 2011, in exercise of its rights under the matters of strategy and financial performance.
Contact is Relationship Agreement, the GDF SUEZ group nominated made principally by the CEO and the CFO.
On issues of Isabelle Kocher as a GDF SUEZ appointed Non-Executive major importance, the Chairman communicates with major Director, in replacement of Grard Lamarche.
By reason of the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director Sir Neville Companys obligations under the Relationship Agreement, it Simms is also available as an alternative point of contact if was not necessary to use either an external search consultant shareholders have concerns over the Chairmans performance, or open advertising in respect of Isabelle Kochers appointment or where contact with the Chairman or the use of other as a Non-Executive Director.
communication channels would be inappropriate.
All results, presentations and Stock Exchange announcements are Also in 2011 external consultants were appointed to assist the available to shareholders on the Companys website.
Appointments Committee to consider candidates for the position of Deputy Chief Financial Officer.
com investors  Geert Peeters joined the Company as Deputy Chief Financial Officer, with a view to being appointed to the Board as Chief At each Board meeting an update is given on movements Financial Officer at the 2012 AGM.
in major shareholdings and on contact programmes between the Executive Directors and institutional shareholders.
Reports Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Committee on the Company issued by financial analysts are circulated The HS&E Committee was established with effect from to Board members.
These reports enable the Directors to 1 January 2008.
It is responsible for reviewing the Groups maintain an understanding of the views and opinions of those HS&E policies, objectives and performance.
Following with an interest in the Company.
completion of the Combination, the Committee is chaired by David Weston.
In accordance with the terms of the Relationship During 2007 the Company implemented the provisions, Agreement, the other members of the Committee as at the approved by shareholders at the 2007 AGM, that allow for all date of the Annual Report are Dirk Beeuwsaert and Sir Neville shareholder documents to be provided electronically unless Simms.
In addition, the CEO, the COO, the Head of Operations, otherwise requested by the shareholder.
To ensure all the Head of Health and Safety, Environment and Security, and shareholders are kept informed of the Companys performance the Environment and Corporate Responsibility Manager attend for 2011, all the shareholders who did not elect to receive a hard meetings of the Committee.
During 2011 the HS&E Committee copy of the Annual Report will receive the Results Brief.
This met twice, once in London and once at the First Hydro power balances the Companys desire to reduce its costs and impact plant in Wales.
At these meetings the Committee reviewed, on the environment with a need to keep shareholders informed amongst other things, Group HS&E data and initiatives and the of the Groups progress.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
A copy of the terms of reference GDF SUEZs relationship with International Power, as its 70% of the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
majority shareholder, is governed by the Relationship Agreement.
The Relationship Agreement, amongst other www.
com investors corporate-governance things, sets out the arrangements for: board-committees G DF SUEZs right to appoint four Directors to the Board Relations with shareholders th e constitution and membership of the various Committees The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance of the Board and activities of the Group.
International Power ensures that th e Board considering certain reserved matters, which its AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive require the approval of at least two GDF SUEZ appointed comprehensive information on all aspects of the Groups Directors business activities and to question senior management about business issues and prospects.
th e restriction on GDF SUEZs ability to deal in voting shares in the Company for the 18 months following completion of All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes lodged the Combination for each resolution is reported at the AGM and on the Companys p otential business conflicts between the Group and website.
In line with best practice, the Company aims to ensure members of the GDF SUEZ group that the Notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
m aintaining the Company as an independent company www.
com investors  The Relationship Agreement terminates upon GDF SUEZ general-meeting ceasing to hold at least 50% interest in the voting shares of the Company.
92 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Accountability and audit In recognition of the changes since the Combination, the approach to internal control has been adapted to reflect the The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced enlarged business.
The Company is building on its previous and understandable assessment of International Powers internal control assurance programme, to extend it to the wider financial position and prospects, both to investors and asset base.
The Preliminary Announcement, Annual Report, Interim Report and IMSs are the principal An internal control management and efficiency system and means of achieving this objective.
process the INCOME programme that focuses on core, support and global processes is applied, as approved by the Audit An explanation of the responsibilities of the Directors in Committee and supported by senior management.
A structure connection with the financial statements is set out in the of Internal Control Officers has been set up at corporate responsibility statement of the Directors.
The Directors and business area level, while Internal Control Co-ordinators confirm in the Directors report their view that the Group and Business Process Owners are assigned in the assets is a going concern.
In addition to deploying a common methodology, implementing, co-ordinating and monitoring Responsibility statement of the Directors page 117 internal control across the Group, the INCOME programme also disseminates the internal control culture and use of best The responsibility of the external auditor is set out in the practice throughout the GDF SUEZ group, including International independent auditors report.
The structure for the lNCOME programme is based on of Deloitte LLP as external auditor has been recommended three main principles: to the Board based on a review of performance, and a consideration of fee levels, which is conducted annually.
the implementation of an effective and rigorous co-ordination and monitoring programme, for which Independent auditors report page 221 management is responsible a formal commitment by management at different The Company has a formal policy regarding non-audit services organisational levels that they have implemented an adequate provided by the external auditor.
Pursuant to this policy the internal control system for their area of responsibility and that Audit Committee has a process in place to approve all nonthey have identified improvement initiatives, resulting from audit services provided by the external auditor to ensure that the INCOME programme controls and audit summaries the objectivity and independence of the external auditor are not th rough a structured methodology and the application of compromised.
The Companys policy and procedures specify internal control frameworks, business areas and functional the services from which the external auditor is excluded and lines are able to define their own control procedures in the approval process for all other services.
Further detail of the accordance with Group standards and policies, and external auditors remuneration for 2011, including fees payable in a manner adapted to their risks and activities for non-audit services, is provided at note 4.5 of the consolidated financial statements for 2011 page 147 To give the Board assurance on the establishment of controls contained in the Annual Report.
throughout the organisation, a global attestation process has been established requiring each of the key assets, regional Internal Audit business areas and corporate headquarters to confirm that The Internal Audit team reviews the effectiveness of internal they have supervised the implementation of internal controls, controls and risk management through a work programme, that they have conducted evaluations on a self-assessment which is based on the Groups objectives and risk profile and basis and confirm that they are satisfactory, or have implemented is agreed with the Audit Committee.
Findings are reported action plans to make improvements.
The attestation letters to the Executive Team and the Audit Committee.
are supported by the Internal Audit team, which has performed independent assessments on the effectiveness and reliability of Internal Audit operates under terms of reference agreed by controls, assessing both design and operational effectiveness the Audit Committee, which establish Internal Audits authority, and thereby providing management with an opinion based on responsibilities and independence from operational their review.
Internal Audits remit extends to all aspects of the Companys business operations and activities, and In order to measure performance, the delivery of our strategy it co-ordinates its work with the GDF SUEZ group internal and to provide an early warning of variances to our forecasts, audit function.
International Power monitors a number of performance indicators.
During 2011 the principal financial key performance Internal control indicators KPIs were EBITDA, adjusted current operating income, underlying earnings per share, ROCE and free cash The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of internal flow, and the non-financial KPIs were accident frequency rate, control and for monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
significant technical environmental non-compliance and Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the Code technical availability of plant.
and Turnbull Guidance, however the Board recognises that any system of internal control is designed to manage, rather KPIs pages 27 to 33 than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The systems that have been established can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
93 Corporate governance report The Board reviewed the effectiveness of internal control Investment projects procedures during 2011.
Further features of the Groups Investment projects are subject to formal review and systems of internal control are as follows: authorisation procedures with designated levels of authority, including a review by the Investment Commitment Committee Control environment ICC chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive Team.
The Board encourages a culture of integrity and openness.
Major projects are subject to Board review and approval.
The Group has an organisational structure with clear lines of accountability and authority across its worldwide operations, Corporate reporting supported by appropriate reporting procedures.
Each of the The Company has a Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by regional businesses is accountable to the CEO and is the Company Secretary and is comprised of representatives managed within the strategic guidelines and delegated from the Internal Audit, Corporate Communications, authorities adopted by the Board.
The Executive Team, chaired Operations and Engineering, Company Secretariat, Business by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors, regional Control and External Reporting teams.
It reviews the Annual heads and functional heads, meets regularly to discuss issues Report, the Summary Annual Report and the Results Brief.
Risk identification and management Control procedures As outlined in the section Our approach to risk management Control procedures have been established in each of the there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and Groups operations to safeguard the Groups assets from managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are loss or misuse and to ensure appropriate authorisation co-ordinated by the Executive Team.
The CFO retains overall and recording of financial transactions.
All acquisition and responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring that the investment decisions are subject to disciplined investment systems for identifying and assessing significant risks are appraisal processes.
Risk management procedures are in adequate, that appropriate control systems and other place for the Groups operations, including its energy marketing mitigating actions are in place, and that residual exposures and trading activities, which are overseen by the Global are consistent with the Group strategy and objectives.
This Committee comprises This process has been in place for 2011 and up to the date Executive Directors and senior managers, and is chaired by of approval of the Annual Report.
The Group Treasury function operates under defined policies and the oversight of the CFO and the Head of Our approach to risk management pages 15 to 25 Corporate Finance and Treasury.
Monitoring Performance reporting and information The Board reviews the effectiveness of established internal Corporate plan controls through the Audit Committee, which receives reports Executive management submits an annual corporate budget from management, Internal Audit, and the external auditor on and plan to the Board for approval.
The budget and plan for the systems of internal control and risk management each business unit is the quantified assessment of its planned arrangements.
operating and financial performance for the next financial year, together with a revision of the budget for the current year.
Each Following completion of the Combination, internal control and year a strategic review for the following six years is conducted.
risk management have been embedded into the combined Group management reviews the plans with each operational operations of the business.
The individual plans are based on key economic and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary risk and sensitivities underlying the projections.
have been or are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses as it has determined to be significant from its Performance monitoring review of the system of internal control.
This has involved Monthly performance and financial reports are produced considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and for each business unit, with comparisons to budget.
Reports programmes that it considers reasonable in the circumstances.
are consolidated for overall review by the Executive Team, together with forecasts for the income statement and cash flow.
Detailed reports are presented to the Board on a regular basis.
Performance review Each business unit is subject to regular performance reviews with Group management during the year.
Actual results and forecasts for the year are compared to budget.
Key operational and financial results are reviewed together with the risk profile and business environment of the reporting unit.
94 International Power Annual Report 2011 Governance Compliance with the Code The corporate governance arrangements referred to above are considered by the Board to be appropriate given the Prior to completion of the Combination, there were more shareholding structure of International Power and the terms Executive Directors than Non-Executive Directors on the Board of the Relationship Agreement.
as discussed on page 88 of the Annual Report.
With effect from completion of the Combination the structure of the Board Independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors is, and the Company has been, in compliance with the Code Each of the Independent Non-Executive Directors is save in relation to the following matters: considered to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Electrabel S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of GDF SUEZ, has in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Sir Neville Simms and Tony Isaac have each served on the Agreement the right to appoint a Non-Independent International Power Board for more than nine years and, in Chairman of International Power, who does not therefore the case of Sir Neville, he was also Non-Executive Chairman fulfil the independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 of of International Power from 2000 until completion of the the Code.
The Board considers that each of Sir Neville and Tony Isaac continues to be effective and to demonstrate Provision B.
2.1 of the Code provides that a Nomination commitment to the role and regards each as being independent Committee known as the Appointments Committee in the in character and judgement, as evidenced by his contribution context of International Power should lead the process for to Board meetings and his other interests outside the Group.
Board appointments and make recommendations to the Michael Zaouis brother, Yoel, is Head of European Investment Board.
However, Electrabel S. A. has rights under the Banking at Goldman Sachs, one of the financial advisers Relationship Agreement to appoint some of the Directors to GDF SUEZ in connection with the Combination.
to the Board and to each of the Committees of the Board.
Notwithstanding this relationship, Michael is considered Provision C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Audit to be independent in character and judgement.
Therefore, Committee should be made up entirely of Independent each of these Non-Executive Directors is considered to Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the terms of be independent.
the Relationship Agreement, the International Power Audit Committee comprises four members, three of whom including the Audit Committee Chairman are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Provision D. 2.1 of the Code provides that the Remuneration By order of the Board Committee should be made up entirely of Independent Franois Graux Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the terms Company Secretary of the Relationship Agreement, the International Power 7 February 2012 Remuneration Committee comprises five members, three of whom including the Remuneration Committee Chairman are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
