44 44 Interser Interserve Annu five AnnuA Al l r repor eport 2011 t 2011 Govern GovernA Ance nce DI corpor rectors Ate repor Govern t Ance corporate Governance lorD BlAcKWell CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder The Board and management of Interserve Plc are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
We recognise the role which strong governance provides in shaping and delivering effective strategy, managing risks and safeguarding shareholder interests.
The replacement of the Combined Code by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 means that the Company is reporting upon compliance with the new Code provisions for the first time in this report.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership, sets and subsequently keeps under review the overall Group strategy and monitors operational and financial performance.
In addition, it sets the core values and ethical standards, the key tenets of which are contained in Conducting business with Interserve, which sets out clearly how employees are expected to behave and applies across the Group.
In fulfilling its role we believe it is valuable for the Board to combine the knowledge and diverse experience of both executive and nonexecutive directors, within an open and challenging Board culture.
Executive directors are appointed to the Board on merit, reflecting their ability to contribute as directors to the full range of issues and Board responsibilities.
The two additional executive appointments at the start of 2011 fully met those criteria and have added considerably to the strength of the Board.
Although these additions have resulted in us no longer having a majority of non-executive directors, I am satisfied both through my own observations and our annual Board review that the strength and independence of the non-executive Board members and our open style of debate continues to provide a fully effective governance check within the Board while maintaining the overall Board size at an optimum level.
The Board fully embraces the belief that diversity in all its forms can bring insights and behaviours that make a valuable contribution to its performance.
Our Board currently brings valuable diversity in executive and professional experience, but in considering new appointments we will seek further to widen our diversity.
Our criteria are to appoint those individuals best able to contribute to an effective, challenging and cohesive Board taking into account the benefits of board diversity in its widest sense.
We will monitor our success in developing the diversity of the Board as part of our annual evaluation of Board effectiveness.
Following the Companys re-admission to the FTSE 250 on 21 September 2011, the Board is proposing to offer all its members for re-election at our 2012 AGM.
lord Blackwell chairman overview business review governance financial statements Interser Interser Interserve Annu five Annu five AnnuA A Al l l r r repor epor eport 2011 t 2011 t 2011 Govern Govern GovernA A Ance nce nce DI c corpor orpor rectors A Ate te repor G Govern overn t A Ance nce 454545 complIAnce WIth the coDe implementation of a Group-wide Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy: The Financial Services Authority the FSA requires the Company to disclose how it has applied the principles of reviewing the results of the employee survey: and the Code and whether there has been compliance with its reviewing succession planning across the Groups senior provisions throughout the financial year.
In the case of nonmanagement.
compliance, the Company must specify those provisions with which it has not complied and give reasons for this.
The Code Board composition and independence may be found on the FRC website www.
The role of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split The directors consider that the Company has complied fully and clearly defined in written terms of reference.
The Group with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout the Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and accounting period ended 31 December 2011 with the following creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director exception: effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the management of Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half the board, the Company and of the Group and in leading the formulation excluding the Chairman, to comprise non-executive directors of and, once set by the Board, implementing the strategy for the determined by the board to be independent.
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk comprised six executive and five non-executive directors plus Committee, leads the executive management team and investor the Chairman until the retirement of Patrick Balfour on communications and is responsible for social and ethical matters 18 May 2011 at the conclusion of the AGM.
The Board within the Group.
believes that the diversity of skills and experience which the executive directors bring to the Board particularly in The Group Chairman and the non-executive directors are relation to their own operating divisions is more valuable considered by the Board to be independent in character and than maintaining parity between the number of executive and judgement and free from any relationships or circumstances non-executive directors.
Furthermore, the Board considers which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their its non-executive directors to be sufficiently independent and judgement.
of such calibre and number that their views may be expected The non-executive directors have complementary skills, to be of sufficient weight that no individual or small group can experience and qualifications in a wide range of economic dominate the Boards decision-making processes.
sectors and so are able to bring independent judgement to bear the BoArD on matters for consideration.
operation of the Board On 1 January 2011 David Paterson and Dougie Sutherland were appointed executive directors and Keith Ludeman appointed The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its as a non-executive director.
At the AGM on 18 May 2011 decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are managed Patrick Balfour retired from the Board, David Trapnell succeeded by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 47. him as Senior Independent Director and David Thorpe was In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, details of As Senior Independent Director, David Trapnell is available to which are set out later in this report.
From time to time the Board shareholders should they have any concerns which contact also establishes certain other committees to deal with a specific through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such issue which the Board has approved.
He also provides a sounding Key matters dealt with by the Board during the course of the year, board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the in addition to ongoing monitoring of the operational and financial other directors when necessary.
performance of the Group, were: As at 31 December 2011 the Board comprised of eleven setting the health, safety and environmental targets for the members: the Group Chairman, six executive and four nonGroup: executive directors.
reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, ethics meetings and values: The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on setting the Groups annual budget and plan: an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set out in the approval of the annual and half-year report: table overleaf.
declaration of the interim and recommendation of the final The Board also holds a strategy day in January each year to dividend: review the strategic direction of the Group.
ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls The Group Chairman held one formal session with the nonand an effective risk management and assurance strategy: executive directors without any executive directors being present monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Health and Safety and a number of informal discussions both with and without the Policy: Chief Executive being present.
The non-executive directors also met once during the year, under the chairmanship of the Senior control over major acquisitions including joint ventures, Independent Director, without either the Group Chairman or the disposals and capital expenditure: executive directors being present.
implementation of a Board Diversity Policy: 46 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce Board Audit Remuneration Nomination During the course of the year the Board reviewed what initiatives were in place within the Group to develop gender diversity and Number of Meetings 14 5 7 4 reviewed feedback from the biennial employee survey which 1 G P Balfour 7 2 3 2 included, amongst other things, data on equality of treatment Lord Blackwell 14 7 4 and gender engagement.
L G Cullen 14 5 7 4 commitment and development S L Dance 13 There is an ongoing programme of site visits by the Group Chairman and executive directors which provides additional T P Haywood 14 opportunities over and above the programme of Board site K L Ludeman 14 5 7 4 visits for the non-executive directors to visit various operations D J Paterson 13 of the Group.
The Group Chairman has also held a number of lunchtime meetings with invited managers from across the B A Melizan 14 Company and its UK subsidiaries at which they were given A M Ringrose 14 4 the opportunity to discuss their work and talk freely about any D I Sutherland 14 issues of concern.
D A Thorpe 13 5 7 4 Presentations were made to the Board during the year covering topics of special significance.
In addition, as part of an ongoing D A Trapnell 14 5 7 4 programme, the Board undertook three one-day visits covering 1 Mr G P Balfour retired from the Board on 18 May 2011 a number of the Groups operational sites in the UK and a threeThe Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, day visit encompassing all the Groups operations in Qatar.
sets the agenda for Board meetings.
The Group Chairman also The majority of the non-executive directors attended one or ensures that Board members receive timely information and more briefings or seminars relevant to their role during the year are briefed on issues arising at Board meetings to assist them under review and each director completed the Groups online in making an effective contribution.
The Company Secretary is anti-bribery and corruption training.
responsible for distributing Board papers and other information sufficiently far in advance of each meeting for the directors to be During the year a Group-wide leadership programme designed properly briefed, presenting certain papers to the Board and its to support the strategic aims of the Company was introduced.
committees, advising on Board procedures and ensuring the The programme seeks to accelerate the development of high Board follows them.
performing and high potential senior leaders.
The learning experience involves a highly interactive process of exchanging The Board papers include information from management on new ideas, sound advice, tools and techniques, business financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring concepts and best practices with tutors, mentors, coaches and Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a peers from across the Interserve business.
Teamwork, involving written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
community and business projects, insight workshops, mentoring Appointments to the Board and coaching, is a key component of the programme.
On appointment, new directors take part in an induction Participants in the leadership programme are also provided programme arranged by the Company Secretary.
As part of this with an opportunity to contribute to the development of the programme, Keith Ludeman, David Paterson and Group and offered a comprehensive way of exploring business Dougie Sutherland received a detailed induction from the issues and opportunities.
As participants practise their own Company Secretary.
In addition, Mr Ludeman undertook visits personal leadership style, they develop further insights and to sites covering all four of the Groups UK divisional operations in entrepreneurial and relationship skills to evaluate, develop and order to gain an appreciation of, and familiarise himself with, the manage new business opportunities to provide sustainable business of the Group.
David Paterson and Dougie Sutherland, growth and increased shareholder value.
having already completed the Groups private company director Information and support training course, were provided with specific training on the duties of a listed company director by the Groups lawyers, Individual directors may, after consultation with the Group Ashurst LLP.
Chairman, take independent legal advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit of 10,000 in relation Given constraints on the size of the Board, board diversity will be to any one event.
In the case of the Group Chairman he must achieved by taking into account the overall contribution to diversity consult with the Senior Independent Director.
All directors have alongside other desired characteristics in new appointments access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, rather than by setting specific targets on any single dimension of whose appointment or removal is a matter reserved for the approval diversity.
The Board expects this to lead to greater diversity on the of the Board or any duly delegated committee thereof.
Board and in the divisional boards over time.
Historically, equipment and construction services were industries into which women did not enter in great numbers.
However, the Board is encouraged that around half of all graduates now recruited by its Construction division are women.
The support services industry has been more popular with women, thus Support Services has more women in senior roles.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce 47 executIve BoArD Board performance evaluation During the course of the year the performance of the directors Below the Board is the Executive Board which comprises all the was reviewed by the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive executive directors and the Company Secretary.
It is chaired by and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive.
having consulted with other directors.
The Group Chairmans The Executive Board, which met 11 times during the course of performance was reviewed by the Senior Independent Director the year, is responsible for the operational management and who held separate meetings with each of the directors and the delivery against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing Company Secretary.
resolutions of the Board, formulation of strategy, annual The overall time commitment of the non-executive directors in budgets and other proposals for consideration by the Board, the attendance of Board meetings visits was in the order of the identification and evaluation for consideration by the Board 16 days in addition to the time taken to read Board papers of risks faced by the Group and for designing, operating and and attend the four meetings held by the Group Chairman.
monitoring a suitable system of internal control embracing the policies adopted by the Board.
It is also responsible for devising The Board also conducted a formal and thorough evaluation of and implementing suitable policies and procedures for health its own performance with particular emphasis on the progress and safety, environmental, social and ethical, treasury, human against the strategic objectives set at the strategy day.
The resources and information technology.
evaluation identified: AuDIt commIttee ways in which the operational performance could be more succinctly reported: role an improved structure for meeting agendas: The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: to review and monitor the integrity of the Company and the improvements in the Board evaluation process: Groups financial statements through the statutory audit a desire to enhance the diversity of the Board: and of the annual and consolidated accounts and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: means of improving the effectiveness of communication with both investors and the wider business community.
to provide an independent overview of the Company and the Groups systems of internal control, risk management and The Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees also financial reporting processes particularly through the coconducted a review of their terms of reference and their ordination and supervision of the quality, independence and performance against them.
effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: and re-election to make recommendations to the Board.
With a considerable number of directors already standing for The effectiveness of the Company and the Groups internal election or re-election in 2011 it was not felt necessary to move control and risk management systems is reviewed by the Board.
to annual re-election of all directors at that time.
However, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the next AGM composition on 16 May 2012.
The committee is composed entirely of independent nonBiographical details for each of the directors standing for reexecutive directors and is chaired by Les Cullen.
The directors election are set out on pages 36 and 37. who have served on the committee during the year are: Indemnities Date of appointment Name to committee Qualifications As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, 1 qualifying third party indemnities have been in place throughout G P Balfour 1 January 2003 MA Cantab, Solicitor the period under review and remain in force at the date of L G Cullen 14 November 2005 MBA BSc Hons FCCA this report in respect of liabilities suffered or incurred by each FCT director.
The Company also undertakes to loan such funds to a K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 BA Hons MSc DSc Hon director as it, in its reasonable discretion, considers appropriate for the director to meet expenditure incurred by him in defending D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 CPFA any criminal or civil proceeding or in connection with any D A Trapnell 11 September 2003 BSc Hons application under section 661 3 or 1157 of the Companies 1 Mr G P Balfour retired from the committee on 18 May 2011.
Act 2006 on terms which require repayment by the director of amounts so advanced upon conviction of final judgment being Appointments to the committee are made by the Board, on given against him.
The deeds of indemnity are available for the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
consultation with the committee chairman.
Les Cullen and The Company also maintains an appropriate level of directors David Thorpe are both financially qualified.
and officers insurance in respect of legal actions against the The Company Secretary is secretary to the committee.
Neither the qualifying third party indemnities nor the insurance provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
48 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce terms of reference reviewed audit effectiveness following the audit of the 2010 annual report: The committee has written terms of reference based on the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees and which set out clearly its reviewed the extent of the Groups control over joint ventures authority and duties.
These are available on the Companys website and associated companies: and at www.
The terms of reference reviewed its own effectiveness and its terms of reference.
are considered at least annually by the committee and were most recently amended in November 2010 to take account of the UK The committee chairman reported to the Board on the work Corporate Governance Code and approved by the Board.
carried out by the committee, including any improvement actions required, and copies of the minutes of its meetings were meetings included within the Board papers.
The committee met five times during the year.
The external external audit auditors were present at four of the meetings and the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from  The committee considers and makes recommendations to the LLP PwC, the provider of the internal audit function, were Board as regards audit matters.
The committee also seeks to present at four and two of the meetings, respectively.
The Group ensure co-ordination between the activities of the external and Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group internal auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the audit at the Financial Controller attended the meetings by invitation.
The committee has taken the opportunity to seek the views of external auditor objectivity and independence the external and internal auditors in private and both the external As required by its terms of reference, the committee assessed and internal auditors have the opportunity to address the the external auditors objectivity and independence and the committee in private at any time should they so wish.
effectiveness of the external audit process in March 2011 at the overview of actions end of the 2010 audit cycle and again in December 2011 and concluded that Deloitte LLP remain independent.
To assist the During the year the committee: committee with its assessment of auditor independence, the reviewed the 2010 annual report and financial statements and committee has a policy which prohibits the auditors auditing their the 2011 half-year report.
As part of this review the committee own work, making management decisions, entering into any received a report from the external auditors on their audit of arrangement in relation to audit work whereby a joint interest is the 2010 annual report and their review of the 2011 half-year created between the Company and the auditors in the outcome report: of the instruction, acting in the role of advocate for the Company or being appointed as recruitment consultants to the Company reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of without the committees prior consent.
The policy also contains engagement for the 2011 half-yearly review and for the audit of a set of authority limits governing the award by management of the 2011 annual report: various categories of non-audit work to the auditors.
received a briefing on audit matters from the auditors The committee concluded from the regular reports it received that describing their approach to and scope of the audit, explaining the nature and extent of non-audit fees, which related primarily to their responsibilities regarding corporate governance and the tax and VAT advice offered by Deloitte and the review of the halfrequirements of the Listing Rules and their independence year report and which amounted to 17 per cent and 7 per cent policies and procedures which encompassed their safeguards of the overall audit fees, respectively excluding accountancy and and procedures, remuneration and evaluation policies and the transactional advice given with regard to the aborted acquisition revisions to the APB ethical standards: of Mouchel Group plc which amounted to 48 per cent of the made a recommendation to the Board that the external overall audit fee, did not compromise auditor independence.
auditors should continue in office for the next financial year: In all cases work performed by Deloitte was approved in line with reviewed proposed changes to the Groups internal controls: Group policy.
In the case of the work on the aborted acquisition of Mouchel the committee concluded that Deloittes expertise received a report from the external auditors on, and and experience and knowledge of the Group made them best considered the effectiveness of, the Groups accounting and placed to efficiently deliver the service.
The committee was internal control systems and monitored the actions taken by satisfied that the safeguards implemented by Deloitte, including management in response: the use of specialists independent of the audit, were sufficient to reviewed, prior to their consideration by the Board, the maintain auditor objectivity and independence.
representation letters to be given to the external auditors Further details of the audit and non-audit fees paid to the in respect of the 2010 annual report and the 2011 half-year auditors are included in note 4 to the financial statements on report: page 82. considered and agreed the scope and fees to be paid to the A change in audit partner is made every five years when the external auditors: audit partner is rotated off the audit in accordance with latest reviewed the annual report and accounts for the Interserve guidance and best practice.
A new audit partner was appointed Pension Scheme: in 2009 following interviews with the committee and the Group Finance Director.
Any decision to open the external audit to received updates on new accounting developments, tender is taken on the recommendation of the committee.
regulation and best practice: There were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the committees choice of external auditors.
monitored non-audit fees in comparison to the audit fees: overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce 49 overview Internal audit The function of internal audit is to provide an objective appraisal After undertaking a review of its own performance the to the Board, through the Audit Committee, of the adequacy committee concluded that it had been effective in discharging and effectiveness of the processes established to control the the obligations entrusted to it by the Board.
business and to assist the Board in meeting its objectives and The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the discharging its responsibilities.
AGM to answer questions about the work of the committee.
The internal audit programme of work was developed by PwC, conflIcts commIttee based on interviews with executive management and the operational and finance management teams.
The details of the The Conflicts Committee comprises the Group Chairman or, in internal audit programme are submitted to the Audit Committee the event that he is interested in the matter to be considered, the for approval, and may be modified subject to agreement of the Senior Independent Director, and the Company Secretary.
Audit Committee based on changing circumstances.
The committee has written terms of reference and meets as and The overall internal audit programme is risk based.
This means when necessary to review any interests a director may have which that a sub-set of all the business activities and financial reporting conflict or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
processes are subject to internal audit review each year.
The committee met twice during the year and reviewed the The committee received a summary of each internal audit review interests declared by each director which conflicted or may covering the findings and proposed corrective actions for any possibly conflict with the interests of the Company and the terms gaps in the control environment that may have been found.
of the authorisations given in respect of those interests.
The committee reported its findings to the Board and in each case The committee is required to approve the internal audit plan, the Board concluded that the authorisations given, and the monitor and assess its role and effectiveness in the overall terms which had been applied thereto, remained appropriate.
context of the Companys and the Groups risk management system, review and assess the scope of and progress GenerAl purposes commIttee against the internal audit work plan and review and monitor The General Purposes Committee comprises any two executive managements responsiveness to the internal auditors findings directors one of whom must be the Chief Executive or, in his and recommendations.
absence, the Group Finance Director.
Reports received by the committee during the year in The committee has written terms of reference which authorise it to accordance with the 2011 internal audit plan covered matters exercise certain powers of the Board delegated to it and is required to such as: report upon its actions to the next meeting of the Board.
the outcome of a back-to-basics review of the key controls The committee met 43 times during the course of the year and dealt within each business unit in the Group: with a variety of business ranging from routine approvals of matters reviews of tendering and bidding, payroll, HR functions, within its terms of reference to settlement of detailed matters in contract management, service delivery, work-in-progress and relation to transactions approved in principle by the Board.
accrued income, procure to pay controls, financial controls InsIDe InformAtIon commIttee health check, corporation tax and VAT controls, design and quotation procedures, key controls and a company car The Inside Information Committee comprises the Group scheme in various parts of the business: Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
a review of investment portfolio management: and The committee meets as and when required, has written terms of reference and is empowered to assess quickly if information a review of Group Pensions Administration.
is inside information, release inside information to the Regulatory The committee agreed an internal audit work plan for 2012, Information Service RIS in the event that it is not possible to which builds upon the work conducted over the previous two convene a Board meeting at very short notice and is responsible years, the objectives of which are to: for setting up and monitoring the systems and controls with regard to inside information.
provide assurance that certain existing and emerging key risks facing the Group as a whole or which are common to several nomInAtIon commIttee businesses within the Group are being managed effectively: The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman confirm that the Groups core assurance procedures are and the majority of the members are independent non-executive being operated as intended, whether documented or directors.
The committee keeps the Board structure, size and undocumented, in accordance with good practice: and composition, balance of skills and knowledge and experience both executive and non-executive under review and makes support the management and mitigation of key risks in recommendations for any changes to the Board.
specific businesses to confirm that they are being mitigated to a sufficient degree so as not to threaten the achievement The committees terms of reference set out clearly its authority of Group objectives or the sustainability of the individual and duties, and are available on the Companys website at businesses.
The committee also received reports on investigations The committee met four times during the year.
The business conducted and actions taken as a result of notifications made conducted during the year included recommendations to the under the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
Board for the re-election of retiring directors at the AGM, a review of the Board structure and composition, a review of senior management succession and development up to and 50 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce fInAncIAl AnD BusIness DIsclosures including those at Board level, and Board succession planning.
A review of the effectiveness of the committee and its terms of In order to present a balanced assessment of the Companys reference was also conducted.
position and prospects, the Annual Report contains a Directors The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and Responsibility Statement on page 63, an Independent Auditors remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors is Report about their reporting responsibilities on page 64 and detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 62. a going concern statement on page 29.
An explanation of the Companys business model and strategy for delivering the The terms and conditions of appointment of all the nonCompanys objectives is set out on pages 8 and 9. executive directors and those of the Group Chairman are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during The Directors Report contained on pages 38 to 43, of which normal business hours.
Each letter of appointment specifies the this Corporate Governance report forms part, contains the anticipated level of time commitment including, where relevant, information required by paragraph 13 2 c, d, f, h and i of additional responsibilities derived from involvement with the Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. control processes Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required to confirm, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to meet The Board has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating what is expected of them and to seek the committee chairmans and managing the significant risks the Group faces together agreement, or in the case of the Group Chairman, the Senior with an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk Independent Directors agreement, before accepting additional management further into the operations of the businesses.
This commitments that might impact upon the time they are able to has been in place for the period under review and until the date devote to their role as a non-executive director of the Company.
of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The pfI commIttee Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and Executive Board assist the Board in the application of these principles.
The PFI Committee comprises any two or more directors.
The Board has documented a risk management policy setting The committee has written terms of reference giving it authority out the prime risk areas including the threats, risk indicators, to settle and execute contractual documentation in relation to PFI control strategy and sources of assurance.
The policy is included projects where Board approval has been given to the Company or within the Groups internal controls manual.
Internal controls are any of its subsidiaries participation in a particular PFI project.
normally reviewed by the Board in advance of the publication of The committee met once during the year.
the half-year and annual reports.
The Board received and reviewed bi-annual reports from the remunerAtIon commIttee Executive Board on the effectiveness of the Groups system of The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of internal control for the period under review and has implemented independent non-executive directors, is chaired by David improvements from time to time in order to strengthen the Thorpe David Trapnell until 18 May 2011.
The names of the control processes.
committee members are set out in the table on page 46.
The Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system responsibilities of the committee, together with an explanation of internal control, the Groups system of internal control is of the work undertaken and how it applies the directors designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to remuneration principles of the Code, are set out in more detail in achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 62. but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or rIsK commIttee loss.
The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, including The Groups governance framework distinguishes between risk management, the ongoing review of their effectiveness entities which are wholly controlled and joint ventures and and sets appropriate policies having regard to the objectives associate companies in which the Group does not have overall of the Group.
It formally reviews the Groups register of risks control.
For these joint-ventures and associate companies, and mitigation plans twice a year and discusses any significant systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the developments in risk exposure as and when appropriate.
Group and the other joint-venture parties or members of the associate company, as the case may be.
As discussed on page 47, the Executive Board has a key role in risk management.
In order to assist it with discharging this financial reporting responsibility the Executive Board constituted a Risk Committee.
Based on submissions from the trading divisions, a budget is The committee, which met four times during the year, comprises prepared by the Group for approval by the Board before the the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal start of each financial year.
Subsequently, based on submissions Audit until September 2011, Group Health, Safety and from the trading divisions, forecasts of prospective financial Environmental Manager, Group Insurance Manager, the Group performance are prepared by the Group for approval by the Company Secretary who is its secretary and a representative Board as at the end of March, May and September of each year.
from each of the Groups operating divisions.
It has written terms Budgets and forecasts include the financial results, financial of reference and provides copies of its meeting minutes to the position and cash flows for each division and the Group Centre.
The business covered during the year included a review of the Groups pandemic influenza, business continuity and IT disaster recovery plans and testing, the risks presented by forthcoming legislation, bi-annual reviews of the Groups prime risk areas and information security management.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 GovernAnce corporAte GovernAnce 51 The Group has documented the accounting policies to be The Group has certain key areas which are subject to applied by all entities in the Group in submitting their financial central management or control, which include Company and statements for consolidation.
These accounting policies are in subsidiary health, safety and environmental, legal, insurance, compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards and treasury, real estate, internal and external communication, are available on the Groups intranet.
These functions report to members of the Executive Board and operate within defined limits and Each month, entities within the Group submit management levels of authority.
accounts in local currency to the Group Finance team.
The Group Finance team translates foreign currency submissions One or more members of the Executive Board and, in many into sterling using published exchange rates, eliminates all cases, either the Chief Executive or the Group Finance intercompany trading and balances, and then prepares Director, attend divisional board meetings.
the consolidated management accounts of the Group.
The During the course of each year members of the Executive consolidated management accounts include the financial results, Board or other senior operational and financial management financial position, cash flows and projections and are submitted visit or review all trading companies, including those located to the Executive Board and subsequently the Board for review.
overseas, to discuss and monitor the performance of those Analysis is included on monthly and year-to-date financial data businesses.
compared with the latest budgets or forecasts approved by the Board and also compared with prior year data.
Analysis is The Group has in place a whistle-blowing policy together with prepared on both a divisional and consolidated basis.
a Group response plan to set out a framework for dealing with any allegations of fraud, financial misreporting and any whistleThe management accounts of the Group are accompanied by a blowing notification.
A copy of the policy is available on the written report from the Group Finance Director explaining operating Companys website at www.
and financial performance, the cause and effect of variance from the approved budgets and forecasts and other information that may our shAreholDers be relevant from time to time.
The written report includes analysis The Company encourages two-way communication with on both a divisional and consolidated basis.
both institutional and private investors.
The Chief Executive, Monthly written divisional trading reports on the performance of accompanied by the Group Finance Director, attended 53 each division are provided as part of the Board papers.
These meetings with analysts and institutional investors during the year are then updated by oral reports from the executive directors at ended 31 December 2011.
In addition, the Chief Executive, the each Board meeting.
Group Finance Director and the Group Chairman, accompanied by another member of staff or a representative from one of the The management accounts submitted by members of the Group Companys joint brokers, attended a further 38, 39 and one for June and December are used to prepare the half-yearly and meeting each, respectively.
The Group Finance team reviews the disclosures in the financial statements to ensure that they The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers comply with the latest reporting standards adopted for use in the to produce periodic notes of the feedback from institutional EU and seeks to ensure they are clear and understandable to investors which are reported to the Board.
All directors and the the readers.
The half-yearly and annual financial statements are members of the Executive Board also have the opportunity to reviewed by the Executive Board, the Audit Committee and the attend analyst briefings.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results, interim management The financial reporting process is reviewed periodically by statements, trading updates and all announcements made internal audit in accordance with the programme approved by through the RIS are published on the Companys website at the Audit Committee each year.
Copies of the presentations given to analysts on the announcement of the half-yearly and final results A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups are also posted on the Companys website.
business is given on page 29 and a description of how the Group manages those risks is set out on page 23.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the annual and half-year reports, trading updates and operational controls the Companys website.
The principal features of the Groups system of operational All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of control are: the AGM.
It is standard practice for all directors to attend the An established management structure comprising the Board AGM to which all shareholders are invited and at which they may with its various committees and an Executive Board.
put questions to the chairmen of the various committees or the Board generally.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, Executive Board and Board review of the monthly finance and as well as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy divisional trading reports.
The Board determines appropriate form accompanying the notice of AGM are counted before the action based on these reviews.
AGM commences and are made available to shareholders at the Documented delegated authority limits from the Board to the close of the formal business of the meeting.
The proxy votes are Executive Board which are kept under regular review.
Larger also announced through the RIS and posted on the Companys value proposals and business acquisitions and disposals are website shortly after the close of the meeting.
Manuals setting out Group policy and procedures, with which all Group companies must comply.
These manuals set out the necessary levels of authorisation applicable for different transactions.
