Corporate Governance Report Chairmans foreword Contents Having been Chairman only since the beginning of 2012, I have 38 Chairmans foreword to thank Vanni Treves, the former Chairman, for his stewardship of Interteks corporate governance.
I have conducted a review of 39 Governance framework our governance structures and am pleased to say that the Board of Intertek Group plc recognises and is committed to the highest 39 Board attendance standards of corporate governance.
The Board believes that good 39 Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior governance is key to the long-term success of the Group and Independent Director we shall continue to pursue the comply or explain approach.
This report gives more information on how we comply with the 40 Board balance and independence UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and explains where 40 Professional development we do not.
Last year this report explained how the Board had reviewed 40 Performance evaluation the impending changes to the Code, now fully effective, and 41 Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interests considered the application of the Code to Intertek.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2011 all continuing directors stood for 41 Consideration of the diversity of the Board re-election and were re-elected with healthy majorities.
41 The Board and its Committees Since last year the diversity of the membership of boards has become an important issue which is on its way to inclusion in 41 The Remuneration Committee the Code.
In making any Board appointments, in addition to 42 The Nominations Committee reviewing factors such as skill sets, breadth of experience and personality fit, the Nominations Committee is careful to ensure 42 The Audit and Risk Committee that it is presented with, and considers, a broad range of candidates.
Steps are currently being taken to recruit an 43 Internal control additional Non-Executive Director following the departure of 44 Shareholders Debra Rade from the Board.
The nature of our business and the geographical spread of our operations mean that we employ 44 Going concern a culturally and otherwise diverse group of people.
More information on diversity, including the gender of employees within Intertek is provided on pages 32 to 33 of the Sustainability and CSR Report.
I am greatly looking forward to my service with the Board and am committed to ensuring the continuance of the high standards already set.
Sir David Reid Chairman 38 | www.
com Corporate Governance Report Governance framework Board attendance during 2011 This report describes our compliance with the provisions of Name Position Attendance the Code.
The Code is available at www.
Throughout Vanni Treves 8 8 2011 the Group complied with all provisions of the Code, save Chairman that from May 2011 the Remuneration Committee comprised Wolfhart Hauser 8 8 two rather than three independent Directors in addition to Chief Executive Officer the Chairman.
Lloyd Pitchford 8 8 The Board is responsible and accountable to shareholders for Chief Financial Officer ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that David Allvey 8 8 it achieves its objectives.
The Boards main role is to understand Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and meet its obligations to the Companys shareholders and Edward Astle 8 8 others: to lead the Group within a framework of prudent and Independent Non-Executive Director effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: Alan Brown appointed 15 April 2011 4 5 to approve the Groups strategic objectives: and to ensure that Independent Non-Executive Director sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those Gavin Darby resigned 20 May 2011 4 4 objectives.
The Board also ensures that plans are in place Independent Non-Executive Director for orderly succession for appointments to the Board and Christopher Knight 8 8 to senior management.
Independent Non-Executive Director Alan Brown and Michael Wareing joined the Board in April 2011 Debra Rade 8 8 and Sir David Reid was appointed in December 2011.
Gavin Independent Non-Executive Director Darby resigned in May 2011 and David Allvey, Debra Rade and Sir David Reid appointed 1 December 2011 1 1 Vanni Treves retired at the end of December 2011.
Currently Independent Non-Executive Director the Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Michael Wareing appointed 15 April 2011 5 5 Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Director On 1 January 2012 Sir David Reid took over the Chairmanship Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board member.
All Directors who served during 2011 had a wide range of experience and skills, bringing independent Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior judgement to bear on a wide range of issues including strategy, Independent Director performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The current In order to avoid any one individual having unfettered powers, Directors biographies appear on page 37. there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman During the year, the Board formally met eight times, but there and the Chief Executive Officer.
These have been set out in was also frequent ad hoc contact between Directors to discuss writing and approved by the Board.
the Groups affairs and development of its business.
Directors attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on the right.
Vanni Treves, the previous Chairman, became Chairman of the On several occasions during 2011 the Chairman met with the Board in May 2002, at which time he met the independence Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being criteria as set out in the Code.
Sir David Reid, upon his present.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had discussions appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2012, also met the without the Chairman being present.
independence criteria set out in the Code.
His responsibilities as Chairman include the leadership of the Board, ensuring its If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a proposed effectiveness and setting its agenda: ensuring that the Directors action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective as a matter of course.
To enable the Board to discharge its communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective duties, all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in information.
Papers are circulated well before the Board and particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between the Committee meetings to ensure that Directors have the necessary Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans other time to read and review them.
The Non-Executive Directors main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 37. receive monthly Business Performance Reports and information Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive Officer, has direct charge of which enables them to scrutinise the performance of the Group the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board and management against agreed strategy and objectives and for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 39 Corporate Governance Report David Allvey was Senior Independent Director from May 2002 All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional until his retirement in December 2011.
His responsibilities advice, at the Groups expense, in the performance of their included leading the Non-Executive Directors annual duties as Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
consideration of the Chairmans performance and holding The Company has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted discussions with the Non-Executive Directors without by law, to each of the Directors and the Group Company management present.
Following David Allveys retirement, Secretary.
Directors and officers liability insurance is in place.
Michael Wareing was appointed Senior Independent Director.
The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves He is readily available to shareholders if they have concerns that the performance of the business and enhances shareholder remain unresolved after contacting the Group through the usual value.
During its meetings in 2011 the Board received and channels of the Chairman or the Executive Directors, or where discussed reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief such contact is inappropriate.
Financial Officer on strategy, debt financing, market reports, Board balance and independence share trading reports, analysts forecasts, potential acquisitions, The Nominations Committee has reviewed the independence of litigation reports, final and interim dividend recommendations, all the Non-Executive Directors taking into account the criteria potential contract bids, road show and investor feedback, outlined in B.
As a result, there was no change budgets, tax policy, treasury policy, Annual Report, Half Year to the independent status of the current Non-Executive Directors.
Results, interim management statements, announcements and The Board considers that all the Non-Executive Directors have a wide range of other issues.
and continue to demonstrate the necessary characteristics of Performance evaluation independence expected by the Board and it has been determined Once again, the Board engaged in a performance evaluation that none of the Non-Executive Directors have any relationships process led by the Chairman comprising a series of detailed or links to the business which would compromise or interfere questionnaires which provide a framework for the evaluation with the exercise of their independent judgement.
This provides a source of information not just on the The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to Boards performance but also on that of the Chief Executive ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors Officer, individual Directors and the Chairman.
There are are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best questionnaires for each of the following: the Board: each long-term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they individual Director: and the Audit and Risk, Nominations and take proper account of the interests of customers, employees Remuneration Committees.
In 2011 no external facilitated and other stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are all evaluation was carried out as it was considered that an internal experienced individuals and through their mix of skills and evaluation continued to be appropriate.
The performance business experience they contribute significantly to the effective evaluation process will continue to be under review and it is functioning of the Board and its committees, ensuring that currently proposed that an external evaluation will be undertaken matters are fully debated and that no one individual or group in 2012. dominates the decision-making process.
This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Professional development Committees ensures that the performance of each individual Upon appointment to the Board, new Non-Executive Directors Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and receive a formal induction programme, co-ordinated by the each Committee are properly measured and debated.
Group Company Secretary, tailored to suit the individuals The Chairman assessed the individual performance of each previous experience.
The formal induction also includes visiting Director.
During 2011 the Senior Independent Director did laboratories and having meetings with employees and advisors.
not have discussions with the other Directors to appraise the Ongoing training is provided to Directors as necessary, for Chairmans performance during the year as Vanni Treves retired example, on best practice and changes in legislation, at the end of the year.
An appraisal of the new Chairman, developments in the economic and regulatory environment and Sir David Reid, will be held in 2012 in accordance with the Code.
In addition, visits to operational Following feedback from the Board evaluation process, which sites are arranged at least once a year and one Board meeting is was discussed by the Board in January 2011, presentations from held outside the UK which provides an opportunity for the Board senior management to the Board have continued throughout to meet more senior managers across the Group and to further 2011 and meetings have been held on regional strategy to their knowledge of the Groups operations.
In November 2011 increase the understanding of operations and opportunities.
meetings were held in Shanghai which focused on the markets Each of the presentations made to the Board also includes a in China and involved meetings with major customers.
During section on risk to ensure that all Directors are fully briefed in this the visit the Board met with members of the Intertek Operations area.
The performance of the Board and each Director was, and Committee and other senior managers within the Group.
The is, effective, and all Directors demonstrate full commitment in Non-Executive Directors also attend various seminars during the their respective roles in the Company evidenced, inter alia, by the year on topics relevant to a publicly listed company.
Board and Committee attendance records set out in this report.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Following the recent changes to the Board membership the Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional evaluations further demonstrate that the Board continues to training and information as required.
The appointment and maintain an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group, and Board as a whole.
that no significant issues have arisen out of the evaluation process.
com Corporate Governance Report The Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees In order to operate effectively and to give appropriate attention also each held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness and consideration to matters, the Board has established three during the year, the results of which were reported to the Board Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, by the Group Company Secretary.
The reviews concluded that procedures and powers.
These terms of reference are available each Committee was operating in an efficient and effective on request from the Group Company Secretary at the registered manner.
The Board will continue to develop the evaluation office or can be downloaded from www.
These process in order to ensure that it can properly review, on an Committees comprise the Remuneration Committee, the annual basis, its performance and that of its individual members Nominations Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board is kept informed by the Committee chairmen through the provision of a summary of the issues discussed and decisions Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interests taken by each Committee.
The Board has a formal system to deal with conflicts of Directors interests.
Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in The following sections explain the responsibilities of each Board order to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts of interests.
Committee and the areas that they covered during the year.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be The Remuneration Committee made by non-conflicted Directors, meaning those who have During 2011 this Committee comprised independent no interest in the matter being considered.
The authorised Non-Executive Directors David Allvey Chairman, Gavin Darby decisions are reviewed on an annual basis or, where appropriate, resigned May 2011 and Christopher Knight, together with authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Vanni Treves.
With effect from 1 January 2012, the Committee directors or if a new conflict arises.
During 2011 this procedure now comprises Christopher Knight Chairman, Alan Brown and operated effectively.
The Code requires the Remuneration Committee Consideration of the diversity of the Board to have at least three independent Non-Executive Directors The Board has given consideration to the content of Lord Davies whilst allowing the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the recommendations for achieving greater diversity on Boards.
Company, if considered independent on appointment, to be a Gender is one component of diversity and although no formal member.
Whilst mindful of its non compliance with the Code, target for female representation on the Board was agreed, the the Board has considered and still believes that the Committee Board is supportive of the recommendations aims, and continues has the necessary skills and expertise required.
However, this will to seek to ensure that in considering appointments to the Board be kept under review and steps taken to look at appointing an a diverse range of candidates are presented.
More information additional Non-Executive Director during the year.
on diversity can be found in our Sustainability and CSR Report The Committee has responsibility for determining and which starts on page 30. agreeing with the Board the framework or Board policy for The Board and its Committees the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and In order to review and monitor the performance of management senior executives and for the determination, within agreed terms the Group provides the Board with regular reports on a number of reference, of additional benefits for each of the Executive of key areas.
The Board also requests one-off reports on specific Directors, including pension rights and any compensation for issues when necessary.
A Board Approval Matrix is in place which loss of office.
The Committee is also responsible for the formally outlines the matters specifically requiring the consent of implementation and operation of employee share incentive the full Board.
Details of the matters discussed and actions taken by the Remuneration Committee, including the Groups t Group strategy: remuneration for Executive Directors, and details of benefits, t Annual budget: share based payments, pension entitlements, service contracts t Annual Report, Half Year Results and related announcements: and compensation payments are given in the Remuneration t Capital expenditure: Report which starts on page 48. t Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was t Changes in directors: as follows: t Material contracts: Name Attendance t Dividend policy: and David Allvey Chairman 7 7 t Approval of tax, treasury and risk management policies.
Gavin Darby resigned 20 May 2011 4 4 The Board Approval Matrix also identifies areas where the Christopher Knight 7 7 Board has delegated authority to executive management, subject Vanni Treves 6 7 to certain financial limits.
Where any of the activities involve Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Committee member.
amounts greater than those limits they are referred to the Board.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 41 Corporate Governance Report The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee membership and attendance at Throughout the year the composition of the Committee was meetings was as follows during the year: in compliance with the Code.
During 2011 the Committee Name Attendance comprised Vanni Treves Chairman, David Allvey and Vanni Treves Chairman 4 5 Christopher Knight.
During 2011 this Committee was evaluated David Allvey 5 5 and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was Christopher Knight 5 5 appropriate and effective.
With effect from 1 January 2012, Sir David Reid Appointed 1 December 2011 1 1 the Committee now comprises Sir David Reid Chairman, Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Christopher Knight and Michael Wareing.
The main purpose of the Committee is to nominate candidates The Audit and Risk Committee to fill Board vacancies, review talent mapping and succession Throughout the year the composition of the Committee was planning for the Board and senior management and make in compliance with the Code.
During 2011 the Committee recommendations on the balance and composition of the Board.
comprised four Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey Chairman, In the event of any perceived conflict of interest, a sub committee Edward Astle, Christopher Knight and Michael Wareing comprising non-conflicted Directors is appointed.
Committee members have recent and Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge and relevant financial and business experience as detailed in their experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any biographies on page 37.
With effect from 1 January 2012, new Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is the Committee now comprises Michael Wareing Chairman, appointed, the Committee requires confirmation that he or Edward Astle and Christopher Knight.
she can devote sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of The key functions of the Audit and Risk Committee are to the role.
The Committee ensures that the search for any Board monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements, review candidate is conducted, on merit, against objective criteria any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, and review the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal including gender.
The terms and conditions of appointment control and risk management.
In accordance with its terms of of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by reference, the Committee is responsible for: any person at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
All Directors are subject t monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process to election by shareholders each year.
and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the Organisation and succession planning are important components external auditors, and for ensuring that an appropriate in ensuring the continued success of the Group.
As part of relationship is maintained between the Group and its the strategy processes, our operations plan the future external auditors: organisation needed and address the consequent talent t reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Groups systems pipelines for all key roles across the Group.
Linked with the of internal control, risk management, the processes for other HR frameworks in place across the Group, this delivers monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group and a pragmatic approach to talent management in a global and the efficacy of the internal audit function: geographically dispersed business.
t monitoring the progress of internal audit activity against Organisation and talent reviews are conducted by committees the annual plan, and reviewing the strategy, scope and of the appropriate executives.
The principal actions resulting from approach of the internal audit and risk management teams: these reviews relate to development of executive capacity across t reviewing the corrective action taken by management to Intertek.
The Nominations Committee annually reviews the address any control issues identified by the internal audit overall process and global priorities, as well as detailed plans at and risk management function: and the most senior levels.
In May 2011, due to the importance of t approving the appointment and termination of the Vice this issue, there was a presentation to the Board on succession.
President Risk Management and Internal Audit and meeting During the year, a new Chairman and two new Non-Executive with him at least once a year without management present.
Directors were recruited to the Board as part of the process of succession to the Board and the need for continued refreshing Committee meetings are usually attended by the Groups of ideas, skills and experience on the Board.
external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk Management, Internal Audit and the Chairman.
The Groups external auditors meet with the members of the Audit and Risk Committee at least once a year without management present.
com Corporate Governance Report The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued There are a number of controls in place to ensure that the Group independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and The policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external for financial reporting.
Intertek has a clear set of Accounting auditors, which seeks to ensure that auditors objectivity and Policies and Procedures available to all finance staff.
This gives independence are safeguarded, was revised in February 2011. instructions and guidance on all aspects of accounting and The policy highlights those areas where the external auditor reporting that are relevant to the Group.
There are ongoing cannot provide services to the Group, including inter alia, reviews of adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit the provision of Group management functions, internal audit and by Finance Management.
The Groups external auditors are outsourcing or co-sourcing services, provision of legal advice KPMG Audit Plc.
and appraisal or valuation services.
The external auditors The Board confirms that in addition to internal audits, there is confirm by way of a letter to the Board that processes to ensure an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing compliance with this policy are in place, and that these processes any significant risks to the Groups short and long-term value, are monitored regularly.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit including those arising from social, environmental and ethical fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year is set out in matters.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, note 4 to the financial statements.
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG of approval of the Annual Report.
Any material breaches of Audit Plc be reappointed the Groups external auditor at the the Groups systems of internal and risk management controls forthcoming AGM.
identified by the Groups control review procedures are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee and corrective action taken.
At its meetings during 2011 the Committee reviewed and In carrying out the risk review, the Board is satisfied that it endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, the Groups 2010 received adequate information from the operations around Annual Report and 2011 Half Year Results.
The Chairman and the world.
Training is provided to Directors on these matters other Committee members also attend meetings with the where appropriate.
external auditors and management to discuss any accounting issues associated with the annual audit.
The Committee also The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness reviewed the Groups arrangements for the avoidance and of the systems of financial and non-financial internal control and detection of fraud, bribery and related matters, whistle-blowing risk management during the year.
In particular, it has reviewed and hotlines, compliance, training, quality assurance systems and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying and potential claims affecting the Group.
and evaluating all significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Report and the Half Year Results announcement remains The Group maintains a robust stance in regard to breaches of with the Board.
ethics and this is reinforced by the Intertek Compliance Code and Code of Ethics, which provide practical guidance and instruction Membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during for employees.
The Codes are available at www.
the year: All employees are required to sign a certificate confirming their Name Attendance understanding that any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics David Allvey Chairman 5 5 will result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal of the employee concerned.
To support Group Edward Astle 5 5 policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns about possible Christopher Knight 5 5 improprieties in matters of financial reporting or any other Michael Wareing matters, the Group provides and publicises email, web and Appointed 15 April 2011 3 3 telephone hotlines so that staff or third parties may report Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Committee member.
anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
All complaints are investigated thoroughly with action Internal control taken as appropriate.
The number of complaints received, The Groups primary business objectives require adherence to together with the corrective actions taken, is reported to local, national and international laws and require the Groups the Audit and Risk Committee.
More information on hotline employees to show integrity and honesty in all business dealings.
incidents is provided on page 33 of the Sustainability and Risk management and internal controls are therefore embedded CSR Report.
The Group continues to publicise the existence of in the running of each division and support function, assuring hotlines to internal and external parties, and sees hotlines as an the accuracy and validity of reports and certificates that the important tool in eradicating isolated cases of poor behaviour.
The Board is responsible for In 2011 most investigations concluded that the complaint was establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal unfounded, but corrective action was taken where appropriate.
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can realistically only manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 43 Corporate Governance Report In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on endeavours to ensure that the Group has in place the most significant changes in the business and the external environment appropriate and effective controls, checks, systems and risk which could impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides management techniques so as to be in line with best practice the Board with monthly financial information, which includes on such matters.
The control environment within the Group is the comparison of key performance figures against budgets strengthened by two internal committees.
The Risk Control and and forecasts.
Information is also provided with regard to Assurance Committee RCA has the remit of overseeing the risk indicators.
The Board approves the treasury policy and development of the internal control framework, reviewing risk the Treasury departments activities are also subject to matrices and risk management procedures, monitoring issues internal audits.
and providing a conduit of information to senior management.
Shareholders The Committee comprises the Chief Financial Officer, Group The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective Company Secretary, Chief Information Officer, Group Executive investor relations and communication programme as part of Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President Financial its ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
Control, Chief Financial Officer Asia and Vice President Risk The Group produces an Annual Report which is available to Management and Internal Audit and meets approximately shareholders and also publishes Interim Management Statements every three months.
An Investment Committee has also been and Half Year Results.
com established with the remit of reviewing and approving requests contains up-to-date information on its activities and published for material expenditure and other key actions throughout the financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the Investors business within certain limits as outlined in the Board Approval section of www.
com to receive email alerts of important Matrix.
In 2011, this Committee comprised the Chief Executive announcements made by the Group.
Communications with Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
shareholders are available using electronic means, via the Group Each operating division and support function is responsible for website or by email.
The Groups Annual Report, notices of the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to meetings and proxy forms can be provided electronically.
that area of business, together with the design and operation of However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual of documents if they so choose.
basis and are reviewed by the RCA, and may be associated Any significant comments received from institutional shareholders with a variety of internal or external factors including control are communicated directly to the Board.
breakdowns, disruption of information systems, litigation, loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Operation of the opportunity to further develop their understanding of the controls is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its Company and to ask questions of the full Board on the matters consequences.
A separate review of the key financial controls put to the meeting, including the Annual Report.
All Board is undertaken by the finance function.
One of the Audit and Risk members attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen of Committees main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the the Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees key risks inherent in the business and the system of controls are available to answer questions.
At General Meetings a necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed.
schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders and is also available on the Group website.
A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially reporting has been established which provides a documented separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
These procedures are applied across Group At this years AGM we shall be adopting a poll procedure in operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given respect of all resolutions, as recommended by a number of at increasingly higher levels of management and finally, to the shareholder groups.
This process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the system Going concern of internal control and risk management.
Planned corrective After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable actions are monitored for timely completion.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the findings reported to divisional management.
Each division has Groups financial statements.
at least one compliance officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as the hotline.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and perceived risk.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee which monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit department was awarded ISO 9001 accreditation in 2003 which was successfully renewed for a further three years in 2009.
An external accreditation body conducts surveillance audits of the internal audit department every year, and conducts a more detailed review every three years.
