Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high The governance framework for the Group The Board considers that all of the current standards of corporate governance is shown on page 39.
Certain decision non-executive directors are independent.
andthe Board is pleased to confirm making is delegated through structured The non-executive directors are drawn thatduringthe year the Company has procedures to committees as described from diverse international businesses and, been fully compliant with the provisions on page 42 and, for operational matters, as illustrated on pages 38 and 39, bring a oftheCombined Code on Corporate tosenior management.
range of skills and experience to enable Governance the Combined Code and them to constructively challenge and Directors: composition and hasdecided to implement certain develop the Groups strategy and independence recommendations under the new UK direction.
The Board has been chaired by Sir Nigel Corporate Governance Code the new Rudd since 17 July 2009.
Ulf Henriksson Although all the directors have an equal UKCode for the year under review.
leftthe Company on 24 March 2011 and responsibility for the operations of was succeeded by Wayne Edmunds Invensys, the role of the non-executive The Board whohad been Chief Financial Officer directors is particularly important in Role ofthe Group since 1 June 2009 as Chief ensuring that the strategy and business The Board is collectively responsible for Executive.
David Thomas, who has held proposals of the executive management promoting the success of the Company by senior financial roles within the Group team are fully debated, to ensure that directing and supervising the Companys since2002, was appointed on 24 March theymeet the long-term interests of affairs to create shareholder value.
The 2011 asActing Chief Financial Officer: a shareholders and also take account of Board provides leadership and sets the permanent appointment is to be made in issues affecting employees, customers, Companys strategic aims.
due course after consideration of internal suppliers and the many communities Its duties are set out in a formal schedule and external candidates.
Mr Thomas has withwhich Invensys interacts.
ofmatters specifically reserved for decision not been appointed a statutory director The Senior Independent Director is by the Board, as summarised below.
but is invited to attend Board meetings Michael Parker, who has held this role andcommittee meetings as appropriate.
Schedule of matters reserved for sinceDecember 2006.
Mr Parker, as the At the date of this report, the Board theBoard Senior Independent Director, is available consisted ofone executive director and Overall management of the Group and for shareholders to contact and is also sixnon-executive directors, in addition itslong-term objectives, commercial responsible for leading the Chairmans tothe Chairman.
It has been agreed that strategy and operational planning annual performance evaluation.
DeenaMattar will join the Board as a Acquisitions, disposals and other non-executive director with effect from Executive directors are not permitted to transactions outside of delegated limits 19May 2011.
The permanent appointment hold more than one external non-executive Material changes to the Groups to the Chief Financial Officer position will directorship, which is in line with the corporate structure also join the Board.
Combined Code requirement and assists Approval of financial results and in broadening their experience for the dividend policy, and declaration of The Board benefit of the Company.
The new Chief interim and final dividends Executive, MrEdmunds, does not hold Chairman 1 Changes to the Groups capital structure 1 Executive director 1 anyexternal non-executive directorships.
Changes to the Board and other senior Non-executive 2 executive leaders directors 6 Appointment of the Groups principal advisers Any major changes to the Groups pension plans Approval of the Code of Conduct and 1 On permanent appointment, the Chief Financial Officer other Group policies will become a director of the Board.
2 Deena Mattar will join the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 19 May 2011.
Audit Remuneration Nominating Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible 3 Current directors Sir Nigel Rudd 9 9 8 8 2 2 Wayne Edmunds 9 9 Francesco Caio 9 9 5 6 8 8 Bay Green 8 9 5 6 2 2 Paul Lester 8 9 7 8 Michael Parker 9 9 6 6 8 8 2 2 Dr Martin Read 9 9 8 8 2 2 Pat Zito 8 9 6 6 1 2 3 Former director 4 Ulf Henriksson 7 7 1 1 3 Details of meetings of the Contracts Committee are dealt with separately on page 42.
4 Attendance at meetings from 1 April 2010 to 24 March 2011 when he left the Company.
| 40 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Chairman and Chief Executive Bay Green, non-executive director and For the evaluation of the Board and There is a clear division of responsibilities Chairman of the Audit Committee has itscommittees, directors are required between the Chairman and the Chief nowcompleted a six-year term.
In line tocomplete a questionnaire and Executive, which is defined in writing and withthe Combined Code, the Nominating providecomments on procedures approved by the Board.
The Chairman is Committee undertook a rigorous review andeffectiveness.
The process involves responsible for leadership of the Board and and concluded that Mr Green has a range assessment by reference to the relevant ensuring its effectiveness.
He facilitates the of skills which adds value to the Board.
As roles and responsibilities under review, contribution of the non-executive directors aresult, they recommended to the Board theterms of reference of the committees, and effective communication with that his appointment be extended and and best practice.
Results of the evaluation shareholders.
He ensures that constructive thathe continue as Chairman of the Audit provide a basis for the continuing relations exist between the executive and Committee.
improvement in the Boards procedures, non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive action plans and objectives for the The biographies of all directors are set out is responsible for executing the strategy subsequent year.
on pages 38 and 39. approved by the Board for leadership of the The results of the evaluation were Group and management of the business: he Company Secretary presented to the Board and, in summary, is supported by the Group Leadership Team, The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull, itis satisfied that the Board and its as detailed in the governance framework on who is also Group General Counsel.
The Board page 39. was appointed as Company Secretary agreed for the following year to develop on1January 2006 and acts as secretary Meetings further a number of processes to enhance toallof the committees of the Board.
There is an agreed schedule of Board and effectiveness.
TheCompany Secretary is accountable committee meetings.
The table on page 40 totheBoard and advises on corporate In light of the provision in the new UK sets out the attendance by directors at governance matters.
She ensures that the Codewhich recommends that FTSE 350 Board and committee meetings.
This Board receives briefings on changes in companies have  analysis only includes the committee regulation and law, and that procedures are board evaluations at least every three members attendance at meetings: in followed.
To enable the Board to perform years, the Board recognises the value this addition to members, other directors its duties, all directors have fulland timely may add and has agreed that an external frequently attend meetings of committees access to all relevant information and to the evaluation will be conducted in 2012. at the invitation of the respective services of the Company Secretary.
There were also appointment andremoval of the Company Induction and development informal meetings of the Chairman and Secretary isdecided upon by the Board as On appointment, new directors receive thenon-executive directors without the a whole.
aninduction programme tailored to their executive directors being present.
specific requirements based on their Performance evaluation To increase the interaction of business experience.
The objective is to provide The Board has a formal review process that leaders with the Board, the Chairman directors with a combination of selected covers an evaluation of the performance agreed with the directors that the divisional written information and the opportunity ofthe Board and its committees, and an CEOs should be invited to join Board tovisit business sites and meet with key appraisal of the performance of individual meetings on a rotational basis.
Accordingly, an directors including the Chairman.
In induction programme is being developed Election and re-election of directors respect of the individual evaluations, all for Deena Mattar.
The Companys Articles of Association members of the Board are asked to assess require that any director appointed during themselves and provide feedback on The continuing development of the the year should stand for election at the otherdirectors.
The evaluations are led directors, collectively and individually, is first Annual General Meeting AGM asindicated below.
effected through a number of channels.
In addition, Directors receive regular briefings at Board 2010 11 the Articles of Association require that meetings which are relevant to their role.
Board member evaluation led by onethird of all directors shall retire at each These include developments in governance AGM and that all directors must seek Chairman Senior Independent matters, regulatory updates and legislative re-election at least once every three years.
Director changes, for example, the UK Bribery Act The new UK Code, applicable in respect and the new UK Code.
Chairman Senior Independent ofthe Companys financial year beginning Director and other 1April 2011, recommends that all directors non-executive should seek re-election by shareholders directors annually.
The Board has agreed to implement this provision with immediate Executive directors Chairman and effect and following the evaluation of non-executive performance of each director, it is directors proposing that all directors stand for re-election at the AGM on 28 July 2011.
The individual evaluations focussed on Inaddition, Deena Mattar, who will join theeffectiveness of the contributions theBoard on 19 May 2011, will stand for madeby individual directors and reviewed election at the AGM.
directors training and development needs.
The Board is satisfied thateach director is committed to his role.
| | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 41 Corporate Governance continued As part of the Board programme at least Board committees The annual report and accounts are one meeting is held offsite at a Group The Board delegates specific authorities madeavailable to shareholders at least business location so that directors can toits Audit Committee, Remuneration 20working days prior to the AGM.
increase their understanding of the Committee, Nominating Committee and Directors are available at the AGM to business activity.
During 2010 11, the Contracts Committee, all of which operate answer questions, which provides a useful Board visited the Invensys Engineering within defined terms of reference.
Board interface with private shareholders.
Excellence Centre in Egypt, a key part of committees are authorised to engage Shareholders also have an opportunity the Invensys strategy for the Middle East theservices of external advisers as tomeet informally with directors after and global engineering efforts.
circumstances require, at the Companys themeeting.
Reports of the Board committees separately and voting is conducted by polls Independent professional advisers are are set out from this page to page 45. at general meetings, and voting results made available in order for directors to Directors receive copies of all committee areannounced through the London Stock discuss matters of significance to the minutes and the chairman of each Exchange.
The results and proxy levels are Group, and directors are encouraged committee provides an update on matters also available on the Groups website and toattend external briefings.
The Board of significance at the Board meeting on request from the Company Secretary.
ensures that directors have access to following the committee meeting.
The Company is permitted under its independent professional advice on Articles of Association to send or supply howtodischarge their responsibilities Communication with shareholders communications to shareholders asdirectors of the Company.
Communication with shareholders is electronically, and the Company now Directors conflicts of interest atalltimes given a high priority, and a supplies information such as notices of In line with the Companies Act 2006, number of means are used to promote meetings, forms of proxy and annual directors are required to avoid any greater understanding and dialogue with reports and accounts via the Groups situation in which they have or can have the investment community.
Shareholders are notified by adirect or indirect interest that conflicts receives regular reports from the Chief emailor post when new information is ormay possibly conflict with the interests Executive and the Groups Investor available on the website.
The Company ofthe Company, unless authorised by Relations team.
The Chairman and the sends hard copy communications to those theBoard.
The Companys Articles of Senior Independent Director are available shareholders who have requested them.
Association allow the Board to authorise to meet with major shareholders on Shareholders may at any time revoke a such conflicts and toimpose such limits request.
During the year, the Chairman previous instruction and elect to receive orconditions as it deems necessary.
There spoke with a number of major shareholders hard copies or electronic copies of is no breach of duty if the relevant matter regarding corporate governance and shareholder information.
has been authorised in advance.
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee The Company has established a procedure met with major shareholders to discuss Details of the Remuneration Committee whereby actual and potential conflicts of matters relating to the Companys andits policies, together with information interest are reviewed regularly and in any remuneration policy.
on the remuneration and share interests of event annually.
Appropriate authorisation directors, are set out in the Remuneration is required prior to the appointment of any Shareholders are kept informed of the Report on pages 48 to 60.
The new director and when any new conflict progress of the Group during the course Remuneration Report should be read in arises for a director or there is a change ofthe year through half-year and full-year conjunction with this Corporate Governance incircumstances that may affect an results, statements and presentations, report, of which it forms anintegral part.
interim management statements, capital Authorisations are granted by those markets days and other announcements of Contracts Committee directors who have no interest in the material developments that are released The Contracts Committee reviews certain matterbeing considered and are recorded through the London Stock Exchange and tenders and contracts falling within the by the Company Secretary in the Register other news services.
The results Boards terms of reference and due for of Directors Conflicts.
Where there is a presentations made to the investment submission to customers in a period when conflict, the Board will confirm whether any community are webcast and copies of there is no scheduled Board meeting at conditions should be imposed under the supporting materials are made available which they can be considered prior to terms of the authorisation.
Meetings of the Contracts director s maintain regular dialogue with During the year the Board considers the Committee must comprise at least one the major institutional shareholders and procedure was operated effectively.
executive director, the Chairman or in his participate in sector conferences.
place the Senior Independent Director Shareholders can also raise questions and any other non-executive director.
directly with the Company at any time by Theterms of reference for the Contracts contacting the Investor Relations team, Committee are available on the Groups whose contact details are listed on the website.
The Contracts Committee met Groups website.
onseven occasions during the year.
| 42 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Nominating Committee Members Meetings Sir Nigel Rudd Committee Chairman Details of the meetings held during the year by the Nominating Committee and members Bay Green attendance are detailed on page 40.
Michael Parker Dr Martin Read Role and activities Pat Zito The terms of reference for the Nominating Committee are available on the Groups website.
Set out below are the Nominating Committees responsibilities and the main activities undertaken during The Nominating Committee is chaired by the year.
Ulf Henriksson ceased to beamember of the Nominating Committee when he left the Company on 24March2011.
Responsibilities of the Nominating Committee Activities during the year Reviewing the composition and size of As part of its annual strategy meeting, the Nominating Committee agreed that, in the context of theBoard and itscommittees theGroups strategy and its stage of development, the Board had the appropriate blend of skills andexperience.
Making recommendations to the Board The Nominating Committee conducted a search for a new non-executive director.
An external firm forthe appointment, reappointment and assisted with this search.
retirement of directors Consider succession planning Succession planning for all of the senior executive team was considered as part of the Nominating Committees annual strategy meeting.
Review annually its terms of reference The terms of reference were revised to reflect the recommendations in the new UK Code.
Make recommendations to the Board The provisions regarding election and re-election are set out on page 41.
Following evaluation regarding the election and re-election andrecommendation by the Nominating Committee, and in light of the new UK Code, it was ofdirectors at the AGM agreedthat all directors will stand for re-election and, if reappointed, will serve until the conclusion ofnext years AGM.
Conduct an annual evaluation of As detailed on page 41 an evaluation was conducted during theyear.
theperformance of the Nominating Committee Other activities of the Nominating Committee The Nominating Committee was pleased to recommend the appointment of Deena Mattar as a non-executive director: in making recommendations it considers whether the candidate has the appropriate range and balance of skills, experience and background to complement the Board.
com 43 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee Members Meetings Bay Green Committee Chairman Details of the meetings held during the year Francesco Caio bythe Audit Committee and of members Michael Parker attendance are detailed on page40.
Pat Zito Role and activities Deena Mattar will join the Audit Committee on her appointment as a non-executive director The terms of reference for the Audit Committee on19May 2011. are available onthe Groups website.
Set out below are the Audit Committees responsibilities The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive directors of the Company and the main activities undertaken during and has been chaired by Bay Green since December 2006.
Mr Green is a qualified chartered theyear.
accountant and Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and, with over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience forthe purposes of the Combined Code.
Hehas held a number of senior positions in Dresdner Kleinwort and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit oftheFinancial Services Authority.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities during the year Monitoring the integrity of the Groups The Audit Committee reviewed the financial disclosures in the Groups Annual Report and Accounts Financial Statements and reviewing and half-year financial report prior to their publication.
This included a review of the accounting significant financial reporting issues policies and financial reporting judgements.
It also reviewed the contents of the interim andaccounting policies management statements issued by the Company.
Reviewing the Groups systems of In accordance with the Combined Code, Turnbull 2005 guidance and on behalf ofthe Board, the internalcontrol and risk management, AuditCommittee undertook an annual assessment of the Groups system of risk management andmonitoring the effectiveness of andinternal control.
Included inthe assessment were: theinternal audit function consideration of the key risks facing the divisions as part of the review of the Groups strategic planning and annual operating planning processes, and the review of reports from the RiskCommittee: review of the enhancements to the overall control environment: consideration of the key elements of the Groups control processes, including organisational structure, the application of governance rules and systems, information management including monthly reporting routines and risk management activities: reports received from both internal and external audit during the course of the year: review of the operations and effectiveness of internal audit andreceipt of regular reports onprojects undertaken: and t he findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire, which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level upwards, to certify compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, including environmental, health and safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
The Audit Committee monitored the Groups whistle-blowing programme as set out on page 47.
Making recommendations to the Board on The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the the appointment, remuneration and terms 2011 AGM.
The basis of recommendation to the Board for the reappointment is described below.
of engagement including non-audit The external audit plan and fee proposal were approved, along with the terms of engagement services of the external auditor forthe year.
The Audit Committee also agreed the policy on auditor independence and provision of non-auditservices.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the As detailed on page 41 an evaluation was conducted during theyear.
performance of the Audit Committee | 44 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Other activities of the Audit Committee that theAudit Committee remained financial information, reporting on In addition to carrying out the activities satisfied withtheservices provided by regulatory returns and extended work on necessary to discharge its standing Ernst & Young LLP and could not see any financial information orfinancial controls.
responsibilities, the Audit Committee also cost benefit of retendering at this time.
Non-audit services that require specific received reports from management and approval from the Audit Committee before the internal and external auditors on a Non-audit services they are contracted to Ernst & Young LLP number of other matters during the year.
The Audit Committee has guidelines to are those that are either not audit related These included the findings of a detailed ensure that the independence of Ernst & services, or for which the fee is significant review of major contracts: an assessment of Young LLP, as the auditor of the Groups inthe context of the audit or for which the the Groups structure and its legal entities Financial Statements, is not impaired by terms and conditions are unusual.
leading to development of a three-year providing non-audit services.
They identify rationalisation programme: and a review the non-audit services for which the use Principal non-audit services approved by ofthe application of the Groups policy ofthe external auditor is permitted and the Audit Committee in 2010 11 were: onthe use of agents.
thosefrom which the external auditor Global tax compliance isprohibited from providing.
The Ernst & Young LLP has been appointed External auditor engagements for non-audit services that to provide global tax compliance Appointment are not prohibited are subject to formal services for a three-year period from Ernst & Young LLP has been the approval based on the level of fees involved, 1April 2010.
This covers most countries Companysauditor since October 1999, with some services being covered by a in which Invensys operates.
These following the merger of Siebe and BTR pre-approval process with a quarterly services were previously provided by inFebruary 1999.
The Audit Committee monetary cap.
various major global accounting firms assesses annually the qualification, During the year ended 31 March 2011, and local accounting firms or the expertise, resources andindependence these guidelines have been consistent with in-house finance functions.
A global ofthe auditor and theeffectiveness of those recommended in the FRCs Guidance arrangement with a single major firm was theaudit process.
Theassessment as to on Audit Committees 2008.
In December considered to provide consistent quality effectiveness is conducted through an 2010, the FRC issued an updated version across the Group, improved coordination external audit questionnaire with senior ofits Guidance which contained revised and oversight, increased focus on risk finance management.
The Audit recommendations in relation to non-audit management and additional valueCommittee remains satisfied with services.
The following disclosures reflect added services as part of the compliance theseaspects oftheaudit service.
the recommendations contained in the process.
While other suppliers were Consistent with market practice, Ernst & revised Guidance to the extent that they considered, no formal tender process Young LLPs audit services to the Group have already been applied by the Audit was undertaken.
A decision was taken areprovided annually through terms of Committee in the year ended 31 March toappoint Ernst & Young LLP due to engagement which are reviewed by the 2011.
The Audit Committees guidelines several factors including their extensive Audit Committee.
These terms do not are fully aligned with the revised Guidance.
knowledge of the Group and, as a result, include any contractual obligations under The Audit Committee keeps these the low level of risk on transition from the which the directors would be prevented guidelines underreview.
In respect of such non-audit services, the Legal entity rationalisation programme Following consideration of these matters at Audit Committee takes into account the Ernst & Young LLP has provided services a meeting of the Audit Committee in May cost-effectiveness of the firm and their insupport of a programme to reduce the 2011, a unanimous recommendation was knowledge of the Group.
Ernst & Young number of legal entities in the Group in made to the Board for the reappointment LLP are engaged to provide a non-audit order to simplify the Groups structure of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys service only when they are a suitable and reduce operating costs.
Other external auditor to be proposed to supplier of the service.
The services and potential suppliers of these services were shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
The Audit fees are reported to the Audit Committee also considered.
Ernst & Young LLP was Committee makes an assessment from on a regular basis.
selected because of their knowledge time-to-time on whether there would be oftheGroup which, it was concluded, Non-audit services that are pre-approved anybenefit from a change in auditor would minimise duplication of effort are either routine in nature with a fee that oracompetitive tendering process.
isnot significant in the context of the audit into account also the disruption to the or are audit related services.
Audit related finance team in organising a tender services typically include reviews ofinterim process, thelast assessment concluded | | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com 45 Corporate Governance continued The services provided by Ernst & Young Details of the amounts paid to Ernst & itcan provide only reasonable and not LLP in connection with this project Young LLP as external auditor during absolute assurance against material includeanalysing the entities targeted theyear for audit and other services are misstatement or loss.
forelimination: providing advice and setoutin Note 5 to the Group Financial The findings of the annual assessment recommendations on the steps required Statements.
ofthe Groups system of internal controls toimplement the elimination: and where It is recognised that the level of fees undertaken by the Audit Committee, as necessary, providing detailed local country fornon-audit services is relatively high detailed on page 44, were presented to advice on the tax consequences foreach compared to audit fees.
Where weaknesses in the jurisdiction.
Once advice on elimination Committee is satisfied that its policies and operation of internal controls were has been provided, Ernst & Young LLP may procedures as explained above ensure identified, the Audit Committee considered where possible advise onthe execution thatthe selection of Ernst & Young LLP to managements response to them.
The Audit ofthe elimination of theentities, which provide these services is appropriate and Committee paid particular consideration to mayinvolve them acting asliquidators.
does not impair their independence or the management of customer contracts The provision of these services is not objectivity as external auditor.
and received detailed reports on major considered to impair Ernst & Young LLPs contracts from management and the objectivity or independence as external Accountability and audit external auditor.
Financial reporting were identified and actions are in hand to The Group has comprehensive planning improve the relevant control procedures.
Ernst & Young LLP has policies and and financial reporting procedures.
The Board is satisfied that the information procedures in place to ensure that Management prepares detailed that it received throughout the year on thehighest standards of objectivity, operational budgets for the year ahead internal controls and the information from independence and integrity are and a three-year strategic plan, which are the annual assessment on internal controls maintained and these comply with the reviewed and approved by the Board.
was sufficient to enable it to review the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Performance is monitored through the effectiveness of the Groups system Standards for Auditors.
The audit monthly reporting of financial results and ofinternal controls.
engagement partner must approve any regular updating of forecasts for the year.
non-audit services offered to the Group.
Risk management The Group Accounting Policies Manual is This ensures that the objectives ofthe The Board has responsibility for used by all businesses in the Group to proposed engagement are not inconsistent determining the nature and extent of ensure that transactions and balances are with the objectives of the audit: allows the thesignificant risks it is willing to take in recognised and measured in accordance identification and assessment of any achieving the strategic objectives and with the Groups prescribed accounting related threats to Ernst&Young LLPs hasestablished a structured approach policies.
All businesses submit their results objectivity: and assesses the effectiveness toidentifying, evaluating, managing, using the Groups consolidation system, of available safeguards toeliminate such monitoring, and reporting on key risks which ensures that information is gathered threats or reduce them toan acceptable facing the Group.
and presented in a consistent way that level.
Ernst & Young LLP do not carry out facilitates the production of the The Risk Committee has accountability non-audit services where no satisfactory consolidated financial statements.
foroverseeing the risk management safeguards exist.
processes and procedures, and provides Internal control Ernst & Young LLP is excluded from written reports tothe Board and the Audit The directors are responsible for the undertaking any work that is considered to Committee onthe key risks facing the establishment and maintenance of an threaten its independence or objectivity in Group.
It formulates strategy and policy effective system of internal control.
Each its role as external auditor.
In identifying based on risk appetite and risk exposure.
ofthe Groups divisions is accountable to such work, the Audit Committee takes Italso monitors the mitigating actions the Chief Executive and is managed by account of the guidance in APB Ethical putin place by the relevant operational executive leadership, which provides Standards for Auditors.
Most commonly managers to address the identified risks.
day-to-day control over the divisions this includes any work that would involve The role of the Risk Committee is more operations within the strategic guidelines Ernst & Young LLP in preparing financial fullydescribed on pages 32 and 33 and and delegated authorities determined by information that is included or disclosed therisk management process is outlined the Board.
The internal control system is inthe audited financial statements, or in on page32.
The Board reviews annually the designed to meet the Groups particular making judgments or taking decisions on risk management process and periodically needs and the risks to which it is exposed, behalf of management.
but it should be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control is, | 46 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Risk Committee Members at the date of this report Meetings Chief Executive The Risk Committee meets at least three times a year and meetings are scheduled around Acting Chief Financial Officer theAuditCommittee calendar so that a risk update can be reported to the Audit Committee.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Responsibilities Group Human Resources Director Formulates strategy and policy based on risk appetite and riskexposure EVP Finance Receives reports from divisions, reviews risk management structures and compiles theGroup VP Risk Management and Insurance riskregister VP Environmental, Health, Safety and Prepares reports and recommendations for the Board through the Audit Committee Sustainability Monitors actions to address key risks During the year, the Risk Committee In light of the changing nature of the The Board receives formal written updates recommended the adoption of a risk Groups business, the geographic spread on compliance issues regularly at Board management policy which codified some of operations and the need for certain meetings from the Group General Counsel.
existing practices across the Group and specialist audit resources e. g. IT, the Nomaterial issues were reported through also proposed enhancements to recognise majority of internal audit work is these processes during the year.
the desire of the Board to be progressive in outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
A small Internal developing its risk management strategy.
Audit function, reporting to the Acting This policy was approved by the Audit Chief Financial Officer, has been retained Committee and has created a framework to to manage the outsourcing contract and allow management to take business risks in undertake certain ad hoc assignments.
The Corporate Governance Report was pursuit of shareholder value in a systematic approved by the Board of directors on Whistle-blowing and controlled manner.
18May 2011 and signed on its behalf by The Audit Committee reviews The Risk Committee has also introduced arrangements under which employees improvements to the oversight of certain can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns key risks for Invensys, including that relating about potential irregularities, and the to the management of major projects.
The Victoria Hull RiskCommittee meetings are minuted Helpline is operated by Global Compliance Group General Counsel and Company anddisclosed totheAudit Committee.
Services Inc, an independent company, Secretary and is publicised to employees through the A summary of the principal risks facing the Invensys Code of Conduct.
There has been Group is presented on pages 34 to 36. increased communication of the Helpline Internal audit during the year to ensure employees are Internal Audit has a direct reporting line aware of the facility.
tothe Chairman of the Audit Committee, Any investigations are initiated at and its responsibilities include the thedirection of theVice President of examination and evaluation of the scope Compliance and anymaterial investigations and effectiveness of the Groups system are brought to the immediate attention of ofinternal control.
The audit plan is the Board.
A regular report of allegations constructed to cover Invensys globally over ispresented to the Board at each meeting a fouryear cycle, with a degree of tailoring and follow-up actions are reviewed.
to address specific risk concerns.
During Statistics on the volume and general nature the year, Internal Audit reported regularly of calls are reported annually to the Audit to the Audit Committee on its assessment Committee and the Board.
In addition, of internal control issues arising in the employees can raise concerns through course of its internal audit reviews of the other means such as electronic or postal Groups operations.
As detailed earlier in mail sent to the Board or management, this report, the Audit Committee provides which correspondence isinvestigated a consolidated reviewto assist the Board inthe same manner as concerns raised inundertaking itsown annual review of through the Helpline.
