C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s st ta at te em me en nt t The ultimate goal of your board is to collectively and changes and be in a position to provide the necessary effectively lead the company in delivering long-term, rigour to the process.
The last such review was in 2008. sustainable success for the benefit of our stakeholders.
The board has placed particular emphasis on A vital responsibility of the board, which contributes to monitoring risk and on the structured approach to the this, is maintaining strong corporate governance management of risk in the company.
This has included practices - and essentially strong corporate an emphasis on risk segmentation to ensure the more governance is about helping to run our company well.
significant risks are continually focused upon by It is about the approach we take to governance, what management.
Our approach to risk management we do, how we do it, the values we embed in our people and a review of key risks are presented on pages 21 and the company, and how the leadership sets the tone to 23.
Continuous improvement in this area will be for the organisation.
Strong governance is about an ongoing priority.
leadership, collaboration and constantly seeking improvement.
We have welcomed the recent debate The discussions I have had with many of our major and guidance in this area and continue to seek to shareholders have allowed me to understand more incorporate improvements into our way of working.
about their views on our company, its strategy and management.
In return I have explained what I have Since I became your chairman in June 2011, I have found since joining the company and my priorities concentrated on a few key governance issues.
I find these discussions invaluable and A particular priority has been to establish the right will continue to prioritise them.
I am looking forward kind of relationship with the Chief Executive and the to meeting many more shareholders at our annual executive team based upon an appropriate balance of general meeting in April and would encourage you positive support combined with healthy, constructive to attend.
I have sought specific input As a board, we support the UK Corporate Governance from all directors on board priorities, areas where our practices can improve and on the extent and Code and believe we have largely complied with its provisions throughout the year ended 31 December appropriateness of information provided to the board by the executives.
The only exception is the requirement for an externally facilitated evaluation of the boards and remit of our board committees and the results can be seen on pages 51 to 53.
In particular, the terms performance at least every three years provision B.
Further details on how we of reference for the ethics committee have been refocused and strengthened, in support of AMECs core have applied the principles of the Code to our activities can be found in this statement and in the remuneration value of acting with integrity.
Our Code of Business Conduct has been updated and reissued, ethics officers report on pages 56 to 64. appointed and our ethics helpline re-launched in multiple languages, so better reflecting the global nature of our business.
John Connolly Chairman I have undertaken an internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the board, both by discussions with 21 February 2012 individual members and using board debate.
I believe we have a good, strong mix of skills represented, though further work is required to ensure the diversity of our business is reflected at a board level.
In particular, I am very aware that we currently have no women on our board and will be seeking to remedy this as part of the process of board renewal.
I am planning an externally-led board evaluation process in 2012, by which time I believe we will have bedded in recent Printed copies of the Code can be obtained free of charge at frcpublications.
46 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials found on pages 40 and 41 and will enable shareholders The board to take an informed decision on their re-election.
In Board composition addition, details of the directors service contracts, As at 31 December 2011, the board comprised the emoluments and share interests are set out in the non-executive Chairman John Connolly : three remuneration report on pages 56 to 64. executive directors: the Chief Executive Samir Brikho, Chief Financial Officer Ian McHoul and Chief The Chairman and Chief Executive Operating Officer Neil Bruce : and four non-executive The company does not combine the role of Chairman directors.
Taking into account the provisions of the and Chief Executive.
There is a clear and well Code, the board has determined the non-executive established division of accountability and responsibility directors remain independent and free from any between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive relationships or circumstances which could affect and these are set out in writing and have been agreed their independent judgement.
The Chairman was by the board.
The consequence of a clear division of considered to be independent on appointment at responsibility at the head of the company is such that 1 June 2011. no individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The directors consider the size, combination of skills The Chairman is principally responsible for the and weight of industry experience on the board leadership and effectiveness of the board.
At a high appropriate to the range and breadth of markets level, he is accountable for facilitating constructive AMEC operates in.
The balance of executive and relations between, and the participation of, all board non-executive directors, reinforced by adherence to members, so as to encourage a culture of openness sound governance procedures and the fostering of and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of mutual respect and individual director integrity, its role.
The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, the board discharges its duties in the best interests of dominates the boards decision-making process.
The all of the companys stakeholders, and to guide AMECs varied backgrounds and commercial experience business and conduct in accordance with the highest provided by the non-executive directors, and their ethical standards.
In setting the boards agenda, the independence of management, ensure rigorous debate Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for at meetings and the constructive challenge of the discussion and meaningful challenge of all matters executive directors in relation to both the strategic before the board, particularly strategy, performance, direction and performance of the group.
The entire value creation and accountability.
board receives a succession planning presentation The Chief Executives principal responsibility is each year and is mindful, when considering running AMECs businesses with the primary recommendations from the nominations committee, objective of creating shareholder value.
Consistent of the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills with this objective, the Chief Executive has ultimate and experience both at, and directly below, board level responsibility for the proposal, development and to ensure the delivery of the groups strategy and implementation of the groups strategy.
and maintenance of an effective executive team, and In line with the recommendations of the Code, and in the allocation of responsibility within it, are key accordance with article 81 of the articles of association components of, and essential to, the performance of of the company, the Chairman will retire from office the Chief Executives role.
The Chief Executive takes the at our 2012 annual general meeting and offer himself lead role in the promotion of AMEC and gives personal for election.
In compliance with the Code and, as leadership to the preservation of AMECs culture and commenced last year in the interests of good corporate values and encourages the highest standards of safety, governance, all of the other directors wishing to health and environmental performance.
continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, Senior Independent Director will offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the Tim Faithfull has acted as the boards Senior directors, including their biographies, other significant Independent Director since 13 May 2009.
He was commitments and committee memberships can be selected for the role on account of his extensive AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 47 C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s st ta at te em me en nt t continued experience of serving as both an executive and to ensure they will be able to commit sufficient time to non-executive director.
In this role, he is responsible meet what is expected of them.
Each directors for: undertaking as to their ongoing commitment to the role, together with an assessment of their continued providing additional support to, and acting as a independence, is reviewed as part of their performance sounding board for, the Chairman evaluation.
acting as an additional channel of communication The non-executive directors are not employed by the between the Chairman and the other directors company in any capacity, nor have they been in the being available to shareholders for concerns they past.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive may have that have not been resolved through the directors are available for inspection at the companys normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive registered office, by request to the Company Secretary, or other executive directors, or which are not and will be available for inspection at the companys appropriate to raise through the normal channels forthcoming annual general meeting.
acquiring an objective understanding of the issues Role and responsibilities and concerns of AMECs shareholders through The board is ultimately responsible for ensuring attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the long term success of the company in accordance the companys major shareholders and financial with the expectations of, and its obligations to, all analysts stakeholders.
In order to discharge its role the board must provide leadership of the company within an at least annually establishing the views of the entrenched system of effective controls to ensure the non-executive directors as to the performance of assessment and management of risk.
It is responsible the Chairman for setting the companys strategy and ensuring the following completion of the above evaluation security of the resources necessary to achieve the exercise, providing feedback to the Chairman on resulting objectives.
Fundamentally the board must his performance also set and guarantee the dissemination of, and adherence to, the companys values and standards.
The overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
directors believe that the board leads and controls the Non-executive directors group effectively and that all directors act in accordance Our non-executive directors are crucial in bringing with what they consider to be the best interests of the an external view and wide range of skills, experience company, consistent with their statutory duties under and expertise to the boards deliberations and the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation.
They constructively challenge In order to ensure it retains appropriate overall control and scrutinise the performance of management of the group, the board maintains a schedule of matters against agreed objectives and provide an invaluable reserved for its approval.
The matters reserved include contribution to the work of the boards committees.
the following areas: The board benefits greatly from the contribution and annual strategic plans balance provided by the non-executive directors.
To ensure the preservation of this benefit, the Chairman financial and treasury policies holds regular meetings with the non-executive risk identification, risk appetite, risk management directors, without the executive directors present.
and internal control systems AMECs non-executive directors are appointed for major acquisitions and disposals specified terms of three years, subject now to annual annual and interim accounts re-election in accordance with the Code.
Prior to dividend policy appointment and on any material changes, the external commitments of each non-executive director, including succession planning for directors and senior those of the Chairman, are reviewed.
Any significant executives external commitments are disclosed to the board 48 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials group-wide policy framework ethics, chaired solely by non-executive directors, and a number of management committees, chaired by ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices.
executive directors, to which specific responsibilities The reserved powers of the board are complemented have been formally allotted.
Details of the membership, by the management of AMECs businesses on a duties and responsibilities of the committees are set decentralised basis.
Overall operational management out on pages 51 to 54. has been passed to the Chief Executive who has in turn Attendance at meetings delegated authorities to the Chief Financial Officer and The board holds regular meetings throughout the the Chief Operating Officer.
The Chief Operating Officer year, scheduled in accordance with an annual has further delegated authorities to divisional timetable and as otherwise required to ensure the management and they have further delegated authority effective discharge of its duties.
Directors are expected to their teams.
The management philosophy is to to attend all board and relevant committee meetings, empower the Chief Operating Officer and divisional unless they are prevented from doing so by unavoidable management to take the actions necessary to deliver prior work commitments or other valid reasons.
Where the companys operational business objectives.
The a director is unable to attend a meeting, they are board regularly reviews its operational structure and provided with the papers scheduled for discussion and during the year reviewed the schedule of matters fully briefed as appropriate.
The table below is a record reserved for its approval and the delegations of of director attendance at the board and board authority to the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer committee meetings held during the year ended and Chief Operating Officer to take account of the 31 December 2011. changing requirements of the business, changes in governance requirements and overall risk appetite.
In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain items are considered at every scheduled board To ensure the operation of AMECs businesses in meeting, including financial results, health and safety accordance with a cohesive policy framework, the reports, short range plan progress and strategy board has issued a number of group-wide policies, performance review.
The Chief Executive updates including the recently revised Code of Business the board on market trends, developments and Conduct, which set out the standards all AMEC opportunities, the competitive positioning of the employees are expected to achieve and adhere to.
company and its current priorities.
Divisional The board also takes a significant interest in the management are invited to present at board meetings groups commitment to health and safety.
The board is supported in its work by four board committees audit, remuneration, nominations and Audit Remuneration Nominations Ethics Board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings 10 3 3 2 4 John Connolly appointed 1 June 7 1 Jock Green-Armytage retired 31 May 3 1 Samir Brikho 10 Ian McHoul 10 Neil Bruce 10 Neil Carson 9 3 3 2 4 Colin Day 9 3 3 2 4 Tim Faithfull 10 3 3 2 4 Simon Thompson 8 3 3 1 4 Peter Byrom retired 9 February 1 1 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 49 C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s st ta at te em me en nt t continued To ensure effective strategic planning, the board relevant to the committee is also provided.
holds an additional meeting each year to perform Following induction, the Chairman is keen to continue a full strategic review of the group.
In 2011, the board regular reviews of each directors individual training spent a day focused, within the context of AMECs and development needs to ensure the continued performance, on industry developments and key cultivation of their skills and knowledge, in order that Vision 2015 priorities, on the direction and shape of they may best fulfil their role on the board and its AMECs business, the strategic challenges ahead committees.
 training is arranged and updating AMECs sector plans.
as necessary by the Company Secretary on topical Conflicts of interest issues which, in the course of the year under review, The board has procedures in place for the disclosure has included the introduction of the UK's Bribery Act.
Prior to appointment, directorDuring the year the legal HSSE team delivered elects provide information on any conflicts of interest training to the board on their individual and collective by means of a questionnaire, and thereafter potential duties.
The board receive presentations from conflicts of interest are considered at the start of each management on changes and developments in the board meeting.
An effective procedure is in place for business.
It also receives regular updates on HSSE the board to deal with any conflicts, should they arise, matters and changes in legislation from the HSSE in accordance with the companys articles of Director and bi-monthly communications from the association.
Accordingly, each director is aware of their Company Secretarys office on key developments responsibility, under the Companies Act 2006, to avoid in corporate governance.
To further develop the a situation where they have an actual or potential directors' understanding of the groups operations conflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same and culture, the board undertakes a number of under review and inform the Chairman and Company visits throughout the year to various places of Secretary of any change in their situation.
A formal process also exists for the Company Secretary is responsible for keeping directors to receive, where appropriate, external appropriate records, including the scope, of any training organised by the Company Secretary, at the authorisations granted by the board, and ensuring companys expense.
the board undertakes regular reviews of conflict Evaluation authorisations.
During the financial year under review, The board has the benefit of an open and honest no conflicts have arisen.
atmosphere on all matters and is cognisant of Professional development the value of continued self assessment as a key A comprehensive induction programme is in place component in its performance.
During the year, the for all new directors which, taking into account their Chairman co-ordinated a discussion with each director, previous experience, background and role on the and thereafter with the board as a whole, on continued board, is designed to further their knowledge and collective and individual effectiveness.
The Chairman is understanding of the group and their associated role confident in the continued commitment to the role, and and responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible effective contribution of each director, and is focused and focused on ensuring, with the assistance of the on the regular review of their developmental priorities.
Company Secretary, the provision and development As referred to by the Chairman in his introduction of an effective programme in accordance with best to the corporate governance statement, the last practice and feedback received from members of the externally-led review of the effectiveness of the board board.
All new directors are provided with key board, and its committees was in 2008.
The board has been corporate and financial information: attend meetings keen to ensure the optimal timing of its next externally with other members of the board, group management facilitated review.
Because of the material number of and their extended teams: receive briefings on changes in its membership, and so of its committees, governance within AMEC: and, where possible, meet over the past two years including the appointment of AMECs major shareholders.
Where a new director is the Chairman on 1 June 2011, the next such review to serve on a board committee, induction material has been deferred until 2012.
The board regards the 50 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials postponement as essential to allow the complete responsible for ensuring the flow of information to, integration of its new members, and the bedding-in and within, the board and its committees.
Agendas of any consequent changes.
This will enable the and supporting papers are circulated approximately necessary rigour of evaluation, and consideration one week prior to all meetings to allow sufficient time thereafter, as anticipated by the Code.
The usual for digestion and reflection and to ensure informed internal evaluation process was continued in 2011, debate and challenge at meetings.
Where the the results of which will help to shape the focus of directors, particularly any non-executive director, the external evaluation.
The board looks forward to require further insight on any issue, the Company focusing in 2012 on further improving its behaviours, Secretary will facilitate the same from the business or processes and effectiveness as part of this process.
relevant members of the senior management team.
In line with its support for the direction of the Davies Members of senior management are also regularly Report, the board is also fully accepting of the addition invited to attend board meetings to present on specific to the Code of new supporting principle B.
6 and will projects and issues as required.
In addition to the ensure that the 2012 evaluation process considers the advice and services of the Company Secretary, which boards 'diversity, including gender' as one of the are available to all of the directors, a formal process factors relevant to its effectiveness.
exists for the directors to take independent professional advice, at the companys expense, where they conclude As required by the Code during the year the Senior it necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The Independent Director, apprised of the views of the Company Secretary is responsible for the organisation non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed and co-ordination of access to such advice.
the performance of the then Chairman, Jock GreenArmytage.
The Senior Independent Director is The Company Secretary is also accountable for scheduled to meet with the current Chairman in March ensuring that an accurate record of all meetings of 2012, to review his performance since joining the board.
the board and its committees is taken.
If a director The Chief Executive conducts annual performance had a concern about the running of the company or development reviews with the executive directors and a proposed action which could not be resolved, his direct reports.
this would be recorded in the minutes.
Further, on resignation, should a director have any such concerns, Information and support they would be invited to provide the Chairman with a The Chairmans responsibilities for ensuring that written statement for circulation to the board.
No the directors receive accurate, timely and clear such statements were received during 2011.
The information are, in the main, discharged via the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary Company Secretary, who is fundamental in ensuring is one of the matters reserved for the board.
the efficiency and effectiveness of the board.
Board committees The Company Secretary ensures that all board As mentioned above, the board governs through and has procedures are followed and that the board is informed formally allotted specific responsibilities and duties to of all legislative, regulatory and governance matters various committees.
The Chairman is responsible for related to its operation.
The Company Secretary is also Share allotment committee Audit committee Pension and retirement benefit committee Remuneration committee Risk committee Board of directors Chief Executive Nominations HSSE committee committee Corporate transactions committee Ethics committee Tender review committee AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 51 C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s st ta at te em me en nt t continued ensuring the board committees have appropriate terms managements responses to it and the audit of reference, which are reviewed by the board against representation letters and makes recommendations best practice on a regular basis.
Full written terms of to the board.
In 2009 2010, the committee participated in reference for the audit, nominations, remuneration and a rigorous exercise that resulted in the appointment of ethics committees can be found at amec.
com aboutus Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the company.
The Chairman is also process included an in-depth review to benchmark the responsible for ensuring that the board committees are level of service, fees and value being delivered and to properly structured.
All of the boards non-executive make appropriate recommendations to the board.
directors are members of each of the board committees.
In 2011, the review of the effectiveness of the external The board considers that this structure and consistency auditors was carried out on behalf of the committee by of membership contributes to the effectiveness of the the Head of Internal Audit.
committees, such that no one member is unduly relied The audit committee also monitors the implementation upon and the benefit of each members independence of the policy on the engagement of the external auditor and external viewpoint is extended to their work.
The to supply non-audit services.
This policy follows the secretary to each board committee ensures that a proper guidelines set out by the Institute of Chartered and timely record of all meetings is made and circulated Accountants in England and Wales and clearly defines to each member.
The chairman of each board committee what work can and cannot be performed by any group provides regular updates on its proceedings, as companys statutory auditor.
It also sets out the appropriate, to the board.
necessary approval process for those non-audit services A diagram illustrating the boards governance structure is that are acceptable.
shown on the previous page.
Details of each committee, All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services including membership, duties and responsibilities, is set provided by the auditor are reported to the audit out on the following pages.
During 2011, the fees paid to the companys Audit committee auditor, Ernst & Young LLP and its associates, for Chaired by Colin Day, its membership comprises all non-audit work relating to taxation were 0.4 million the non-executive directors.
Colin has significant including a minimal amount for other work 2010: 0.6 relevant and recent competence in auditing and million, of which 0.5 million related to taxation and 0.1 accounting see biography on page 41.
The quorum for million to other work.
the committee is two members.
All additional Ernst & Young fees were approved in The audit committee monitors the integrity of AMECs accordance with AMECs policy covering non-audit accounts, including the annual and interim results, services.
As a result of the application of this policy and the related report and accounts and stock exchange additional discussions with them, the directors do not announcements and any other formal announcements believe that Ernst & Youngs independence has been in connection with the companys financial performance, compromised because of their additional work on behalf and recommends their approval to the board.
It reviews the companys internal financial controls and The Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors are internal control and risk management systems.
both given the opportunity to discuss matters with the audit committee, without the executive directors being It oversees AMECs relations with the external auditors, present.
There were no matters raised in this context including considering and making recommendations during the year.
The audit committee has unrestricted on their appointment, re-appointment, removal, access to company documents and meets with any other remuneration and terms of engagement.
It assesses the relevant member of staff, without the executive directors qualifications, expertise, effectiveness and independence being present, as necessary.
of the external auditors at least annually and discusses the nature and scope of the audit, together with any The audit committee reviews the Head of Internal Audits issues arising from the audit process.
regular reports and carries out an annual assessment of the internal audit functions effectiveness.
In 2011, this It also reviews the auditors management letter, 52 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials exercise was carried out on behalf of the committee incentives.
The quorum for the committee is two by the Head of Internal Audit.
were identified as being necessary as a result of this It considers and determines the individual exercise.
The Head of Internal Audit formally reports remuneration packages and contracts for the Chief to the committee chairman.
Executive, the other executive directors and the Company Secretary on appointment and reviews Nominations committee Chaired by John Connolly and comprising all the these as required and agrees the performance targets of the executive directors and the levels of non-executive directors, it leads the process for identifying, and makes recommendations to the bonus paid to them under the bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
It also agrees with the board the board concerning the appointment or termination of, any new director or the Company Secretary and, remuneration structure, including annual bonus, for other designated executives.
in the case of non-executive directors and the Chairman, the extension of existing appointments.
It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new It also makes recommendations to the board on Chairman and reviews these terms as required.
appointments to the board committees.
The quorum It approves the structure, performance targets, for the committee is three members.
participation and level of awards for any executive The committee regularly evaluates the structure, size share-based incentive scheme.
and composition of the board, including the mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Ethics committee the directors.
In considering recommendations to Chaired by Simon Thompson and comprising all the the board, with regard to any changes considered non-executive directors, the purpose of the necessary to maintain the appropriate balance of committee is to assist the board in upholding AMECs skills and experiences to progress the groups core value of integrity.
strategy, the committee is cognisant of the benefits It reviews and monitors business ethics within AMEC, of diversity, including but not limited to gender.
including compliance with relevant legislation, The committee also reviews board succession regulation and current best practice relating to such planning, in conjunction with reports from the Chief matters as the prevention of bribery and corruption, Executive and Group HR Director on senior government contracting, competition and import management succession planning, so as to ensure export restrictions, trade compliance and that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained discrimination or inappropriate behaviour in the both within AMEC and on the board.
It also reviews and approves AMECs Code of Business Conduct at least annually to ensure During 2011, the committee, chaired by the Senior that it addresses the above issues.
Independent Director, with the assistance of external It considers and reviews the scope and planning of search consultants, conducted the rigorous recruitment processes that led to the appointment all compliance activity within AMEC and reviews the extent and effectiveness of AMECs internal training of the Chairman.
and external reporting of compliance and ethics Remuneration committee matters.
Chaired by Tim Faithfull and comprising the Chairman and all the non-executive directors, it sets In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of AMECs Code of Business Conduct or any relevant and reviews the overall remuneration policy framework for the Chairman, the executive directors legislation, a member of the committee will take responsibility for and manage any investigation into and the Company Secretary and other designated executives, including a risk assessment of the policy, the relevant matters with the support of the General Counsel.
The committee may use internal resources in conjunction with the audit committee, relating to such matters as financial performance setting and and is also authorised to employ external consultants to carry out any such investigation.
measurement for both bonus and long-term AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 53 C Co or rp po or ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nc ce e s st ta at te em me en nt t continued Management committees Corporate transactions Pensions and retirement benefits Members: Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Members: Chief Financial Officer chair : Chief Operating Officer: Group HR Director Officer: Company Secretary: Strategic Development Director Required attendee: Corporate Pensions Manager Responsibilities: To consider and approve corporate Responsibilities: To review and recommend the establishment of any new or replacement pension purchase or sale transactions where the consideration or assumption of liabilities, as appropriate, is less arrangements: any significant amendments to existing pension schemes: and the discontinuance, winding up than 5 million, and above this level to submit recommendations to the board for approval.
or merger of any existing arrangement.
To agree with the trustees of those pension arrangements In addition to determine transaction guidelines, appropriate funding plans to secure the benefits including the extent of any financial and commercial promised.
Share allotment Risk Members: Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Members: All directors: Company Secretary: Deputy Company Secretary the chair to be appointed from Officer: Chief Operating Officer: Company Secretary: Strategic Development Director: Head of Risk those directors present Management and Insurance Responsibilities: The allotment of new shares or issue of existing shares held in treasury the current policy, Responsibilities: To perform an integral role in the governance of risk within AMEC.
Helping the board including the exercise of options under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
fulfil its responsibility to determine the risk appetite of the group, and ensure the soundness of the risk management and internal control systems which support it.
To keep under review, and make Health, safety, security and environmental review recommendations in respect of, the AMEC plc risk register and the potential impact of any issue on the Members: Chief Executive chair : Group HR Director: risk appetite, and the risk profile, of the group.
To General Counsel report where necessary on key risk issues such as Responsibilities: To assist the board in fulfilling new business and geographical locations.
Also to its responsibilities to oversee the companys make recommendations on the insurance programme management of risk in the areas of health, safety, for the group.
Tender review Members: Chief Executive chair : Chief Financial Officer: Company Secretary: Head of Risk Management and Insurance Responsibilities: Prior to submission, and upon any material change, to review and approve tenders and associated matters, outside of the delegated authority of the Chief Operating Officer and the clearance of any related open issues.
54 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate Internal control governance process because of the joint The board is responsible for reviewing AMECs management responsibilities.
Responsibility for such systems of internal control.
Their reviews cover the reviews rests with the joint venture boards and these effectiveness and adequacy of financial, operational, are reviewed from time to time as part of AMECs compliance and risk management systems and are normal internal audit process.
Details of significant undertaken regularly.
These systems can however joint ventures can be found on page 120. only provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss, as they are designed to Relations with shareholders manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure The executive directors and senior management to achieve business objectives.
undertake an extensive programme of meetings with institutional shareholders during each year.
Events The board and its committees have an ongoing such as results presentations and other capital process, that is reviewed regularly by the board and market events are webcast and made available on accords with the Turnbull guidance, for identifying, our website for those unable to attend in person.
evaluating and managing significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, major projects to be Each year, the Chairman and Senior Independent undertaken, significant acquisitions and disposals, Director write to all major shareholders, reminding as well as entry into and exit from different markets.
them that they are available for meetings or This process has been in place for the year under telephone calls with them, as required.
Jock review and up to the date of approval of this report.
Green-Armytage wrote such a letter in March 2011.
Where appropriate, business decisions are reached Soon after his appointment as Chairman, John following a structured and documented review of Connolly met three of AMECs most significant potential opportunities and threats, taking steps shareholders to understand more about their views designed to manage or mitigate any risk exposure.
In December 2011, he hosted Principal business risks are set out in the risk section a group lunch attended by a wider group of on pages 21 to 23 and are incorporated into this representatives from institutional shareholders.
The Chairman also attends preliminary results The threats and opportunities associated with tender presentations.
submissions are reviewed by commercial review Ad-hoc requests from shareholders for meetings boards at various levels in the group, in line with with members of the board are facilitated by the delegated authorities.
The highest value tenders are, investor relations team.
In 2011, these requests in addition, reviewed by the tender review committee.
largely related either to the remuneration report AMEC applies a set of contracting principles, under prior to the 2011 annual general meeting, or the which the level of approval required is dependent Chairmans appointment.
on the contractual provision in question.
The most significant issues in terms of risk require the approval An in-depth perception study of investors views is of the tender review committee.
prepared each year by an independent third party and presented to the board.
In 2011, this took place in The internal control processes are complemented by January at a meeting also attended by the companys an annual control self-assessment exercise carried brokers.
The board also receives unedited feedback out by the principal businesses.
This covers health, reports following shareholder meetings and all safety and environment, legal, commercial and material brokers research notes on the company.
contractual, financial, information technology and human resources.
The results are reviewed by the board, through the audit committee, as part of the ongoing internal control monitoring process.
AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures and joint arrangements where controls may not be AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2011 55
