46 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report UK Corporate Governance Code Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the Companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year under review and to the date of this report.
The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the main principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors remuneration report and Audit Committee report.
The Board The Board of Directors the Board currently has seven members, comprising the Non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, an additional Executive Director, and three further independent Non-executive Directors.
All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Non-executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
The Company considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non-executive Directors were all appointed for an initial three-year term and, thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as Directors if they are to remain on the Board for more than nine years.
The Chairman and Chief Executive The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed and adopted by the Board.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director The senior independent Non-executive Director, Michael Hartley, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Directors The biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or non-UK listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups pension schemes or in any of the Groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
At all times there has been a majority of Non-executive independent Directors on the Board, in compliance with Code provision B.
All Directors must stand for election at the first AGM after they are appointed.
In November 2010 the Board took the decision to adopt early Code provision B.
At the AGM on 26 January 2012 all the Directors will once again offer themselves for re-election.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the Company.
The Board normally meets not less than seven times each financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group and the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
Board members receive appropriate documentation in advance of each Board or Committee meeting which normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the Board of medium-term plans and the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The Board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances.
All major investment decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Directors and Officers insurance cover, is provided by the Company, in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Board effectiveness review The formal annual review of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was carried out before the year end.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the Chairman with the assistance of the company secretary.
The appraisal questionnaire used as part of the process was wide-ranging and included questions covering both Board and Committee performance.
Individual performance was reviewed by the Chairman who, in turn, was appraised by the Senior Independent Director after consultation with both the other Non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors.
The appraisal confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively, highlighting, as strengths, a continually improving risk management and control environment, an open relationship between Board members and the CEO, and strong Board dynamics in particular.
The insights gathered from the Board review also resulted in a clear action plan for the year ahead which includes further refinement of the Groups strategic priorities and options, and the development of a clear framework around succession planning and support and development of key managers.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 47 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Independent professional advice The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
In addition, the Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Training and development An induction programme is arranged for newly-appointed Directors which includes presentations on the business, current strategy and shareholder expectations.
Guidance is also given on the duties, responsibilities and liabilities of a Director of a listed company and key Board policies and documents.
Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting exhibitions in markets in which the Group operates to gain a greater understanding of the Groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Every Director has access to training as required and is encouraged to continue his or her own development.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association were amended in 2009, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
The Company has established a procedure whereby any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their votes being counted.
In making such a decision, as always, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Board committees There are a number of standing Committees of the Board to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal terms of reference that have been approved by the Board which are available on the Groups website www.
Details are set out below: The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Neil England, Michael Hartley and Linda Jensen following her appointment on 7 July 2011 and is chaired by Iain Paterson.
Malcolm Wall also served as a member until 31 August 2011.
It meets as necessary and is responsible for considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-executive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board which involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the senior independent Non-executive Director will chair the Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make a proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year and was active in the appointment of a new Non-executive Director.
An appointment specification was developed for the role by the Committee following a review of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
It included a preference for candidates with experience of doing business in emerging markets.
External consultants were instructed to carry out a search and shortlisted candidates were seen by all Board members.
As a result, the Committees recommendation of Linda Jensens appointment was unanimously passed by the Board with Linda formally joining the Company as a Non-executive Director on 7 July 2011.
Other activities included: Further development of succession planning and talent mapping processes for senior management Considering the responses to the questionnaire used for the annual evaluation of the Board and its Committees, prior to review by the whole Board.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Neil England, Michael Hartley, Linda Jensen following her appointment on 7 July 2011 and Iain Paterson.
Malcolm Wall served as Committee Chairman until 7 July 2011 when he was succeeded in that role by Neil England.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and full details of its activities and of Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 56.
Those pages detail compliance with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Neil England and Linda Jensen following her appointment on 7 July and is chaired by Michael Hartley.
The Board is satisfied that Michael Hartley has appropriate financial expertise to fulfil this role.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the Board and the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Groups internal financial control and risk management systems, advising the Board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, approving auditor remuneration, reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing procedures, reviewing accounting policies and compliance, and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
The Committee met four times during the year.
On each occasion the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, and other members of staff, as required, attended by invitation.
The external auditors attended all four meetings.
Significant areas of work covered by the Audit Committee included: Reviewing the Groups final and interim financial statements: Reviewing results from audits undertaken and progress against the internal audit plan: Identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group: and Reviewing the Groups internal control environment and its effectiveness.
48 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee regularly monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
The audit partner who signs the report is not permitted to hold office for more than five years under professional rules established to safeguard independence, At each Audit Committee meeting the external auditors were able to meet with the Committee without management being present.
It is a specific responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and its auditors.
The Group has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In addition, where a proposed service is outside the normal scope of non-audit services, the engagement must be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In awarding work for non-audit services, the Group takes into account a range of factors including quality of service, cost effectiveness, and historic knowledge of the business or sector.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of Deloitte LLP and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the auditors are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
Internal audit function The Group engages KPMG to perform internal control audits at its main offices.
This work is coordinated by the Head of Internal Controls and Procedures who reports KPMGs findings directly to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the Group to have an effective independent internal audit function.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the Board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority, which are reviewed regularly.
Business performance is managed closely and the Board has established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress towards strategic objectives: Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances against plan, exchange rate volatility, and taking appropriate management action: Capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with the Turnbull guidance, and that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
Risk management process There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has operated throughout the financial year.
These are reviewed by the Board at each meeting and also in detail by the Audit Committee once a year.
The risk framework governs the management and control of both financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of this policy throughout the Group enables a consistent approach to the management of risk at both regional and business unit level.
In addition, during the financial year, the Audit Committee received: Reports from the Head of Internal Controls and Procedures on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan: Risk management reports, including the status of actions to mitigate major risks and the quantification of selected risks: and, Reports from the external Auditors.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the approval of this report.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 49 ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Neil England 7445 Michael Hartley 7445 Linda Jensen appointed 7 July 2011 2 1 1 1 Neil Jones 7 Iain Paterson 735 Edward Strachan 7 Russell Taylor 7 Malcolm Wall resigned 31 August 2011 6 3 3 4 Total number of meetings 7445 Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and has a well established cycle of communication based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and general presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results.
During the year, a presentation was made to Board members by the Companys brokers to update them on the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Business Review set out on pages 8 to 39 details the financial performance of the Company as well as setting out the risks it faces and plans for the future.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys AGM on 26 January 2012.
At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions at the AGM.
In addition, the Groups website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
Whistle-blowing arrangements The Company has an established policy which enables and encourages staff to report in confidence any possible improprieties in either financial reporting or other matters.
Corporate social responsibility Neil Jones, Finance Director, is the Board sponsor for environmental, social governance, community investment and other corporate social responsibility matters.
ASB guidance on narrative reporting The Company considers that it is in compliance with the additional guidance on narrative reporting for UK companies published by the Accounting Standards Board in January 2008.
Anti-corruption policy As part of ITEs commitment to preventing bribery and establishing a culture that does not tolerate corruption wherever and in whatever form it may be encountered, a formal anti-corruption policy was approved by the Board earlier this year prior to the Bribery Act coming into force.
A number of steps have been taken to put in place appropriate procedures in line with the guidance provided by the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure compliance with the legislation, the Companys policy and related procedures.
