Governance Corporate governance statement David Tyler Chairman Dear Shareholder, Since the financial crisis, there has been a great deal of focus on The evaluation exercise also enabled us to confirm the priorities on ensuring effective corporate governance in the UKs largest which we will focus over coming years in order to continue to drive companies.
An extensive consultation process resulted in the shareholder value.
Financial Reporting Council issuing the new UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010 the 2010 Code, which updated The report commented that the different backgrounds and the existing code and which set out the standards of governance styles of the Non-Executive Directors create a good balance of for listed companies that apply to financial years beginning on or complementary skills and approaches which enhance the breadth, after 29 June 2010. quality and openness of Board debate.
There has been much recent discussion about ensuring that there is appropriate diversity on Although the 2010 Code is not applicable to Sainsburys in the boards, and Sainsburys has an excellent record of appointing 2010 11 financial year, the Board believes that we are well placed to women at Board and senior executive levels, and throughout the comply with its key principles which emphasise the need for well business, based on merit.
Three of our Board Directors are women, balanced, effective boards, strong oversight of risk management, we have had between two and four women on our Operating Board alignment of remuneration policies with shareholder interests and over the last six years, and women currently hold more than a third sound shareholder relations.
The following pages explain how of our 40 most senior executive positions.
Of all our 150,000 we apply these principles in order to help to create long-term, colleagues, 55 per cent are women.
Our diversity is one of our sustainable growth in value for shareholders.
I can also confirm strengths and we will maintain our successful merit-based approach that we are adopting the 2010 Codes recommendation for annual into the future.
election of all directors at this years AGM.
One of the new governance principles requires an external review of Board performance to be conducted every three years.
The Board agreed in the autumn that we should appoint independent consultants to facilitate such an evaluation so that we could consider the way in which we carry out our role and conduct ourselves, as David Tyler well as our structure and processes.
I am pleased to report that the Chairman thorough exercise by Manchester Square Partners confirmed that the Board is seen as being effective, with a number of specific strengths.
Some of the conclusions were that: The Board has high standards of ethics, organisation, information, analysis and governance, with an open culture between Executives and Non-Executives.
There is a high degree of alignment among Directors on current strategic priorities.
Our Committees are well run and effective.
30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Compliance Turning to investor relations IR, the Board receives an annual The following sections explain how the Company applies the main independent survey at the Strategy Conference which reports on principles of Section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate the views of major shareholders and analysts, together with regular Governance Code 2008 the Code.
The Board is committed to updates throughout the year on the IR programme and feedback strong governance and, during the year, the Company has complied from major shareholders.
with all the provisions of the Code.
Succession plans and management development are considered by the Nomination Committee each year at the time of the Strategy Conference with specific follow up and updates thereafter as The role of the Board necessary.
In June 2010, we announced changes to the Board and The Board is chaired by David Tyler and, at the year-end, there Operating Board which were the result of this detailed succession were four Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors.
John McAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors biographical details are set out on page 25.
These changes were supported by a number of other internal promotions at senior levels in the business, showing the strength The Boards key focus in helping to create long-term sustainable of the talent pipeline in the Company and the effectiveness of the value for shareholders is on strategic leadership, performance long-term succession planning process.
management, investor relations, risk management and governance and succession planning, each of which is described below.
We have The Nomination Committee also reviews succession to the Board.
In a scheduled forward programme of Board meetings to ensure that January 2011, we announced that Matt Brittin, Managing Director of the Board can allocate sufficient time to each of these key areas.
Google UK & Ireland, had been appointed a Non-Executive Director, This enables us to plan Board and Committee meetings to complement the skills and experience of the existing Board.
appropriately and use the time most effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme to enable specific items to be added to Division of responsibilities any particular agenda and this ensures that the Board can focus on There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman the key matters relating to the business at the appropriate time.
and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been We ensure that all Directors are aware of the key discussions and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership decisions of each of the four principal Committees the Chairman of of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda to each Committee provides a detailed summary to all Directors at the enable the Board to fulfil all aspects of its role.
As set out above, we Board meeting following the relevant Committee meeting.
Minutes ensure that the Board has sufficient time to allocate to its key areas of Board and Committee meetings are circulated to Directors shortly of focus throughout the annual cycle of Board meetings.
The after those meetings take place.
The Board has a schedule of Chairman ensures effective communication with shareholders and formally reserved powers and receives a number of significant that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He presentations during the year on other key matters including facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors through pensions, treasury, brand management, values and governance.
a culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, we increased the number of informal meetings of the Board and these enable all the Directors to spend more time The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management together and to discuss specific areas of the business with individual of the Company and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Operating Board members.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of results, and allocates The Board continued to focus on strategic matters during the year.
decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading We hold a two-day Strategy Conference in the autumn, with the role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies Operating Board Directors in attendance for the first day.
This and in promoting Sainsburys.
enables the Board to conduct an in-depth review of the market and key opportunities and threats, consider the draft budget and Independence corporate plan and agree the strategic goals for the short-term and The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial longer term perspectives.
The Board receives a detailed half-year experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
On appointment update on progress against the agreed priorities and then, to they confirm that they will have sufficient time available to be able complete the cycle, agrees the objectives and principal areas of to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
They are appointed for focus for the next conference.
Specific projects are considered at an initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at the other meetings during the year as necessary.
first AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment may be extended for a second term, subject to mutual agreement.
Performance management against delivery of the agreed key All members of the Board other than Darren Shapland will retire by targets is reviewed at every meeting with particular reference to rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at this years AGM in the detailed management accounts.
The Chief Executive, Group accordance with the 2010 Code.
Commercial Director and Chief Financial Officer comment on the market and current trading at each meeting.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment to the Board in October 2009 and all the NonThe Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis, Executive Directors are considered to be independent according in addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and to the provisions of the Code.
The Board is satisfied that the internal controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee after independence of the Directors who have executive or non-executive each committee meeting.
The Board also receives an annual update roles with other companies is not compromised and that they all on all matters relating to safety, supported by regular quarterly have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
updates, together with updates on relevant controls and governance.
Any specific issues on these and other matters which might affect the Companys reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 31 Governance Corporate governance statement continued The 2006 Companies Act provides that directors must avoid a Manchester Square Partners presented their detailed report to situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest the Board and it was discussed at a meeting held for that specific that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
It identified the ways in which the Board was working Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential well and the areas for further consideration.
As described in the conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association Chairmans statement above, the report concluded that the Board permit.
Shareholders approved the appropriate amendments to the was working effectively across many dimensions.
The Board Companys Articles at the 2008 AGM.
The Board has established identified actions to develop some aspects of Board succession procedures for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and management transition, and to strengthen further the focus and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts on strategic initiatives.
In accordance with the Act, the Board considered and authorised each Directors reported potential conflicts of interest The Senior Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans during the year.
Whenever a Director takes on additional external performance with the other Directors and subsequently met him to responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director arise and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to on their individual contribution to the Board and considered their fulfil his or her role as a Director of the Company.
The Board will development priorities with each of them.
continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Attendance The table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Information and development Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are the year, including the two-day Strategy Conference, and additional properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they ad hoc conference calls were also convened to deal with specific have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee We have a programme for meeting Directors training and Matt Brittin 1 1 1 1 development requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who do Mike Coupe 8 8 not have previous public company experience at Board level are Anna Ford 8 8 2 2 3 3 5 5 provided with detailed training on their role and responsibilities.
All Val Gooding 8 8 3 3 5 5 new Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored induction Mary Harris 8 8 4 4 2 2 3 3 programme including store and depot visits and meetings with other Gary Hughes 8 8 4 4 3 3 members of the Board, members of the Operating Board, senior Justin King 8 8 2 2 management and external advisors.
The induction programme John McAdam 8 8 4 4 3 3 includes a full review of corporate responsibility.
Subsequent John Rogers 5 5 training is available on an ongoing basis to meet any particular Darren Shapland 8 8 needs.
During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Fallowfield, has Bob Stack 8 8 3 3 5 5 provided updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, new David Tyler 8 8 3 3 legislation and on Directors duties and obligations, whilst the Audit The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could Committee regularly considers new accounting developments attend is shown in brackets.
through presentations from management and the external auditors.
The consultants to the Remuneration Committee advise the As referred to above there was an increased number of informal Committee on relevant governance and trends in remuneration.
The meetings during the year and Directors have met individual members Board programme includes both presentations from management of the Operating Board to receive updates on their specific areas of and informal meetings which increase the Non-Executive Directors responsibility.
In addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
During the year the met without the Executive Directors being present, and the NonBoard held a Board meeting at a suppliers site and received Executive Directors also met without the Executive Directors or the presentations from members of the suppliers management team, Chairman being present.
as well as from colleagues from within the Sainsburys Trading Division.
Directors have visited stores and other sites as part of Investor relations their continuing engagement with the business.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of Justin King, John Rogers and Erica Judge, Head of Investor Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures Relations.
The Chairman is generally available to shareholders and are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and meets with institutional and other large investors as required.
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure by which members of The Company regularly meets with its large investors and the Board may take independent professional advice at the institutional shareholders who, along with sell-side research Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
analysts, are invited to presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys interim and full year Board evaluation results.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls The Board agreed that this years evaluation exercise should be following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
facilitated by Manchester Square Partners who have no other The content of these presentations and conference calls are relationship with Sainsburys.
The key objectives agreed with the webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
Chairman were to ask the Board to assess itself by defining its co. uk investors so as to be available to all investors.
own objectives and analyse how it was performing against these objectives over a number of dimensions.
The review was conducted The Board regularly receives feedback on the views of major through a discussion framework circulated in advance to Directors, investors and the IR programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell followed by one-to-one in depth interviews with all Directors and provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and the Company Secretary and a review of relevant papers.
The give an external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional performance of the Board Committees was also reviewed, and investors and sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Directors also Directors provided feedback on each others contributions.
receive regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys IR department.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board Operating Board at the AGM, which this year will be held on 13 July 2011.
There will Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held Justin King will make a business presentation.
A detailed ten scheduled meetings during the year and each Directors explanation of each item of special business to be considered at responsibilities are set out on pages 25 and 27.
It has formal terms the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent of reference setting out its key responsibilities.
Minutes are copied to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Board, the Retail & Logistics Board, the Investment Board, the Group Safety Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on pages each of which has approved terms of reference setting out their 104 to 106 and on the Companys website www.
Board Committees Nomination Committee The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Tyler and comprises committees.
The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is not a member of information, the effectiveness of the financial controls and the the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
internal control and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and During the year the Committee was fully engaged in the succession determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The planning which resulted in the Board changes announced in June Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Directors 2010 whereby Darren Shapland became Group Development and conducts a review of succession planning at Board and Operating Director, Mike Coupe took on additional responsibilities and became Board levels.
The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee reviews Group Commercial Director and John Rogers was appointed to the key CR policies, taking into account the Companys CR objectives and Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Further details are set out below.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the structure of the Board during the year and recommended that a further Non-Executive Governance structure Director be appointed.
Search consultants, Egon Zehnder, were instructed in connection with this process.
The skills, knowledge, background and experience required for the role were considered, and a job specification was prepared.
The Committee specified the Corporate time commitment expected of the role.
Following an extensive Responsibility Audit Committee search, the Committee recommended to the Board that Matt Brittin Committee Gary Hughes be appointed.
He was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2011.
Anna Ford The Committees terms of reference are available on the website www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees responsibilities.
The Committee conducts a review of management Nomination J Sainsbury plc Remuneration development and succession planning at the time of the Strategy Committee Board Committee Conference and meets on such further occasions as are necessary David Tyler David Tyler Bob Stack and in 2010 11 held three meetings in total.
Remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack, with Anna Ford and Val Gooding as its other members.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 38 to 47.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee is chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and Mary Group Harris are its members.
David Tyler attends each meeting.
It met Safety Trading Board twice during the year.
These formal meetings are supported by CR Committee Mike Coupe strategic meetings hosted by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each Tim Fallowfield meeting is based around one of the five CR principles and key external stakeholders are invited to attend.
During the year five such meetings were held, relating to each of the five principles.
Operating Board Justin King The Committee is supported by an internal corporate responsibility governance structure whereby members of the Operating Board Retail Investment have responsibility for each of our five values and sit on our & Board Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, which meets quarterly Logistics Board John Rogers and is chaired by Justin King.
Other members of the Steering Group Roger Burnley are shown on page 15.
Corporate Responsibility A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities and activities is set out on pages 14 to 17.
This years Corporate Steering Group Responsibility Report will be published in June 2011.
Justin King J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 33 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee The policy was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the The Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam, Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
5 Non Audit Mary Harris and Matt Brittin as its other members, all of whom are Services.
The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Matt Brittin was appointed on such services does not have an impact on the external auditors 27 January 2011.
The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Justin King, engagement that the external auditors shall not undertake, John Rogers, Susannah Hall Director of Internal Audit, other senior including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the members of the Finance Division and the external auditors are preparation of accounting estimates for the financial statements.
invited to attend Committee meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is secretary It also requires that individual engagements above a certain fee to the Committee.
level may only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
The policy also recognises The Committees terms of reference, which are available on our that there are some types of work, such as accounting and tax website www.
co. uk governance, set out the advice, where a detailed understanding of the Companys business Committees responsibilities.
The policy is designed to ensure that PwC is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is considered During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the agendas to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
The Committee being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
The receives a report at each meeting on the non-audit services being Committee regularly meets with the external auditors without provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event management being present.
It monitored the integrity of the that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit fee then all financial statements and any formal announcements relating to subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the the Companys financial performance and reviewed any significant Committee Chairman.
financial judgements contained in them.
The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit As described in detail below the Committee has also reviewed: departments resources, budget, work programme, results and managements implementation of its recommendations.
Susannah the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the Hall, who was appointed to the role of Director of Internal Audit systems of internal control by approving the Internal Audit plans during the year, has direct access to all members of the Committee twice yearly and reviewing the findings quarterly, and by reviewing including the Chairman and the Committee Chairman.
She has the scope of work and reports of the external auditors.
The detailed regular meetings with all Committee members.
actions for resolution of any identified weaknesses are closely monitored through to completion: and The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to the management of risk by reviewing the risk assessment process raise concerns about possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
and corporate and divisional risk registers twice yearly.
The risk All issues raised have been investigated and appropriate actions registers outline the key risks faced by the business including taken.
Any significant issues have been highlighted to the Audit their impact and likelihood along with the relevant mitigating Committee.
controls and actions, and they form the basis of the Internal Audit planning process.
The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, which convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case The Committee also regularly reviews the Companys funding and management and ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit liquidity position and has considered its impact on the Companys Committee receives an update at each meeting on all material financial and operational capabilities.
review of the year-end position assisted the Board in making the going concern statement set out on page 29.
The Committee receives an update at each meeting about matters discussed at the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on any other The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC key matters.
Given the economic climate it has continued to focus overall work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of on the Banks liquidity and cash flows, capital adequacy and risk engagement and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs management processes.
performance and independence and the effectiveness of the overall audit process.
PwC have been the Companys auditors since 1995.
Grocery Supply Code of Practice PwC are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the In February 2010 a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
Richard Hughes, the was implemented following the recommendation of the Competition current audit partner, was appointed in 2010 and he has undertaken Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a programme of induction meetings during the year.
The Committee a Code Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes recommended PwCs re-appointment as auditors to the Board and between suppliers and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys has appointed this resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
the Director of Internal Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies must restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
deliver an annual compliance report to the Office of Fair Trading The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by PwC during which has been approved by the chair of the audit committee.
2010 11 related to indirect tax, sustainability and pensions Furthermore, a summary of that compliance report must be accounting advice.
The non-audit fees for the year were 0.2 million, included in our Annual Report and Financial Statement.
and the audit fee for the year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries including the fee for the interim review totalled 0.8 million.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Summary Annual Compliance Report this divisional risk process is achieved through twice yearly Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing workshops held by the divisional management and facilitated by comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under Internal Audit.
Each divisional management team produces and GSCOP.
This training is reinforced by online knowledge testing and maintains a divisional key risk register.
The likelihood and impact further supported by training and reference materials on our of each key risk is evaluated and actions deemed necessary intranet.
Sainsburys has also dedicated internal legal resource to to mitigate them are identified.
In addition, the risks and the provide all relevant colleagues with day-to-day advice and guidance.
robustness of the mitigating controls are regularly reviewed by divisional management as part of their normal business activities: A very small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP has been management certify annually that they are responsible for received in the reporting period, all of which have been resolved to managing their business objectives and that the internal controls the suppliers satisfaction within the Trading Division using our are such that they provide responsible but not absolute assurance standard internal escalation procedure.
None of the alleged breaches that the risks in their areas of responsibility are appropriately has required any involvement by the Code Compliance Officer.
identified, evaluated and managed: Risk management and internal controls the Operating Board reviews and challenges the output of the The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the divisional risk process and then updates the overall corporate risk system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
register as appropriate: Certain of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit the corporate and divisional risk registers form the basis of the risk Committee as outlined on page 34.
The system is designed to based plan of Internal Audit for the subsequent half-year period: and manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable Internal Audit provides independent assurance to management and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Audit Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management process.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of Internal controls the Annual Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the The system of internal control encompasses all controls including Turnbull guidance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
those relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of consolidated accounts, operational and compliance The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system controls, and those relating to risk management processes.
It also of internal controls and has ensured that any required remedial includes the controls over Sainsburys interests in Sainsburys Bank action on any identified weaknesses has been, or is being taken.
Risk management The Audit Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk controls systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative management system is designed to identify key risks and to provide assessment to be made.
The processes used during the year to assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
The support this assessment are as follows: effectiveness of the process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee.
The Board carries out an annual review of the discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, significant risks facing the business.
plans and objectives, and the risks to achieving them: review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk register including those for both revenue and capital expenditure: which is reviewed twice yearly by the Audit Committee and formally discussed with the Board.
The risk register contains the significant regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives risks faced by the business and identifies the potential impact and and mitigating controls and actions: likelihood at both a gross level before consideration of mitigating regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the controls and net level after consideration of mitigating controls.
scope and results of the work of Internal Audit across the Company Where further actions have been identified to mitigate risks to a and of the implementation of their recommendations: level deemed acceptable, these are agreed with specific timelines for delivery and are monitored closely until fully implemented.
regular reviews by the Audit Committee of the scope and results of the work of the external auditors and of any significant issues The risk management process is cascaded from the Operating Board arising: through to each of the operating divisions of the business as follows: regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of delegated authority: and the divisional operating management teams are responsible for managing the risks to their business objectives and for regular reviews by the Board and the Audit Committee of material identification and implementation of internal controls so as to fraudulent activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the risks in or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control their areas of responsibility are appropriately identified, evaluated weaknesses.
and managed: J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 35 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties C Colleague engagement, retention and capability The risk management process is closely aligned to accelerating Risk our growth plan which focuses on growing the business through The Group employs around 150,000 colleagues who are critical the addition of new range, space, channels to market and property to the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good management.
Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
The system relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training and of risk management used to identify the principal risks the Group development is essential to the efficiency and sustainability of the faces and to develop and closely monitor key controls, is described Groups operations.
The management of the risks is based on a balance of Mitigation risk and reward determined through careful assessment of both The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits the potential likelihood and impact.
Consideration is given to both packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive reputational as well as financial impact, recognising the significant with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, risks identified by the Board and the corresponding mitigating communications with trade unions and regular communication controls are set out below in no order of priority.
of business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to understand and respond to colleagues needs, whilst processes A Business continuity and acts of terrorism are also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning throughout the business.
Risk A major incident or act of terrorism could impact on the Groups D ability to trade.
Environment and sustainability Mitigation Risk Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the have the authority levels to make decisions, in the event of a environmental impact of the business with a focus on reducing potentially disruptive incident.
packaging and new ways of reducing waste and energy usage across stores, depots and offices.
The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure Mitigation that the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for purpose.
A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated with BC Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned or unforeseen Steering Group to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our events the Business Continuity Management Team is convened at customers requirements in this area.
Further details are included in short notice to manage any associated risk to the business.
the Corporate responsibility review on pages 14 to 17.
All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be E Financial strategy and treasury risk made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
Risk B The main financial risks are the availability of short and long-term Business strategy funding to meet business needs, counterparty liabilities and Risk fluctuations in interest and foreign currency rates which continue If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not to be impacted by the turbulence in the financial markets.
implement its strategies effectively, the business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the strategy need to be properly Mitigation The central Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the understood and managed to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Groups liquid resources, funding requirements, and interest rate and currency exposures and the associated risks as set out in note Mitigation 28 on pages 84 to 88.
The Group Treasury function has clear A clear strategy remains in place with five key areas of focus: policies and operating procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
Great food at fair prices: Accelerating the growth of complementary non-food and services: F Fraud Reaching more customers through additional channels: Risk As with any business, there is always a risk of fraudulent activity.
Growing supermarket space: and Mitigation Active property management.
The Group has a strong control framework in respect of potential fraud or other dishonest behaviour, which is regularly reviewed by Progress against these areas of focus and any risks to delivery, Internal Audit.
A set of policies are in place to provide colleagues such as the availability of suitable new store sites, are regularly with clear guidance on behaviour.
In addition, there are reviewed by the Board and the overall strategy is reviewed at the whistleblowing procedures in place to enable colleagues and two-day Strategy Conference.
The Operating Board also holds suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a regular sessions to discuss strategy.
This activity is supported by a confidential basis.
Internal Audit undertakes detailed investigations dedicated Strategy team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated and highlights its findings to the Audit Committee.
and understood, the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual basis.
36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance Corporate governance statement continued G K Health and safety Regulatory environment Risk Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and customers The Groups operations are subject to a broad spectrum of is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is paramount to maintaining regulatory requirements.
Key areas subject to regulation include the confidence our customers have in our business.
planning, competition and environmental issues, employment, pensions and tax laws and regulations over the Groups products Mitigation and services.
Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls required to mitigate health and safety risks across the business.
Two key pieces of new legislation are the Grocery Supply Code of These capture the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and Practice GSCOP, which came into effect in 2010 11, and the Bribery vetting of construction contractors, to the health and safety Act 2010, which is expected to come into force in the second half processes in place in our depots, stores and offices.
Compliance of 2011. to these processes is closely monitored and reported.
Failure to comply with laws and regulations could lead to civil and or Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and criminal legal prosecution and fines or imprisonment imposed on internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and Sainsburys or our colleagues.
In addition, a breach could lead to safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is reputational damage.
dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group Safety Committee and specialist teams including Convenience Risk Mitigation Managers and Logistics and Commercial Safety Specialists.
There is an established governance process in place to monitor regulatory developments and to ensure that all existing and H forthcoming regulations are complied with.
Regular reviews are IT systems and infrastructure completed across the estate to ensure compliance and that training Risk needs are addressed as required.
The Group is reliant on its IT systems and operational infrastructure in order to trade efficiently.
A failure in these systems could have a Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing significant impact on our business.
comprehensive training to the relevant members of the Buying Mitigation Team in the requirements of GSCOP.
This training is reinforced by online post training testing and supported by training and reference The Group has extensive controls in place to maintain the integrity and efficiency of its systems including detailed recovery plans in materials on our intranet.
Sainsburys also has a dedicated internal legal resource to provide its Buying Team with advice and guidance.
the event of a significant failure.
New innovations and upgrades to systems are ongoing to improve both the customer experience and colleague efficiency.
Prior to introducing system changes rigorous L Trading Environment testing is completed.
Risk The continued economic downturn could affect the performance of I Pension risk the Group in terms of sales, costs and operations, through: Risk The Group operates a number of pension arrangements which the ongoing challenges to household disposable income: includes a defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to risks competitor pricing positions: and in relation to its liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, commodity costs driving up the cost of goods.
inflation and future salary increases, and to risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such In addition, the downturn may also affect the risk of supplier or investments.
other counterparty failure, with possible operational or financial Mitigation consequences for the Group.
An investment strategy is in place which has been developed by the pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, to mitigate the Mitigation We continue to focus on delivering quality products with universal volatility of liabilities, to diversify investment risk and to manage cash.
appeal, at a range of price points ensuring value for all our customers.
This is achieved through the continuous review of our J Product Quality key customer metrics, active management of price positions, Risk development of sales propositions and increased promotion and The quality and safety of our products is of the highest importance marketing activity.
While external cost pressures including oil-related and any failure in standards would significantly affect the confidence costs, commodity pricing and business rates affect our business, the of our customers.
Group continues to work hard to mitigate the impact of these cost pressures on customers and on our overall profitability through the Mitigation delivery of cost savings.
Sainsburys undertakes credit checks on There are stringent controls in place to ensure product safety and suppliers and maintains regular, open dialogue with key suppliers integrity.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously and are concerning their ability to trade.
monitored regularly to ensure compliance with standards.
All aspects of product safety are governed through the Group Safety Committee.
All suppliers are expected to conform to the Groups code of conduct for Socially Responsible Sourcing which launched in 1998 and covers fair terms of trading, protection of children, worker health and safety, equal opportunities, freedom of association, freedom of employment, hours of work and wages.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 37
