Combined Code Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report sets out how the Company has applied the main principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Board The Board consists of six directors: an Executive Chairman, two other Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
The name, position and brief profile of each Director is set out on page 36.
Composition of the Board is kept under review and changes are made when appropriate and in the best interests of the Group.
Since publication of the last Annual Report the Company appointed Andrew Leslie to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Mr Leslie has over 40 years of experience in the retail, footwear and apparel sectors and his most recent position was as an Executive Board Director of Pentland Brands Plc which is a subsidiary of the ultimate parent company Pentland Group Plc, from which he retired in 2008.
The Board considers that its composition during the year had the necessary balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors providing the desired blend of skills, experience and judgement appropriate for the needs of the Groups business and overall effectiveness of the Board.
None of the Directors have served for more than three years without having been re-elected by shareholders.
Colin Archer is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
Two Non-Executive Directors, Colin Archer and Chris Bird, are considered to be independent by the Board.
Colin Archer has served on the Board for more than nine years, having been appointed on 6 November 2001.
The Board considers Mr Archer to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code as, in the Boards view, he continues to be independent in character and judgment notwithstanding his length of service.
Andrew Leslie is not currently considered to be independent by the Board for the purposes of the Combined Code due to his former position as an executive director of Pentland Brands Plc, a subsidiary of the Companys largest shareholder.
Mr Leslie does not represent the interests of Pentland Group Plc on the Board and, due to the period of time that will have elapsed since he retired in 2008, the Board anticipate that it will determine him to be independent under the Code when the Board next assesses this.
The Board believes that all three Non-Executive Directors have provided ample guidance to the Board and perform an effective role in challenging the Executive Directors when appropriate.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
The brief biographical detail on page 36 includes details of the Chairmans other directorships of listed companies.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his role effectively for the Group.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
41 Board operation Board Committees The Board is responsible for the direction, management and performance of the Company.
The Board met ten times during the year under review.
Directors There are three principal Board Committees to which the Board has delegated attendance at Board and Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
The certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference for all three Committees Board is responsible for providing effective leadership and promoting success are available for inspection on request and are available on the Companys of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically to it Audit Committee for decisions which include major strategic matters, approval of financial The Audit Committee currently comprises the two independent Non-Executive statements, acquisitions and disposals and significant capital projects.
The Directors, Colin Archer Chairman and Chris Bird.
The Committees principal Board delegates certain powers to a number of committees.
duties are to review draft annual and interim financial statements prior to being submitted to the Board, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to Board meetings which include internal control and risk management and to review the performance and cost up-to-date financial information, reports from the Executive Directors and effectiveness of the external auditor.
papers on major issues for consideration by the Board.
The Board has a formal The Audit Committee met three times in the year with the external auditor procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice.
Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out above.
All Board members have full access to the Company Secretary who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends all Board and Committee meetings.
The In the year the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on Corporate Governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results is a matter for the Board as a whole to determine.
statement prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon All newly appointed Directors will receive a tailored induction when they join the Board or a Committee.
Relevant training can be arranged as and when Reviewing the Groups Christmas trading update announcement prior to release deemed appropriate.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
This has Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial statements been conducted through the completion by each Director of a questionnaire of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset values and proposed prepared by the Company Secretary which encourages the Directors to International Accounting Standards give his opinions on Board and Committee procedures, operation and effectiveness as well as any other matter they wish to raise.
The feedback Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups financial from the evaluation process has been presented to the Board by the Executive statements, key risks of misstatement in the financial statements, Chairman.
A separate questionnaire was completed by the Directors other confirmations of auditor independence, audit fee and terms of engagement than the Executive Chairman in relation to the performance of the Executive of the auditor Chairman with the Senior Independent Director discussing the resulting Reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditor.
feedback with the other Non-Executive Directors, taking into account the views In reviewing the non-audit fees, the Committee also considered the of the other Executive Directors excluding the Executive Chairman.
independence of the external auditor and whether its engagement to supply non-audit services is appropriate.
During the year the Group has appointed The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and Chief other accountancy firms to provide non-audit services Executive Officer is in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for overall Board leadership, corporate strategy and communication The Audit Committee is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate with major shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities are arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of focused on the development of the Groups core retail operations.
The Company, through its majority shareholder Pentland Group Plc, maintains A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out in note 3 to appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 68.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of non-audit services performed by the Attendance at Board and Committee meetings external auditor does not impact their independence.
Board Remuneration Audit Nomination The Audit Committee keeps under review the relationship between the Group Meetings Committee Committee Committee and external auditor and, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends their reappointment.
Number of meetings in Remuneration Committee year 10 4 3 1 The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the two independent NonExecutive Directors, Colin Archer Chairman and Chris Bird.
P Cowgill 10 3 3 1 The Committees principal duties are to determine overall Group B Bown 10 - - - remuneration policy, remuneration packages for Executive Directors and senior B Small 10 3 3 - management, the terms of Executive Director service contracts, the terms of any performance-related schemes operated by the Group and awards C Archer 10 4 3 1 thereunder.
C Bird 10 4 3 1 The Committee met four times during the year.
Details of attendance at A Leslie 7 - - - Remuneration Committee meetings are set out in the previous table.
A Leslie joined the Board on 1 May 2010 and so his attendance reflects the Further details about Directors remuneration are set out in the Directors nine month period to 29 January 2011.
Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 48.
Peter Cowgill and Brian Small attended the Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee meetings and the Audit Committee meetings at the invitation of the members The Nomination Committee currently comprises the Executive Chairman and of those committees.
the two independent Non-Executive Directors.
Conflicts of interest The Committees principal duties are to consider the size, structure and The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it composition of the Board, ensure appropriate succession plans are in place sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, for the Board and, where necessary, consider new appointments to the Board.
or possibly could conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board From time to time the full Board performs some of the duties of the Nomination considers that the procedures it has in place for reporting and considering Committee.
conflicts of interest are effective.
The Nomination Committee met once during the year.
Details of attendance at the Nomination Committee meeting are set out in the table above.
During the year the Nomination Committee considered the appointment of a further Non-Executive Director, Andrew Leslie, following recommendation from Pentland Group Plc, the Companys largest shareholder.
Following due consideration, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that Mr Leslie be appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
The Nomination Committee did not consider the use of an external search consultancy nor open advertisement to be necessary in relation to this appointment as Mr Leslie was considered by the Nomination Committee to be a suitable candidate with considerable relevant experience.
42 Internal Control Shareholder Relations There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue with the Companys major significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the shareholders to enhance understanding of their respective objectives.
The year under review and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Executive Chairman provides feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
This is supplemented by twice yearly formal feedback to the The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has full responsibility Board on meetings between management, analysts and investors which seeks for the Groups system of internal controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
to convey the financial markets perception of the Group.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
they have concerns which have not been resolved through dialogue with the The Board has established a well-defined organisation structure with clear Executive Directors, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
operating procedures, lines of responsibility, delegated authority to executive management and a comprehensive financial reporting process.
External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the Board for consideration.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors attend results Key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are: presentations and analyst and institutional investor meetings whenever possible.
Identification and monitoring of the business risks facing the Group, with The AGM is attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited to ask major risks identified and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
At the AGM the level of proxies lodged on each Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures for capital investment resolution is announced to the meeting after the show of hands for that resolution.
Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly management accounts Compliance with the Combined Code providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date information.
These allow for comparison with budget and previous years results.
Significant variances The Directors consider that during the year under review and to the date of this from approved budgets are investigated as appropriate report, the Company complied with the Combined Code.
Preparation of comprehensive annual profit and cash flow budgets allowing This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: management to monitor business activities and major risks and the progress towards financial objectives in the short and medium term Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting and investigation of suspected fraudulent activities Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock balances and investigation of any material differences In addition, the Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditor in Jane Brisley relation to the financial statements and the Groups system of internal controls.
Company Secretary 13 April 2011 The Group has a formal whistle blowing policy in place enabling employees to raise concerns in relation to the Groups activities on a confidential basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and believes this to be effective.
In establishing the system of internal controls the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal controls can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The integration of the recently acquired businesses into the Groups system of internal controls is on-going.
The scope of internal audit work performed is determined by the Board in conjunction with the Loss Control Director who reports directly to the Board periodically.
The primary focus has continued to be on security and minimisation of unauthorised losses in the business using a team of appropriately experienced employees.
The Company does not currently have a separate internal audit function.
Following annual review, the Board has determined that, due to the further global expansion of the Groups activities, the appointment of an internal auditor is now appropriate and a search and selection process is currently underway to recruit a suitable candidate for this role.
The responsibility for internal control procedures within joint ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
The Company monitors its investment in such ventures and exerts influence through Board representation.
43 Nike hoody and gilet, both exclusive to JD 44
