CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction John Herring informed the Company on 8 September Effective governance is at the core of the Companys 2011 of his decision not to seek re-election as a director ability to operate successfully in 823 pubs in England, at the annual general meeting.
John Herring currently Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
The Companys serves as senior independent director and will continue in established governance framework is overseen by the this role until the annual general meeting.
The board will board of directors, which is ultimately answerable to the consider the appointment of an additional non-executive Companys shareholders.
director to replace Mr Herring.
The board will also appoint one of the non-executive directors to be the Statement of compliance senior independent director, following Mr Herrings The Company is committed to high standards of retirement from the board, although no decision has yet corporate governance, as set out in the UK Corporate been taken.
The board believes that the Company has been compliant throughout the The role of the senior independent director is to provide year ended 24 July 2011, with the following exceptions: an additional contact point for shareholders, in particular where any concerns of shareholders are unable to be John Herring has served more than 14 years on the board resolved through normal channels or when such channels and so may not be considered independent under the are inappropriate.
The senior independent director also Code Section B.
The board considers that his monitors the performance of the chairman, on behalf of performance as a non-executive director continues to be the board.
He contributes significantly as a director through his individual skills, considerable knowledge and Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors experience of the Company and relevant financial are provided on page 48 and can be viewed on the expertise.
He also continues to demonstrate strong Companys Web site: www.
co. uk independence in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has On appointment to the board, every director is provided concluded that, despite his length of tenure, there is no with a comprehensive induction programme, covering all association with management which could compromise aspects of the Companys operations.
and meetings take place regarding the performance of the board and the performance of individual executive A full version of the UK Corporate Governance Code directors is discussed regularly by the chairman and the 2010 is available on the official Web site of the Financial non-executive directors.
Site visits are arranged regularly Reporting Council www.
to enable non-executive directors to see the operations of the business, at first hand.
The board of directors The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that All directors are provided with comprehensive papers, in the Companys strategy is appropriate and implemented advance of all board meetings, and attend key meetings effectively.
Those matters reserved for the board and the regularly in the organisation.
In addition, directors attend authorities delegated to management are contained in impromptu meetings with senior managers in the business.
the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as in the various policies covering such matters as treasury There is a clear and documented division of management, capital expenditure approvals, legal responsibilities between the chairman and the chief matters, internal audit and risk management.
The division is set out below.
The board comprises the following members: Tim Martin, chairman John Hutson, chief executive officer Kirk Davis, finance director and company secretary Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and senior non-executive director Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director Debra van Gene, non-executive director Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director 60 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the The chief executive is responsible for the smooth daily board and ensuring that all directors are fully informed running of the business of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company to Developing and maintaining effective management exchange of contracts within controlled procedures controls, planning and performance measurements Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive organisational structure Supporting the Company strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational Implementing and monitoring compliance with meetings and agreeing on board agendas and ensuring that board policies adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of chief executives contract, appraisal and Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior Recruiting and managing senior managers in managers of the Company the business Providing the ethos and vision of the Company Developing and maintaining effective risk-management and regulatory controls Providing operational presence across the estate Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders and investors Making directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Company strategy Ensuring that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Leadership of the board and setting its agenda All directors are provided with, and have full and timely to retire from the board and will not seek re-election access to, information which enables them to make at the AGM.
informed decisions on corporate and business issues, including operational and financial performance.
During the year ended 24 July 2011, non-executive In particular, the board receives monthly information directors met without the chairman and provided on the financial trading performance of the Company feedback to the chairman following their meetings.
and a comprehensive finance report, including The overall effectiveness of the board was the primary operational highlights.
topic, although succession-planning and the provision of information to the board were also discussed.
The The articles require that one-third of the directors retire directors concluded that the board and its committees by rotation, subject to the requirement that each director continue to work effectively.
seek re-election every three years.
However, in line with the Code, all of the directors of the Company are to be In accordance with the Code and corporate governance subject to election by shareholders every year.
best practice, the board has several established Accordingly, all members of the board, other than committees as set out below.
The board met eight times John Herring and not just those required to do so by during the year ended 24 July 2011: attendance of the the Companys articles of association will retire and seek directors and non-executives, where appropriate, is re-election at this years AGM.
John Herring has decided shown on page 62.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8 4 5 4 Tim Martin 7 N A N A N A John Hutson 8 N A 1 N A Kirk Davis 7 3 N A N A Su Cacioppo 8 4 1 N A John Herring 7 4 5 4 Elizabeth McMeikan 7 4 5 4 Debra van Gene 7 4 5 4 Sir Richard Beckett 7 3 4 4 Keith Down 1 1 N A N A Paul Harbottle 1 N A N A N A Kirk Davis and Keith Down in their role of finance director and Su Cacioppo in her role as personnel and legal director attended audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant matters.
Keith Down attended only one meeting during the year under review.
John Hutson and Su Cacioppo were invited to attend one remuneration meeting during the year.
Matters reserved for the board Secretarial The following matters are reserved for the board: Call of all shareholder meetings Delegation of board powers Board and management Disclosure of directors interests Structure and senior management responsibilities General Nomination of directors Board framework of executive remuneration Appointment of chairman and company secretary and costs Strategic matters Any other matters not within the terms of reference Strategic, financing or adoption of new business of any committee of the board plans, in respect of any material aspect of the Company Any other matter as determined from time to time by the board Business control Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Internal audit Board committees Authority limits for heads of department Audit committee The committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises Operating budgets Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and Sir Richard The entry into finance and operating leases of a Beckett.
Representatives of the Companys external certain capital value auditors,  LLP, attend audit Investments and capital projects exceeding set value committee meetings at the half year and year end.
Under Changes in major supply contracts the terms of the Code, one of the members of the Finance committee was not independent.
Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively Specific risk-management policies, including performs the following: insurance, hedging and borrowing limits Final approval of annual and interim accounts and Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, accounting policies compensation, resignation, dismissal and overseeing of Appointment of external auditors the independent external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness Legal matters Reviews the scope and nature of the work to be Consideration of regular reports on material issues performed by the external auditors, before audit relating to any litigation affecting the Company commences Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed Reviews the half-year and annual financial statements certain values 62 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Ensures compliance with accounting standards The terms of reference of the audit committee are Ensures compliance with stock exchange, legal and available on request.
regulatory requirements Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Remuneration committee formal announcements relating to the financial The Companys remuneration committee is chaired by performance of the Company Debra van Gene and comprises John Herring, Elizabeth Considers the findings of the internal audit report and McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett.
The directors report management responses at the half year and year end on remuneration is set out on pages 54 to 59.
Under the Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems terms of the Code, one of the members of the committee Final review of the Companys statement on internal was not independent.
control systems, before endorsement by the board Reviews any aspect of the accounts or the Companys The terms of reference of the remuneration committee control and audit procedures, the interim and final audits are available on request.
and any other matters which the auditors may consider Ensures that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and Nomination committee brought to the attention of the board The non-executive directors John Herring, Debra van Gene, Reviews all risk-management systems adopted and Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett meet regularly implemented by the Company and consider, amongst other matters, board appointments and the re-election of directors.
No director is involved in The minutes of all meetings of the committee are any decision about his or her own re-appointment.
In circulated by the secretary of the committee to all carrying out these activities, the non-executive directors members of the board.
At the annual general meeting of follow the guidelines of the Institute of Chartered the Company, the audit committees chairman, John Secretaries Association ICSA and comply with the UK Herring, is available to answer questions on financial Corporate Governance Code 2010. control and reporting.
Company secretary The audit committee is aware of the Companys process All directors have access to the advice of the company regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed its secretary, responsible to the board for ensuring that effectiveness.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary are reserved for consideration by the During the year, the Company made limited use of board as a whole.
Procedures are in place for seeking specialist teams from  LLP, relating independent professional advice, at the Companys expense.
to accounting and tax services.
The fees paid to  LLP for non-audit services were Relations with shareholders 132,000 2010: 36,000.
The use of The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all  LLP for non-audit work is board members are kept aware of both the views of monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary independence major shareholders and changes in the major and objectivity of the auditors.
Where the auditors provide shareholdings of the Company.
Efforts made to non-audit services, their objectivity and independence are accomplish effective communication include: safeguarded by the use of different teams.
Annual general meeting, considered to be an important forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board Following a review by the audit committee, the board Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers agreed, in September 2011, to recommend to shareholders, Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated at the annual general meeting, the reappointment of the to shareholders external auditors for a period of one year.
Any significant changes in shareholder movement being notified to the board by the company secretary, The audit committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness when necessary of the external auditors and audit process, on the basis of The company secretary maintaining procedures and meetings and internal review with finance and other agreements for all announcements to the City senior executives.
In reviewing the independence of the A programme of regular meetings between investors external auditors, the audit committee considers several and directors of the Company, including the senior factors.
These include the standing, experience and independent director, as appropriate tenure of the external auditors, the nature and level of The capital structure of the Company is described in services provided and confirmation from the external note 24 to the accounts auditors that they have complied with relevant UK independence standards.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management The Company has an internal audit function which is The board is responsible for the Companys discharged as follows: risk-management process.
Regular audits of the Company stock The internal audit department, in conjunction with the Unannounced visits to retail units management of the business functions, produces a risk Monitoring systems which control the Companys cash register annually.
This register has been compiled by the Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with business following feedback from senior management Company procedures from the key business functions.
Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and regulatory change The identified risks are assessed based on the likelihood Annually reviewing the Companys strategy of a risk occurring and the potential impact to the Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing business, should the risk occur.
The head of internal audit the business determines and reviews the risk assessment process and will communicate the timetable annually.
The Company has key controls, as follows: The risk register is presented to the audit committee Clearly defined authority limits and controls over every six months, with a schedule of audit work agreed cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose of this work is to expenditure review, on behalf of the Company and board, those key Comprehensive budgeting process, with a detailed risks and the systems of control necessary to manage 12-month operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, such risks.
The results of this work are reported back to both approved by the board relevant senior management and the audit committee.
Business results are reported weekly, with a Where recommendations are made for changes in comprehensive report compared with budget and the systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will previous year follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, are implemented.
for review by the board Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies can on treasury matters are reserved by the board be found on page 7.
A more comprehensive list of risks Regular reviews of the amount of external insurance and uncertainties is on pages 42 and 43. which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls in relation Board diversity to the Companys financial reporting requirements In line with the Davies report, released earlier in the year, recommending a minimum representation of 25% The directors confirm that they have reviewed the females on FTSE 350 boards by 2015, the board confirms effectiveness of the system of internal control.
that it is meeting best practice.
Directors insurance cover is maintained.
Internal control During the year, the Company and the board continued to support and invest in resource to provide an internal Kirk Davis audit and risk-management function.
The system of Company Secretary internal control and risk mitigation is deeply embedded in 9 September 2011 the operations and the Company culture.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and management of significant risks took place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accord with the Turnbull Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
