28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Core Values Relationships 1 Our relationships also include working Our business success depends closely with government and industry bodies, on our relationships with including health and safety and governmental customers, business partners, departments of trade and industry.
We employees and businesses are actively involved in supporting groups which contribute seek out feedback and act on to knowledge sharing and cooperation across what we receive, constantly industry sectors.
Wood Group Kenny has a close relationship We have a broad range of customers including with the University of Aberdeen, advising major global oil & gas operators, national and supporting their MSc degree in Subsea oil companies and independents, power & Engineering.
We have other relationships with industrial companies, plus a diverse range of educational institutions throughout the world, business partners and suppliers.
with the Kazakh-British Technical University in 2 Kazakhstan, Heriot-Watt University in Dubai We listen to our customers and the and the Memorial University of Newfoundland organisations that we work with to in Canada.
All these relationships have understand and satisfy their needs.
The been established to help develop the next strongest relationships are built as a result generation of engineers for the oil & gas of spending time in an organisation and, industry.
more importantly, the people within it.
Its important to invest that time.
All relationships grow through good communications, through sharing and delivering on common goals and through trust.
Sharing and delivering on common goals is about understanding our customers, business partners and suppliers Mark Papworth needs, aligning ourselves to meet those needs, then making it happen.
We expect everyone in our organisation to contribute to the quality of relationships that we build and our people are given responsibility for their performance and 3 decisions.
We need to add value at all levels of our organisation, adopting a service culture within and across the Group.
We need to be flexible and take action to address challenges, and we must adopt innovative and dynamic ways to deliver high-value solutions.
We have several successful joint ventures including Rolls Wood Group, Wood Group Pratt & Whitney and TransCanada Turbines where we work with our partners to provide value-added services for our clients.
Wood Group Kianda is a new joint venture in Angola allowing us a strategic alliance to support projects from a local base in the country.
Project Engineers listening to the customers and organisations that we work with.
Developing strong relationships with customers to ensure we deliver the cost effective and reliable project delivery our clients expect.
Employees taking responsibility for their actions and performance and seeing projects through to completion.
