Governance go online at www.
com 39 : Governance Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity.
The following section explains how the Company has applied the main principles of Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code.
A copy of the Governance Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the Company has fully complied with the provisions of the Governance Code during the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
What is the role of the Board?
Board of directors and The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its who served on each committee consideration and approval.
These include responsibility for Group strategy, the annual budget, significant acquisitions, risk management Audit Remuneration Nominations and the overall system of internal control.
Executive management is Committee Committee Committee responsible for the implementation of Board decisions in these areas and Executive Directors all other aspects of managing the business.
Sir Ian Wood 8 What is the composition of the Board?
A G Langlands Throughout the majority of the year, the Board comprised 14 directors, made up of seven executive and seven non-executive directors.
A G Semple R Keiller appointed April 2011 R Keiller joined the Board on 20 April 2011 following the completion of M H Papworth the PSN acquisition and J B Renfroe resigned from the Board on 26 April 2011 following the sale of the Well Support division.
M Straughen L J Thomas D J Ogren resigned as a non-executive director after 10 years on the Board at the 2011 AGM and J R Wilson was appointed as a new nonJ B Renfroe resigned April 2011 executive director on 1 August 2011.
Non-executive Directors I D Marchant As previously announced, Dr C Masters and J C Morgan will retire from 8 8 the Board at the 2012 AGM and it is our intention to appoint a new nonM Contie 8 8 executive director and to make an additional appointment to the Audit Dr C Masters Committee in due course.
8 8 J C Morgan 8 8 8 A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive N H Smith 8 8 has been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Governance Code.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness J R Wilson appointed August 2011 8 of the Board.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are D K Woodward 8 8 8 appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively D J Ogren resigned May 2011 contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chief 8 8 Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group Committee Chairman Member of committee 8 8 and implementation of the Group strategy, develops proposals for Board approval, and ensures that a regular dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
Executive Board Members report directly to the Chief Executive.
Dr C Masters stepped down as the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, at which time I D Marchant assumed those roles.
The Chairman and the senior independent director are available to shareholders on request.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate governance continued Are the Board members independent?
The executive directors, excluding the Chairman, attended 11 After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive Group Board Executive meetings throughout the year which include directors to be independent in character and judgement and, other than reports and discussions on Safety, operational issues, finance, legal, set out below, that there are no relationships or circumstances which investor relations and human resources matters.
In addition, divisional are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief directors conduct Quarterly Review Meetings with senior managers of biographies of the directors appear on pages 36 and 37. all businesses within their division.
These meetings are also normally attended by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Governance Code requires the Board to state its reasons for considering a non-executive director to be independent if he has served What training do the Board members receive?
Dr C Masters and J C Morgan have each The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board served as non-executive directors for more than nine years and the meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate Board has previously set out its reasons for considering them to be governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors to independent.
As previously announced, Dr C Masters and J C Morgan undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge will retire at the 2012 AGM.
and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes briefing sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites J R Wilson was appointed to the Board in August 2011.
J R Wilson is and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, Vice Chairman of the Energy Group at JP Morgan where he advises directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations oil & gas operators, principally the major international and national oil as directors of a listed company under the Companies Act 2006. companies.
All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
The Company has a material business relationship with JP Morgan Cazenove, who act as joint corporate broker and adviser to the There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional Company.
The Board has considered whether his role at JP Morgan advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the could affect his judgement as a director of the Company.
J R Wilson services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that does not advise the Group and no part of his remuneration at JP the Boards procedures are followed.
Morgan is linked to JP Morgan Cazenoves relationship with the Group or advisory services provided to the Groups energy service company How is the Boards performance evaluated?
The Board believes that he is independent in character and The Board completed a formal evaluation of its own performance and judgement and, accordingly, has determined that he is of its committees, individual directors, and of the Chairman for the year.
an independent non-executive director for the purposes of the This involved directors completing detailed questionnaires, the results Governance Code.
of which were analysed by the Company Secretary and presented for discussion both at a full Board meeting and separate meetings between Are Board members standing for re-election?
each director and the Chairman.
The non-executive directors, led by As previously announced, Dr C Masters and J C Morgan will retire from the senior independent director, are responsible for the performance the board at the 2012 AGM and M H Papworth and L J Thomas intend evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the to leave the Group and step down from the board on 29 June 2012. executive directors.
All directors, other than Dr C Masters, J C Morgan, M H Papworth and L J Thomas will seek re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
How are conflicts of interest dealt with?
The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other How does the Board discharge its responsibilities?
situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The There were six scheduled Board meetings during 2011 as well as Board has procedures in place to deal with and, if necessary, approve five additional meetings convened to consider transactional activity any such conflicts.
associated with the acquisition of PSN, the sale of the Well Support division and the return of cash.
Three of the meetings were scheduled Who are your shareholders?
as two-day sessions and were held in Aberdeen, Calgary and Houston.
The Company has been notified, in accordance with s793 of the Safety is always the first item on the agenda at Board meetings.
The Companies Act 2006 and DTR 5.1.
2R, of the following interests Board received detailed presentations from senior management within representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the the Groups businesses during the year, each including updates on Company as of 26 March 2012.
Number % of In addition to Board meetings, the Board receives a monthly report of issued issued Name of Shareholder shares held shares which gives a summary of safety, financial and operational matters and a more detailed quarterly report including reports on safety, operations, Blackrock 62,843,537 16.9% human resources, investor relations and detailed financial information, Schroder Investments 16,777,852 4.5% including financial projections.
Wood Group Employee Share Trust 12,618,916 3.4% Legal & General 11,429,540 3.1% The directors have access, via a secure intranet site, to presentations from the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies of Sir Ian Wood has interests amounting to more than 3% of the share capital as relevant regulations, analyst research and appropriate administrative disclosed on page 55 information.
Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 41 : Committees of the Board Board Nominations Audit Remuneration The Board has delegated some of its Committee Committee Committee responsibilities to committees the Number of meetings Nominations Committee, the Audit 11 1 4 3 held in 2011 Committee and the Remuneration Executive Directors Committee.
A summary of the work of Sir Ian Wood 11 1 the Nominations Committee and the A G Langlands 11 Audit Committee is set out below and the report of the Remuneration Committee is A G Semple 10 included in the Directors remuneration R Keiller appointed April 2011 2 report on pages 45-55.
M H Papworth 11 M Straughen 9 The Committees terms of reference are L J Thomas 10 available on the Groups website.
J B Renfroe resigned April 2011 3 Non-executive Directors Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is I D Marchant 10 1 4 summarised here.
M Contie 10 1 3 Dr C Masters 10 1 4 The dates of future Board meetings have J C Morgan 10 1 3 3 now been agreed until the end of 2013.
N H Smith 11 1 3 J R Wilson appointed Aug 2011 3 D K Woodward 11 1 4 1 D J Ogren resigned May 2011 4 1 1 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending candidates to the Board and ensuring succession plans are in place.
The Nominations Committee aims to promote high standards of corporate governance by ensuring that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board both now and in the future promotes long-term value for shareholders.
Sir Ian Wood Chairman, Nominations Committee Who is on the Nominations Committee?
How does the Committee discharge its responsibilities?
The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman and all of the The Committee meets at least once a year, and has written terms of independent non-executive directors as follows: reference setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Sir Ian Wood Chairman Main responsibilities: I D Marchant reviewing Board structure, size and composition M Contie making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes Dr C Masters identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board J C Morgan filling Board vacancies N H Smith ensuring succession plans are in place J R Wilson appointed August 2011 D K Woodward Given the high-quality candidates identified, no external consultants D J Ogren resigned May 2011 were retained or open advertising undertaken in appointments of nonexecutive directors during 2011.
The Committee met once during 2011.
42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and internal and external audit functions.
The Audit Committee aims to promote high standards of corporate governance by ensuring robust and effective financial and audit controls.
I D Marchant Chairman, Audit Committee Who is on the Audit Committee?
Re-appointment of external auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive  LLP PwC have been the Groups external directors: I D Marchant Chairman, Dr C Masters, J C Morgan and auditors since the Group became a publicly listed company in 2002.
In line with the requirements of the Governance Code, The ongoing effectiveness of the external auditors is considered the Board considers that I D Marchant has recent and relevant financial by the Audit Committee on an annual basis as described below.
Notwithstanding the length of their tenure, to date the Committee has been satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors and have The Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written terms not considered it necessary to require PwC to tender for the external of reference setting out its roles and responsibilities, including: audit work.
The re-appointment of the external auditors is submitted for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls approval by the shareholders annually at the Annual General Meeting.
monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and its interim and preliminary announcements To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal has reviewed the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit audit function lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring the independence and reviewing the terms of engagement and independence of the external objectivity of the external auditors, the nature and level of services auditors provided, including the robustness of the external auditors handling of assessing the audit process and the effectiveness of the external key judgemental areas and the quality of the external auditors interaction auditors to supply non audit services, in accordance with Group with, and reporting to, the Committee.
policy reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of considers that action or other improvement is needed and making external auditors.
recommendations as to the steps to be taken External auditor independence and non-audit services How does the Committee discharge its responsibilities?
The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external The Committee met four times in 2011.
Attendance at Committee auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: and the Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision and the external auditors are generally invited to attend.
The Head of of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct access to and approves fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the the Chairman of the Committee at all times and to meet the Committee external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy in this area, without management present.
which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of non-audit services provided in 2011 is reported in note 3 to the financial During 2011 the Committee: statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these nonreviewed the annual report for 2010 and the interim report for 2011 audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls discussed with management and the external auditors significant issues and areas of financial risk, accounting principles, practices and judgements considered with the external auditors the significant matters arising from the annual external audit reviewed reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions taken focused on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental areas Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 43 : Internal Control Ongoing procedures Overall control environment: The Group has a clear organisational The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal structure for the control and monitoring of its businesses, including control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued policies which define the standards of business conduct The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and include Accounting Policies, Contract Risk Management and and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in Review: Health, Safety and Environment: and Business Ethics.
The place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Group Ethics helpline has been established to enable staff and third annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in parties to raise ethical concerns in confidence.
accordance with the revised guidance on internal controls published in October 2005 by the Turnbull Review Group.
The Group, for the For further details please refer to the Financial Responsibility purposes of applying the Turnbull Review Group guidance referred to and Integrity sections of Core Values on pages 32 and 33. above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Risk identification and management: The process for risk identification and management is outlined on page 22.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can For further details please refer to Principal risks and only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material uncertainties on pages 22 to 25. misstatement or loss.
Monitoring of the internal control systems: The Board has The key elements of the ongoing procedures which the directors have agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control an ongoing basis, including safety, legal and financial matters.
The on an annual basis are listed to the right.
Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment was by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where that the internal control environment was operating effectively.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets, and, at least twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director normally attend the QRMs.
44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate governance continued Going concern The Group has considerable financial resources together with the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to cash inflows generated from its existing activities as set out in notes affect its future development, performance and position are set out 13, 15 and 26 to the financial statements.
As a consequence, the in the Operational Review on pages 8 to 25.
The financial position of directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are risks successfully.
Having made the appropriate enquiries including described in the Financial Review on pages 16 to 21.
In addition, note a review of cash flow projections and key sensitivities, the directors 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies consider, in accordance with the Governance Code, that the business and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management is a going concern.
Adequate resources exist for the Group to continue objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Statement of directors responsibilities companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors remuneration report and the Group and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 36 and 37, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent company the directors report on page 38 includes a fair review of the financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the development and performance of the business and the position state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: defined as information needed by the companys auditors in connection make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting are aware of that information.
Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
