Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code page 58 The Role of the Board page 58 Committees of the Board page 59 Board and Committee Attendance page 60 Relations with Shareholders page 60 Accountability, Audit and Control page 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Risks page 61 In respect of board membership and other appointments, the board Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code determines the structure, size and composition of the board, This statement together with the Nomination Committee Report on appointments to the board, selection of the Chairman of the board page 66, the Audit Committee Report on page 67 and the and the Chief Executive, appointment of the Senior Independent Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 74, describes how the Main Director and membership and chairmanship of board committees.
Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC dated June 2008 the The board held seven meetings in the year.
In addition, the board Code, have been applied during the year ended 31st March 2011. met separately in the year to undertake a ten year strategy review.
In June 2010 the FRC replaced the Code with the UK Corporate The board delegates specific responsibilities to board committees, Governance Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on as described below.
or after 29th June 2010 the New Code.
The board will report on compliance with the New Code in next years annual report.
Board Composition During the year ended 31st March 2011, the company has complied The board comprises the Chairman Sir John Banham, the Chief with all relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout Executive Mr N A P Carson, three other executive directors, the the year except in respect of provision D. 1.1 The senior independent Chairman Designate Mr T E P Stevenson and six other independent director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major non-executive directors.
Sir John Banham will be retiring as Chairman shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a with effect from the close of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major having served as Chairman for five years, and will be succeeded by shareholders.
During the year the board has taken the view that it is Mr Stevenson who was appointed to the board on 29th March 2011. not necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the Sir John Banhams and Mr Stevensons other commitments are Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major disclosed on page 56. shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless such discussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods by which Also with effect from the close of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, major shareholders views are communicated to the board as a Mr A M Thomson and Mr R J W Walvis will be retiring from the whole are discussed under Relations with Shareholders on page 60. board, each having served as a non-executive director for nine years.
Mr A M Ferguson, who was appointed as a non-executive director on 13th January 2011, will succeed Mr Thomson as The Role of the Board Chairman of the Audit Committee and Mr M J Roney, non-executive The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the director, will be appointed the Senior Independent Director.
groups long term success, its strategic objectives, its system of Mr Roney will also take over the chairmanship of the Management corporate governance and the stewardship of the groups resources Development and Remuneration Committee upon Mr Walvis and it is ultimately responsible for social, environmental and ethical retirement.
Following these changes, the board will comprise the matters.
The board is also responsible for determining the nature Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in order to four independent non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Other key matters reserved for board decision include approval of Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly the annual group operating and capital expenditure budgets, annual each non-executive director, is able to make an effective contribution.
group three year plan and ten year strategy and of changes relating He is responsible for ensuring a culture of openness and debate to the companys capital structure.
The board also approves and that adequate time is available for discussion.
He monitors, with announcements of the groups results, the Annual Report and assistance from the Company Secretary, the information distributed to Accounts, the declaration of the interim dividend and recommendation the board to ensure that it is sufficient, accurate, timely and clear.
The board is responsible for considering and approving major capital projects, major acquisitions and major disposals of assets or operations.
The board reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
58 Corporate Governance The company has in place formal induction programmes for new The Role of the Board continued directors.
Since their appointments, Mr Ferguson and Mr Stevenson Board Composition continued have received a tailored induction programme which so far has The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day management responsibility included meetings with the Chief Executive, the executive directors for the groups operations, implementing group strategies and and senior management in order to be briefed on the group strategy policies agreed by the board.
and individual businesses, briefing sessions with key group functions and visits to the principal UK sites.
As part of his induction The three other executive directors, Mr R J MacLeod, Mr L C Pentz programme, Mr Stevenson has had meetings with several major and Mr W F Sandford, have specific responsibilities, which are shareholders.
Mr Ferguson is available to attend meetings with detailed on pages 56 and 57, and have direct responsibility for all major shareholders if requested.
The role of the non-executive directors, who are appointed for specified Board and Committee Performance Evaluation terms subject to re-election and to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal of a director, is to enhance Following the appointment of Mr Stevenson as Chairman Designate independence and objectivity of the boards deliberations and on 29th March 2011, the board has instigated a formal evaluation of decisions.
Additionally, the non-executive directors play an important its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Each non-executive director including, This evaluation is being led by Mr Stevenson and is being externally until his forthcoming appointment as Chairman, Mr Stevenson is facilitated.
The external facilitator has no other connection with the considered by the board to be independent in character and company.
The evaluation will allow Mr Stevenson to gain an objective judgment and there are no relationships or circumstances which are view of the workings of the board and of its committees.
The likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
evaluation includes detailed interviews with each director covering the following key areas: Under the companys Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
However, overall board effectiveness, in accordance with the provisions of the New Code, all directors board composition and balance, will retire at each Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for succession planning, re-election.
All directors except Sir John Banham, Mr Thomson and Mr Walvis, who are retiring from the board in July 2011, will be strategy process, offering themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual General financial and non-financial monitoring, Meeting.
Mr Ferguson and Mr Stevenson will offer themselves for election having been appointed to the board since the 2010 Annual risk and management systems, and General Meeting.
the board development plan including training and site visits.
This evaluation process is ongoing and will be reported on further in Information and Support next years annual report.
Each board meeting includes a business or strategy presentation A full review of the Chairmans performance was undertaken in from senior managers.
These presentations assist the non-executive 2009 10 and the results were reported by the Senior Independent directors in familiarising themselves with the groups businesses.
Director to the board in May 2010.
In view of the forthcoming The board also holds at least one board meeting per year at one of change in the chairmanship of the company, a separate formal the groups operational sites and takes the opportunity to tour the review of the Chairmans performance has not been undertaken site and discuss issues with local senior and middle management.
although the board expects feedback on the Chairmans performance During the year ended 31st March 2011, the board visited the to be reflected in the externally facilitated evaluation currently underway.
Johnson Matthey Technology Centre in Sonning, UK where it toured the site and received presentations from management on the During the year ended 31st March 2011, the Chairman met with companys R&D organisation and on R&D long term trends.
Individual non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
non-executive directors also undertake site visits.
Such presentations, meetings and site visits help to give a balanced overview of the Committees of the Board company.
They enable the non-executive directors to build an The Chief Executives Committee CEC is responsible for the understanding of the companys businesses, the markets in which recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans and the company operates and its main relationships and to build a link on making recommendations on matters reserved to the board with the companys employees.
This is important in helping the where appropriate.
It is also responsible for the executive management non-executive directors to continually develop and refresh their of the groups businesses.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief knowledge and skills to ensure that their contribution to the board Executive and meets monthly except in August.
During the year it remains informed and relevant.
Account is taken of environmental, comprised the Chief Executive, the three other executive directors social and governance matters in the training of directors.
and eight senior executives of the company including four division The Company Secretary is responsible to the board, and is available directors: the Group Director, Corporate and Strategic Development: to individual directors, in respect of board procedures.
The Company the Director, Group Systems, EHS and HR: the Deputy Director, Secretary is also responsible for keeping the board up to date on Group EHS and HR: and the Group Legal Director.
legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments.
Johnson Matthey 59 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Committees of the Board continued Sir John Banham, the group Chairman, and also comprises all the The Audit Committee is a committee of the board whose purpose independent non-executive directors.
Mr Stevenson will take over is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities the chairmanship of the Nomination Committee upon his for financial reporting and corporate control.
The Audit Committee appointment as group Chairman in July 2011.
A report from the meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr Thomson.
It comprises all the Nomination Committee on its activities is given on page 66. independent non-executive directors with the group Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the external and The Management Development and Remuneration Committee internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report from the Audit MDRC is a committee of the board which determines on behalf of Committee on its activities is given on page 67.
Mr Thomson has the board the fair remuneration of the executive directors and the recent and relevant financial experience as former Finance Director Chairman and assists the board in ensuring that the current and of Smiths Group plc and, until April 2011, as President of the future senior management of the group is recruited, developed and Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
As referred to remunerated in an appropriate fashion.
The MDRC is chaired by above, Mr Thomson will be retiring from the board in July 2011 at Mr Walvis and comprises all the independent non-executive directors which time Mr Ferguson will take over as Chairman of the Audit together with the group Chairman.
The Chief Executive and the Committee.
Mr Ferguson has recent and relevant financial Director, Group EHS and HR attend by invitation except when their experience as former Chief Financial Officer of Lonmin Plc.
own performance and remuneration are discussed.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 74.
As The Nomination Committee is a committee of the board referred to above, Mr Walvis will be retiring from the board in July 2011 responsible for advising the board and making recommendations at which time Mr Roney will take over as Chairman of the MDRC.
on the appointment and, if necessary, dismissal of executive and Board and Committee Attendance Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2010 11 was as follows: Director Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 Sir John Banham 775577 4 1 1 1 N A P Carson 77 5 7 4 A M Ferguson 22112211 Sir Thomas Harris 77557744 1 R J MacLeod 77 4 L C Pentz 77 M J Roney 77557744 W F Sandford 77 T E P Stevenson 111111 D C Thompson 77557744 A M Thomson 77557744 R J W Walvis 77557744 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
Relations with Shareholders Contact with Major Shareholders Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the The board considers effective communication with shareholders, Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Chairman be extremely important.
is also available to discuss governance and other matters directly The company reports formally to shareholders when its full year and with major shareholders.
The board believes that appropriate steps half year results are published.
These results are posted on Johnson have been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the Mattheys website www.
At the same time, executive board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an directors give presentations on the results to institutional investors, understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company.
analysts and the media in London and other international centres.
The board is provided with brokers reports at every board meeting Live audiocasts of the results presentations in London and copies and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
of major presentations are available on the companys website.
The canvassing of major shareholders views for the board in a The company also holds an annual investor day for its institutional detailed investor survey is usually conducted every two years by investors and analysts.
At the 2011 Investor Day, the company external consultants.
The board has taken the view that these presented the results of its ten year strategy review.
Copies of the methods, taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for Investor Day presentations are posted on the companys website.
the Chairman to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on governance and strategy and for the Senior Independent Director to learn the views of major shareholders and to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, however no such meetings were requested during the year.
60 Corporate Governance The Audit Committee also considers reports from the external Relations with Shareholders continued auditors on their evaluation of the systems of internal financial Annual General Meeting control and risk management.
Amongst other matters, the Audit The companys Annual General Meeting takes place in London and Committee reviews the groups credit control procedures and risks, formal notification is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in controls over precious metals, IT controls and the groups corporate advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, social responsibility reporting arrangements and whistleblowing formally during the Annual General Meeting and informally procedures.
The Audit Committee also reviews the performance of afterwards.
Details of the 2011 Annual General Meeting are set out both the internal and external auditors.
in the circular accompanying this annual report.
The Audit Committee reports to the board on the operation and effectiveness of internal financial controls and risk management Accountability, Audit and Control systems.
This is considered by the board in forming its own view In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a of the effectiveness of the systems.
balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial A report from the Audit Committee on its activities and on the work position and prospects.
The statement of the responsibility of of Internal Audit is given on page 67. directors for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 75.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company.
This process, which is The groups organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
described on pages 38 and 39, has been in place during the year These are all separately managed but report to the board through a ended 31st March 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual board director.
The CEC receives and reviews monthly summaries of Report and Accounts.
The board regularly reviews this process.
financial results from each division through a standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting The directors confirm that the system of internal controls for the year process including plans for the following two years.
Variances from ended 31st March 2011 and the period up to 1st June 2011 has budget are closely monitored.
In addition to the annual budgeting been established in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance process, there is a ten year strategy review process.
on Internal Control published by the FRC included with the Code.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and controls and risk management systems.
No significant failings or authority limits of the various board and executive committees and weaknesses were identified.
also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals Corporate Social Responsibility Risks issued by the group, divisions and individual businesses or departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board, the Audit Committee and the CEC.
Internal Control and Risk Management The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of internal A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social control, including in respect of the financial reporting process, and responsibility CSR is set out in the Sustainability section of the risk management systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Business Review on pages 45 to 55.
A full version of the internal control systems are designed to meet the groups needs Sustainability Report is available on the companys website.
and manage the risks to which it is exposed, although these cannot The identification and monitoring of environment, health and safety be eliminated.
Such systems can only provide reasonable but not EHS, social and governance risks are the responsibility of the CSR absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the CEC.
It The board has delegated responsibility for the review of the comprises the division directors, the Director, Group EHS and HR, effectiveness of the groups internal financial control and risk the Group Legal Director and senior representatives of Internal Audit, management systems to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee Group EHS and other group functions.
The Committee has specific monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the groups systems for responsibility for setting and overseeing compliance with the internal control and risk management, considering regular reports standards for group CSR performance through the development, from management and Internal Audit.
The internal audit function is dissemination, adoption and implementation of appropriate group responsible for monitoring the groups systems of internal financial policies and other operational measures.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site audit reports.
reviews and receives the reports produced by the internal audit EHS performance is reviewed on a regular basis by the CEC and function on a regular basis.
Actions are agreed with management in an annual review is undertaken by the board.
response to any issues raised by the internal audit reports produced.
Risks from employment and employee issues are identified and Internal Audit follows up the implementation of its recommendations, assessed by the CEC and reported to the board.
including any recommendations to improve internal controls, and Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable reports the outcome to senior management and to the Audit business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further In addition, each year businesses are required to formally review operational guidelines to reinforce these.
their financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with group policies and statutory and regulatory obligations and to The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social provide assurance on these.
The results of these reviews are responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through collated and summarised by the internal audit function and a report the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the is made annually to the Audit Committee.
Johnson Matthey 61 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
