Audit Committee Report Inspection Units Public Report on the 2009 10 inspection of KPMG Role of the Audit Committee Audit Plc.
The Audit Committee is a committee of the board whose responsibilities include: At its meeting on 1st February 2011 the Audit Committee reviewed the groups risk register and managements and Internal Audits Reviewing the groups half-yearly and full year accounts and reports on the effectiveness of the groups systems for internal results announcements and any other formal announcements financial control and risk management.
The groups whistleblowing relating to the groups financial performance and recommending procedures were also reviewed.
Changes to the Group Control them to the board for approval.
The Committee also approved the internal Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control, audit plan for 2011 12. financial reporting and risk management.
Since the year end the Committee has met to review the groups Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal preliminary announcement of its results and draft report and audit function and considering regular reports from Internal Audit accounts for the financial year ended 31st March 2011, and also on internal financial controls and risk management.
the groups assessment of going concern.
Considering the appointment of the external auditors, overseeing the process for their selection and making recommendations to Independence of External Auditors the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had for approval at a general meeting.
safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit, respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: recommending their remuneration, and considering their reports Audit related services the external auditors are invited to on the groups accounts, their reports to shareholders and their provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must evaluation of the systems of internal financial control and risk or are best placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating management.
to borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
the companys website at www.
Tax compliance and advice the auditors may provide such services where they are best suited, but otherwise such work is Composition of the Audit Committee put out to tender.
The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive Other services these may not be provided where precluded by directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set ethical standards or where we believe it would compromise their out on pages 56 and 57.
Their remuneration is set out on page 71. audit independence and objectivity.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson, who To the extent consistent with the above policy, services likely to cost was formerly Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and, until April 2011, less than 25,000 may be approved by the Group Finance Director.
was President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Services above this amount must be approved by the Chairman of Mr A M Ferguson, who joined the board on 13th January 2011, will the Audit Committee, unless they are likely to be in excess of take over chairmanship of the Audit Committee in July 2011 when 100,000 when they must be approved by the Audit Committee.
Mr Ferguson was formerly the Chief Financial Officer of Lonmin Plc and is a chartered accountant.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended 31st March 2011 and information on the nature of non-audit fees The group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head appear in note 5 on the accounts.
of Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets Internal Audit separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors without management being present.
The Company Secretary During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of is secretary to the Audit Committee.
the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during the year and the departments resource requirements and also Main Activities of the Audit Committee approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2012.
The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended Internal Audit independently reviews the risks and control processes 31st March 2011.
At its meeting on 27th May 2010 the Committee operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in reviewed the groups preliminary announcement of its results for the accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the financial year ended 31st March 2010, and the draft report and Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
The Committee received reports from the The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and management framework surrounding the major business risks.
their comments on risk management and control matters.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal The Audit Committee met on 20th July 2010 to receive reports on controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve internal controls from both the internal and external auditors.
Internal Audit follows up the implementation of external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for recommendations and reports progress to senior management and the forthcoming years audit.
The Committee also assessed the the Audit Committee.
performance of both the internal and external auditors.
The review of the external auditors was used to confirm the appropriateness of The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal their reappointment and included assessment of their independence, Audit on the departments work and findings.
qualification, expertise and resources, and effectiveness of the audit The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and process.
The Committee recommended to the board the discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors.
The groups Sustainability Report 2010 11 was also reviewed, which is available on the companys website at www.
On behalf of the Audit Committee: At its meeting on 22nd November 2010 the Audit Committee reviewed the groups half-yearly results, the half-yearly results announcement and the external auditors review and also papers on key accounting judgments, credit control and credit risk and on litigation affecting the group.
The Committee received a presentation Alan Thomson on the risks facing the Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining business Chairman of the Audit Committee from its Finance Director.
The Committee also reviewed the Audit Johnson Matthey 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
