Nomination Committee Report The Committee met on 5th May 2010 to further discuss the process Role of the Nomination Committee for the selection and appointment of a new group Chairman.
The The Nomination Committee is a committee of the board whose Committee considered the specification for the role based on the purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, skills and experience required and assessed the time commitment dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms of expected.
It also reviewed external search consultancies proposed reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the to be used in the selection process.
The Committee reviewed companys website at www.
progress at its meeting on 1st June 2010 and considered shortlisted external and internal candidates at its meetings on 20th July and Composition of the Nomination Committee 29th September 2010.
Also at its meeting on 29th September 2010, The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent the Committee considered fully the respective merits of the remaining non-executive directors together with the group Chairman.
The external and internal candidates, including their other significant quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of commitments.
After full consideration, the Committee agreed to whom must be an independent non-executive director.
Biographical recommend the appointment of Mr T E P Stevenson as Chairman details of the independent directors and the group Chairman are set Designate and for him to take over as Chairman on Sir John out on pages 56 and 57.
Their remuneration is set out on page 71.
At its meeting on 1st February 2011, the Committee noted that Mr Stevenson would join the board as The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Nomination Chairman Designate on 29th March 2011.
At each of the Committee, although he may not chair the Nomination Committee aforementioned meetings, the Senior Independent Director chaired when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the chairmanship the discussions relating to the Chairmans successor.
A non-executive director may not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with a matter relating to At its prior meetings on 2nd February and 30th March 2010, the that non-executive director.
Nomination Committee had discussed the prospective retirement of Mr A M Thomson, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman Only members of the Nomination Committee have the right to of the Audit Committee, after serving as a non-executive director for attend Nomination Committee meetings.
However, the Chief nine years, and of Mr R J W Walvis, Chairman of the Management Executive, the Director, Group EHS and HR, external advisers and Development and Remuneration Committee, also after serving as a others may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and non-executive director for nine years.
It was agreed that the process when appropriate.
for appointment of successors should be instigated later in the year.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Nomination Committee.
At its meeting on 5th May 2010, the Committee discussed further the The Nomination Committee has the authority to seek any information need to appoint an additional non-executive director chair of the that it requires from any officer or employee of the company or its Audit Committee following the forthcoming retirement of Mr Thomson.
In connection with its duties, the Nomination Committee The Committee agreed that the process for selection would be is authorised by the board to take such independent advice including instigated later in the year.
On 29th September 2010, the Committee legal or other professional advice, at the companys expense as it considered a description for the role based on the balance of skills, considers necessary, including requests for information from or experience, independence and knowledge on the board and an commissioning investigations by external advisers.
assessment of the time commitment expected.
Profiles were received from external search consultants in respect of several candidates.
At its meeting on 23rd November 2010, the Committee reviewed Main Activities of the Nomination Committee progress, noting the outcome of interviews of the shortlisted The Nomination Committee met seven times during the year candidates.
After full consideration, the Committee agreed to ended 31st March 2011: on 5th May, 1st June, 20th July, recommend the appointment of Mr A M Ferguson as a new 29th September and 23rd November 2010 and on 1st February non-executive director and prospective Chairman of the Audit and 29th March 2011.
At its prior meetings on 2nd February and 30th March 2010, the At its meeting on 29th March 2011, the Committee discussed the Committee had discussed the forthcoming retirement of the need for the board to appoint one of the independent non-executive Chairman, Sir John Banham, after the Annual General Meeting in directors to be the Senior Independent Director following the July 2011, and had considered the appointment of a successor and forthcoming retirement of Mr Thomson.
It also discussed the need to a draft specification for the role together with initial proposals from a appoint a chair of the Management Development and Remuneration number of executive search consultants to assist in the recruitment Committee following the forthcoming retirement of Mr Walvis.
The Committee had agreed that the selection process, Committee agreed to consider these matters again at its next meeting.
including the selection of executive search consultants, should be led by the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive, At its meeting after the year end on 10th May 2011, the Committee assisted by the Director, Group EHS and HR.
noted that Mr M J Roney had agreed to take on the role of Senior Independent Director and the chairmanship of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee upon the retirement of Mr Thomson and Mr Walvis respectively.
The Committee recommended these appointments to the board.
The board subsequently approved these appointments.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: Sir John Banham Chairman of the Nomination Committee 66
