54 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Corporate Report The holding company of the Kentz Group, Kentz Corporation Year Current Board Member Position Appointed Limited the Company, has a Premium Listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange LSE: KENZ and is a member of Tan Sri Razali Non-Executive Chairman 1994 the FTSE 250 index.
The Company is incorporated in Jersey.
The Hassan Abas Non-Executive Director 1994 Directors are responsible for the management and control of the David Beldotti Non-Executive Director 2003 Company and recognise the value of the principles of good Senior Independent Director 2011 governance whereby the Company follows the recommendations Christian Brown Chief Executive Officer 2012 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Ed Power Chief Financial Officer 2008 Hans Kraus Non-Executive Director 2008 The Board considers that applying best practice in corporate Brendan Lyons Non-Executive Director 2008 governance is an integral element in developing, maximising and maintaining the success of the Group and in achieving its longBoard changes term goals.
It is therefore committed to the highest standards of On 31 January 2012, Hugh ODonnell resigned as Chief Executive corporate governance and to instilling in the Group the related Officer and as a Director of the Company.
He was succeeded in principles with which it believes business should be undertaken.
these roles by Christian Brown who previously held the position of This process is reviewed on a quarterly basis at each Audit Group Chief Operating Officer.
Committee meeting where the Group Compliance Officer and the Committee review relevant updates and best practices in relation In accordance with the terms of reference of the Nomination to Corporate Governance requirements.
Committee, the committee members are currently considering the requirement to appoint an additional non-executive Director to the UK Corporate Governance Code compliance Board.
Kentz completed its move to a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 22 July 2011.
As part of the process the The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are Directors undertook a review of the requirements of the Code.
included in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 62 and This report covers how the Directors applied the principles of the 63 of the Annual Report.
Code during the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company is substantially compliant with the Code and, except where Re-election indicated, the provisions have been met.
The Company does not currently comply with the Code in respect of the annual re-election of all Directors.
The Board believes that At the request of the Directors, an independent consultant its existing arrangements on the re-election of Directors as set out specialising in internal audit and corporate governance, has in the Articles provide continuity of governance, while enabling undertaken an evaluation of the Companys compliance with proper accountability and underpinning board effectiveness.
the Code, which has guided this review.
Independence Board composition The Board considers the independence of each of the Non-Executive The Board comprises seven members including three independent Directors upon appointment and on an annual basis or at any Non-Executive Directors, each contributing individual experience other time when circumstances change.
The Board is satisfied from diverse backgrounds.
In addition, there are two nonthat its composition will ensure that no individual, or group of independent Non-Executive Directors who have served on the individuals, will dominate the decision-making process.
They provide focus and alignment and have many years of experience on the boards of publicly-traded Following a review of the Board composition, the Company, in line companies.
Finally, the two Executive Directors are responsible with provisions B.
1.2 of the Code, regards three of the current for the implementation of all Board decisions and oversee the Non-Executive Directors to be independent within the meaning of management of the Group on a day-to-day basis.
None of the Independent as defined in the Code.
The Board considers that Directors hold positions on the boards of other LSE-listed David Beldotti, Hans Kraus and Brendan Lyons are independent in companies.
character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that affect their judgement.
In judging the independence of these The Chairman of the Board was, when appointed, not individuals, the Board has taken account of the following: independent as he was then and remains a significant Independent Directors are not and have never been employees shareholder of the Company.
Independent Directors do not receive any remuneration from In accordance with provision A.
4.1 of the Code, David Beldotti was the Group other than Director fees, nor do they participate in appointed as Senior Independent Director in October 2011. the Companys share option scheme, long-term incentive plan or the Companys pension scheme.
David Beldotti is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Risk Independent Directors do not have any close family ties with Review Committee and is also a member of the Nomination and any of the Companys advisers, Directors or senior employees.
His role is to ensure, inter alia, that Independent Directors do not have any shareholdings in shareholders have a channel through which to communicate with the Company.
the Board, and that enquiries relating to our Code of Business Independent Directors do not have any links with other Conduct are appropriately addressed.
Directors through involvement in other companies.
G Go ove ver rnan nanc cee KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 55 55 Both Hans Kraus and David Beldotti have in the past provided There is a clear and formally documented division of responsibility additional and separately remunerated advice or other support between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive to to the Company.
Previously Hans Kraus advised Kentzs ensure an appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
management on aspects of safety, health and environment and David Beldotti provided support to the Risk Review Committee It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure the effective on aspects of its activities.
In neither case do the other Directors functioning of the Board, including the provision of accurate, timely consider that this involved significant time and remuneration of and clear information in relation to the Group and its business.
He the relevant Director relative to his overall commitments and chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate income.
These matters now come within the respective roles of and is responsible for facilitating that all Directors actively Hans Kraus and David Beldotti as Directors and are reflected in contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The their time commitment and ordinary remuneration as Directors.
Chairman is also responsible for encouraging debate and constructive criticism, speaking and acting for the Board and After a rigorous review the Board continues to consider David representing the Board to shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that Beldotti as independent, notwithstanding the fact he has been a he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
Director of the Company for nine years in April 2012, and considers his extensive experience and knowledge of the The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management industry to be invaluable to the Groups success.
of the Group and implementation of Group strategy, developing proposals for Board approval, and ensuring that a regular dialogue The Board undertakes regular reviews to ensure that its with shareholders is maintained.
composition is balanced and that its Directors have relevant industry and financial experience.
Advice All Directors have unrestricted access to the Corporate Company Functioning of the Board Secretary.
The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity, The Board is collectively responsible for providing leadership, which provides advice on the normal statutory compliance items setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies and that enables the Board to fulfil its role.
ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to achieve business success.
The Board has put in place a schedule Directors also have unrestricted access to members of Group of matters reserved for its attention and approval.
senior management and a right to obtain independent professional These include: advice at the Groups expense in relation to their duties where they The Groups long-term objectives and strategy.
consider it appropriate to do so.
Matters relating to the structure and capital of the Group.
Financial reporting and controls including internal controls, Development risk management and group accounting policies.
During 2011, prior to the Company moving from AIM to the Main Approval of annual operating budgets.
Market, the Board received extensive briefings from the Matters relating to major capital expenses: projects, Companys legal advisers, Simmons and Simmons and from its contracts and acquisitions.
financial advisers Evolution Securities and Morgan Stanley.
The Approval of the dividend policy and proposed dividend Board also engaged with the Primary Listing Team at the London payments.
Stock Exchange to fully understand the ongoing requirements of Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
moving from AIM to the Main Market in relation to the role and Board membership and senior appointments: approval of responsibility of the Board.
contracts with Directors or related parties including the determination of the remuneration for the Directors and Management of conflicts of interest executive management.
The 2006 Companies Act the Act places a statutory duty on Approval of the Board Committees terms of reference.
Directors to avoid a situation where they have, or could have, a Undertaking an annual review of the Boards performance direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board of Directors review and challenge the strategy At the Annual General Meeting held on 27 May 2011, shareholder process adopted by the management of the Company and the approval was obtained for the Company to adopt new Articles strategic plan which is developed bi-annually.
At the January of Association coinciding with its admission to the Main Market.
2012 Board meeting, a detailed presentation was delivered These new Articles include provisions for dealing with Directors by management as to the future direction of the Group which conflicts of interests under which Directors are required to notify included a budget for 2012 along with strategic initiatives, a the Company Secretary of such events as they arise so that they review of business and investment opportunities.
Following a can be considered by the Board.
A Director may not vote on or be detailed review by the Board members, the strategic plan counted in the quorum to vote on any contract, arrangement, was agreed to be appropriate for the Group and the plan was transaction or proposal in which he is interested except those approved.
A detailed strategic review is currently under way specifically permitted in article 61.3 of the Articles of Association.
which, once completed will be presented to the Board for further approvals.
56 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Corporate Report continued Non-Executive Directors are also required to avoid any Risk Review Committee engagements with or instructions from other persons that might The Risk Review Committee comprises David Beldotti as result in the creation of a conflict of interest.
In the event such a Chairman, Christian Brown, Ed Power and Hans Kraus.
The situation has arisen, or is about to arise, the Non-Executive Committee meets at least four times a year and at the Chairmans Director is required to notify the Board.
If the Board decides that a request, Adrian Griffin, the Group Commercial, Contracts and Risk conflict of interest has arisen, or may arise, the Non-Executive Officer, also attends these meetings.
The Committee is Director must immediately cease such activity or resign from the responsible for: Board.
Maintaining and improving the internal systems for control and risk management.
Directors are required to disclose any conflicts of interests at all Continually reviewing the effectiveness of systems for internal Board and Committee meetings that may exist or appear to exist.
control, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Company has a share dealing code that covers dealings in Reviewing the process for identifying the principal business its own shares by Directors and employees.
It complies with the risks facing the Group, the methods of managing these risks, provisions of the UK Listing Rules and restricts dealings in shares the controls that are in place to contain them and the and other relevant securities by Directors and employees during procedures to monitor them.
the designated close periods and any time that they are in Making recommendations for consideration by the Board of possession of unpublished price-sensitive information.
any actions it deems necessary to better protect the interests A notification outlining the dates of close periods is issued to of the Company.
Directors and employees by the investor relations team prior Page 38 for full risk factors breakdown to commencement of the close period.
Audit Committee Directors are also obliged to notify the Company of their The Audit Committee comprises David Beldotti as the Chairman, shareholding in the Company on appointment and to seek Board Hans Kraus, Hassan Abas and Brendan Lyons.
The Audit approval for any acquisition or disposal of shares while acting as Committee meets at least four times a year at appropriate times a Director.
in the reporting and audit cycle and otherwise as required.
Other members of the Board may also be invited to attend meetings The Company maintains a Register of Directors Interests at its as and when appropriate.
The Groups external auditor, BDO, is registered office.
Changes to Directors interests are reviewed invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee on a regular at each scheduled Board Meeting.
The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Monitoring the integrity of the reported financial performance 2011 Board and Committee members attendance of the Group, including its preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and interim report and to review the Risk Review Audit Remuneration Nomination appropriateness of related accounting policies, material Board Committee Committee Committee Committee assumptions and significant judgements adopted in Number of meetings 4 4 4 4 2 their preparation.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Tan Sri Razali 4 2 financial controls.
Hassan Abas 4 4 Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups David Beldotti 4 4 4 4 2 internal audit function.
Brendan Lyons 4 3 4 2 Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Hans Kraus 4 4 4 4 and removal of the external auditors.
Hugh ODonnell 4 4 Monitoring the objectivity and independence of the Ed Power 4 4 external auditors.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of Board performance evaluation the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The performance of the Board is critical to the success of the Meeting at least annually with the external auditor and Group Company.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and Internal Audit Manager in the absence of executive to date this review has been conducted internally.
satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his responsibilities.
The Chairman The Directors consider that David Beldotti and Hassan Abas have reviews the performance of each Non-Executive Director and that competence in accounting and auditing matters and have relevant of the Executive Directors serving on the Board.
The Chairman financial experience over an extended period of time in regularly meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without the international businesses.
David Beldotti holds a Masters of Executive Directors present, to discuss issues pertaining to Business Administration with a major in Finance and has extensive performance and remuneration: independent of this, the Chief experience of audit committee duties in the Company and in other Executives performance is reviewed by the Board on an annual companies.
Hassan Abas is a member of the Institute of Chartered basis.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Accountants, England & Wales and the Malaysian Institute of Director also meet annually to evaluate the performance of the Accountants.
He also chairs the audit committee of Jardine Cycle Chairman after taking into account the views of the Executive and Carriage Ltd, a public company in Singapore.
COM 57 57 The Audit Committee has put in place procedures relating to the Remuneration Committee provision of non-audit services by the Groups external auditors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Brendan Lyons as the These procedures specify services that are permitted to be carried Chairman, Hans Kraus and David Beldotti.
The Remuneration out by the external auditors and those that are not permitted.
They Committee meets at least four times a year and is responsible for: also require that non-audit work with fees above a specific value to Monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior be approved in advance by the Audit Committee and the process management.
of how that work should be tendered for.
Determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups executive management.
During 2011, the Company engaged BDO as Reporting Agreeing the remuneration for all Executive Directors and the accountants to facilitate its move from AIM to the Main Market of Chairman, including the terms of service and employment the London Stock Exchange.
BDO were paid fees of US$351,000 contracts and share-based schemes.
This appointment was approved by the Audit Other employee incentive schemes adopted by the Group from Committee.
This work was non-advisory in nature and no time-to-time and pension arrangements.
management decisions were taken by BDO.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for While the Group does not consider it necessary to have a formal the executive members of the Board to consider and evaluate requirement for rotation of external auditors, it has recently annually.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to introduced a policy under which every three years the Audit their own remuneration.
Committee will consider the appropriateness of putting the external audit out to tender and will inform the shareholders as to Executive Directors and senior management compensation their decision.
comprises of base salary and benefits, short-term cash incentives to drive annual financial performance, and long-term incentives Nomination Committee comprising equity awards vesting after a three year period with The Nomination Committee comprises Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul the aim of driving long-term shareholder value.
Rahman as the Chairman, Brendan Lyons and David Beldotti.
The Nomination Committee meets at least twice a year and at such Material inaccurate reporting or statements are regarded as a other times required by the Chairman of the Committee.
The misconduct event and would result in all unvested long-term duties of the Nomination Committee include: incentive awards lapsing immediately.
Identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies.
All long-term incentive equity awards, either options, performance Review annually the overall effectiveness of the Board as or contingent stock have a minimum three year vesting period a whole and the individual Directors in discharging their consistent with the Code.
Page 60 for full Report of the Remuneration Committee Carry out succession planning for the Board where required.
Regularly review the structure, size and composition of Internal Audit the Board.
Internal Audit and compliance monitoring work is carried out by Keep under review the leadership needs of the Group for the Group Internal Audit Manager and Group Compliance Officer, both executive and non-executive positions.
supported by independent specialist consultants as required.
The Group Internal Audit Manager reports to the Chairman of the During 2011, the Committee met twice.
Prior to the graduation Audit Committee and works closely with the Chief Financial Officer of the Company to the Main Market the composition of the Board to ensure direct and transparent communication around all internal was reviewed.
The terms of this review were disclosed in audit activity.
The Committee is satisfied that the current composition of the Board is adequate to provide guidance to The Internal Auditor Managers role includes providing the Board the Group.
with appropriate reports to assist them in their annual review of the Groups internal control systems.
He is responsible for reviewing The Committee will continue to review the Board and specific areas of the Groups operations in line with an annual plan, leadership needs of the Group and to make appropriate policy which is agreed with the Audit Committee annually.
recommendations in terms of skills, gender and qualifications, to ensure the ability of the organisation to compete effectively Control framework and activities in the marketplace with uninterrupted leadership.
The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
These systems are designed to manage, but not necessarily eliminate, the risks to the Group.
They provide reasonable but not complete assurance against material loss or misstatement, including that from fraud.
The internal control systems are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Throughout the year, senior management provide the Board with related reports to assist them with this review.
58 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Corporate Report continued The main elements of the internal control framework are set Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General out below.
Meeting which is attended by all Directors, to deal with any matters raised by shareholders.
Questions relating to the strategy, The Group has a clear management structure with defined lines of performance and progress of the Company are welcomed at responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
of the overall control is directed by the Management Executive Committee, comprising the key senior executives of the Company.
The CEO, CFO and the investor relations team maintain regular The Committee meets six times annually and its main focus and dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Formal meetings with responsibilities are: investors, analysts and media take place throughout the year: Overseeing the Safety Leadership Charter.
at preliminary and interim results and at other times as requested Developing and implementing Group strategy.
Copies of these results Carrying out formalised risk reviews on selected projects presentations can be viewed on the Groups website.
Reviewing Group financials, annual budgets and forecasts.
The Groups investor relations team, based in London, acts as a Ensuring appropriate guidance is given to analysts.
point of contact for investors throughout the year.
The Senior Planning news project announcements.
Independent Director is also available to shareholders on their Reviewing Group backlog position across the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer reports at each Board meeting on Insurance cover the Group operational environment and activities of the The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance Management Executive Committee.
cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
The Groups policies and procedures are reviewed on a periodic Company Secretary basis and updated as necessary on an ongoing basis, for example The current Company Secretary is a corporate entity, which those in relation to ethical business dealings as noted below.
provides advice on statutory compliance that enables the Board to This process is designed to ensure that the Groups policies and fulfil its role.
Other duties that would normally be carried out by an procedures are up-to-date, meet the Groups requirements and internal Company Secretary, such as the provision of timely are in line with best practice.
information to the Board, are fulfilled by either the CEO or CFO.
In terms of Corporate Governance issues the Board is advised by the UK Bribery Act 2010 Group Internal Audit Manager and external advisers as The new UK Bribery Act came into force in July 2011.
The appointment or removal of a Company Secretary from the government suggests that companies should adopt a is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board is satisfied that the risk-based approach to the application of the UK Bribery Act current arrangement is adequate but will continue to review its and as such the Company is currently obtaining legal advice effectiveness.
concerning how the legislation will impact the Group.
The Board has charged the Chief Financial Officer with overseeing its Code of Business Conduct application to the Company.
The Group continues to maintain and build on our already well-established high standards of business conduct and ethics.
The Company relationships with shareholders In September 2011, the Company formalised all of the important The Board represents the shareholders and is accountable to them behaviours expected of Group employees into a single Code of for creating and delivering value through the effective governance Business Conduct, which was approved by the Board.
It aims to develop a mutual understanding with shareholders on the Groups strategic objectives and remains fully The Group is committed to ensuring the highest legal standards committed to ensuring regular communication with shareholders and moral ethics guide all its business activities.
This applies and reviews the following activities: to the behaviour of all Directors, staff, sub-contractors, agents, The provision of regular dialogue with major institutional consultants, contract labour, suppliers and others representing shareholders.
or acting for, or on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries Press releases regarding Company news which have been or joint ventures.
Kentz Group website, which contains all current news, The Code of Business Conduct sets out to ensure that at every including corporate presentations and accounts.
level of the organisation, at all times, all employees conduct The Annual Report is issued to all registered shareholders and through their own actions, their dealings internally and with third contains extensive information about the Companys activities.
parties with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and fairness and foster an environment based on such standards, as well as complying with all related legislation in the countries in which they operate within.
COM 59 59 The Group has its own internal procedures for monitoring compliance set out in its Code of Business Conduct, but also relies on its employees and external bodies speaking up where they become aware of actual or potential breaches of it.
Speaking up relates to the disclosure of information by an employee or external body if they have a genuine concern about malpractice anywhere in the Group, such as instances of contravention of internal policies and legal and ethical standards, including activities or inactivities that put at risk the health and safety of Group employees or others, breaches of any environmental or regulatory requirements, bribery and corruption, false accounting, fraud and failure to comply with a legal obligation or a deliberate concealment of information relating to any of the above.
The Group is committed to ensuring any employee or external bodys concerns of malpractice are taken seriously and investigated and the ways to raise such concerns are set out in the Code of Business Conduct which can be found on the Kentz website www.
Share Dealing Code The Company has a share dealing code that covers dealings by Directors and employees.
This code complies with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Rules.
This code restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by Directors and employees during the designated prohibited periods and any time that they are in possession of the unpublished price-sensitive information.
A notification outlining the dates of close periods is issued to Directors and employees by the investor relations team a month prior to each periods commencement.
Market Disclosure We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same access to relevant information in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
Copies of announcements to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report and other relevant information are published on the Kentz website.
60 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee Members of the Remuneration Committee Brendan Lyons, Chairman Hans Kraus David Beldotti Main Responsibilities Recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Agreeing the remuneration for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including the terms of service and employment contracts and share-based schemes.
Overseeing and monitoring other employee incentive schemes adopted by the Group from time-to-time including pension arrangements.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The Committee met four times during 2011 and the attendance record of individual Committee members is shown on page 56 of the Annual Report.
All three members of the Remuneration Committee, including the Chairman Brendan Lyons, were considered by the Board to be independent during 2011 according to the criteria of independence set out in the Code.
Following a review, the current terms of reference of the Remuneration Brendan Lyons Committee were adopted by the Board on 23 June 2011 immediately prior to the Remuneration Committee Companys listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
These Chairman provide that it will determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups executive management and fix the remuneration for all Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management of the Company.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the executive members of the Board.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company has set the remuneration of Executive Directors at levels sufficient to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to run the Company successfully.
The Company has taken into account the level of compensation in its industry and in the geographical markets in which it operates: the Companys need for executive talent to continue its growth: and the equitable rewarding of its employees.
Advice to the Remuneration Committee The CEO and CFO provide internal support to the Remuneration Committee and attend meetings at the Committees invitation, except where matters associated with their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee and its members are entitled to seek external advice as and when required.
During the year the Company, using an outside consultant and its own resources, conducted a comprehensive exercise, benchmarking the compensation of its Executive Directors and senior management against comparable positions in similar companies.
Following the review, the Company modified its compensation scheme to reflect industry practices for short-term incentives STI, annual cash bonus, long-term incentive LTI equity-based awards and total compensation as set out on pages 61 and 62.
Executive Award Policy Kentz is a global engineering and construction company, operating in 29 countries, competing against international firms.
The Remuneration Committee, with support from external consultants, has established executive compensation consistent with the external competitive environment.
Executives are paid competitive base salaries and their overall remuneration is subject to achieving annual financial and long-term strategic goals.
Short-term and long-term incentivised components of executive remuneration are variable.
Levels of payout, determined by the Remuneration Committee, reflect executive and overall Group performance.
GOvERnAnCE KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM 61 Balance between fixed and performance related pay Chief Executive total compensation at threshold level Chief Executive total compensation at maximum level % % 18% Salary 67% Salary 67% STI 23% STI 15% LTI 10% LTI Chief Executive total compensation at threshold levels comprises a 50% bonus award based upon achieving the minimum financial threshold.
The bonus award is a mix of 70% cash based short-term incentive and 30% equity based long-term incentive.
The annual bonus award can be increased subject to the Chief Executive achieving financial, strategic and personal objectives, the maximum annual award amount shall not exceed 500% of basic salary.
Chief Financial Officer total compensation at threshold level Chief Financial Officer total compensation at maximum level % % 71% Salary 37% Salary 20% STI 37% STI 9% LTI 26% LTI Chief Financial Officer total compensation at threshold levels comprises a 40% bonus level based upon achieving the minimum financial threshold.
The bonus award is a mix of 70% cash-based short-term incentive and 30% equity-based long-term incentive.
The annual bonus award can be increased subject to the Chief Financial Officer achieving financial, strategic and personal objectives, the maximum annual award amount shall not exceed 200% of basic salary.
Base Package Base packages reflect the Remuneration Committees assessment of the appropriate market fees for executive positions in the industry, as well as an individuals level of responsibility, criticality and value to the business.
Salaries are set at a level that allows the Company to attract and retain the very best talent.
Following a review undertaken during the year, the Remuneration Committee has decided that base salaries for Executive Directors should be increased for 2012.
This decision was taken in view of the general environment for salary increases for employees across the Group and the industry, as well as the investor environment and a desire to align remuneration with performance-based incentives.
Name 2012 base package 2011 base package % Increase Christian Brown US$565,500 n a n a Hugh ODonnell n a US$493,325 n a Ed Power US$346,477 US$329,979 5% With effect from 31 January 2012, Hugh ODonnell resigned as Chief Executive Officer of Kentz and ceased to be an Executive Director.
Christian Brown succeeded him as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of Kentz.
Annual Bonus The Remuneration Committee recommends the level of annual bonuses paid to the Executive Directors.
The cash element of the annual bonus is split into two parts: one at the year-end and the other following the approval of the full year results.
There are no individual targets for Executive Directors, but for any bonus to be paid, a minimum level of Company performance must be achieved.
The payments to individual Executive Directors are shown in the Directors Emoluments table on page 64.
During the year, overall compensation was restructured so that some element of the annual cash bonus will be replaced in part by Long-Term Incentive equity-based awards, thus structuring Executive Directors and senior managements remuneration to link a significant element to the Companys and the individuals performance.
F GIO NAN vER Cn IAL An S CT EA TEMENTS KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW WWW.
COM 63 63 Fee levels for 2011 and 2012 are set out below.
USD 2011 Pre Listing 2011 Post Listing Total 2011 2012 Changes in Membership of Committees Post-listing Tan Sri Razali 64,640 61,211 125,851 149,842 n a Hassan Abas 43,428 43,467 86,895 102,524 n a David Beldotti 55,216 80,540 135,756 197,161 Chair of Risk Review Committee as of 23 June 2011 Brendan Lyons 47,294 58,514 105,808 138,013 Member of Audit Committee as of 23 June 2011 Hans Kraus 47,520 56,378 103,898 138,013 Member of Risk Review Committee as of June 2011 Table of Non-Executive Directors Fees Pre-listing on 22 July 2011 Stg From 22 July 2011 Stg Directors Fees 30,000 50,000 Chairman of the Board 25,000 30,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 20,000 30,000 Chairman of the Risk Review Committee n a 30,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 15,000 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 10,000 15,000 Member of the Audit Committee 12,000 15,000 Member of the Risk Review Committee n a 15,000 Member of the Remuneration Committee 5,000 7,500 Member of the Nomination Committee 5,000 7,500 Terms of appointment and reappointment are set out below: Date of contract Notice period Last re-election Tan Sri Razali 23 June 2011 3 months 2010 AGM Hassan Abas 23 June 2011 3 months 2011 AGM David Beldotti 23 June 2011 3 months 2011 AGM Brendan Lyons 23 June 2011 3 months 2010 AGM Hans Kraus 23 June 2011 3 months 2010 AGM Performance Graph The Companys share price performance since listing on the Main Market against the FTSE 250 Index.
COM Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Long-Term Incentives The Long-Term Incentive award is a mixture of contingent stock awards 70% of award value and performance stock awards 30% of the value with a three-year vesting period.
For the performance stock to vest in full, Kentzs average basic earnings per share EPS growth must not be less than the average basic EPS growth for the same period for a peer group of designated industry competitors.
If the Kentz actual basic EPS growth is more than 90% but less than 100% of the industry competitors performance, a pro-rated award value will be made.
No vesting of performance stock will be made if Kentzs basic EPS growth is less than 90% of the industry competitors average EPS growth.
Share Option Scheme The Company operates an equity-settled share-based remuneration scheme for key management.
All key management are eligible to participate in the scheme, the only vesting condition being that the individual remains an employee of the Group over the savings period.
In addition, the options will lapse if the individual leaves within 2 years of satisfying the criterion.
Pensions Executive Directors receive pension contributions of an annual amount equal to 10% of their base salary, paid into the Company pension scheme.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys pension arrangements.
Other Benefits The Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with private medical insurance, life assurance and a company car allowance.
In addition, Executive Directors are entitled to housing allowances dependent on their geographical location.
Shareholding The Executive Directors hold a substantial number of shares in the Company and have interests in shares under share incentive arrangements at 31 December 2011 as shown below.
Shares held Hugh ODonnell Ed Power Christian Brown Ordinary shares 7,500,000 1,018,936 Share options 127,000 127,000 Ed Powers shares are held indirectly through Danache Holdings Limited.
Ed Power has a beneficial interest of approximately 18.1% of Danache Holdings Limited.
The shares in Danache Holdings Limited are held by Essex Trust Limited in trust for certain managers of the Group, of which Ed Power is one.
Service Agreements The Executive Directors service agreements with the Company do not set a fixed term.
In normal circumstances, the agreements may be terminated by the Company or by the Director giving no less than six months notice for the Chief Financial Officer and no less than 12 months notice for the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is of the view that these notice periods are appropriate to recruit and retain the Executive Directors.
During 2011 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the employment contracts of Executive Directors as part of the preparation for the transfer to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Executive Director Date of Contract Unexpired term Notice period by Company Notice period by Director Christian Brown 18 January 2012 No fixed term 12 months 12 months Hugh ODonnell 15 November 2010 n a 12 months 12 months Ed Power 15 November 2010 No fixed term 6 months 6 months With effect from 31 January 2012, Hugh ODonnell resigned as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and ceased to be an Executive Director.
Christian Brown succeeded him as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director of the Company.
non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but their terms of service are set out in a letter of appointment which provides, inter alia, that a Non-Executive Director may resign at any time: and that their service may be terminated by the Company giving three months notice, or by shareholders refusing to re-elect them.
Appointment may be terminated by each party giving three months notice in writing.
The Board does not comply with Code Provision B.
7.1, in respect of the annual re-election of all directors.
The Board believes that its existing arrangements on the re-election of directors provide continuity of governance, while enabling proper accountability and underpinning Board effectiveness.
Directors submit for re-election every three years with the exception of David Beldotti and Hans Kraus, who both being over 70 years of age will submit for re-election on an annual basis.
64 64 KENTZ CORPORATION LTD ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 WWW.
COM Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Audited Information Directors Remuneration Base package fees Benefits Annual Bonus 2011 Total 2011 Pension 2010 Total 2010 Pension US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Executive Directors Hugh ODonnell 493 88 1,800 2,381 65 2,319 123 Ed Power 330 71 367 768 47 914 89 non-Executive Directors Tan Sri Razali 126 126 100 Hassan Abas 87 87 67 David Beldotti 136 136 164 Brendan Lyons 106 106 73 Hans Kraus 104 104 89 Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares At 31 December 2010 At 31 December 2011 No.
20% of the shares in Kerbet Limited are beneficially held by Covili Investment Limited and the remaining 80% held by Gigondas Real Estate Inc. Each of Hassan Abas and Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman indirectly hold a beneficial interest of 50% of the shares in both of Covili Investment Limited and Gigondas Real Estate Inc. ii These shares are held indirectly by Ed Power through Danache Holdings Limited.
The Company operates a share option scheme for certain employees and in addition to the interests disclosed above certain Directors have options to acquire shares in the Company.
Number of Shares Shares Number of shares at granted in the exercised in shares at Exercise price 1 Jan 2011 year the year 31 Dec 2011 STG Exercise date Expiry date Hugh ODonnell 127,000 127,000 1.545 1 July 2012 30 June 2019 Ed Power 127,000 127,000 1.545 1 July 2012 30 June 2019 No options lapsed during the year.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2011 was Stg4.22 and the price during 2011 ranged from Stg3.22 to Stg5.08.
Awards of shares under the Long-Term Incentive Plan Shares awarded to Executive Directors under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP were: 2011 2010 No of shares US$ No of shares US$ Hugh ODonnell 57,124 400,000 Ed Power 32,797 229,656 The above share awards were made to the Executive Directors on 9 January 2012 pursuant to the Companys LTIP scheme.
These share awards form part of their 2011 annual bonus.
The share awards have been granted on a conditional basis and no shareholder rights will be conferred upon the grantee until the awards have vested.
Such vesting is subject to, inter alia, the achievement of the performance criteria of the scheme over the three year measurement period to 31 December 2014 in relation to 30% of the award and the executives continued employment with the Group over the three year period in relation to the balance.
