Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance statement Overview Operating review Financial statements The UK Corporate Governance Code The principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: The Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate conduct and is committed to managing the Groups operations in the Groups budgets, strategy, structure and financial requirements: accordance with the principles of corporate governance set out in The the Group's annual and interim financial statements taking into account UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Company has complied the views of the Audit Committee : with the Main Principles of the Code throughout the year.
The Board has also complied with the Code Provisions set out in the Code throughout the Group's interim management accounts: the year, except as explained below.
the implications of prevailing economic conditions including the Throughout the year, independent non-executive directors comprised comprehensive spending review and its potential impact on public sector less than half of the Board.
As at the date of this document, the Board expenditure and the appropriate strategy relating to them: comprises four executive directors and three independent non-executive directors, together with the chairman.
However, the Board believes that, the Groups pension scheme: although the current Board structure does not comply with the Code, it potential acquisitions: is satisfactorily balanced in practice, with the independent non-executive directors having a substantial presence in Board debate, constructively material operational opportunities: challenging the executive directors and assisting in the development health and safety issues and strategies: of strategy.
the procedures required to be implemented by the Group as a result of Board of directors the Bribery Act 2010: The Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the Company.
corporate responsibility matters: The Board sets the strategic and financial policies of the Group, monitors and reviews business performance and controls risk.
The Board has put in the implications of and proper approach to the issues relating to the place standing orders which are designed to ensure that it is provided with Castlepoint Shopping Centre car park, Bournemouth: and relevant information on a timely basis, which set authorisation limits and presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management of a which reserve certain matters for the Board or its committees, including: number of the divisions.
strategy and financial policy: The Groups chairman is Mr P M White, who leads the Board.
The chairman the approval of financial statements: is responsible for the Boards effectiveness and sets its agenda, ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The risk management: chairman also facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive major capital expenditure: directors and ensures a positive and constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
The chairman is responsible major project approval: for effective communication with shareholders and for ensuring that the acquisitions and disposals: and directors continually update their skills and knowledge, and familiarity with the Group, as required to fulfil their roles.
Mr P M Whites other certain aspects of human resources policy, including senior significant commitments are his roles as chairman of The Unite Group plc appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and and Lookers plc and as a non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc.
The Groups chief executive is Mr M P Sheffield, who is responsible for the operational management of the Group and is accountable to the Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
In order to facilitate this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management committee comprising the other executive directors focusing on a variety of matters, including strategy, material issues facing the Group and succession planning and also chairs regular management meetings with each of the divisions.
The chief executive also meets regularly with the Groups human resources director and the Groups health and safety director.
The senior non-executive director is Mr C V Geoghegan.
The senior non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the chairman, the chief executive or the other executive directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
In addition, the senior non-executive director is responsible for the appraisal of the chairmans performance.
47 Corporate governance statement continued Board of directors continued Audit Committee The Board considers Mr C V Geoghegan, Mr N P Winser and Mr R C Bailey The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive directors.
With to be independent directors.
The chairman of the Board, Mr P M White, effect from 1 October 2010, Mr R C Bailey, a chartered accountant with was also considered to be independent on his appointment.
recent and relevant financial experience, has been the chairman of the A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and Committee, replacing Mr S W Leathes who retired from the Board with its committees is set out on page 49.
Outside the formal schedule of effect from 12 November 2010. meetings, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors The Committee met four times during the year, in July, September, on a number of occasions during the year.
These meetings were also attended by the finance All directors have access to the advice and services of the company director and the head of internal audit.
The KPMG audit engagement secretary and the directors are also able to seek independent professional director attended the meetings in September and February and then met advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Training is available for with the Committee without management being present.
The chairman new directors and subsequently as necessary.
All directors are subject and the executive directors have an open invitation to attend the meetings to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following of the Committee.
Pursuant to the Articles, each director is subject to The Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
However, at its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, internal the forthcoming annual general meeting of the Company, notwithstanding controls, risk management and the application of appropriate accounting the provisions of the Articles, each of the directors will offer himself policies and procedures.
Specific responsibilities include reviewing and for re-election in accordance with the Code.
Executive directors are recommending for approval the annual and interim financial statements, required to seek approval from the Board before accepting any external reviewing the Groups accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness non-executive positions, although no such positions are currently held.
of internal controls and risk management processes and reviewing the The executive directors service agreements and the letters of scope and results of the external audit.
appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection The Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the Group's at the Companys registered office and will be on display prior to and at internal audit function, including approval of the annual risk-based audit the forthcoming annual general meeting.
plan and monitoring the work, recommendations and effectiveness of the function.
The head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman Board evaluation of the Committee.
The Board has engaged Independent Board Evaluation IBE to facilitate At each of its meetings, the Committee received and reviewed a report the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and the from the head of internal audit which highlighted the internal audit activity individual directors.
IBE does not have any other connection with the Group.
against the approved plan, together with the key findings from internal The evaluation process, which began during the course of the financial audits.
The chairman of the Committee has separate meetings with year, comprises IBE observing the performance of the Board and the the head of internal audit and the Committee has met with the head of individual directors at a meeting of the Board, individual meetings with internal audit without management being present.
The Committee reviews each of the directors to discuss their views and to solicit their opinions, the effectiveness of the internal audit function annually, with the latest and meetings with senior management below Board level to ascertain review having been completed in June 2011.
In addition, an independent their views on the effectiveness of the Board and the directors.
external review is scheduled to be carried out in October 2011.
IBE will produce reports with respect to the performance of the Board, The Committee is responsible for monitoring the independence and the chairman, the committees and the individual directors.
The report objectivity of KPMG, the external auditors, and agreeing the level of relating to the Board is scheduled to be discussed at the Board meeting to remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
The Committee received take place in October 2011.
The reports relating to the Board committees a presentation from KPMG on its audit strategy and the scope of work will be discussed with the chairmen of these committees, the chairman at the February meeting, which was agreed.
It also discussed the firms of the Board will provide feedback to each individual director, using professional ethical standards.
development plans, and the senior non-executive director will provide The Committee reviewed the performance of KPMG and the fees feedback to the chairman of the Board on the chairmans performance.
for non-audit services paid to them during the year, details of which In addition to the externally facilitated evaluation process, throughout are set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
The the year, the chairman of the Board held regular discussions with members provision of non-audit services, other than tax compliance and routine of the Board and the company secretary to assess the performance of taxation advice, must be referred to and agreed by the Committee the Board, its committees and the individual directors.
Actions arising over a predetermined cost threshold and any work costed below that from these discussions were implemented throughout the year.
threshold must be pre-approved by the Group finance director.
These controls enable the Committee to be satisfied that KPMGs objectivity and independence as auditors had not been impaired, notwithstanding the provision of non-audit services in the year.
The Committee agreed and approved KPMGs overall audit fee following discussions between relevant Group management and KPMG.
The Committees terms of reference were last updated in August 2011 to reflect the most recent guidance of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and are available on the Companys website and on request from the company secretary.
48 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Remuneration Committee Risk management and internal control The Remuneration Committee comprises the chairman and the The Code requires that the directors review the effectiveness of the non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr C V Geoghegan.
Groups risk management and internal control systems and that this review Information about the workings of this Committee is contained in cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance the directors remuneration report on page 51.
The directors are satisfied that procedures are in place to ensure recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive that the Group complies with the Turnbull Committee guidance published remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific remuneration by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and that packages for each of the executive directors.
In doing so, it takes the the procedures have been applied during the year.
advice of independent external consultants.
The Committees terms of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk reference were last updated in August 2011 to reflect ICSAs most recent management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
guidance and are available on the Companys website and on request The Board considers that the Groups systems and controls, which from the company secretary.
have been developed and refined over many years, are appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to significant risks is Nomination Committee properly managed.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather The Nomination Committee presently comprises the Groups chairman, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can the chief executive and the non-executive directors.
It is responsible only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board, making misstatement.
In reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, the recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments and directors have considered the key risks and exposures within the Group.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Committee The Group has entered into a number of joint ventures, which are not is required to consider whether open advertising or the services of external controlled by a member of the Group.
These joint ventures are not included advisers may be necessary to facilitate the search.
The Committees for the purposes of the assessment of the Groups internal controls.
terms of reference were last updated in August 2011 to reflect ICSAs The key features of the Groups system of risk management and most recent guidance and are available on the Companys website and internal controls are: on request from the company secretary.
an established management structure operating throughout the Group Board and Committee meetings with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of authority: Details of the number of meetings of the full Board and the Audit, clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and attendance at such limits set at appropriate levels.
These are set out in the Group and meetings, during the year are set out in the table below.
divisional standing orders: a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which is Name of director Board 11 Audit 4 Remuneration 6 Nomination 1 regularly reviewed and updated: 1 R C Bailey 8 3 4 1 a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, business S Bowcott 11 1 performance, risk and internal control matters which is carried out by C V Geoghegan 10 3 6 1 the directors of each division with the chief executive and finance I M Lawson 11 1 director in attendance: 2 S W Leathes 3 1 1 monthly management reporting, including regular comparison of actual 3 D E Mattar 4 2 1 results against latest forecasts: 4 H J Mursell 10 3 1 established policies and procedures governing the Groups investment M P Sheffield 11 2 4 1 in land, property and other significant assets, including acquisitions and disposals.
These include detailed appraisals, appropriate authorisation R W Simkin 11 1 levels and Board approval depending on value or perceived exposure: P M White 11 3 6 1 investment decisions, including Private Finance Initiative PFI projects, N P Winser 11 2 5 1 and tenders for contracts being subject to approval by the Board, the 1 Mr R C Bailey became a member of the Board and chairman of the Audit Committee with effect chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on from 1 October 2010, but also attended the Board meeting and the Audit Committee meeting the value and nature of the investment or contract.
Individual tender in September 2010. and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before 2 Mr S W Leathes retired from the Board and as chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 12 November 2010. contract award: 3 Miss D E Mattar retired from the Board with effect from 12 November 2010. internal audits carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of 4 Mr H J Mursell became a member of the Board with effect from 12 November 2010, but also attended the Board meetings in August, September and October 2010 and the Audit Committee internal controls.
The scope of the internal audit work is planned to cover meeting in September 2010. the key risks faced by the business and is supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
Internal audit findings are reported Any non-attendance at meetings was due to other business commitments to the Audit Committee and the executive directors on a regular basis: or reasons of ill health.
When a director was unable to attend, he reviewed the papers circulated prior to the meeting and provided any comments to the chairman of the meeting.
49 Corporate governance statement continued Risk management and internal control continued risk registers in place for each business unit highlighting key risks facing that business, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of controls to mitigate those risks.
The risk registers are updated regularly and at 31 March: an annual process of risk and control self assessment requiring all operating companies to review and confirm that appropriate internal controls are in place and operating effectively across the key risk areas identified in individual company risk registers.
This assessment was carried out as at 31 March 2011 and the findings reviewed by the Audit Committee: reviewing and reporting of safety, health and environmental matters: and the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected fraud or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
The Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor their performance and all business unit management teams are briefed on relevant issues arising at Board meetings.
During the course of a year, members of the Board visit a number of the Groups significant business units and the Board also monitors the control framework of each business.
The Audit Committee reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee did not consider that any significant internal control failings or weaknesses were identified by the review conducted during the course of the year.
Relations with shareholders The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Company has a programme of regular communication and meetings with investors, analysts and brokers including site visits, with presentations being made to investors, analysts and the press at the time of the announcement of the full-year and half-year results, so that the investment community can be kept informed as to the Groups performance and its objectives.
The Board uses this programme of communication and meetings to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Group.
In addition, the Board is provided with independent feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Companys website is also maintained to aid communication with investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
