King sher plc Annual Report Audit Committee report 54 and Accounts 2010 11 The Audit Committee the Committee is appointed by the Board from received reports from the external auditors on their findings including the non-executive directors.
The terms of reference are regularly any control observations relevant to their audit work: reviewed by the Committee and any amendments are referred to the Board for approval.
These are available at www.
reviewed the annual and interim financial statements.
In doing so the Committee reviewed signi cant accounting policies, financial Andrew Bon eld replaced Phil Bentley as Chairman of the Committee reporting issues and judgements including those disclosed in note 3 in March 2010.
Full details of the members of the Committee are set out to the financial statements, together with the reports received from on page 38.
Details of those members with recent and relevant financial the external auditors on their audits: experience, together with the number and attendance by members at Committee meetings are set on pages 29 and 36 respectively.
considered reports on the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, which is in addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
The induction reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit services provided by programme covers an overview of the business, its financial dynamics the auditors to ensure that there was no impairment of independence and risks.
New Committee members also obtain access to the Groups and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the non-audit work operations and staff and all members of the Committee undertake performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines: ongoing training as required.
reviewed the potential impact on the Groups financial statements The Committee has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial of signi cant corporate governance and accounting statements: calendar.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, as did the received presentations from the senior management of all Group Finance Director, Group Audit and Risk Management Director, operating companies: Group Financial Controller and the external auditors.
Private meetings were also held with the external and internal auditors at which reviewed the policy and process enabling employees within management were not present.
the Group to make disclosures about suspected financial and operational improprieties: and The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items for consideration at each meeting and within the annual audit cycle to ensure that its work reviewed an annual report on the Groups systems of internal is in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
A summary of control and its effectiveness, and reported the results of the the role of the Committee is set out on page 38.
During the year and up review to the Board.
to the date of this Annual Report the Committee has: The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP reviewed the Committees terms of reference and its effectiveness.
be re-appointed as the Companys auditor.
The review concluded that no signi cant amendments to the terms of reference were required: As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has agreed the terms of engagement, the fees, areas of responsibility ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
and scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors are The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General given in note 7 to the accounts: Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
undertook an assessment of the quali cation, expertise and For and on behalf of the Committee resources, and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: Andrew Bon eld Chairman of the Audit Committee considered the Internal Audit functions reports on the Groups risk 23 March 2011 management system, findings from reviews, and the remit, organisation, annual plan and resources of the internal audit function: undertaken a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function: monitored progress on the programme announced during 2008 09 to standardise and improve the control processes in a number of key areas including B&Q China business and IT systems: 40328 Kingfisher[Middle]p31-54 FINAL.
