King sher plc Annual Report Corporate governance and Accounts 35 2010 11 The Board has a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved for its The Board is committed to the approval.
The schedule is reviewed periodically and includes, but is not limited to, the following matters: highest standards of corporate Group strategy, three-year plans and annual budgets: governance and recognises that major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: major changes to the capital structure including tax and effective governance is fundamental treasury management: major changes to accounting policies or practices: to enabling the business to deliver approval of all financial announcements, the Annual Report and accounts and shareholder communications: its strategy whilst generating approval of any interim dividends and recommendation of the final dividend: shareholder value and safeguarding the system of internal control and risk management policy: and review of management development strategy.
The Board has delegated authority to standing Audit, Remuneration In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the and Nomination Committees to carry out certain tasks as fide ned in Board con rms that throughout the year ended 29 January 2011, and as their written terms of reference.
Each Committee reports to, and has its at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been in compliance terms of reference approved by, the Board.
The minutes of Committee with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial meetings are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
Additional Reporting Councils 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance information on the responsibilities of each of the Boards Committees the Combined Code.
This report together with the Directors Report is set out on pages 38 and 39. on pages 31 to 33, and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 53 provides details of how the Company has applied the principles Board meetings and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A copy of the The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
Combined Code is available at www.
Unscheduled supplementary meetings may also take place as and when necessary.
These meetings are structured to allow open UK corporate governance code discussion.
At each meeting the Board receives certain regular reports: An updated version of the UK Corporate Governance Code formerly an update from the Group Chief Executive, current trading finance the Combined Code was published on 28 May 2010 the New Code.
including liquidity reports from the Group Finance Director, capital The New Code will apply to the reporting periods beginning on or after expenditure approvals and reports from the Company Secretary 29 June 2010 and will therefore apply to the Company for the financial including governance, legal, insurance and risk, and corporate year commencing 30 January 2011.
A copy of the New Code is available responsibility updates and the Group HR Director.
All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial The Board has conducted an initial review of the New Code and has performance and risk management of the Group.
Comprehensive identi ed a number of principles which it has chosen to adopt voluntarily brie ng papers are circulated to all directors approximately one week in advance of its introduction, and those areas which will require further before each meeting.
Directors who are unable to attend a particular review and or changes during the next year.
The Board has agreed to meeting receive relevant brie ng papers, are given the opportunity to voluntarily adopt the following principles ahead of the implementation discuss any issues with the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive and, of the New Code: where possible, participate by telephone for critical discussions and approvals on speci c matters.
all directors will stand for re-appointment at the Companys Annual General Meetings with effect from 2011: and The Board generally meets at the Groups Head Of ce in London and the performance of the Board will be externally facilitated at least once holds at least one meeting each year overseas.
During the financial year every three years, commencing with the review carried out in 2010. under review, the Board held meetings in Warsaw, Poland and Toulouse, France.
In addition, at least once per year, the Board holds a meeting off A number of key changes in the New Code have been identi ed as site, which focuses on presentations from the UK executive team and relevant to the Company.
The Board have agreed to conduct a detailed includes visits to stores.
review of all aspects of the revised principles of the New Code and will provide details of this review in the next Annual Report.
The Board The Board leads and controls the Groups business and its powers are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available at www.
The Board has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Group and is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
indd 35 35 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:55:27 12:55:27 King sher plc Annual Report Corporate governance 36 and Accounts 2010 11 Board and committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years each director has served on the Board as at the financial year end and their attendance at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings which they were eligible to attend: Tenure Audit Remuneration Nomination in years Board Committee Committee Committee Daniel Bernard 4 10 10 9 9 1 1 1 Andrew Bon eld 1 10 10 5 5 6 6 2 Pascal Cagni 1 2 2 3 Clare Chapman 1 1 1 Ian Cheshire 10 10 10 Anders Dahlvig 1 10 10 5 5 Janis Kong 4 9 10 7 9 1 1 John Nelson 9 10 10 5 5 9 9 1 1 Kevin OByrne 2 10 10 4 Phil Bentley n a 1 2 1 1 1 1 5 Michael Hepher n a 2 3 1 1 0 1 1 Andrew Bon eld was appointed to the Board and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees with effect from 11 February 2010.
He was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 17 March 2010 and a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 17 June 2010.
2 Pascal Cagni was appointed to the Board and a member of the Nomination Committee with effect from 17 November 2010.
3 Clare Chapman was appointed to the Board and a member of the Nomination Committee with effect from 2 December 2010.
4 Phil Bentley retired from the Board and Board Committees on 17 March 2010.
5 Michael Hepher retired from the Board and Board Committees on 17 June 2010.
At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will arrange The Senior Independent Director, John Nelson, supports the Chairman and meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors to allow the is available for approach or representation from signi cant shareholders opportunity for any concerns to be raised.
During the year, the Chairman who may feel they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman.
maintained regular contact and met with the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors.
During the year, the Board considered the independence of each of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, who was deemed Board balance and independence independent by the Board at the date of his appointment against the The Board is made up of two executive directors, six non-executive criteria speci ed in the Combined Code and concluded that each remained directors and a non-executive Chairman.
The current balance of the fully independent.
The continuing independence of John Nelson, who Board with its skills, experience and knowledge, together with regular has served as a non-executive director for nine years, was subject to brie ngs by executives below Board level, ensures that views, perceptions rigorous review and the Board concluded that he remained independent.
and discussions are not dominated by any speci c executive view.
The executive and non-executive directors have overall collective responsibility Phil Bentley retired as a non-executive director in March 2010 and for the direction of the Company.
The current directors biographical Michael Hepher, who served on the Board as non-executive director for details are set out on page 29.
12 years, retired at the conclusion of the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Board appointments the Group Chief Executive, which are set out in writing and have been There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment approved by the Board.
The Chairman, Daniel Bernard, is responsible of new directors to the Board and this is described in the section on the for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
He is Nomination Committee on page 38.
The procedure was followed during also responsible for ensuring that all members of the Board develop an the selection and appointment of Andrew Bon eld, Pascal Cagni and understanding of the views of major shareholders and that there is an Clare Chapman who joined the Board as non-executive directors on open dialogue with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive, Ian Cheshire, 11 February 2010, 17 November 2010 and 2 December 2010 respectively.
is responsible for all executive management of the Groups business, The terms and conditions of appointment of each of the non-executive consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce the Board.
and will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting until its conclusion.
indd 36 36 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:55:27 12:55:27 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 37 2010 11 Information and professional development The ICSA facilitator met with each director on an individual basis to All new directors appointed to the Board receive an induction pack obtain their views on five aspects of the Boards performance and to in addition to a comprehensive induction programme tailored to their ascertain whether their needs and expectations were being met.
The experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed evaluator ensured that pre-fide ned constituent elements of each topic to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations were covered in the discussions and a qualitative score was assigned and culture.
In particular, the programme includes: by each director.
The five topics were as follows: individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Group board role and responsibilities: Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other directors: oversight: site visits to the Groups stores and those of its competitors: board composition: meetings with operating company management and other senior working together: and management: and outcome and achievements.
external training courses at the Groups expense, if required.
The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its Subsequent training in speci c aspects of the Groups businesses are meeting in February 2011 and the meeting considered and noted the provided to directors, when requested, or regularly as part of site visits.
recommendations to be included in the Boards overall objectives for Directors are briefed on issues arising at Board and Committee meetings the following year.
and have full and timely access to relevant information ahead of each meeting.
The report concluded that, as a whole, the Board was functioning well, that the contribution and commitment of each director, and their The Board also receives regular reports addressing issues and concerns interaction with each other, was good and that the non-executives as raised by the Companys institutional shareholders.
This process allows a group offered robust challenge where appropriate.
the directors to develop the necessary understanding of the views of these shareholders and also enables the Board to judge whether The Board has con rmed that the contribution of each of the directors investors have a suf cient understanding of the Groups objectives.
continues to be effective and that shareholders should be supportive of their re-appointment.
The biographical details of all directors seeking As well as planned development and brie ngs, directors are also re-appointment at the 2011 Annual General Meeting are set out on expected to take responsibility for identifying their own individual needs page 29. and to take necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and con dent that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience development in the year ahead and the Chairman will use the output of to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
the most recent Board evaluation in his individual meetings with directors during the year.
There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense in the In addition, the Group Chief Executive carried out a performance review furtherance of their duties.
of the Group Finance Director.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, conducted the performance review of the Board performance evaluation Chairman in respect of the financial year.
The evaluation of the performance of the Board during the financial year was undertaken by an external facilitator.
Following a review of Con icts of interest proposals from three external facilitators, the Board appointed ICSA The Company has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise Board Evaluation to facilitate a review of its performance.
and manage con icts of interest, and these procedures have operated effectively during the year.
A register of directors con icts is maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and any changes to these commitments are reported to the Board.
indd 37 37 19 4 11 19 4 11 12:12:37 12:12:37 King sher plc Annual Report Corporate governance 38 and Accounts 2010 11 Committees Remuneration Committee The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain A report detailing the work of the Remuneration Committee during the tasks as fide ned in each Committees respective terms of reference.
The year is set out on pages 41 to 53. written terms of reference in respect of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website and Nomination Committee copies are available upon application to the Company Secretary at The members of the Nomination Committee are: the Companys registered of ce.
Daniel Bernard Chairman Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all directors on Andrew Bon eld appointed 11 February 2010 a timely basis and the chairmen of the principal Committees provide Pascal Cagni appointed 17 November 2010 updates to the Board at subsequent Board meetings.
The Board is Clare Chapman appointed 2 December 2010 satis ed that the terms of reference for each of these Committees satisfy Anders Dahlvig the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed on an ongoing Janis Kong basis.
Details of each Committee, including membership, are set out in John Nelson the following reports: The primary purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead the Audit Committee process for Board appointments and to make recommendations for The members of the Audit Committee are: maintaining an appropriate balance of skills on the Board.
In particular, the Nomination Committee: Andrew Bon eld Chairman with effect from 17 March 2010 Anders Dahlvig reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes Janis Kong appointed 16 February 2011 recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: John Nelson identi es the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and nominates candidates to ll Board vacancies: Andrew Bon eld was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee reviews the time required from the non-executive directors: on 17 March 2010 replacing Phil Bentley who retired on the same date.
considers succession planning, taking into account the challenges In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, Andrew and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise Bon eld is designated as the Committee member with recent and needed on the Board: and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is comprised of reviews the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and members having the necessary ability and experience to understand non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the financial statements.
organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst The Nomination Committee meets periodically when required and other things to: external advisers may be invited to attend.
Following a rigorous search and selection process carried out with the assistance of specialist monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: recruitment consultants, the Nomination Committee considered the review, understand and evaluate the Companys internal financial proposed appointments of Andrew Bon eld, Pascal Cagni and Clare risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: Chapman as additional non-executive directors.
In making its appointment monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit recommendations to the Board, the Nomination Committee reviewed function on an annual basis: the overall balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the oversee the relationship with the external auditors, making Board against current and future requirements of the Company.
The recommendations to the Board in relation to their appointment, Board believes that its current composition represents a strong, well remuneration and terms of engagement: and balanced Board with specialists in retail, technology, finance and monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity human resources.
and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Where appropriate, the Audit Committee meets separately with the external auditors and the Group Audit and Risk Management Director without management being present.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee can be found under Auditors and the Audit Committee Report on pages 40 and 54 respectively.
indd 38 38 14 4 11 14 4 11 12:55:28 12:55:28 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 39 2010 11 Retail Board Internal control The Retail Board consists of the five members of the Group Executive The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system the executive directors and three divisional chief executives and certain of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The responsibility other Group functional heads.
The Group Executive, whose biographical for designing, operating and monitoring the system and the maintenance details are set out on page 30, meets formally up to 12 times a year of effective control is delegated to the management of each operating under the chairmanship of the Group Chief Executive.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than members of the Retail Board, whose biographical details are also set eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can out on page 30, participate in at least four meetings per year and other provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material meetings upon invitation.
The Group Executive, supported by the Retail Board, are primarily The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups businesses for effective internal control that implement the Turnbull Guidance, Internal and the overall financial performance of the Group against its strategic Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, for the plans and budget.
year under review and to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
These procedures are subject to regular review and provide an ongoing The Retail Board are responsible for reviewing and making process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks recommendations to the Board on: faced by the Group.
strategic, and business plans of individual businesses: There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the system monthly Group trading performance: of internal control and reporting any signi cant control failings or the individual progress of operating companies: weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
These include: the Groups capital structure and funding: capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or disposals a formal quarterly con rmation provided by the managing director of businesses: and finance director of each operating company certifying the the Groups key risks: operation of their control systems and highlighting any weaknesses, management development and senior executive succession plans: the results of which are reviewed by regional management, the Audit and Committee and the Board: the Groups corporate responsibility programme.
an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, comparing results with plan and the previous year on a monthly and cumulative Company Secretary basis: The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its written reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate Director are submitted at each Board meeting: responsibility for the administration of the Committees to other suitably operating company management report formally to the Audit quali ed staff.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring Committee regularly on the control environment in their business and that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board actions taken to maintain or improve the environment as appropriate: on legal and corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to and the advice and services of the Company Secretary and his appointment reports and presentations are received by the Board on certain areas and removal is one of the matters reserved to the Board.
These include treasury, insurance and pensions.
Accountability, risk management and internal control The internal audit function follows a planned programme of reviews that The Board considers risk assessment, identi cation of mitigating actions are aligned to the Groups risks.
The function: and internal control to be fundamental to achieving the Groups strategic corporate objectives.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
risk management tools and processes into their business operations: reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority to Risk management review any relevant part of the Group: The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and reporting process oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses audit helps Group management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
committees: and Management at each operating company has responsibility for the provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective identi cation and evaluation of the signi cant risks applicable to their assurance on the control environment across the Group.
business and any mitigating actions to be taken.
The Retail Board reviews, identi es and evaluates the risks that are signi cant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The type of risks identi ed include strategic risk, external factors such as competition, environment and regulation, change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key management and macro market risks.
indd 39 39 19 4 11 19 4 11 12:17:53 12:17:53 King sher plc Annual Report Corporate governance 40 and Accounts 2010 11 Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and Relations with shareholders operated, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities of achieving the desired control objectives.
Management is required to clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving its with investors through a planned programme of investor relations objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to activities.
The investor relations programme includes: bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, in identifying the Groups ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the formal presentations of full-year and interim results: business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating conference calls to discuss quarterly trading statements: particular controls are proportionate to the bene t. regular meetings between institutional investors and senior management to ensure that the investor community receives a The Board con rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls issues faced by the Group: and risk management in accordance with the Combined Code for the hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management period from 31 January 2010 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
from relevant operating companies deliver presentations which provide an overview of their individual businesses: If signi cant losses were to be incurred during the year as a result of a responding to enquiries from shareholders through the Companys failure of controls, a detailed report would be provided to the Audit investor relations team: Committee and Board.
The Board con rms that no signi cant regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the weaknesses were identi ed in relation to the review carried out Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discuss during the year and therefore no remedial action is required.
business performance: and a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys website.
Auditors Deloitte LLP were appointed as the external auditors to the Group in 2009.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the chairmen A resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as external of the Boards Committees are available to meet major investors on auditors to the Group will be put to the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director has a speci c responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact Each of the Groups businesses is consulted on the effectiveness and with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director independence of the external auditors annually.
In addition, the external has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact auditors provide the Audit Committee with a schedule of each matter on is inappropriate.
which there was an initial difference between them and management in relation to the accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on Annual General Meeting these issues.
The Audit Committee is satis ed with the effectiveness The principal means of communication with private investors is by and independence of the external auditors.
electronic communications and through the Annual General Meeting, an occasion attended by all the Companys directors and at which In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP are all shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the also engaged where, as a result of its position as external auditor, it Chairman and the directors as well as the chairmen of the Board either must, or is best placed to, perform the work in question.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, the opportunity to meet informally with directors.
Group borrowings, tax advice, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis of A summary business presentation is given at the Annual General competitive tendering.
Meeting before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting in June 2011, the Chairman The Group has a policy on the use of its external auditors for non-audit will use his discretion to call for a poll on all resolutions.
The results work and this is regularly reviewed.
The external auditors are precluded of the votes in relation to all resolutions will be disclosed to those in from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their attendance at the meeting, published on the Companys website and independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their announced via the regulatory new service shortly after the conclusion appointment as external auditors.
The approval of the Chairman of the of the Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee is required prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditors, where in excess of speci ed amounts.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company.
Periodic rotation of key audit partners is also required.
During the year, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.4m 2009 10: 1.3m for audit and audit-related services and a further 0.3m 2009 10: 0.3m for non-audit services during the year.
