Ladbrokes plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance continued Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to high standards of strategic and annual profit plans, key public information releases e. g. financial statements, dividends, major acquisitions and corporate governance.
The Board strives to provide the right leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to disposals, material contracts, treasury and other Group policies.
The section Internal control and risk management systems on produce and sustain delivery of value to all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board applies integrity, principles of good pages 26 and 27 contains further information on how the Board operates.
corporate governance and accountability throughout its activities and each director brings independence of character and The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied with judgement to the role.
All of the members of the Board are appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its individually and collectively aware of  to the duties.
The Board requests additional information or variations Companys stakeholders.
toregular reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their The following describes the Boards approach to corporate governance and how the UK Corporate Governance Code has duties, if necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
A combination Compliance statement of tailored Board and committee agenda items andother Board In 2011 the Company was subject to and complied with all of the activities, including briefing sessions, assist the directors in provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in continually updating their skills and the knowledge andfamiliarity 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available at with the Company required to fulfil their role both onthe Board and www.
In addition, external seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to directors.
TheCompany Board provides the necessary resources for developing and updating The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, three directors knowledge and capabilities.
executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman has a primary responsibility for the running of the The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation process of Board and for relations with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is itsown performance and that of its committees and individual responsible for the operations and for the development of strategic directors which in 2011 was externally facilitated by Lintstock.
plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division Questionnaires tailored to the specific circumstances of the ofresponsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Company were completed by each director inrelation to their has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the own performance and on the effectiveness ofthe Board and Board.
J M Kelly acts as Senior Independent Director, whose role its committees.
is to provide a sounding board to the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
Other roles The Chairman conducts an appraisal of each director.
The Senior and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are Independent Director, having consulted with each of the other described elsewhere.
directors, conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
In2011 a detailed report on the effectiveness of the Board and The Company recognises the value that diversity brings to its itscommittees was produced by Lintstock and the results of which boardroom and believes that the Board performs better and were considered by the Board and the individual committees and supports its overall objectives within the business strategy when actions arising were agreed.
The following themes were addressed: it includes the best people representing a range of capabilities, Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Board support, time experience, perspectives and backgrounds.
In line with this, the management and Board committees: strategic, operational and risk Company aims to foster a diverse Board, including a mix of oversight: succession planning and human resources management: genders and ethnicities.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Whilst all directors are expected to bring an independent Women on Boards and when considering future appointments, judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources with the support of the Nominations Committee, will aim to build including key appointments and standards of conduct, the on its current position.
Further information on the diversity of the independent non-executive directors were selected and appointed Board, senior management and employees is provided in the 2011 for this purpose.
Corporate Responsibility report which is available at www.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2011 are detailed in his biography on page 23.
There were no significant Appointment and replacement of directors changes to those commitments during 2011.
A person who is willing to act as a director, and is permitted by The Board schedules eight meetings each year, but arranges to lawto do so, may be appointed as a director of the Company by meet at other times as appropriate.
Of the ten meetings held in shareholders in general meeting by ordinary resolution requiring 2011, C P Wicks was unable to attend one of the unscheduled asimple majority of the persons voting on the relevant resolution additional meetings due to other business commitments.
or by a decision of the directors.
No person, other than a director retiring at that general meeting, shall be appointed or re-appointed In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the a director at any general meeting unless he or she is recommended non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
by the directors or, not less than seven clear days before the date The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved appointed for the meeting, notice executed by that person of his or for its decision and approval.
These include the approval of the her willingness to be appointed or re-appointed is lodged at the Companys registered office.
Governance Ladbrokes plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The articles of association of the Company provide that: Board committees The Board has four standing committees, all of which have written at every Annual General Meeting any director who has been terms of reference clearly setting out their authority and duties.
appointed as a director by the directors since the last Annual The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration General Meeting, or who was not appointed or re-appointed as Committees, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed at a director at one of the preceding two Annual General Meetings, www.
The Executive Committee, the Risk must retire from office notwithstanding any agreement the Committee and the Compliance Committee referred to elsewhere director may have with the Company and that any director are not formal Board committees.
soretiring may offer himself or herself for appointment or re-appointment as a director by the members at the meeting: Audit Committee The members of the Committee are: any director may retire from office at any general meeting and that any director so retiring may offer himself or herself for Appointment Committee date role appointment or re-appointment as a director by the members atthe meeting: and Darren M Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman if a director retires from office at any general meeting, the director John M Kelly 1 September 2010 Member shall retain office until the end of the meeting irrespective of C Pippa Wicks 1 June 2004 Member theoutcome of any resolution that the director be appointed or re-appointed as a director put to the members at the meeting.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board The UK Corporate Governance Code specifies that all directors at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which ofFTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election consults with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Company is a FTSE 350 company and alldirectors will be subject to election or re-election at the 2012 The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the Committee Annual General Meeting.
have recent and relevant financial experience.
The independent non-executive directors understand that the The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake Board will not automatically recommend their re-election by its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary shareholders.
The Chairman and the independent non-executive who acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
directors are appointed for a specified term of approximately three The Committee is able to take independent legal or professional years, subject to re-election.
advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
The Companies Act 2006 allows shareholders in general meeting The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times a by ordinary resolution requiring a simple majority of the persons year.
There was full attendance at the four meetings held in 2011. voting on the relevant resolution to remove any director before Although other directors, including the Chief Financial Officer, theexpiration of his or her period of office, but without prejudice attend Audit Committee meetings, the Committee also meets for toany claim for damages which the director may have for breach private discussions with the external auditor, who attends all of its of any contract of service between him or her and the Company.
meetings, and can do so with the internal auditor.
A person also ceases to be a director if he or she notifies the The Committee is the body which carries out the functions Company of his or her resignation, ceases to be a director by required by DTR 7.1.
The main role and responsibilities of the virtue of any provision of the Companies Act 2006, becomes Committee in 2011 were to: prohibited by law from being a director, has a bankruptcy order against him or her or is the subject of a relevant insolvency monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: procedure, or if a medical practitioner gives a written opinion review the Companys internal financial control and risk stating the director has become physically or mentally incapable management systems: of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal months, or is removed from office by notice signed by all the other audit function: and directors sent to the director, or if the Board so decides following oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor at least six months consecutive absence without permission or he including the recommendation to the Board of its appointment or she becomes subject to relevant procedures under the mental and remuneration.
Should the Committees monitoring and review activities reveal Powers of the Companys directors any material cause for concern or scope for improvement, it will Subject to the articles, the directors are responsible for the make recommendations to the Board on action needed to address management of the Companys business, for which purpose they the issue or make improvements.
may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The shareholders may, by special resolution, direct the directors to take, or refrain from taking, specified action.
The directors exercise of the powers of the Company to borrow money is restricted.
The directors have power to issue new shares and to purchase the Companys own shares, in each case to the extent permitted by law or as allowed by shareholder resolution resolutions to issue and purchase shares are regularly proposed at the Companys Annual GeneralMeetings.
Ladbrokes plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance continued Corporate governance continued The main activities of the Committee in 2011 were as follows: The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Two meetings of the Committee were held in 2011 and there was with the assistance of reports received from management full attendance at these meetings.
andthe external auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in connection with the preparation The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: ofthe Companys financial and related formal statements: review the structure, size and composition of the Board which assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems includes an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the and non-financial risks: Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial any changes: controls.
The Committee does so by reference to: consider succession planning for the directors and other senior a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: executives and make recommendations to the Board: b regular reports and presentations from the heads of key identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates riskfunctions, internal audit and external audit: and to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: c the results of the system of annual self-certification of review the leadership of the Company to ensure the continued compliance with key controls and procedures: ability of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace: monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of recommend candidates for the role of Senior Independent the internal audit function, including any actions taken following Director and for membership of the Audit and Remuneration any significant failures in internal controls: Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen of those Committees: and reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process make recommendations to the Board concerning the reviewing its effectiveness: and re-appointment of non-executive directors at the end of their specified term of office and the re-election by shareholders reviewing the independence and objectivity of the ofany director under the retirement by rotation provisions external auditor.
The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions The Committee performed the above activities as necessary takento comply with professional and regulatory requirements in 2011. and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
The Committee has agreed a policy on the engagement of the I A Bull was appointed as an executive director and as Chief external auditor to supply non-audit services, the application Financial Officer with effect from 4 July 2011.
C M Hodgson and of which it monitors.
The policy, which can be viewed at R Moross were appointed as non-executive directors with effect www.
com, specifies services that may notbe from 1 May 2012.
Descriptions of the roles and capabilities required provided and contains a level of cost at which Committee approval were prepared and suitable candidates were identified by external is required enabling the Committee to satisfy itself that auditor advisers.
In the case of C M Hodgsons and R Moross appointments, objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
this was following a review of the structure, size and composition including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board.
Finance Committee This Committee meets as required to deal with all routine business Remuneration Committee that excludes matters that are specifically reserved to the Board Details of the Remuneration Committee, including membership, orto another committee and specific matters delegated to it by are set out in the Directors remuneration report, which should the Board requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
beread in conjunction with this section.
Anytwo directors can conduct the business of this Committee.
Internal control and risk management systems Nomination Committee The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board risk management systems operating throughout the Group and and two or more independent non-executive directors.
No such systems can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The The current members of the Committee are: Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate Appointment Committee therisk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide date role theBoard with reasonable assurance that potential problems will Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for John F Jarvis 14 May 2010 Member appropriate action.
John M Kelly 15 February 2011 Member The Company had procedures in place throughout the year and Christopher J Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member upto 16 February 2012, the date of approval of this Annual Report, which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake The Board has delegated the detailed design of the systems of its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary internal control and risk management to the executive directors.
who acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
The Committee is able to take independent legal and professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
Governance Ladbrokes plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The control framework and key procedures during 2011 in relation the Board regularly receives reports from Executive Heads to the financial reporting process were as follows: covering areas such as operations, forecasts, business development, strategic planning, human resources, legal the Group operates through five Business Units: Channels: and corporate matters, compliance, health and safety and Customer: Product: Finance, Development & International: and corporate responsibility: Human Resources.
There is an Executive Head responsible for each of these Business Units.
there is a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and approval of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
A committee of as well as weekly updates, the Chief Executive and the the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer considers all Executive Heads meet monthly the Executive Committee to significant financial commitments the Investment Committee.
consider Group strategy, financial performance, business Major projects are reported on at each scheduled Board development and management issues.
Post-investment appraisals are undertaken on a participate as appropriate.
systematic basis and are formally reviewed by the Board In addition there are weekly and monthly financial and twice yearly: operational review meetings together with an annual programme a system of annual self-certification of compliance with key of plan reforecasting and strategy reviews attended by the controls and procedures is operated throughout the Group: and Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer together with, as appropriate, other Executive Heads and executives: the Group has an internal audit function, outsourced to DeloitteLLP, which reports to management and the Audit the Business Units comprise executives with defined Committee on Group operations.
Business Unit management meet regularly to manage their respective operations: The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management is explained key policies and control procedures including treasury, in the Audit Committee section.
compliance and information system controls are documented and have Group-wide application.
There are also operating The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness procedure manuals that are integrated with Group-wide controls: ofthe internal control and risk management systems.
The assessment takes account of all significant aspects including: high standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, riskassessment: the control environment and control activities: regulations and internal policies are demanded from employees information and communication: and monitoring.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is Group policy to recruit and develop management and other employees Relations with shareholders of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines: There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
managing the risks faced by the Group.
Key risks and their In addition, presentations are made twice yearly after the financial implications are appraised by the Executive Committee announcement of results, the details of which, together with the which is assisted by a committee of Business Unit executives Groups financial reports and announcements, can be accessed the Risk Committee.
This is an integral part of the strategic atwww.
The Chairman met in 2011 with several planning process.
The appropriateness of controls is institutional investors and their representative bodies in addition considered, having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the toresults presentations and the Annual General Meeting.
Other likelihood of risks crystallising: directors are available to meet the Companys major shareholders if requested.
key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are considered at each regular Board meeting and are formally reviewed and The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if approved by the Board twice yearly.
Each key risk is assigned they have concerns, where contact through the usual channels of executive director Executive Head ownership: Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer has failed to solve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
the Board establishes corporate strategy and Group-wide business objectives which are formally reviewed annually.
A report on investor relations, which includes updates on meetings Business Unit management integrate such objectives into with major institutional shareholders, is given at each Board business strategies for presentation to the Board with meeting.
The Companys brokers also present to the Board supporting financial objectives: annually.
Principles of ownership, corporate governance andvotingguidelines issued by the Companys major institutional Business Unit budgets, containing financial and operating shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory targets, capital expenditure proposals and performance organisations are circulated to, and considered by, the Board.
indicators, are reviewed by the Executive Committee and support Group strategies.
The Group profit plan is approved The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects by the Board: with its individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
reports on financial and non-financial performance are regularly Further information on our relations with shareholders provided to directors and discussed at Board meetings.
is contained in Shareholder information.
Performance against both budgets and objectives together with management of business risks, are reviewed with Group management, as are forecasts and material sensitivities: Ladbrokes plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance continued Corporate governance continued Rights attaching to the shares and restrictions on voting The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share and transfer 1 The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of 28 3p ownership plans, held 1,258,666 ordinary shares in the Company each.
Subject to any suspension or abrogation of rights pursuant at 31 December 2011 which are not voted by plan members and to relevant law or the Companys articles of association, the which it can vote in its absolute discretion.
ordinary shares confer on their holders other than the Company A member may choose whether his or her shares are evidenced inrespect of its treasury shares : byshare certificates certificated shares or held in electronic a the right to receive out of profits available for distribution uncertificated form in CREST the UK electronic settlement suchdividends as may be agreed to be paid in the case system.
Any member may transfer all or any of his or her shares ofafinal dividend in an amount not exceeding the amount subject in the case of certificated shares to the rules set out in the recommended by the Board as approved by shareholders Companys articles of association or in the case of uncertificated ingeneral meeting or in the case of an interim dividend in an shares the regulations governing the operation of CREST which amount determined by the Board.
All dividends unclaimed allow the directors to refuse to register a transfer as therein set foraperiod of 12 years after having become due for payment out : the transferor remains the holder of the shares until the are forfeited automatically and cease to remain owing by nameof the transferee is entered in the register of members.
the Company: Thedirectors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares infavour of more than four persons jointly or where there b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, reduction isnoadequate evidence of ownership or the transfer is not duly ofcapital or otherwise, to share in the surplus assets of the stamped if so required.
The directors may also refuse to register Company remaining after payment of its liabilities pari passu a share transfer if it is in respect of a certificated share which is not with the other holders of ordinary shares: and fully paid up or on which the Company has a lien provided that, c the right to receive notice of and to attend and speak and vote where the share transfer is in respect of any share admitted to the in person or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company.
Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, any such On a show of hands every member present or in the case of discretion may not be exercised so as to prevent dealings taking acorporation, represented and voting has one vote and place on an open and proper basis, or if in the opinion of the everyproxy present who has been appointed by one or more directors and with the concurrence of the UK Listing Authority members present has one vote and a second vote where exceptional circumstances so warrant provided that the exercise theproxy has been appointed by more than one member and of such power will not disturb the market in those shares.
Whilst hasbeen instructed by one or more members to vote for the there are no squeeze-out and sell out rules relating to the shares resolution and by one or more other members to vote against inthe Companys articles of association, shareholders are subject the resolution.
On a poll every member present or represented tothe compulsory acquisition provisions in sections 974 to 991 in person or by proxy has one vote for every share of which that ofthe Companies Act 2006 and can be required by the Company member is the holder.
Normally, the appointment of a proxy to transfer their shares following certain action by a gambling must be received not less than 48 hours before the time of the industry regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys holding of the relevant meeting or adjourned meeting: special articles of association.
provision is made in the Companys articles of association as to the delivery of proxies for use on a poll not taken during the Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate meeting at which the poll is demanded.
upon a change of control following a takeover bid The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF, These rights can be suspended.
If the member, or any other person awholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and eight separate appearing to be interested in shares held by that member, has failed banksfor the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities to comply with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies ofup to 540 million on a committed basis provide that the banks Act 2006 notice by company requiring information about interests may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
On inits shares the Company can suspend until one week after the cancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately repayable.
default ceases the right to attend and speak and vote at a general In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally meeting and if the shares represent at least 0.25% of their class arrange substitute facilities.
In addition, LGF issued a bond in theCompany can withhold any dividend or other money payable March 2010.
The bond has a Put Event that allows bondholders inrespect of the shares and refuse to accept certain transfers of the to exercise a put option when a change of control occurs.
In addition, following certain action by a gambling option allows the bondholders to require LGF to purchase the industry regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys bonds at a price of 101 pence.
articles of association, the Company may suspend all or some of therights attaching to all or some of the shares held by any relevant Amendment of the Companys articles of association shareholder to attend and to speak at meetings and to vote, to The Companys articles of association may be amended by the receive any dividend or other money payable in respect of the members of the Company by special resolution requiring a majority shares, and to the issue of further shares or other securities in of at least 75% of the persons voting on therelevant resolution.
Shareholders, either alone or with other shareholders, have other rights as set out in the Companys articles of association and in company law principally the Companies Act 2006.
