Corporate governance report for the year to 31 December 2011 The Board considered that during the year ended 31 December 2011 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, with the exception of provision A 2.1 which states that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.
On 25 November 2011 Peter Hill resigned as Chief Executive due to ill-health.
Nigel Keen assumed the role of Executive Chairman becoming responsible for the day-to-day running of the business in conjunction with a newly appointed Executive Committee made up of the senior managers, including the Divisional Presidents.
The Board accepted temporary non-compliance with provision A 2.1, to the extent that the Chairman has acted in an executive capacity, as being in the overall interests of the Company.
The Board is recruiting a new Chief Executive and once appointed Nigel Keen will relinquish his executive responsibilities and revert to his role as non-executive Chairman.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils website at http: www.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets which are normally proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the eectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, currently the Executive Chairman, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on page 29.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
However, as noted above, the Chairman is temporarily acting in an executive capacity following the resignation of the Chief Executive.
Tony Reading is the senior independent non-executive director.
The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive.
As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were oered the opportunity to meet with the senior independent non-executive director during the year.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
Nigel Keen, currently the Executive Chairman, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993.
Nigel Keen fullled the criteria for independence as set out in the Code at the time of his appointment.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
All of the directors stand for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board makes periodic visits to the Companys operations, and in addition the heads of the operating divisions and the Chief Human Resources Ocer periodically attend Board Meetings.
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Administration Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting.
Prior to the Meetings, all directors receive Board Papers, which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview, usually from the Chief Executive, but currently from the Executive Chairman.
Normally, the Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive, but currently this is delegated to the Executive Chairman.
37 Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2011 Performance of the Board The Board completes an annual self-evaluation assessment of itself and its Committees.
Following completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Executive Chairman held one-to-one discussions with each director and led discussions to consider the Boards procedures and its eectiveness.
Certain areas were identied for improvement or action.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon.
The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Executive Chairman in discussion with other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Executive Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive director.
The Executive Chairman considered the performance of the executive director which was also discussed with the non-executive directors.
Korn Ferry, an independent third party, was appointed during 2011 to review the Boards evaluation processes.
In addition, Korn Ferry conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the Board and to create a Leadership Road Map.
New directors are provided with training prior to taking up the role and existing directors are provided with training as necessary, this can take the form of reports and briengs from external advisers and senior employees, attendance at seminars and conferences and bespoke training.
As part of the annual Performance Review each director is asked what training is required so that this can be factored in to forthcoming programmes.
Board attendance The Board had twelve meetings during 2011.
There were six Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee meetings and four Nominations Committee meetings during the year.
Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings are given below and are discussed in more detail in the separate Committee sections of this report.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the meeting.
Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board Director Board 12 Audit 6 Remuneration 6 Nominations 4 Mr N J Keen 12 5 6 4 1 Mr P J Hill 11 5-- Mr J C Silver 12 6 - 2 2 Mr M L Rapp 6 3-- Sir C Hum 12 5 6 4 Professor M J Kelly 12 5 6 4 Mr A J Reading 12 6 6 4 Mr A M Robb 11 6 5 4 Dr W R Spivey 11 6 6 4 1 Resigned 25 November 2011 2 Resigned 31 August 2011 Communications with shareholders During the year a new Head of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications was appointed whose responsibility is to promote a better understanding of the Company amongst current and prospective investors.
Regular communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Results.
Additional information, including interim management statements, copies of other press releases, presentations and webcasts, is published on the Companys website.
Presentations covering strategic issues as well as financial and operating performance were made to shareholders through investor roadshows in the UK during the year and in September the Company hosted a Capital Markets Day, an event which provided an opportunity for members of the investment community to expand their knowledge and understanding of Laird.
Laird, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Companys objectives.
The senior management meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings.
The Board is also kept up to date with investors views through the distribution of analysts and brokers notes.
In addition, the Companys appointed broker periodically contacts shareholders and provides nonattributable feedback which is reported to the Board.
Following presentations to analysts and shareholders of the interim 38 and full year results, condential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board.
From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis are commissioned.
The Chairman, currently the Executive Chairman, and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
The Chairman, currently the Executive Chairman, and senior independent non-executive director who is also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee discussed governance and remuneration with certain institutional investors during the year.
The Board welcomes the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders and encourages them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman, currently the Executive Chairman, gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting.
A copy of his statement is issued to the London Stock Exchange and is published on the Companys website.
All of the directors attended the AGM in 2011.
The chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Committee is Andrew Robb and the other members of the Committee during the year were Tony Reading and Bill Spivey.
The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Andrew Robb, and it is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has sucient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
The non-executive directors who are not members of the Audit Committee are also invited to attend meetings and frequently do so.
Normally, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditor are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Committee without any executive directors present whenever necessary and the Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from either party.
The Committee and the external auditor met formally without any executive directors present once during the year.
The Audit Committee, which met six times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Audit Committee Terms of Reference which are available on the Companys website set out its responsibilities and procedures.
The Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements prior to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
During the year, the Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM and interim management statement, the Interim Report on the Results for the half year and the October interim management statement were reviewed by the Committee before recommending them to the Board for approval.
During the year, the Committee has overseen the Companys work on the Bribery Act 2010, which included reviewing the Companys existing Global Code of Conduct.
It also received two formal reports on litigation and claims.
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls.
The Committee considers the scope and planning of internal financial audits and reviews the audit process for identifying and managing financial risk and the findings of those audits.
Deloitte LLP, who provide global internal audit services under the direction of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Committee meeting during the year.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and findings of internal audit investigations.
He had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present and he met separately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on two further occasions during the year.
39 Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2011 The Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Companys Global Code of Conduct which is on the Companys website and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
A whistleblowing service, which oers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent telephone and internet provider.
Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
A monthly report on any calls received is sent to senior management.
Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit with findings reported to the Board.
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure, were considered and the independence of the external auditor assessed.
The Committee considered the scope and planning of the external financial audit and assessed the eectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit rms own internal quality control procedures.
The Committee has reviewed Ernst & Youngs key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
In accordance with this policy, there was a change in the lead audit partner in 2011 after the Annual Report and Accounts for 2010 had been signed.
The Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor.
This policy prohibits the use of the external audit rm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees, without approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including condentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services.
During the year, Ernst & Young LLP undertook work in connection with the profit forecast required as part of the Companys takeover defence, provided tax planning and compliance advice and regulatory compliance work.
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 72.
The Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any ocer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
It believes that it has received sucient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to full its responsibilities during the year.
The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considers necessary.
The Committee recommended to the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman, currently the Executive Chairman, and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by Nigel Keen and comprises Tony Reading and Sir Christopher Hum.
However, during 2011 all of the directors attended at least some of the meetings as succession planning was being discussed.
It met on four occasions in 2011.
Normally, the Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, but currently the Executive Chairman, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge, independence and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and did so for Peter Hill in March 2011.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board.
The Nominations Committee reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board.
During 2011, the Committee appointed Korn Ferry, an external consultancy.
As a first step Korn Ferry conducted individual interviews with each director and the Company Secretary to understand the workings of the Board in order to create a Leadership Road Map.
This Road Map has helped the Committee set out a strategic Board development plan and to identify key competencies and requirements for the Board.
Korn Ferry used the plan as the basis for searching for a new non-executive director to become Chair of the Audit Committee.
Additionally, Korn Ferry has been appointed to assist with the recruitment of a new Chief Executive.
The earlier interviews with the Board facilitated the identication of the key operational and strategic requirements for this role, resulting in a detailed job specication and high level search strategy for the new Chief Executive.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity generally when making appointments to the Board taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender.
The Board fully supports the recommendations 40 of the Davies Report entitled Women on Boards.
It is the Companys aim to have the appropriate level of diversity in the Board room to reect the diverse nature of the Companys operations.
Current gender prole of the Groups permanent employees Percentage of women Executive Management 15.38% Percentage of women Total Workforce 46.01% Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and currently comprises the Executive Chairman, Nigel Keen, and all the other non-executive directors, who are all considered to be independent.
It met six times in 2011 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benets of the executive directors, the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee.
Following the resignation of Peter Hill as Chief Executive due to ill-health in November 2011, Nigel Keen has been acting as Executive Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
Normally, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 43 to 54.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Share Capital Information on the Companys share capital is set out on page 33 of the Directors report and in note 28 on page 93.
Internal control Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses primarily located overseas.
These businesses are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by the Laird PLC Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for Lairds systems of internal control and reviewing their eectiveness lies with the Laird PLC Board, who ensure that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the adequacy of those systems.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries.
Laird PLCs executive directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board thereon.
The financial information received by Laird PLC is reviewed at divisional level as well as by the Finance Department of Laird PLC which reviews the consolidation and financial statements to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reected.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and delegated authorities.
These rules require approval for specic transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Business Units submit their budgets annually to divisional management and Laird PLCs executive directors.
In addition, through a risk and controls assessment process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage them.
The issues raised by the Business Units are 41 Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2011 reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process.
A risk management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board Meetings.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
Normally, the Chief Executive, but currently the Executive Chairman, presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which aect Laird as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
Risk management and environmental, health and safety updates are provided at each Board meeting.
Risk management strategy and risk oversight at Group level for all areas including operational, environmental and health and safety risk rests with the Laird Risk Management Group RMG which meets twice a year.
The RMG with its strategic risk focus is currently chaired by the Executive Chairman and reports to the Board.
Co-ordination of risk identication and review and actions in all areas below corporate level and improvements in controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Risk Management Committee RMC, chaired by the President of Laird Wireless Systems, with senior operational and functional representation.
The RMG and the RMC each met twice during the year and their terms of reference were reviewed.
Following development of risk procedures during the year, the RMC now meets at least every two months reecting its emphasis on risk monitoring and oversight role.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Chairman of the RMC are members of both committees, reinforcing consistency and linking between Lairds risk management strategy and its implementation in all countries.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the process for identifying and managing financial risk and for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of its audit, the external auditor, to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit opinion, reviews and tests the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 1 March 2012 Registered oce 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
