OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 37 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man, where there is no formal code covering corporate governance.
However, as the shares of the Company are listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange and as the Board is strongly committed to the highest standards of corporate governance, the Board applies the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as if the Company was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Code seeks to ensure that the Company is run in a manner whereby the interests of shareholders are protected and as such the Code sets out principles of good corporate governance together with specific provisions.
Statement of compliance with the provisions of good governance The Directors consider that throughout 2011 and up to the date hereof, the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, subject to exceptions identified in this report.
The Board The Board plans to meet at least six times in a year.
The role of the Board is to provide leadership of the Company, set values and standards, and to ensure that the Companys obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, including but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature, approval of the annual budget, approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals, major changes to the Groups capital structure, the preparation of financial statements, the recommendation or declaration of dividends, the entry into contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or by reason of size, succession planning and appointments to the Board, executive remuneration, ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls, reviewing its own and its Committees performance, and reviewing the Companys overall corporate governance arrangements.
The current membership of the Board and the commitments of the Directors are stated on pages 32 to 33, which record the names of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
The names of the Chairmen and members of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are detailed below under the respective Committee summaries.
The Board met eight times during the year and one of these meetings was conducted by telephone via a conference call.
This meeting was required to deal with a specific business matter which arose as part of the business of the Group and which needed to be addressed between scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, the Board executes a number of resolutions in writing to conduct Company business.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have met without the executives present when necessary and the Executive Directors maintain frequent verbal and written contact with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss various issues affecting the Company and its business.
The agenda and appropriate supporting Board papers are distributed by the Secretary to the Board on a timely basis.
Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees is summarised in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Meeting description Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 8 4 6 5 Jonathan Silver Chairman of the Company 8 n a n a n a Colin Goodall Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 8 4 6 5 Richard Raynaut Non-Executive Director 7 4 6 5 Brian Fredrick Non-Executive Director 8 4 6 5 Nigel McCue Chief Executive Officer 8 n a n a n a Christopher Hand Chief Operating Officer 8 n a n a n a 1 Scott Doak Chief Financial Officer 8 n a n a n a 2 Jonathan Cooper Chief Financial Officer 0 n a n a n a 1 Scott Doak resigned as a Director on 30 October 2011.
2 Jonathan Cooper joined the Board of Directors on 30 October 2011 and there were no Board meetings held between that date and 31 December 2011.
38 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance Appointments to the Board cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
All appointments to the Board are based on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The composition and working Chairman and Chief Executive of the Nomination Committee are explained under Principal Section A.
2.1 of the Code states that the roles of Chairman and Board Committees on page 39.
The terms and conditions of Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for and responsibilities between these roles should be clearly inspection at the registered office of the Company during established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The normal business hours and will be available at the AGM Chairman on appointment should meet the independence 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
criteria set out in Section B.
Induction and professional development Nigel McCue is the Chief Executive Officer and Jonathan Silver A formal induction programme is provided to new Directors is the Non-Executive Chairman.
Jonathan Silver is a partner of on their appointment.
The programme is designed to cover a firm that represents the Company as one of its legal advisers.
Companies Act requirements, dealing restrictions as outlined Jonathan Silver was therefore not deemed independent on in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on Directors appointment as the Chairman of the Company.
However, the dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Board and the Nomination Committee, considering his Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, Board and performance, experience and his detailed knowledge of the business-related matters, meetings with senior management, Company and the Middle East, believe that, despite his site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders.
deemed lack of independence on appointment, Jonathan The Company encourages Directors to refresh their knowledge Silvers role as the Chairman of the Company is in the best and skills and to keep up-to-date with the latest developments interests of the Company and its shareholders.
in corporate governance, financial reporting, the industry and market conditions.
The Company reimburses any expenses Board balance and independence incurred in this regard.
The Board currently has seven Directors, consisting of four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The Major shareholders have had discussions with the Chairman, Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Colin Goodall Chairman, Jonathan Silver, to be independent in accordance and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Brian with the definition of the Code and their appointment to be in Fredrick.
The Non-Executive Directors will be available at the the best interests of the shareholders.
To that end, half of the AGM to meet with shareholders.
Board excluding the Chairman as cited above, comprises Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be The Directors are entitled to take independent professional independent.
The Directors believe that the extensive advice, at the Companys expense, if required.
Directors knowledge and experience of the Non-Executive Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary to combined with the focus and experience of the Executive the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that the Board Directors, enable the Board to lead and give direction to the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed, Group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on group of individuals to dominate its decision-making.
The agenda for each Board and Director having a concern in this or any other regard may raise Committee meeting is considered by the relevant Chairman this with the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
and papers for each scheduled formal Board and Committee meeting are provided beforehand.
In addition, the Chairman Colin Goodall has been appointed as the Senior Independent maintains regular contact with the Executive Directors to Non-Executive Director and is available to shareholders if they discuss specific issues.
have any concerns for which contact through the normal channels of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or Chief Directors are free to meet individual members of the senior Financial Officer cannot be resolved or for which such contact management team and have done so during the year under is inappropriate.
The Board and its Committees receive briefings on legislative and regulatory developments and new accounting The Board considers that independence is a matter of requirements as appropriate and believe that, given the judgment and therefore it believes that the Non-Executive experience and skills of its Directors, the identification of Directors should be free from any business or other general training needs is best left to individual discretion.
relationships that could materially interfere in the exercise of their independent judgment.
It is the Boards policy to provide No Director took independent professional advice during its Non-Executive Directors with fair remuneration for the the year.
contribution they make with respect to the business and affairs of the Company and the responsibilities they undertake in performing their duties as Non-Executive Directors.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 39 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Performance evaluation Audit Committee A performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board, its The members of the Audit Committee are Richard Raynaut, members and the Committees was conducted through a who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Brian Fredrick.
questionnaire-led interview with other members of the Board.
Others may be co-opted onto the Committee by the The questionnaires included a review of the Directors Committee members.
The Board considers all the members of attendance at Board meetings, the Board agenda, those areas the Audit Committee who are Non-Executive Directors to be on which the Board should focus during its meetings, the independent in character and judgment and free from any effectiveness of the roles of the Chairman and Non-Executive relationship or circumstance which may, or could or would be Directors, Board procedures and administration, and the likely to, or which appears to, affect their judgment.
Richard operation of the Boards Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Raynaut, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has relevant Committees.
The results were considered satisfactory by and recent financial experience having retired from his position the Board.
as Chief Financial Officer in 2004.
Other members of the Audit Committee also have relevant financial experience.
The performance evaluation of the Board, its members and its Committees takes place on an annual basis.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are held not less than three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer is invited to attend Retirement and re-election meetings, where appropriate, and the Companys auditors are In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all regularly invited to attend meetings, including once at the Directors are subject to election at the first AGM after their planning stage before the audit and once after the audit at the appointment and one third, or the number nearest to one third reporting stage.
Other Board members may also be invited to of the Board, shall retire from office at every Annual General attend, although at least once a year the Audit Committee Meeting.
Any Director in office for more than three years at the meets the Companys external auditors without management start of an Annual General Meeting shall also retire.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee Companys 2012 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive include consideration of matters relating to the appointment Directors will retire.
All the Executive Directors and Nonof the Companys auditors and the independence of the Executive Directors will offer themselves for re-appointment in Companys auditors, reviewing the integrity of the Companys accordance with section B.
7.1 of the Code, with the exception annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements of Richard Raynaut who is retiring from the Board.
and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance.
The Audit Committee also reviews the Directors remuneration effectiveness of the Groups system of internal audit, internal The principles and details of Directors remuneration are control and compliance procedures.
contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 50.
The composition and working of the Remuneration The Audit Committee has established and monitors the Committee are explained under Principal Board Committees Groups policy in relation to non-audit services provided by the on page 39. external auditor, with a view to ensuring objectivity, independence and cost effectiveness.
Principal Board Committees The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and The Audit Committee also monitors the procedure to ensure Nomination Committees.
A summary of the activities of each that employees may raise ethical concerns in confidence.
The Committee is set out below.
The Committees are constituted Audit Committee has designated the Chief Financial Officer as with appropriate written terms of reference, which are reviewed the Compliance Officer: employees also have access to the annually and are available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee if the Compliance Officer has not dealt with Committee terms of references did not require any material their concerns satisfactorily.
changes further to the annual review.
The minutes of meetings and or reports from the Chairmen of the Committees are made The Company has adopted a code of conduct covering all available to the Board for its next scheduled meeting following employees including senior executives: the compliance with the Committee meeting in question, or as soon as practicable this code of conduct is monitored by the Human Resource thereafter.
In 2011 the Company adopted an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy.
The Audit Committee met including meetings by conference call four times during the year and the attendance at its meetings is reported on page 37.
40 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Nomination Committee Accountability and Audit The current members of the Nomination Committee are Colin The Board plays a direct role in the development of the Groups Goodall, who acts as Chairman, Richard Raynaut, Brian internal controls and risk management systems in addition to Fredrick and Jonathan Silver.
The Nomination Committees overseeing controls and risk management procedures via the terms of reference are to periodically review the structure, size Audit Committee.
However, the primary responsibility for and composition, including the skills, knowledge and developing and implementing internal control and risk experience required of the Board compared to its current management procedures covering strategic, commercial, position and make its recommendations to the Board with operational and financial aspects of the business, lies with the regard to any changes.
The Nomination Committee also management.
considers the future composition of the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, Financial reporting and skills and expertise needed on the Board.
The Nomination The statement on the responsibilities of the Directors in relation Committee also makes recommendations to the Board about to the preparation of the accounts and the Directors evaluation the membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
of the business as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on pages 34 to 36.
On 30 October 2011, Jonathan Cooper was appointed to the Board based on the recommendation of the Nomination Internal audit Committee.
In March 2010, as per the Companys long term plan, an independent internal audit function was established within the Deena Mattar has been appointed to the Board with effect organisation.
The Audit Committee evaluated the performance from 1 April 2012 based on the recommendation of the of the internal audit function from the quality of reports received Nomination Committee.
from the Groups internal auditors, feedback from management, and an assessment of work planned and The Nomination Committee met including meetings by undertaken.
conference calls five times during the year and the attendance at its meetings is reported on page 37.
Internal control The control environment, risk management system and Remuneration Committee assurance processes, being the three key elements leading to The members of the Remuneration Committee are Brian a robust system of internal control in the Group, are described Fredrick, who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall and Richard below.
Brian Fredrick took over the Chairmanship of the Committee from Richard Raynaut in June 2009.
The terms of There exists a clear organisational structure for the control and reference of the Remuneration Committee provide for it to monitoring of the Groups businesses, including defined lines of determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad responsibility and delegation of authority.
The business follows policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive policies and procedures which amongst other matters, include Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial policies for the Company and its employees on health and Officer, other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and safety, security, the environment, corporate social responsibility other such members of the executive management as it is and areas of legal compliance.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Executive Directors.
No Director or The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating manager may be involved in any decisions as to his own and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual Report and is in accordance with the Revised The Remuneration Committee met including meetings by Turnbull Guidance.
The Directors are aware that the Groups conference call six times during the year.
The attendance at its risk management systems cannot completely eliminate risks meetings is reported on page 37. and thus there can never be an absolute assurance against the Group failing to achieve its objectives or a material loss arising.
In the Boards regular review of the Groups strategic plans, consideration is given to those risks which have been identified as potential impediments to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board receives regular formal updates from management on the key risks and the related controls in relation to the Groups existing business and, if appropriate, on potential new business.
Management thoroughly considers risks associated with undertaking new business.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 41 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 The Directors receive assurances from the following internal Dialogue with institutional shareholders and external controls: The Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have annual self assessment of agreed internal controls by regular meetings with major shareholders and research process owners and review of such results by the internal analysts.
The Board receives regular feedback from analysts auditors: and major shareholders, compiled by the Companys brokers regular executive reports from management in areas and financial public relations consultants, in particular, following covering key issues, performance, business outlook, human presentations and meetings after the publication of financial resources and health, safety and environment: results.
The principal method of communicating with the financial performance reports including analyses of majority of shareholders is via the Annual Report and Accounts significant variances regularly reported by the management: and the Companys website, which contains details of financial external audit reports, presentations and management presentations to analysts, press releases and other information letters from the Groups auditors: about the Group.
All shareholders have the opportunity to reports from the internal audit function: attend the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors were present reports from internal quality audits: and at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and all Directors intend to reports from the Audit Committee.
be present at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control including financial, operational Constructive use of the AGM and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board uses the AGM as an occasion to communicate with Where material weaknesses have been identified, safeguards all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided are implemented and monitored.
with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the total number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution Audit Committee and Auditors categorised as for, against, and votes withheld will be made The composition and working of the Audit Committee are available both at the meeting and subsequently on the explained under Principal Board committees on page 39.
Each separate issue is presented as a separate Resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination The Audit Committee has reviewed the performance of and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer , the external auditors, who retire at questions from shareholders.
the end of the AGM and recommends their reappointment.
The Board concurs with the recommendation of the Audit The Notice of the AGM, and related papers containing the text Committee.
of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and explanatory notes, where necessary, will be posted to the shareholders During the year, the external auditors , at least 20 working days before the AGM.
The interim and were also engaged to provide tax advice in connection with the preliminary results of the Company, along with all other formation of a branch office in Russia, related to the execution press releases, are posted on the Companys website, of the EDC project, and as reporting accountant in connection www.
com, as soon as they are announced and with the acquisition of Maritime Industrial Services Co. Ltd. Inc. are available for download.
The Audit Committee, in accordance with the Policy on Auditor Independence adopted by the Group, and having considered the nature of work carried out believes that, whilst being cost effective, the appointment of the external auditors to provide this advice did not affect the objectivity, or the independence, of the external auditors.
