Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Corporate governance report In keeping with our commitment to the highest standards ofcorporate governance, the Board supports the Financial Reporting Councils 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code UKCode Leadership What is the Boards composition?
Find out more Details of the members of the Board, The Group is led by a Board of three Executive and six their backgrounds and experience are set out on pages 48 to 51.
Non-Executive Directors, two of whom are women.
Overall, Further information about the Boards activities during 2011, theBoardhas an extremely wide range of international, its governance structure and management, governance, commercial and financial expertise Committees is set out on pages 59 to 61.
The activities of the Boards which is particularly well suited to our operational requirements.
Committees are summarised on pages 66 to 68.
Effectiveness How did we assess Board effectiveness?
Find out more The conclusions of the 2011 review Following our 2010 external review of the Boards and actions taken in relation to the recommendations of the 2010 effectiveness, in 2011 the Board undertook more robust review are set out on page 61. reviews of the Groups strategic plans and succession planning.
An internal reviewof effectiveness was alsocarried out.
The next external review is scheduled for 2013.
Accountability How did we mitigate risks and uncertainties?
Find out more Further information about internal The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal control, risk management and the related financial reporting process control and risk management which is implemented by Group isset out on pages 62 and 63.
For our principal risks see pages management through mandatory policies and procedures.
The system is overseen by the Executive Committee and is subject to audit by the Group Internal Audit function.
The effectiveness of the system is kept under regular review by the Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders How did we communicate with our investors?
Find out more Presentations from our meetings Communicating with shareholders was especially important with investorsare accessible at www.
We undertook introductory meetings for shareholders with our new CFO and Executive Director Himanshu Raja, in addition to the normal programme of activities organised by Investor Relations for our Directors and other Executive Committee members.
We also undertook to meet our larger shareholders to explain the actions we took in December 2011 to better position the business for 2012.
58 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Compliance and Corporate Non-Executive Directors the Boards Audit, Nominations and Governance The Non-Executive Directors bring a very Remuneration Committees by the The Company is premium listed on broad level of experience to the Board and chairmen of those committees.
the London Stock Exchange and is also make a valuable contribution to achieving The wide range of topics reviewed listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
Their primary aims are to by the Board during the year included Accordingly, we comply with the listing maximise shareholder value and develop the Groups Three-year Plan and long-term requirements of the UK Listing Authority the Group in line with our strategic goals.
strategy: performance against the 2011 and the Authority for the Financial Markets All of the Non-Executive Directors together budget: the budget for 2012: reports AFM in the Netherlands.
We believe that with the Executive Directors and other from the Groups operating segments and we have fully complied with the UK members of the Executive Committee service lines: major bids and commercial Corporate Governance Code UK Code attended a Board strategy conference contracts: risk management and internal throughout 2011 apart from in the limited during the year organised to discuss and and external audit reports: HR operations circumstances described on page 67, develop the strategic plans for the Group.
and pension schemes: tax and treasury where an explanation has been provided.
policies: insurance: health and safety: Board meetings, strategy and control investor relations: Board composition, Leadership The Board has developed strategies and gender diversity and performance: the Board membership policies to determine and achieve its goals appointment of the new Chief Financial At the end of 2011, the Board and uses appropriate and prudent controls Officer: succession planning and the comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, to manage the process.
The Boards motivation and performance of senior three Executive Directors and five standards and values are implemented management: corporate social responsibility: Non-Executive Directors, one of whom with the assistance of our executive developments in corporate governance: acts as the Senior Independent Director management, central finance, commercial, and significant new legislation.
legal and administrative departments The tableon the next pageshows and the internal audit function.
Directors attendance at scheduled Chairman In order to retain control of all meetings during 2011.
Additional Board The Chairman is responsible for ensuring significant matters the Board specifically meetings were held to deal with a variety the effectiveness of the Board.
He is also reserves for its own approval a range of of matters including the Groups 2010 Chairman of the Nominations Committee issues including: results and dividend: its annual accounts and during 2011 led the successful the Groups strategic plans and interim results: the Groups debt and recruitment exercise which resulted in including long-term objectives financing facilities: the acquisition of the theappointment of a new Chief Financial and commercial strategy Grupo Gesfor SA group: and the operation Officer.
There is a clear division of the annual operational plans of the Groups share plans.
responsibility between the role of the and budgets In order to reflect our broad Chairman and that of the Chief Executive the annual and interim results geographical spread and to provide a Officer, who is responsible for the overall and published financial statements higher level of Board visibility, our policy major capital expenditure commitments management of the Groups operations.
is to hold at least two Board meetings The Chairman liaises with the Chief treasury policies outside the UK each year.
In 2011, Executive Officer on strategic and material increases to finance facilities meetings were held in France and India.
recruitment and the terms and otherissues.
In 2012, non-UK meetings are scheduled conditions of employment for for Finland and Morocco.
Chief Executive Officer and Directors and senior executives ExecutiveDirectors the terms of reference of all In addition to membership of the Board, Board Committees the Chief Executive Officer and our other commercial contracts with a value Executive Directors play a major role in in excess of 100 million over the life driving the Executive Committee, the Groups of the contract.
most senior operational body, charged with recommending and implementing In 2011 the Board held six scheduled the Boards strategy worldwide.
At each meeting the Groups Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer reported on operational and financial performance.
Periodical reports were also provided on the activities of Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 59 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Effectiveness Conflicts of interests Board attendance at scheduled meetings Directors knowledge and experience The Board has the approval of our We have developed a Board with an shareholders to authorise conflicts of Meetings Possible excellent balance of skills, experience, interests in appropriate circumstances Name attended attendance length of service and knowledge of and has established a procedure to David Tyler 6 6 the Group.
ensure that these powers operate Andy Green 6 6 The wide experience of our Board effectively.
Under this procedure, Jan Babiak 6 6 members ranges across the UK, European Directors must give written notification and international IT and other sectors.
of any potential conflicts of which they Sergio Giacoletto 6 6 In addition to significant strengths in are aware on appointment or of which Nol Harwerth 6 6 multinational business leadership and they become aware subsequently.
These Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 the development and implementation of notifications are recorded by the Company strategy, the Board collectively also has Secretary and submitted to the Board for Seamus Keating 6 6 high level experience of international review and authorisation, as appropriate.
Himanshu Raja 2 2 finance, risk control, corporate governance Any changes to existing interests are Frdric Rose 6 6 and market communications.
Biographical reviewed at the next Board meeting.
details of the current Directors setting out Acopy of the procedure is provided to all Denotes addition of a new Board member during the year.
Changes to the Board during 2011 are set out on details of their qualifications and experience, new Directors and an explanation forms page 56. can be found on pages 48 to 51. part of our induction programme for new Directors.
We confirm that the procedure Board diversity referred to above has operated effectively The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors following each Lord Davies February 2011 report during the year and to date.
Women on Boards, recommended Subject to Board approval, Executive Board meeting to consider specific agenda that FTSE 100 companies should aim Directors are normally permitted to accept items and business matters.
Insurance cover is in place in respect of for a minimum of 25% female board one non-executive appointment in another representation by 2015.
They may retain fees legal action against the Directors.
Further information about the cover provided and challenged FTSE 350 companies to set paid in connection with an external about indemnities that have been given out the percentage of women they aim appointment and details of any fees to have on their boards in 2013 and 2015. received can be found in the Directors to the Directors is set out on page 56.
The Boards full Terms of Reference For the majority of 2011, we had two remuneration report on page 79. female Directors on a Board of eight are available on our website members, a female representation rate of Induction and training www.
com governance or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
With the addition of a ninth Director On appointment, all Directors undergo following the appointment of Himanshu a comprehensive induction programme, Raja, this now stands at 22%.
tailored to their individual requirements.
We are committed to carrying out The induction programme includes candidate searches across the widest training on: possible pool of talent against a set of Directors duties and responsibilities Board procedures and governanceobjective criteria based on merit, but with due regard to the benefits of diversity, related issues including gender.
conflicts of interests procedures for dealing in Non-Executive Directors Logica plc shares.
independence The independence of the Non-Executive In addition, new Directors meet with the Directors has been considered by the heads of the major business units.
Board which has concluded that each of them is independent in character and judgement.
None of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, hold significant external commitments which interfere with their ability to execute their responsibilities effectively.
60 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 The evaluation for 2011 was carried out Directors also make a number of site professional advice at the Companys visits as part of the induction programme.
No such advice was sought internally.
Each Director completed an Members of individual Committees receive during the year.
individual questionnaire which included questions about Board composition, specific training in connection with their duties, which includes attendance at Governance structure expertise, information flows and roles, seminars and briefings by external The Board has set up Audit, Nominations responsibilities and procedures.
They are also invited to attend and Remuneration Committees, the Terms the questionnaires, the Chairman met with anannual leadership conference.
of Reference of which are available on our each Director individually and discussed All Directors receive appropriate website www.
com governance their answers with each of them in private.
ongoing training and updates to improve or can be obtained from the Company A comprehensive performance report was their knowledge and skills.
Details of the activities of these presented to the Board in February 2012.
The Chairmans performance was requirements are subject to regular review.
Committees are set out on pages 66 to 68.
Our governance structure is set out assessed by the Non-Executive Directors Election and re-election of Directors in the diagram below.
in one-to-one discussions with the Senior Independent Director, who discussed their All of the Directors retired and were re-elected by shareholders at the 2011 Board performance 2011 feedback with the Chairman.
Himanshu Raja, who was appointed The Board is subject to a performance In summary, the conclusion of the 2011 as a Director in 2011 will stand for election review each year which covers its own review was that the Board is operating at the 2012 AGM.
All other Board effectiveness and that of its Committees very effectively with its members possessing all the skills the Company members will retire and seek re-election and individual members.
Further details of the The review for 2010 was carried requires.
It was felt that further election and re-election of the Directors out externally by Edis-Bates Associates.
improvements could be made in the It concluded that although the Board was presentation of financial information and can be found on page 57 and in the notes tothe AGM Notice on our website at operating very successfully, improvements in succession planning.
could be made in the areas of succession to address these issues during 2012. planning, the strategy review process, We are committed to carrying out a Board support financial reports presentation and certain comprehensive external evaluation of The Company Secretary and her team administrative matters.
These issues Board performance every three years provide administrative and logistical were addressed during 2011 and changes and in accordance with our policy the support to the Board.
In particular, a review next external review will be in 2013.
In addition to the annual assessment support are also given on governance, was carried out of the Groups strategy compliance and regulatory matters.
as described on page 59 and more of performance, regular meetings are The Company Secretary is available wide-ranging discussions were held on held between the Chairman and the succession planning by the Nominations Non-Executive Directors to discuss Board to advise all Directors and ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
Committee as described on page 67. performance and any matters of relevance The Directors may also seek independent or concern.
Action is taken to address any concerns of the Directors, as appropriate.
Governance structure Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee see pages 50 to 53 Jan Babiak Chairman Nol Harwerth Chairman David Tyler Chairman Sergio Giacoletto Frdric Rose Jan Babiak Wolfhart Hauser David Tyler Sergio Giacoletto Andy Green Nol Harwerth Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 61 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Accountability the annual planning and budgeting Our annual controls self-assessment CSA Internal control process includes consideration of process was revised and run in September The Board has overall responsibility key strategic and operational risks.
2011 to complement Group Internal Audit for our system of internal control and for The heads of each of our business work.
As well as covering the overall reviewing its effectiveness.
It delegates units produce written monthly reports control environment, assessments the responsibility for operating and for central analysis, which provide covered nine major business process monitoring the system to executive detailed financial results, forecasts areas from project control and management in each of our business and cash flows procurement to HR, finance, taxation and the Groups Chief Executive, Chief units.
The system is designed to manage, information systems.
In 2011 all countries not eliminate, risk of failure to achieve Financial Officer and Vice Presidents of were required to complete all sections of business objectives and can only provide Finance, conduct monthly operations the questionnaire in former years, only reasonable, not absolute, assurance reviews of our major business units sections not subject to an internal audit against material errors, losses, fraud the Groups Chief Executive, Chief visit needed to be completed.
Our review or breaches of laws or regulations.
Financial Officer and the Vice and analysis of the CSA responses looked The key elements of our system of Presidents of Financeand the Board firstlyfrom a process perspective and internal control are: carry out formal reviews of major bids, secondly, a country perspective.
In respect all business units operate under where opportunities exceed specified of processes, we continue to see finance, Group mandatory written policies and monetary values or risk profiles.
HR, payroll and taxation as the more procedures, as set out in our business In October and November 2011, mature activities, with opportunity management system.
Policies and we started to implement an additional, management, procurement and procedures are kept under review by more detailed and rigorous reporting information systems as the less mature experienced individuals from across and review process over our top process areas.
The quality and accuracy the Group.
Key policies are reviewed by size and risk contracts.
This process of the self assessments are improving and approved by the Board with minor will be built on and adopted on a wider and this process is helping to build a revisions and improvements being scale in 2012 better awareness and understanding made to our revenue recognition and research and development and capital of the Groups key control expectations.
hospitality and gifts policies in 2011 investment programmes are subject to We continue to test the accuracy of these mandatory policies include an formal review and approval self assessments, on a sample basis, ethics policy and a confidential quality assurance teams are in place as part of Group Internal Audit reviews.
disclosure policy, which sets out inour business units, supporting local Our response to fraud risk continued to our whistleblowing arrangements.
management in assuring and improving be monitored and, with the implementation An Ethics e-learning module, which the quality of delivery.
These teams are of the UK Bribery Act, we continued the explains policies and expectations, has key to the operation and maintenance emphasis on our ethics and hospitality been mandated to be completed in all of the Groups ISO and other industry and gifts policy compliance.
Completion entities and completion is progressing quality standard accreditations of our Ethics e-learning training, available as part of our Executive Committees as planned in several languages, is being monitored mandatory policies include an authority review of key business risks, proposals closely, with particular emphasis on matrix, setting out the levels of to improve mitigations are presented enforcingmandatory requirement in authority delegated to individual Board and discussed.
In 2011, this included countries with a Corruption Perception members and senior executives on a the development and approval Index CPI of less than five.
We have wide range of matters including those of proposals for aDeliver Smart had a number of whistleblowing cases relating to capital expenditure, property and Delivery Assurance initiative reported through our external line, which leases and freeholds, bids and to improve the processes and tools have been investigated, although none commercial contracts, publicity, to support contract and delivery were found to be significant.
We have also treasury issues, employment matters risk management had a number of minor frauds identified and legal disputes our systems of internal control and by routine management review processes, our internal control procedures are none of which have resulted in any reviewed and tested on a sample basis material loss to the Group.
A small number by Group Internal Audit.
The results of individuals have been dismissed.
of this work are routinely reported to our executive management and to our Audit Committee.
62 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Risk management the Group are reflected through The key risks and measures to mitigate The continuous monitoring of strategic risks identified by the Board are listed compliance with approved accounting and operational risks is the responsibility on pages 30 to 33. policies and the appropriate accounting of the Board and line management, The conclusions arising out of the for non-routine transactions.
In order to address these Groups risk management activities are challenges on behalf of the Board, the interlinked with the evaluation and In addition, the Group Reporting team Executive Committee has responsibility management of the Groups Key undergoes technical training, provided by for the regular evaluation of generic and Performance Indicators KPIs, which the external auditors, to ensure that they specific risks within the business and the are set out on pages 22 to 29. are up to date on financial reporting implementation of mitigation plans to standards and good practice.
Financial reporting process The Board confirms that it has The risk management process continued to review the effectiveness In addition to the general internal control identifies, evaluates and manages and risk management framework referred of the Groups internal controls and risk significant risks faced by the Group.
to above, the following elements of the management processes during 2011 Risks are assessed with reference to the internal control system are specific to the and up to the date of this report and that, achievement of our business objectives financial reporting process: during the period, these reviews have and according to current market and the Groups mandatory policies covered all material controls, including economic issues.
We have again covering revenue recognition and financial, operational and compliance completed a cyclical process of top down reporting, which set out what is to be controls and risk management systems.
From a top down reported monthly to the Chief Executive Where weaknesses have been identified perspective, the Executive CommitteeOfficer and the Chief Financial Officer or reported through the various owned risks were amended from eight to the Groups financial reporting system, mechanisms outlined above, appropriate nine, separating out Information Security which provides a sound basis for corrective action has beenagreed.
risk to give this topic greater focus management review processes formerly, it wascombined with business the businesses monthly reports, External auditors continuity risk.
Our bottom up process which include financial reporting of The Groups external auditors provide a requires all countries and entities to performance and major projects, for supplementary, independent perspective review by the Chief Executive Officer, formally assess and document their risk on the overall integrity of those areas of and improvement mitigations against the Chief Financial Officer and other the internal control system which they each of the nine risks and their sub-risks.
senior members of the Group Finance assess in the course of their work.
The consolidation of this assessment is and Commercial functions Their findings are reported regularly to then reviewed and moderated by the all countries are required to produce the Audit Committee which seeks to Executive risk owner.
Finally, the Executive weekly cash flow and monthly foreign ensure that the risk management Committee reviews and approves the exchange exposure reports.
These are process addresses our major risks.
risk and controls report summary which reviewed by theGroup Treasurer and To ensure auditor objectivity and is presented to the Board and Audit utilised to ensure hedging control and independence, a stringent process is Committee.
This report includes the cash management for the Group in place to approve non-audit work.
agreed priorities for risk mitigation the financial reporting review process Proposed work must be approved by the performed by the Group Finance improvements for 2012.
Chief Financial Officer before being passed Clearly defined delegation of function, which includes benchmarking, to the Audit Committee for approval at responsibilities and authorisation levels to compare country performance, specific financial levels.
Proposed work is contribute to a comprehensive system identify risk areas and determine reviewed for compliance with regulatory which exists for controlling these risks improvement actions for specific requirements that preclude auditors from and helping to ensure thatthey are countries or for the Group as a whole performing certain types of work and to adequately addressed.
the data consolidated into the Groups assess if the nature of the work would financial statements whichis reconciled create a conflict of interest now or in the to the underlying financial systems.
Copies of all internal audit reports A review of the consolidated data is are automatically provided to the external undertaken by management to ensure auditors to ensure communication is both that the true position and results of comprehensive and transparent.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 63 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Committee held meetings with a number Details of the remuneration of the external arranging for dividends to be paid direct auditors for audit, audit related and into a bank account.
Together with our of existing and prospective shareholders non-audit work can be foundin note 12 registrars, we provide a range of services in order to understand their views more on page108.
including payment of dividends in euros comprehensively.
In addition, the Chief to shareholders trading through our Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Going concern Dutch listing, UK and Dutch dividend and the Head of Investor Relations held The Directors, having made enquiries, reinvestment plans and share purchase meetings with shareholders regarding the consider that the Company has adequate and sale services with proceeds available Groups normal course of business.
In total, resources to continue in operational in a number of currencies including during the year, members of the Board and existence for the foreseeable future, and sterling, euros and USD.
Investor Relations met with around 280 therefore it is appropriate to maintain shareholders, or their representatives, Communications with shareholders at investor meetings and conferences.
the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The way we communicate with our The Board is made aware of shareholders is a key priority for the shareholders views through direct Relations with shareholders Group.
We encourage an active dialogue feedback from face-to-face meetings Shareholder services and ensure that opportunities for and presentations with institutional The share register is managed on our engagement, such as the AGM and shareholders.
As well as meetings with behalf by Capita Registrars.
Shareholders meetings with institutional investors, our existing and potential shareholders, are able to carry out a number of online are used effectively to provide a clear Directors also attend meetings with brokers and analysts on a regular basis administrative transactions, such as understanding of our objectives and checking their holdings and dividend performance.
In 2011, the Chairman throughout the year.
Institutional accounts, changing address details and and the Chairman of the Remuneration shareholders and investors are also Who are our shareholders?
Logica shareholders Concentration of Logica share register The vast majority of Logica shares 95 % Number of shares held at Shareholdings at 31 December 2011 31 December 2011 are available in free float.
Almost threequarters of shareholders have a holding of between 1 and 10,000 shares.
Logicas share register shows a well-spread portfolio of major institutions.
At the end of December 2011, the top 25 institutional Total shareholders Total shares shareholders represented holdings 18,775 1,612m equivalent to almost 70% of the share register, compared to around 65% held by the same institutions a year ago.
The Companys management and Investor Relations team maintain an active dialogue 1-1,000 shares Top 5 with its shareholders and their advisers.
1,000-10,000 shares Next 5 A number of major international brokerages, as well as local specialists, 10,000-50,000 shares Next 15 make an active market in Logica shares.
50,000-100,000 shares Next 25 Over 25 analysts undertook and published 100,000-500,000 shares Other research on the Company at the end of 2011.
500,000 shares The list of our top 20 institutional shareholders is compiled and published monthly on www.
64 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 offered the opportunity to meet our activities of their Committees.
All Directors Senior Independent Director should they attended the 2011 AGM.
wish to discuss any views or concerns To ensure that the views of shareholders that they may have.
In addition, Directors are reflected proportionately, it is our policy are regularly updated on shareholder for all resolutions to be voted on a poll.
and market issues through our Investor Relations department which provides Website summaries of external analysts reports Our website www.
com investors and direct internal briefings.
provides a source of information for shareholders about the Group and Annual General Meeting contains financial presentations, investor All shareholders are invited to the publications including the online annual AGM which provides an opportunity report and press releases.
Our financial for developments in the business to be reporting is presented in such a way as to explained and for shareholders to ask provide a balanced and understandable questions of any of the Directors.
All assessment of our position and prospects Directors are expected to attend the for future growth.
AGM, with the Chairmen of the Audit, Further information about our Remuneration and Nominations registrars, shareholder services, Investor Committees present to answer any Relations and our principal shareholders questions on the responsibilities and can also be found on the website.
Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 65 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report Board Committees Audit Committee our tax and treasury strategies and policies The disappointing need to take a one-off charge our implementation of the UK of 39 million for contract charges during the year Bribery Act and ethical training underlines the importance of identifying and acting throughout the Group to mitigate risks as early as possible.
A more robust our data security arrangements an extensive goodwill evaluation which challenge to risk management procedures will supported its carrying value with no improve the efficiency of our controls.
impairment considered necessary Jan Babiak our Going Concern statement.
Chairman, Audit Committee In addition, at each meeting the Committee reviewed a variety of Directors attendance standing items including progress on Name Date of membership Meetings attended Possible attendance actions in response to its representations: relevant legal, reporting practice and Jan Babiak Chairman from 2010 4 4 compliance developments: reports filed Sergio Giacoletto Member from 2009 4 4 under our confidential disclosure and Wolfhart Hauser Member from 2007 4 4 fraud policies: compliance with our code of ethical conduct, including whistleblowing Composition the independence, objectivity and relating to financial matters, and any other The composition of our Audit Committee performance of PwC and recommended special investigations falling under its and its terms of reference comply with to the Board that they be re-elected terms of reference.
It is made up of independent the effectiveness of the 2010 and The Committee is authorised to Non-Executive Directors and we consider 2011 audit processes, including PwCs investigate any activity within its terms of Jan Babiak to have recent and relevant reports and updates which summarised reference and to seek any information that financial experience following her their conclusions and contained it requires from any employee.
It has the previous role as a managing partner feedback on the status of our control right to consult professional advisers or, if at Ernst and Young.
environment and managements it is not satisfied with the advice received, The membership of the Committee responsiveness to the audit results seek further independent professional and attendance at scheduled meetings PwCs proposed fee and audit strategy advice at the Companys expense.
the appropriateness of our accounting The Committee believes that the skills, policies qualifications and commercial experience Terms of reference our 2010 full year and 2011 interim of its members are appropriate for them The Committees terms of reference announcements to perform their duties.
our 2010 annual report and auditor were updated during the year to ensure that they remain in full compliance with representation letter Meetings the new Guidance on Audit Committees the effectiveness of our Group Internal Two members constitute a quorum.
issued by the FRC in December 2010.
Audit function The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, reports and updates from Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Activities Internal Audit including their audit Controller, Head of Internal Audit and The Committees activities include the plans for 2012, which also covered the other appropriate specialist functional review and approval of presentations management of our internal controls managers attend meetings on request.
reports relating to our risk management and reports from senior management, The Committee meets with our external consulting as necessary with the external process, including any specific key risks auditors in private at least four times auditors.
In 2011, the Committee identified and the impact of changing a year and during the year had a specifically reviewed and considered legislation and regulations satisfactory level of dialogue with them.
the following: major contracts, including the Regular meetings were also held between introduction of the more detailed and the Chairman of the Committee and the rigorous reporting and review process Head of Internal Audit.
over our top by size and risk contracts 66 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011 Nominations Committee a five-month period, a shortlist of candidates was drawn up and selected We conducted a rigorous international search candidates were interviewed, following over five months to find the right person to be our which Himanshu Raja was recommended new CFO.
At the end of the process, we selected to the Board for appointment.
Himanshu Raja for this position and he joined the The Committee also reviews succession planning for our most senior Board on 5 September 2011.
His appointment has executive positions.
Our policy is designed brought a renewed vigour to the finance organisation.
to ensure leadership continuity over the David Tyler medium and long term and to identify Chairman, Nominations Committee and develop individuals with the potential to take on key or critical management positions in the future.
Following on from Directors attendance the conclusions of the previous years Name Date of membership Meetings attended Possible attendance Board performance review, the succession planning process was strengthened.
David Tyler Chairman from 2007 2 2 In 2011 the Committee discussed Jan Babiak Member from 2010 2 2 detailed reports relating to leadership Sergio Giacoletto Member from 2009 2 2 team succession, the evaluation of key and emerging talent, individual Andy Green Member from 2008 2 2 development plans, diversity and coaching.
Nol Harwerth Member from 2008 2 2 In addition, the Committee is responsible for overseeing the Board appraisal process.
Composition recommendations about any adjustments Copies of the Directors terms and The Nominations Committee comprises considered necessary.
conditions of appointment are available a majority of independent Non-Executive The Committee oversees the search on request from the Company Secretary.
During 2011 the membership and selection process for new Directors.
Meetings of the Committee and attendance at During the year the Chairman led the scheduled meetings were as set out above.
Committees successful recruitment The Committee was convened on exercisefor the appointment of a new two scheduled occasions during 2011.
The recruitment Two members, both of whom must be The activities of the Committee process considered internal and external independent Non-Executive Directors, include reviewing the balance of skills, candidates and utilised the services constitute a quorum.
Other Directors knowledge and experience of the of JCA Group, external independent attend by invitation.
Additional meetings Board and its Committees and making professional advisers, to assist it.
Over may be convened if required.
Remuneration Committee Composition The Remuneration Committee comprises The lower Board and senior management rewards for three independent Non-Executive Directors.
2011 reflect our disappointing performance, but we During 2011 the membership of the are confident that we have the right mix of incentives Committee and attendance at scheduled in place to motivate management to deliverimproved meetings was as set out opposite.
Although the composition of the results in2012 and to retain our key people.
Committee does not meet the strict Nol Harwerth recommendations of the UK Code, due Chairman, Remuneration Committee to the membership of the Companys Chairman, we believe that the wide range of knowledge and experience brought Directors attendance to the Committee by a membership which has executive and non-executive Name Date of membership Meetings attended Possible attendance experience in the IT industry and other Nol Harwerth Chairman from 2007 4 4 sectors, both in the UK and abroad, is Frdric Rose Member from 2009 4 4 particularly well suited to our current requirements.
David Tyler Member from 2007 4 4 Annual report and accounts 2011 Logica 67 Governance Governance Governance A view from our Chairman Report of the Directors Board of Directors Corporate governance report Executive Committee Directors remuneration report International Financial Reporting Standards reasonable steps for the prevention and Activities The Remuneration Committees principal IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, detection of fraud and other irregularities.
activities are to determine our senior and the Parent Company Financial The Directors are responsible for the executive remuneration policy and Statements in accordance with United maintenance and integrity of the Companys levels of remuneration for the Executive Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting website www.
Legislation Directors, Executive Committee, certain Practice United Kingdom Accounting in the United Kingdom governing the other members of senior management, Standards and applicable law.
preparation and dissemination of financial the Company Secretary and the Head In preparing the Group financial statements may differ from legislation in of Internal Audit.
The Committee takes statements, the Directors have also other jurisdictions.
into consideration the pay and conditions elected to comply with the IFRSs issued Each of the Directors, whose names of employment for employees when by the International Accounting Standards and functions are referred to on pages considering executives remuneration.
Under company law the 48to 51, confirm that, to the best of their The Chief Executive Officer and the Directors must not approve the financial knowledge: Groups Chief People Officer attend statements unless they are satisfied that the Group financial statements, which meetings on request.
they give a true and fair view of the state have been prepared in accordance The Committee has the right to of affairs of the Group and the Company with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, appoint independent advisers and, if it and of the profit or loss of the Group for give a true and fair view of the assets, is not satisfied with the advice received, that period.
liabilities, financial position and profit seek further independent professional In preparing these financial statements, of the Group: and the Directors are required to: the Business review and risk factors advice at the Companys expense.
The Directors remuneration report, select suitable accounting policies include a fair review of the development which describes the Committees and then apply them consistently and performance of the business and functions and its remuneration policies in make judgements and accounting the position of the Group, together with more detail, is set out on pages 69 to 89. estimates that are reasonable and a description of the principal risks and The Committee believes that the skills, prudent uncertainties that it faces.
qualifications and commercial experience state whether IFRSs as adopted of its members are appropriate for them by the European Union and IFRSs By order of the Board issued by the IASB and applicable to perform their duties in accordance with its terms of reference.
UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Meetings The Committee meets at least four times in the Group and Parent Company a year and any two members constitute a Financial Statements respectively.
Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for 12 March 2012 Statement of Directors responsibilities keeping adequate accounting records in respect of the annual report, the that are sufficient to show and explain Directors remuneration report and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the financial statements The Directors are responsible for financial position of the Company and the preparing the annual report, the Directors Group and enable them to ensure that the remuneration report and the Group and Financial Statements and the Directors Parent Financial Statements in accordance remuneration report comply with the with applicable law and regulations.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Company law requires the Directors Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of to prepare financial statements for the IAS Regulation.
Under that law They are also responsible for the Directors have prepared the Group safeguarding the assets of the Company financial statements in accordance with and the Group and hence for taking 68 Logica Annual report and accounts 2011
