Governance GOVERNANCE ROLE OF THE BOARD Board and Committee meetings frequency and attendance WHAT IS THE ROLE OF THE BOARD?
"Independent Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination six three four three three The Board of directors has a duty to meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings promote the long term success of the Sir John Parker n a All "" All Company for its shareholders."
Its role Cynthia Carroll No All All includes the establishment, review and Ren Mdori No All monitoring of strategic objectives, approval David Challen Yes All All All All of major acquisitions, disposals and capital Sir CK Chow Yes All All All expenditure and overseeing the Groups Sir Philip Hampton Yes All All All systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
Phuthuma Nhleko Yes All All # Nicky Oppenheimer No All A schedule of matters reserved for the Ray ORourke Yes All All All Boards decision details key aspects of the Mamphela Ramphele Yes $ % % Companys affairs that the Board does not delegate including, among other things, Jack Thompson Yes All All All approval of business plans, budgets and Peter Woicke Yes All All All All material expenditure.
For the full list, 1 Meetings attended prior to retirement.
please see the Companys website.
For more information visit www.
com Independence of directors The action plan and resulting achievements The Board has a strong independent element from the internally facilitated 2010 board Every year the Board holds a two day and currently comprises, in addition to effectiveness review may be found on strategy meeting at which the non executive the chairman, two executive and eight page89.
As previously noted, an external directors NEDs contribute their expertise non executive directors, all of whom are evaluation of the Board took place in and independent perspective in developing independent according to the denition 2011 2012 in accordance with the the strategy of the Company.
contained in the UK Corporate Governance recommendations made in the Code and we Code the Code.
The independent directors will report on this next year.
As in past years, are indicated within the table above, and full the evaluation process also included a HOW IS THE BOARD COMPOSED?
biographical details for each director are review, chaired by the senior independent Role of the chairman given on pages 90 and 91.
The letters of non executive director without the chairman The Board is chaired by Sir John Parker.
appointment of the NEDs as well as the present, of the performance of the chairman.
The chairman is responsible for leading the executives service contracts are available The chairman has held individual discussions Board and for its effectiveness.
for inspection at the registered ofce of with each director to ensure that the Role of the chief executive the Company.
necessary board and committee processes Cynthia Carroll is the chief executive and is are functioning properly.
None of the NEDs has served concurrently responsible for the execution of strategy and with an executive director for more than nine Since his appointment, Sir John has the day-to-day management of the Group, years.
David Challen and Peter Woicke have introduced a rolling agenda for the Board supported by the Group Management both been on the Board for over six years and instigated regular informal meetings Committee GMC and the Executive now and their re-appointments are subject of the NEDs prior to each board meeting.
In Committee ExCo, both of which she chairs.
The Board order to facilitate openness and constructive The functions and membership of GMC and believes that both of them continue to display debate between our executives and NEDs, ExCo are set out on page 92. all of the qualities of independence pursuant we hold board dinners before board meetings to the criteria set out in the Code.
where directors are encouraged to raise The Company has adopted the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and issues in an informal setting.
These meetings provide an opportunity, inter alia, to discuss Administrators Statement of Division HOW DO WE PROMOTE EXCELLENCE of Responsibilities between the Chairman the performance of management and to IN THE BOARDROOM?
air subjects outside the confines of the and the Chief Executive.
Board effectiveness boardroom in an informal and constructive Role of the senior independent director As a direct result of the last external board manner.
At every board meeting, time is set SID evaluation, changes were made in strategy aside for a NEDs only discussion and the David Challen is the senior independent planning and improving communication with Board also receives a governance update non executive director.
He is available to major shareholders as well as in the areas of from the company secretary highlighting shareholders, acts as a sounding board and committee composition, talent management developments in company law, corporate condant for the chairman and is available and succession planning.
Board papers as an intermediary for the other directors are circulated one week before meetings.
Messrs Beamish, Walker, Weston and Whitcutt attend all board meetings.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 93 GOVERNANCE ROLE OF THE BOARD HOW ARE DIRECTORS TRAINED?
HOW DOES THE BOARD DEAL WITH CONFLICTS OF INTEREST?
Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as well as significant If directors become aware that they have experience in strategic, financial, commercial a direct or indirect interest in an existing or and mining activities.
proposed transaction with Anglo American, they notify the Board at the next board Upon appointment, directors are provided meeting or by a written declaration.
Directors with recent board materials and a reference have a continuing duty to update any manual containing information on legal changes in these interests.
During 2011, obligations and other matters of which Nicky Oppenheimer recused himself from they should be aware.
Guidance is provided any discussion regarding the potential on Market Conduct under the FSA, the increase in the Companys interest in Companys Articles, the UK Corporate fide Beers and David Challen recused Governance Code and the Model Code.
himself from a discussion on a banking The manual also includes items such as facility in which Citigroup was a participant.
board and committee terms of reference, In accordance with the Companys Articles relevant company information and guidance and relevant legislation, an unconicted on where to obtain independent advice.
quorum of the Board can authorise potential The manual is updated periodically when conicts and such authorisations can be appropriate.
limited in scope and are reviewed on an As part of the directors formal induction annual basis.
During the year under review, process, meetings are arranged with the conicts register was updated and the senior executives in order to develop a full conict management procedures were understanding of the complex nature of adhered to and operated effectively.
Training and briengs are also available to directors on IPADS FOR REVIEW OF BOARD appointment and throughout their tenure, MATERIALS as necessary, taking into account existing qualications and experience.
Directors As part of our commitment to best practice also have access to management, and to and innovation, iPads were introduced in the advice of the company secretary.
2010 for the review of board papers, ensuring fast and timely provision of information to Furthermore, all directors are entitled to directors whilst at the same time reducing the seek independent professional advice environmental and financial impacts of board concerning the affairs of Anglo American meetings.
The majority of the directors use at its expense, although no such advice was the iPads for reviewing their board papers.
Regular presentations are made to the Board by business management on the activities of operations.
The company secretary facilitates board training and during the year, directors attended courses on inter alia: investment, director professionalism and other general matters of interest to directors.
The directors are given the opportunity to discuss their development needs with the chairman in individual feedback meetings.
Images on opposite page 01 Jack Thompson and John MacKenzie at the Mantos Blancos mine in May 2011.
02 03 04 05 Directors visiting the Moranbah North Coal Mine, Australia in October 2011.
94 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 Governance GOVERNANCE BOARD IN ACTION 01 02 03 The Chile visit allowed me to gain better knowledge about the ore bodies and plants but importantly it exposed me to the staff and people of the Copper business unit.
Days of travel and talk over dinners provided ample opportunity to get to know the team.
Jack Thompson Non Executive Director BOARD IN ACTION Directors undertake regular visits to 04 operations and projects and, in 2011, operations and projects in Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, South Africa, Mozambique, Peru, USA and Botswana were visited.
BOARD VISIT TO AUSTRALIA In October 2011, the Anglo American plc Board met in Brisbane.
Directors took the opportunity to meet with Queenslands Deputy Premier, the Minister for Finance and Natural Resources, the Minister for Environment and other state politicians.
During the course of the visit, the Board received detailed presentations from the management of the metallurgical coal operations on the strategy of the business unit, its resource base and infrastructure and the market outlook for metallurgical coal.
In addition, a detailed presentation of the Grosvenor Project was delivered, followed by a visit to Anglo American Metallurgical Coal 05 Australias Benchmark Performance Centre.
Directors then made an operational visit NEDS FACT FINDING TRIPS TO copper business and strategy overview then to the Moranbah North Mine, touring both SOUTH AMERICA visited the Chagres Smelter, Los Bronces, the surface facilities including the coal the El Soldado and Mantos Blancos mines.
In March 2011, Peter Woicke visited handling and preparation plant and the He also received a brieng on the Quellaveco Anglo Americans sites and operations in waste coal mine gas power station and and Michiquillay projects in Peru.
South America accompanied by Brian the underground mining operations.
In April 2011 Ray ORourke visited Beamish, David Weston and senior managers In addition, certain board members visited from our Safety and Sustainability team.
Los Bronces accompanied by John the MBD Energy algal synthesis facility at Sites visited were: Amap Brazil and MacKenzie, Barro Alto Nickel Brazil with James Cook University in Townsville and Quellaveco Peru.
Walter fide Simoni and Minas-Rio Iron Ore received a detailed brieng on the operations Brazil with Stephan Weber.
Jack Thompson visited Chile accompanied of MBD in which Anglo American holds a by John MacKenzie in May 2011.
The purpose During 2011 Sir John Parker also visited 19.3% interest.
of the trip was to familiarise him with our Chile and Brazil accompanied by John Copper business unit and to visit the large MacKenzie to familiarise himself further construction project at Los Bronces.
Upon with the Los Bronces, Chagres Smelter arrival in Chile, Jack Thompson received a and Barro Alto operations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2011 95
