"Financial statements Overview Strategy Performance & Marketplace Operating review Financial review Governance & other information Changing new 45 ""DDPVOUBCJMJUZ We believe that effective risk management is critical Gross risk assessed Net risk assessed 1 Risk identication G N before mitigation after mitigation to the achievement of our strategic objectives and the Risks highlighted long-term sustainable growth of our business."
anddocumented in acentrally managed G G What is our approach to risk management?
Risk Register G The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is N effectively managed across the Group and, on behalf of the G G Board, the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Group Risk Process.
2 Risk assessment Risks are reviewed by all business areas on a half-yearly basis and N N N measured against a dened set of likelihood and impact criteria.
This is captured in consistent reporting formats, enabling Internal 3 Risk mitigation Audit & Risk to consolidate the risk information and summarise Required actions are N the key risks in the form of the Group Risk Prole.
Our Executive agreed and assigned, with target deadlines Board discusses the Group Risk Prole ahead of it being Minor Moderate Major Critical and quarterly status submitted to Group Board for final approval.
updates IMPACT To ensure our risk process drives improvement across the business, the Executive Board monitors ongoing status and progress of key action plans against each risk on a quarterly Our principal risks and uncertainties basis.
Furthermore, the discussions on risk have strengthened As with any business, we face risk and uncertainties on a daily at Board level with risk being a key consideration in all strategic basis.
It is the effective management of these that places us in a decision-making.
better position to be able to achieve our strategic objectives and to embrace opportunities as they arise.
In order to achieve a holistic view of the risks facing our business, Key areas of focus both now and in the future, we have taken into consideration those risks that are: This year we have maintained a simple and practical approach to risk management, while driving key external to our business: improvements to the process and quality of risk core to our day-to-day operation: information produced.
related to business change activity underway across the Group: and Our focus has centred around three key themes: those that could emerge in the future.
Alignment with the three-year plan The risk radar below maps our principal risks against these Each business area underwent a robust business planning categories.
This tool is also used to facilitate wider Executive and process earlier in the year, setting out key initiatives required Board level discussions on risk.
to support the delivery of our overall strategy.
As part of this, each area identied their key risks to the achievement of the Core external risk External Emerging areas three-year plan and business objectives, ensuring that we are focusing on the things that really matter.
In light of this, new Food risks relating to the delivery of the new online platform: competition Financial position improvements to our store environment: and engagement Economic with our core clothing customers have been disclosed this year.
Clearer risk descriptions failure costs The business areas have been challenged to state where their key areas of concern lie.
For example, last year the risks relating to economic outlook and product costs were Supply chain management combined as one.
This year they have been captured M&S Direct separately, recognising that different events could impact Corporate IT security reputation our sales plan and profitability.
Stock Programme and management workstream management 3.
Action plans for key risks Food safety Our people Store Through development of clearer risk descriptions, the Our environment customers business has built more focused action plans to address each International risk with dened ownership and timeframes for completion.
Core operations Internal Business change Action plans against our principal risks have been signed off by the Executive Board and will be monitored and reported on Overleaf, further information is provided on our principal risks a quarterly basis.
and the mitigating activities underway to address them.
It is recognised that the Group is exposed to a number of risks, wider than those listed.
However, a conscious effort has been made to Each of the above initiatives further strengthens our risk disclose those risks of most concern to the business at this process and enables the Board to make informed decisions moment in time and those that have been the subject of debate on strategy with assurance that our risks are being managed.
at recent Board or Audit Committee meetings.
To nd out more visit marksandspencer.
"com annualreport2011 Directors report Stable known LIKELIHOOD Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain 46 Governance report ""DDPVOUBCJMJUZ continued Risk description Mitigating activities Finance Our priorities continue to focus on maintaining a strong financial position that supports continuous improvements to our customer offering across our UK and International operations."
Economic outlook Throughout the year we have continued to review and monitor the Uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence effectiveness of our pricing, promotional and marketing strategies and our ability to achieve our sales forecast across our General Merchandise GM and Food businesses, As consumers disposable incomes come under pressure from tailoringour consumer offering where appropriate.
increased VAT rates, cuts in public spending and increased fuel Despite pressures on our cost base, we have continued to prices, trading conditions continue to remain a challenge for our innovateinorder to retain our point of difference and the loyalty UK business.
Where possible, we are leveraging the scale of our GM business Product costs toabsorb cost price ination without passing on significant price Increasing product costs may impact the profitability of our business increases to customers.
Our GM and Food businesses are having to develop plans to Both the GM and Food businesses are working with suppliers on address rising commodity prices, particularly inthe cost of oil, food anongoing basis to increase efficiencies and to identify opportunities and cotton, as well as general inationary pressures on our supply for taking costs out of their supply base to protect margins and base such as labour cost increases in Bangladesh and China.
profitability, without compromising on quality or diluting the emphasiswe place on innovation.
Group Treasury regularly carries out forecasting of our debt Financial position capacity, financial covenants and other rating metrics within Deterioration in our financial position limits our exibility and ability currentrating bands.
to grow the business The funding level of our pension scheme is monitored in collaboration In the event that the Groups financial performance does not meet with the Trustees on a regular basis, with clear parameters in place market expectations, our ability to borrow from lenders on our thatwould trigger an intra-valuation debate between the Trustees existing terms may be impacted, resulting in increases to the cost andthe Company.
of borrowing and insufficient funding to meet our capital Regular communication with rating agencies and brokers has requirements and growth plans.
Selling channels We have ambitious plans for our UK, International and M&S Direct businesses as part of our commitment to becoming an international multi-channel retailer by 2015.
Store environment To ensure that our new store plans meet our customers needs with Failure to deliver improvements across our store estate to time, minimal disruption to their shopping experience, we plan to introduce tobudget or to the desired quality could negatively impact aphased roll-out of improvements across our store estate.
consumer perception of the M&S brand Close monitoring of progress against key milestones is underway, Customer research has highlighted that some of our stores are withdirect reporting lines into the Executive Board.
difficult to shop and the positioning of our clothing sub-brands is unclear.
We have taken this feedback on board and are investing in delivering improvements to strengthen and clarify our brand.
We have a clear space growth plan in place for 2011 12 and beyond to Food competition reduce the drive time to our stores for our customers.
Aggressive expansion of our competitors into M&S markets could We continue to implement targeted marketing and promotional impact our market share strategies in response to competitor openings.
The major supermarkets have outlined significant expansion To maintain our position as a leading specialist food retailer, our 2011 12 plans over the next three to five years.
This is leading to greater Food strategy will focus on innovation and inspiration, underpinned by competition for the acquisition of sites and has heightened the our three core values, Freshness, Speciality and Convenience.
need for us to improve accessibility of our stores and differentiate our product offering.
M&S Direct Laura Wade-Gery, our new Executive Director of Multi-channel A new online platform with exibility to support future growth is E-commerce brings with her a wealth of experience in multi-channel not delivered by the time our contract with Amazon expires retailing.
In November 2010, we announced our desire to become a Our multi-channel growth strategy is underpinned by a clear plan for leading UK multi-channel retailer and to make our brand more implementation of the new platform both in the UK and overseas.
To achieve this, we are investing in a We are working closely with our partner Amazon to ensure the quality new online platform that will not only provide a more enhanced of our existing online offering is not compromised while we build the shopping experience but also help to accelerate our growth.
The appointment of Jan Heere as Director of International will drive the International achievement of our international growth plans.
Failure to leverage our systems and processes limits growth of The focus on enhancing international systems and processes has our international business continued throughout the year in alignment with the development of Our aim is to increase our international presence and to build a our international strategy.
leadership position in priority markets.
To deliver this, it is crucial that we adopt an organisation structure that is supported with robust systems and supply chain capability.
Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 Financial statements Overview Strategy Performance & Marketplace Operating review Financial review Governance & other information 47 Risk description Mitigating activities People and change Our people are fundamental to the long-term success and growth of this business.
A monthly brieng is cascaded toourtop managers and a quarterly Our people results broadcast is held forallemployees to communicate the growth Reduced motivation and retention of key employees impacts our ambitions and underlying plans of the business.
ability to deliver business plans Development of talent for the future remains a key priority.
We are As we go through a period of economic uncertainty as well as a rolling out our development programme Lead to Succeed to more number of internal change initiatives, it is ever more important to ofour managers, helping them to realise their full potential.
ensure that M&S remains a great place to work.
Alongside the recruitment of a number of new directors across the business, the development of strong succession plans is a key area offocus for the Board.
Our Strategic Programme Ofce centrally governs the strategic Programme and workstream management initiatives across the Group and provides regular reviews and updates Benets from our major business programmes and workstreams on their status, tracking of costs and realisation of benets to the are not realised Executive Board.
Implementation of our major programmes and strategic All major programmes possess their own governance structures, workstreams is now underway which underpin the achievement supported by robust project management discipline.
of our three-year plan and ambition to become aleading multi-channel international retailer by 2015.
Critical totheir success will be the achievement of our forecastedbenets.
Brand and reputation Our founding principles of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust continue to inuence how we do business and our reputation for being one of the UKs most trusted brands.
Our commitment to Plan A and becoming the worlds most sustainable Corporate reputation major retailer by 2015 continues to be a priority for the Group with one External expectations relating to our Plan A, ethical or corporate of our key objectives being for all M&S products to have at least one governance commitments are not adequately managed Plan A attribute by 2020.
Our brand continues to be trusted in the marketplace with Plan A We have recently launched Only at Your M&S emphasising to being an integral component of the M&S brand.
With such a customers that they will nd exclusive and innovative products that are strong brand comes high expectations and the need to unique to M&S.
consistently deliver quality and value to our wide stakeholder base.
We are ensuring that adequate policies and procedures are in place to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010 which comes into force in July this year.
To maintain our market-leading position for clothing, we continue to Our customers respond to our customers through focus groups, online reviews and Loss of engagement with our core clothing customer our in-house Customer Insight Unit.
As we seek to enhance the M&S brand and make our sub brands Our marketing campaigns continue to be an important way of more distinctive, it is important that we continue to address our communicating with our customers, in order to keep the M&S brand core customers specic needs.
fresh and at the forefront of their minds.
We have a dedicated team in place responsible for ensuring that all Food safety M&S food products are safe for consumption through rigorous controls A food safety related incident occurs or is not effectively managed and processes, with a continuous focus on quality.
As the leading retailer of ne quality fresh food in the UK, it is We maintain robust governance of the food supply base through our paramount that the food products we sell to our customers are safe.
long established supplier audit programme and reporting process.
Day-to-day operation We are a customer-centric business and strive to deliver an efficient and effective operation.
The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis, including: Stock management: Supply chain management: Key supplier failure: and IT security, each of which were disclosed in last years Annual Report.
We recognise that these are important and still subject to regular review, however this year we have sought to focus our disclosure onthose that have been assessed as more significant to the Group.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with M&S and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on thebusiness.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 97 to 100.
