Governance overview $IBJSNBO T PWFSWJFX We welcomed the publication in June 2010 of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode and have used both the 2008 and 2010 5SVTU JT CVJMU VQ GovernanceCodes as the standard against which we have measuredourselves in 2010 11.
The two significant amendments CZ EPJOH UIF tothe2008 Code: the annual re-election of directors and the externalevaluation of the Board at least every three years, will SJHIU UIJOHT UIF bothbeachieved this year.
With the exception of Louise Patten, allofthe Board are seeking election at the 2011 AGM, marking a SJHIU XBZ departurefrom the previous one-third of directors seeking 3PCFSU 4XBOOFMM Chairman electionon a rotation basis.
We have also completed the Companysrst fully independent Board evaluation.
This was conductedin a spirit of openness and collaboration and One of the special attributes of M&S is the level of trust it has supportedby the whole Board.
More details of this can be established on the high street.
Trust is built up by doing the right foundonpage 44. things the right way.
Good governance is just that and at M&S we have focused on ensuring it is meaningful, relevant and underpins Wearenow embarking on a new chapter in the development of our decision-making.
theBoard and the enhancement of corporate governance.
My job istoensure that your Board is greater than the sum of its parts a At M&S, we believe that effective governance is realised through uniedBoard with non-executives acting as critical friends to leadership and collaboration.
The work of the Board should ChiefExecutive Marc Bolland and his Executive team running the complement, enhance and support the work of the Executive.
business, ensuring we have a Board that: Working together, we conduct robust interrogation of plans and supports the Executive team to formulate and execute the strategy: actions, ensuring high quality decision-making in all areas of demonstrates independence, knowledge and experience to strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
My role bringfresh perspectives and to hold management to account: as Chairman is at the heart of ensuring these actions are sustained and harnessed and can drive a culture of continuous seeksfull information to form views, question management and improvement in standards and performance across our business.
takestrategic decisions: isdiverse and while acknowledging the recommendations ondiversity, ensures that we have the right balance of skills, experienceand background: and actsresponsibly to make sure we meet our accountabilities toshareholders and wider stakeholders.
#PBSE PG EJSFDUPST 8IP T XIP PO PVS #PBSE Robert Swannell leads the Board as Chairman and Marc Bolland leads the business as Chief Executive.
Sir David Michels is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmen of the Nomination & Governance, Audit and Remuneration Committees are Robert Swannell, Jeremy Darroch and StevenHolliday respectively.
All Board members, and brief biographies, are given below.
BSD #PMMBOE Group Finance Director.
Alan was PIO %JYPO Executive Director, Food Chairman Chief Executive officer previously a non-executive director Appointed in September 2009.
John Appointed Chairman in January 2011.
Marc joined of Games Workshop Group plc.
joined Marks & Spencer over 20 years Robert joined Marks & Spencer as a Marks & Spencer from Morrison ago as a store management trainee.
4UFWFO 4IBSQ Executive Director, non-executive director in October 2010.
Supermarkets plc, where he had been He has worked across the business in Marketing He was appointed Chairman of the Chief Executive since 2006.
Prior to this, a variety of senior roles, from Executive Appointed in November 2005.
Steven Nomination & Governance Committee in Marc worked at Heineken NV for 20 Assistant to the Chief Executive, to joined Marks & Spencer in May 2004.
Robert is a non-executive years in a variety of management roles, Director of Home and M&S Direct.
He is a non-executive director of Adnams director of HMV Group plc.
He was, until which included responsibility for John was Director of Food from July plc and an elected member of the Tate September 2010, Senior Independent operations and business development 2008 until his appointment to the Board.
Steven has Director of The British Land Company in the US, France, Italy, Spain, the previously been Marketing Director atBVSB 8BEF FSZ Photo not shown plc and of 3i Group plc.
He spent over Caribbean and Latin America.
He went Asda, the Burton Group, Booker plc and Executive Director, Multi-channel 30 years in investment banking with on to become an Executive Board Arcadia Group plc.
E-commerce Schroders Citigroup and was formerly Member and Chief Operating officer.
Laura joins the Board on 4 July 2011.
Vice-Chairman of Citi Europe and He is a non-executive director of, BUF #PTUPDL Executive Director, Shewas previously at Tesco plc where Co-Chairman of Citis European Manpower Inc. General Merchandise she held a variety of senior roles from Investment Bank.
He is a member Appointed in March 2008.
"Kate joined ""MBO 4UFXBSU Chief Finance officer 1997."
Laura brings considerable retail of the Takeover Appeal Board.
Alan joined and consumer experience, including Previously, Kate was Product Director for Marks & Spencer from AWAS, an aircraft significant e-commerce knowledge as Childrenswear at Next from 1994, before leasing company, where he was Chief Chief Executive officer of Tesco.
com joining Asda in 2001 as Product Director Financial officer.
Alan worked for HSBC and Tesco Direct.
Prior to joining Tesco for the George Global Brand.
She was Investment Bank for ten years before Laura held various roles at Gemini responsible for the launch of the joining Thomas Cook in 1996, where he Consulting and Kleinwort Benson.
standalone George concept and the held a number of senior roles, including She has been a non-executive director launch of the George brand globally.
Chief Executive of Thomas Cook UK, of Trinity Mirror plc since 2006. before joining WH Smith plc in 2005 as.
BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011 'JOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ 1FSGPSNBODF.
BSLFUQMBDF 0QFSBUJOH SFWJFX 'JOBODJBM SFWJFX PWFSOBODF PUIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Progress has begun on shaping the Board for the future, ensuring Safeguarding our development pipeline of skilled leaders has diversity is at its heart.
There has been much debate generally been a key area of focus for the Board and the Nomination & about diversity in the boardroom, specically relating to gender Governance Committee this year, in line with our action plan for and the representation of women in the boardrooms of FTSE 2010 11.
Not only have we seen a reshaping of the Board itself, companies.
At M&S, our female directors already account for but we have also conducted an extensive programme to support nearly 30% of the Board and we would expect to at least maintain our future succession plans.
this level over the next two years.
Below Board level, women Hand-in-hand with developing leaders within the business account for 32% of senior management.
However, we do look goes the task of ensuring our reward systems are appropriate at diversity more broadly as we feel it is important to get the right and stretching.
Our Remuneration Committee has overseen balance of independence, skills, knowledge and experience.
a redesign of our senior executive framework this year and During the year we further improved our governance, completing considerable effort has gone into the scheme proposal the separation of the roles of Chief Executive and Chairman, and engaging with major shareholders and investor with the appointment of Marc Bolland in May 2010 and me representative bodies.
This period of transition was Monitoring the level of risk and the governance to support risk managed extremely effectively by Sir David Michels, as Senior management has been another key objective and involved the Independent Director, and the Nominations Committee he led.
support of the Audit Committee.
The outputs of this are visited Thanks must also go to Sir Stuart Rose for an immaculate in greater detail on page 46.
It is important that we build on, and handover as Chairman.
improve our understanding of risks and our appetite and tolerance In October 2010 the Board appointed Alan Stewart as Chief of these in future.
In February 2011 we announced the appointment We have had a busy year, taking a number of significant decisions of Laura Wade-Gery as Executive Director, Multi-channel and actions, some of which are captured on the following pages.
E-commerce, who will join the Board on 4 July 2011.
More recently we announced that after nearly two three-year terms, Louise Patten has decided not to seek re-election this year and will step down from the Board following the AGM on 13 July 2011.
Sir David Michels has also decided to step down from the Board, following the end of his second three year-term, in February 2012.
He will remain as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director until then.
BSUIBBOF 'PY Non-ExecutivePVJTF 1BUUFO Non-Executive Independent z Director z Director z z Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Appointed in March 2006.
David is Appointed in June 2007.
Martha is the Appointed in February 2006.
Louise is Nomination & Governance Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent UKs Digital Champion, Chairman of a senior adviser to Bain & Co and a Committee Director.
He is Chairman of London & Race Online 2012 and a non-executive non-executive director of UK Asset Capital plc, an independent wealth director of Channel 4 Television.
She was formerly management rm, and Michels & Taylor founder and Chairman of Lucky Voice Chairman of Brixton plc, and a On 5 May 2011 we announced that LLP, a hotel asset management company.
Limited and of her own grant-giving non-executive director of Hilton Group Louise Patten has decided not to David is also Deputy Chairman of foundation, Antigone.
Martha was a plc, GUS plc, Somereld plc and seek re-election this year and will easyJet plc and a non-executive director co-founder of lastminute.
step down from the Board of Strategic Hotels & Resorts and following the AGM on 13 July 2011.
4UFWFO PMMJEBZ Non-Executive BO EV 1MFTTJT Non-Executive Jumeirah Group, Dubai.
He was Director z Chairman Director z Sir David Michels has also decided previously Senior Independent Director Appointed in July 2004.
Steve is Appointed in November 2008.
Jan is to step down from the Board ofThe British Land Company plc, a Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of Rio Tinto plc.
He was following the end of his second non-executive director of Arcadia Group Committee.
He is Group CEO of National formerly Chairman of British American three-year term in February 2012. and Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc.
Grid plc, having previously been Group Tobacco plc and a non-executive FSFNZ %BSSPDI Non-Executive Director of UK and Europe and director of Lloyds Banking Group.
Directorz Chairman responsible for the UK Electricity and He was also Chairman of RHM plc from Appointed in February 2006.
Jan was previously Group is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
the UK Business Council for Sustainable Finance Director of Richemont, the He is Chief Executive of British Sky Energy.
Prior to joining National Grid Swiss luxury goods group, until 2004.
"Broadcasting Group plc, having he was an Executive Director of British ""NBOEB."
FMMPS Group Secretary previously been the companys Chief Borneo Oil and Gas.
Previously, Steve and Head of Corporate Governance Financial officer.
Prior to this, Jeremy held numerous senior positions with the was Group Finance Director and Retail Exxon Group.
Finance Director at DSG International plc, formerly Dixons Group plc.
To nd out more visit NBSLTBOETQFODFS DPN BOOVBMSFQPSU Directors report
