Governance reportFBEFSTIJQ Doing the right thing the right way 8IBU EP XF NFBO CZ EPJOH UIF SJHIU UIJOH 8IBU HVJEFT PVS CFIBWJPVST 5P FOTVSF UIF DPOUJOVFE TVDDFTT PG.
4 XF CFMJFWF HPPE HPWFSOBODF QSPEVDFT HPPE UP NBLF UIF SJHIU EFDJTJPOT BDSPTT UIF CVTJOFTT JO CVTJOFTT BOE QFSGPSNBODF UIF SJHIU XBZ XJUI UIF SJHIU DIFDLT BOE CBMBODFT The Board is the guardian of the M&S brand, its reputation It is not just what we do but how we do it, by: and stakeholder relationships: if we do the right thing the right way, these will be protected.
understanding and ensuring our Code of Ethics and Behaviours guides us in our everyday activities: The Board demonstrates leadership in these areas, regularly discussing and reviewing: behaving considerately to our colleagues, ensuring we and they feel valued, motivated and rewarded: Our corporate values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation treating our customers, suppliers and local communities and Trust: fairly and with respect: and Plan A and sustainability, our ambitious environmental, respecting the environment, involving all of our stakeholders ethical and social commitments: and through Plan A.
Our Code of Ethics and Behaviours: our guide to the values, behaviours and ways of working we uphold.
At the heart of it all is making sure the people that own M&S our shareholders get a good return on their investment.
The Board is also the ag-bearer for our business behaviours Ifwe do the right thing the right way, then the business will and aspirations: to be not just good, but great at what it does.
The significant changes in Board composition this year provide the perfect opportunity to renew our contract with shareholders and, as a group, we are committed to openness, transparency and mutual trust.
0VS PWFSOBODF TUSVDUVSF $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 0QFSBUJPOBM PWFSOBODF o &YFDVUJWF #PBSE Marc Bolland is accountable for running o SPVQ #PBSE Robert Swannell relies on management to thebusiness, making sure we are doing the right thing day-to-day run the business and on our people to provide our customers anddelivering the Groups strategy.
It allocates capital and with great service every time they shop with us.
To safeguard  investments with a risk of material this, the Board monitors what management are doing, holding impactonnancial results, brand or strategy.
It keeps the Board them accountable for performance against our targets and regularly informed about the business and how we work with our standards, probing and challenging their thinking to make different stakeholders.
Its work is supported by a number of sure that we are on the right track.
The Board works closely operational committees and functions.
with management in thinking through our direction and long-term plans, the opportunities, the risks and making sure o. BOBHFNFOU $PNNJUUFF Marc Bolland inputs into the we are developing the right management team for the future.
It monitors the development of the Groups The non-executives provide independent challenge and review, workstreams against its three-year plan and cascades relevant information through the business.
bringing wide experience, specic expertise and a fresh, objective perspective.
As members of the Board Committees, o 1SPQFSUZ #PBSE Clem Constantine ensures capital they play a crucial role in undertaking detailed governance work expenditureis allocated tothe Groups UK and International with a particular focus on shareholders.
It approves all UK andInternational property investments, projects and programmes.
o PNJOBUJPO PWFSOBODF $PNNJUUFF Robert Swannell recommends Board appointments, reviews o $VTUPNFS OTJHIU 6OJU Steve Bond inuences decisionbusiness succession plans andmakes sure our governance is making by tracking marketplace trends, our customer barometer t forpurpose.
"o ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF Jeremy Darroch monitors the integrity o PX 8F %P #VTJOFTT $PNNJUUFF Marc Bolland drives oursocial, environmental and ethical commitments Plan A in line of the financial statements and reviews effectiveness ofinternal withstakeholder expectations, ensures they are integrated into controls, risk management andaudit."
everyday activities and supports our aim to be the most o 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF Steven Holliday recommends sustainablemajor retailer by 2015. remuneration strategy and framework to recruit, retain and o #VTJOFTT OWPMWFNFOU SPVQT Malcolm Heaven are reward senior executives for their individual performance.
theelected bodiesthrough which the business informs, involves The Committee activity reports are given on pages 50, 51 and 52. andconsults employees so their views can be taken into account toinuence business change and decision-making.
o PWFSOBODF SPVQ Amanda Mellor supports colleagues by providing governance support and oversight that o 'JSF FBMUI BOE 4BGFUZ $PNNJUUFF Steve Rowe is meaningful, relevant and focused on ensuring the business is promotesthe safety and wellbeing of our employees, customers andvisitors and minimises the risk of financial penalties.
doing the right things the right way both in the UK and overseas.
The Governance Group engages across the business o #VTJOFTT $POUJOVJUZ $PNNJUUFF Steve Rowe equips and comprises legal, audit and risk, insurance, archive, thebusiness to continue to trade in the event of a crisis or disaster pensions, BIG employee representative and secretariat, atany M&S location at any time.
reporting on its activities regularly to the Board in the Group These Committees report to the Board on their activities at least annually.
Secretarys report.. BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011 'JOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ 1FSGPSNBODF.
BSLFUQMBDF 0QFSBUJOH SFWJFX 'JOBODJBM SFWJFX PWFSOBODF PUIFS JOGPSNBUJPO 5 r e e e t G i t d G t o i c u r v m o G A e u n m r p n 3 o o a e C n v c p e e S r 8IBU JT PVS BQQSPBDI UP HPWFSOBODF PX EJE XF DPNQMZ XJUI UIF PWFSOBODF $PEF PWFSOBODF IFMQT VT UP EP UIF SJHIU UIJOH GPS PVS 5IF HPWFSOBODF SVMFT UIBU BQQMZ UP 6, DPNQBOJFT TIBSFIPMEFST DVTUPNFST FNQMPZFFT TVQQMJFST MJTUFE PO UIFPOEPO 4UPDL &YDIBOHF BSF GPVOE JO MPDBM DPNNVOJUJFT BOE UIF FOWJSPONFOU JO UIF SJHIU UIF$PNCJOFE $PEF PO $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF XBZ 0VS HPWFSOBODF JT GPDVTFE OPU POMZ PO UIF A $PEF 5IF OFX 6, $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF CPBSESPPN CVU BMTP SJHIU BDSPTT UIF CVTJOFTT JO $PEF XBT BEPQUFE JO VOF UIF 6, BOE BDSPTT PVS JOUFSOBUJPOBM BDUJWJUJFT Throughout the year ended 2 April 2011, the Company Although the required regulatory and governance assurances complied with all provisions of the 2008 Code with the are provided throughout this report, we have sought to avoid exception that for part of the year, the role of Chairman a box-ticking approach.
Over the following pages we focus and Chief Executive was exercised by the same individual, on the practical application of our governance, showing how Sir Stuart Rose.
Stuart stepped down as Executive Chairman it works to support and protect the M&S business.
You will on 31 July 2010 but remained as Chairman until the nd our approach to Leadership on page 42, Effectiveness appointment of Robert Swannell as Non-Executive Chairman on 44, Accountability on 45, Engagement and Relations with on 4 January 2011.
We recognise that Stuarts role as Shareholders on page 48, and the governance of our pension Chairman and Chief Executive was out of line with best scheme on page 49.
Our Governance Framework sets out practice as were his independence criteria on appointment as whatwe expect from our directors and the structures that Chairman.
We understand the concerns that shareholders support our governance.
This framework proles the directors had, but maintain that robust governance structures were in individual accountabilities as well as detailing terms of reference place, while benefiting from retaining Stuart at the helm.
for the Board, Committees and key operational functions.
It can With the separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief be found withinthe Governance section of our corporate website marksandspencer.
com thecompany along with our Executive we have now returned to best practice.
fullaccount of how we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
6 Executive Board 13 Business 7 Management Continuity Committee Committee 1 12 Fire, Health Group 8 Property and Safety Board Board Committee 11 Business 9 Customer Involvement Insight Unit Groups 10 How We Do Business Committee To nd out more visit NBSLTBOETQFODFS DPN BOOVBMSFQPSU Directors report n & 4 a s & e n e n R C c e o k e o i t n t c t m a a m i r n n u m i m r e a n m i e t m e t o v r e o o N a e M G C t i 2 o n Governance reportFBEFSTIJQ Progress 0VS #PBSE 1 Robert Swannell joined the Board as a non-executive director on 4 October 2010, 8IP T PO PVS #PBSE prior to his appointment as Chairman on 4 January 2011.
Board meetings 2 Sir David Michels unable to attend the meetings on 8 December 2010 and Name of director A B 16 March 2011 due to overseas business commitments.
$IBJSNBO 3 Kate Bostock unable to attend the meetings on 24 May 2010 and 16March 2011 Sir Stuart Rose resigned 4 Jan 2011 7 7 due to illness.
1 Robert Swannell appointed 4 Jan 2011 66 4 Steven Sharp unable to attend the meeting on 34 February 2011 due to illness.
%FQVUZ $IBJSNBO 5 Jeremy Darroch unable to attend the meeting on 8 November 2010 due to 2 business commitments with BSkyB.
Sir David Michels 10 8 6 Steven Holliday unable to attend the meeting on 19 January 2011 due to illness.
$IJFG &YFDVUJWF 0GDFS 7 Jan du Plessis unable to attend the meeting on 24 May 2010 due to business Marc Bolland appointed 1 May 2010 10 10 commitments with Rio Tinto and on 34 February due to personal commitments.
&YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST 8IBU IBT PVS #PBSE EPOF EVSJOH UIFZFBS 3 Kate Bostock 10 8 John Dixon 10 10 It is our intention to be immersed in key decisions and actions across the business, reinforcing our belief that good Ian Dyson resigned 14 July 2010 3 3 4 governance is a valued consideration in all decision-making Steven Sharp 10 9 processes.
We see it as central to running a successful Alan Stewart appointed 28 Oct 2010 5 5 business and to everything the Board does.
PO FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST 5 Our action plan for 2010 11 was largely achieved.
We have seen Jeremy Darroch 10 9 significant progress in our aim to develop our business leaders Martha Lane Fox 10 10 and we have ensured our reward systems are appropriate and 6 Steven Holliday 10 9 stretching.
We have been mindful of monitoring risk while Louise Patten 10 10 balancing the business needs and we are on track with our 7 Jan du Plessis 10 8 plans to relocate the M&S Company Archive to its new home in Leeds.
An overview of the Boards focus during the year is set A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
out on the opposite page, while here we highlight a number of the key activities in greater depth.
Our action plan for 2011 12, following the Board effectivness review is set out on page 44.
NQSPWJOH QSPDFTTFT appointed an Executive Director for Multi-channel E-commerce.
The Boards agendas focus on our themes of continuous These appointments herald the beginning of a new chapter for the Board and provide us with an opportunity to review and redene improvement, strong leadership, a clear strategy, checks the way we work together.
and balances, a trusted brand and strong relationships with shareholders, employees and customers.
Having already identied our Top 100 key managers within our business, this year the Board supported a programme to extend While we recognise the importance of compliance, we avoid the scope of our Lead to Succeed initiative to the Top 500 spending unnecessary time on box-ticking and gold-plating managers at M&S.
We will continue to ensure their development legislation, choosing instead to focus on the long-term plans and potential is supported: this should enable us to secure a for our business as well as day-to-day operations.
source of talented leaders for the future.
This work also resulted To support these aims we have reviewed the packs sent to in the recruitment of the first four people from London Business Board members to ensure clarity of communication and we School onto our MBA programme.
have updated the Board calendar to free up time for valuable We have also ensured our reward framework is t for purpose, debate and long-term strategic discussion.
In addition, we will reecting our resolve to recognise the skills and talents allocate time to gather ad hoc feedback and discuss future represented across our teams as well as setting stretching goals agendas so that we can react effectively to emerging issues and objectives that feed into our wider ambitions for the business.
Our Remuneration Committee led this important piece of work: The Board was engaged in signing off some significant strategic for more details see page 52. developments during the year, including our return to continental Feedback is encouraged across our business and all employees Europe with the opening of a store in Paris and the launch of our have a chance to share their views and insights via a host of first international website in France.
It also approved significant engagement initiatives.
These include our annual Your Say survey, IT and supply chain system modernisation projects and reviewed Business Involvement Groups, director presentations, Annual a wide range of customer-facing initiatives.
Conference and informal director roundtable discussions.
VSUVSJOH UBMFOU %SJWJOH TUSBUFHZ Developing leadership and future talent and securing strong The Executive team worked with our Top 100 management team succession plans for the business has been a key theme for the to perform an in-depth review of the business, developing our Board.
A significant amount of Board time during the year was strategy from the bottom up.
This culminated in the strategy taken up with induction of the new Chairman, new Chief update to the City with the half year results in November 2010.
Executive, and new Chief Finance officer, and the programmes The strategy was cascaded to all employees, following our first designed were all thoroughly comprehensive.
Further detail on Annual Business Conference attended by all store managers and our induction process can be found on page 44.
We also the Top 100.. BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011 'JOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT 0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ 1FSGPSNBODF.
BSLFUQMBDF 0QFSBUJOH SFWJFX 'JOBODJBM SFWJFX PWFSOBODF PUIFS JOGPSNBUJPO r e c G n o e v p e S r Ensuring the Board is regularly engaged at an earlier stage of ensured our Group Risk Prole reects the business strategic strategic planning is an ongoing commitment and strategy objectives.
We have reviewed our appetite for risk as result of discussions were central to the two Board away-day events held the strategic plan and will continue to challenge and broaden during the year.
The first, in October, focused on the strategic our understanding of this in future.
goals for the business that formed the update to the City in We have carried out a full review of internal controls, updated our November 2010.
In February 2011 the Board came together again Code of Ethics and Behaviours and our Data Protection policy, to review the three-year plan and progress with the strategic and prepared ourselves for the new Bribery Act.
The Audit initiatives to deliver the goals outlined in November.
Committee has supported much of the debate in these areas.. POJUPSJOH SJTL We have also reviewed previously approved investment decisions, Protecting the business from operational or reputational damage established a Plan A External Advisory Board comprising experts is an essential part of the Boards role.
In line with our action plan, from academia, industry and leading NGOs and reviewed our we have assessed the effectiveness of our reporting controls and health and safety and business continuity planning.
#PBSE BDUJWJUJFT o %SJWJOH DPOUJOVPVT JNQSPWFNFOU JOFBEFSTIJQ BOE FNQMPZFFT Reinforced and developed Board through new appointments: Independent Chairman, Chief Finance officer, Executive Director Multi-channel E-commerce Focused on Top 100 managers, supporting succession planning Extended programme to Top 500 and hosted first Business Conference $VTUPNFST 4USBUFHZ Redesigned senior executive reward Received regular boardroom updates Conducted in-depth, top down business framework through Remuneration on customer and market trends review with input from Top 100 management Committee team to develop future strategy Customer feedback received in store Engaged with employees via: annual Your and at our Annual General Meeting Held two Board away-days to support new Say survey: Business Involvement Groups: strategy and review immediate and Considered updates from our new director presentations: Annual Conference: three-year plans Consumer Barometer on behaviour and informal director roundtable discussions andsentiment Approved key decisions including: development of new M&S multi-channel Secured future funding for M&S platform: return to continental Europe with CompanyArchive Paris store and international website Responded to 35,000 customer Ongoing assessment of key strategic communications received via the projects, including IT and systems Chairmans ofce %PJOH UIF SJHIU UIJOH UIF SJHIU XBZ 3FMBUJPOT XJUI TIBSFIPMEFST $IFDLT BOE CBMBODFT Annual independent investor survey Assessed effectiveness of financial reporting undertaken controls, internal control and assurance processes Active engagement with institutional shareholders and investor bodies Ensured Group Risk Prole reects business appetite for strategic growth Reached out to lost shareholders by 5SVTUFE CSBOE implementing a full lost shareholder Updated Code of Ethics and Behaviours, Informed debate around Only at Your M&S searchprogramme Data Protection policy, Governance brand approach across clothing, home Framework and reviewed preparedness for Consulted with 50,000 shareholders about andfood the new Bribery Act receiving the Annual Report electronically Supported relocation and enhancement of Reviewed: previously approved investment M&S Company Archive, ensuring our rich decisions particularly around IT and supply history and heritage is preserved chain initiatives : creation of Plan A External Advisory Board, health and safety: and Constant challenge and debate around business continuity planning PlanA aspirations Ongoing review of governance structure, with particular focus on developing markets internationally Audit Committee received key updates tosupport the understanding of key risks to reputation, food safety, crisis management and employee morale To nd out more visit NBSLTBOETQFODFS DPN BOOVBMSFQPSU Directors report n & a s n k c r a e M
