Governance reportFBEFSTIJQ Doing the right thing the right way 8IBU EP XF NFBO CZ EPJOH UIF SJHIU UIJOH 8IBU HVJEFT PVS CFIBWJPVST 5P FOTVSF UIF DPOUJOVFE TVDDFTT PG.
4 XF CFMJFWF HPPE HPWFSOBODF QSPEVDFT HPPE UP NBLF UIF SJHIU EFDJTJPOT BDSPTT UIF CVTJOFTT JO CVTJOFTT BOE QFSGPSNBODF UIF SJHIU XBZ XJUI UIF SJHIU DIFDLT BOE CBMBODFT The Board is the guardian of the M&S brand, its reputation It is not just what we do but how we do it, by: and stakeholder relationships: if we do the right thing the right way, these will be protected.
understanding and ensuring our Code of Ethics and Behaviours guides us in our everyday activities: The Board demonstrates leadership in these areas, regularly discussing and reviewing: behaving considerately to our colleagues, ensuring we and they feel valued, motivated and rewarded: Our corporate values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation treating our customers, suppliers and local communities and Trust: fairly and with respect: and Plan A and sustainability, our ambitious environmental, respecting the environment, involving all of our stakeholders ethical and social commitments: and through Plan A.
Our Code of Ethics and Behaviours: our guide to the values, behaviours and ways of working we uphold.
At the heart of it all is making sure the people that own M&S our shareholders get a good return on their investment.
The Board is also the ag-bearer for our business behaviours Ifwe do the right thing the right way, then the business will and aspirations: to be not just good, but great at what it does.
The significant changes in Board composition this year provide the perfect opportunity to renew our contract with shareholders and, as a group, we are committed to openness, transparency and mutual trust.
0VS PWFSOBODF TUSVDUVSF $PSQPSBUF PWFSOBODF 0QFSBUJPOBM PWFSOBODF o &YFDVUJWF #PBSE Marc Bolland is accountable for running o SPVQ #PBSE Robert Swannell relies on management to thebusiness, making sure we are doing the right thing day-to-day run the business and on our people to provide our customers anddelivering the Groups strategy.
It allocates capital and with great service every time they shop with us.
To safeguard  investments with a risk of material this, the Board monitors what management are doing, holding impactonnancial results, brand or strategy.
It keeps the Board them accountable for performance against our targets and regularly informed about the business and how we work with our standards, probing and challenging their thinking to make different stakeholders.
Its work is supported by a number of sure that we are on the right track.
The Board works closely operational committees and functions.
with management in thinking through our direction and long-term plans, the opportunities, the risks and making sure o. BOBHFNFOU $PNNJUUFF Marc Bolland inputs into the we are developing the right management team for the future.
It monitors the development of the Groups The non-executives provide independent challenge and review, workstreams against its three-year plan and cascades relevant information through the business.
bringing wide experience, specic expertise and a fresh, objective perspective.
As members of the Board Committees, o 1SPQFSUZ #PBSE Clem Constantine ensures capital they play a crucial role in undertaking detailed governance work expenditureis allocated tothe Groups UK and International with a particular focus on shareholders.
It approves all UK andInternational property investments, projects and programmes.
o PNJOBUJPO PWFSOBODF $PNNJUUFF Robert Swannell recommends Board appointments, reviews o $VTUPNFS OTJHIU 6OJU Steve Bond inuences decisionbusiness succession plans andmakes sure our governance is making by tracking marketplace trends, our customer barometer t forpurpose.
"o ""VEJU $PNNJUUFF Jeremy Darroch monitors the integrity o PX 8F %P #VTJOFTT $PNNJUUFF Marc Bolland drives oursocial, environmental and ethical commitments Plan A in line of the financial statements and reviews effectiveness ofinternal withstakeholder expectations, ensures they are integrated into controls, risk management andaudit."
everyday activities and supports our aim to be the most o 3FNVOFSBUJPO $PNNJUUFF Steven Holliday recommends sustainablemajor retailer by 2015. remuneration strategy and framework to recruit, retain and o #VTJOFTT OWPMWFNFOU SPVQT Malcolm Heaven are reward senior executives for their individual performance.
theelected bodiesthrough which the business informs, involves The Committee activity reports are given on pages 50, 51 and 52. andconsults employees so their views can be taken into account toinuence business change and decision-making.
o PWFSOBODF SPVQ Amanda Mellor supports colleagues by providing governance support and oversight that o 'JSF FBMUI BOE 4BGFUZ $PNNJUUFF Steve Rowe is meaningful, relevant and focused on ensuring the business is promotesthe safety and wellbeing of our employees, customers andvisitors and minimises the risk of financial penalties.
doing the right things the right way both in the UK and overseas.
The Governance Group engages across the business o #VTJOFTT $POUJOVJUZ $PNNJUUFF Steve Rowe equips and comprises legal, audit and risk, insurance, archive, thebusiness to continue to trade in the event of a crisis or disaster pensions, BIG employee representative and secretariat, atany M&S location at any time.
reporting on its activities regularly to the Board in the Group These Committees report to the Board on their activities at least annually.
Secretarys report.. BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011
