Governance report &GGFDUJWFOFTT PX EP XF NBLF TVSF PVS #PBSE JT FGGFDUJWF 8IBU XJMM XF EP XJUI UIF PVUQVUT Now more than ever, the M&S Board is committed to best The insights gathered from the Board review have resulted in a practice in its governance activities.
In line with this best practice, clear action plan for the year ahead.
The actions address the and reecting the significant changes to the Board line-up this key areas of succession and people, Board composition, Board year, we took the decision to commission our first ever debate, risk management and shareholder engagement.
"""DUJPO QMBO Our aim was to capture open and constructive feedback from Board members that would: During the year, the Board plans to: provide insight into our effectiveness: create a clear framework around succession planning and point to actions for improving our performance: and support and development for key managers: establish a benchmark for measuring future progress."
review Board and Committee composition to encourage Our Board review was conducted according to the guidance true diversity of experience and outlook: in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
All participants ensure a real focus on the level of debate in the boardroom were interviewed according to an agenda tailored specically and understanding of the longer term: for our Board.
The outputs have already begun to inform our build on the risk management process to ensure action planning for 2011 12. appropriate challenge to and understanding of our risk Board members were hugely supportive of our aims, embraced appetite and tolerance going forward: and our desire to elicit a diversity of views and demonstrated a continue our active engagement with shareholders.
commitment to achieving exemplary Board performance.
8IP DBSSJFE PVU UIF SFWJFX Our review was conducted by Fon Hague of Independent Board %JSFDUPS JOEVDUJPO Evaluation, a wholly independent consultant who has no other On joining M&S, directors receive a tailored induction programme.
This includes time with the Group Secretary, each of the Executive 8IBU XBT UIF GPDVT PG UIF #PBSE SFWJFX Directors, members of the Management Committee and a wide range of senior management from across the business.
Structured interviews with Board members took place between January and March 2011 with each participant asked to evaluate %JSFDUPS JOEVDUJPO QSPHSBNNF the Board, its Committees, the Chairman and individual Board members.
By way of example, Robert Swannell received a Subjects covered included a general overview as to the state comprehensive induction programme covering: of the Board, how it was operating at the time and how that had Company structure and strategy: including Group structure: changed in recent months.
Directors were also asked about history, strategy, vision, key people, succession plans, shareholder relationships, how the business interacts with Board procedures including Governance Framework and shareholders and how those relations might be improved.
Code of Ethics and Behaviours, Board Committees, calendar, Views were sought on the Boards input into strategy discussions, minutes, Board effectiveness reviews and action plans, governance and compliance, risk management and succession nances and performance, operating plans, current KPIs and planning.
The Boards own composition was also examined, targets, operational overview of all business areas, key looking at culture and the relationships with senior management relationships including suppliers and major contracts, Group as well as how new members are selected and inducted.
Risk Prole and our approach to risk.
A separate section looked at how the Board could move Industry and competitive environment: including customer from good to great and what would be required to drive trends, consumer and regulatory environment including continuous improvement, including how to access the widest governance and all relevant consumer and industry bodies, possible reserve of skills, experience and knowledge within CSR environment and sustainability.
Sentiment and reputation: including brand positioning and 8IBU EJE XF MFBSO media prole, marketing campaigns, brand values, analyst and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, share register There was a widespread view that ours is a Board in transition.
and voting history, key stakeholder relations including We identied a high degree of support for the new leadership and employees, customers, suppliers, service providers, opinion the way in which new members were introduced and inducted leaders, an overview of our remuneration policy and pensions.
during the year was felt to have further served to unify the Board.
His programme was supported by one-on-one meetings The Board also expressed a desire to ensure a balance is struck with management from General Merchandise, Food, between regulatory compliance and the need to nurture an Multi-channel, International, Retail, Finance, Property, Plan A, entrepreneurial spirit within the business.
Marketing, Customer Insight Unit, Human Resources, Communications and Investor Relations, Internal Audit andRisk, Pensions, the Company Archive and the Governance Group.
Robert visited a number of our stores with the Retail team and our distribution centre in Bradford with the Logistics team.
He also met with key investors and suppliers.. BSLT BOE 4QFODFS SPVQ QMD Annual report and financial statements 2011
