Section 3: Governance CorPorAte governAnCe rePort The CEO, supported by the other Executive Directors, is responsible introduction for the performance of the Company in line with the strategies and In this report the Company describes how it has applied the main objectives established by the Board and the powers delegated by it.
principles of The uK Corporate Governance Code the Code He ensures that the Board is supplied with information relevant to its throughout the accounting year.
The Board considers it has complied strategic role and he leads the Executive Directors and senior fully with the provisions of the Code.
management in dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
The main principles of the Code are: non-executive Directors zz leadership The Chairman, who was not independent on appointment having zz Effectiveness previously served as an Executive Director, meets with the Nonexecutive Directors at least annually without the Executives being zz Accountability present.
The Non-executive Directors use their external experiences and zz Remuneration expertise to apply independent challenge and rigour to their reviews of zz Relations with shareholders the Companys performance and that of its management.
lord Hodgson is the Senior Independent Director and served in this LeaDerShiP capacity throughout the year.
Where necessary, he acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the other Directors.
role of the board He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long term been resolved through normal channels or in circumstances where success of the Company.
It meets regularly to monitor the Companys those channels are inappropriate.
As the Senior Independent Director, progress against its strategic aims and within its risk management lord Hodgson leads the Non-executive Directors in their annual framework.
The explanation of the basis on which Martsons generates assessment of the Chairmans performance and he would also lead any value and delivers its strategic objectives can be found in the Business discussions on the appointment of a new chairman.
It has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, some of which are dealt with directly and some are on the board and Committee meeting attendance recommendation of its committees.
Other responsibilities are given to name board nomination audit remuneration Committees of the Board, as set out in the Committee sections below David Thompson 10 10 2 2 and in their terms of reference, which are available on the Companys Robin Hodgson 10 10 2 2 3 3 3 3 website www.
Rosalind Cuschieri 10 10 2 2 3 3 3 3 Miles Emley 10 10 2 2 3 3 3 3 Neil Goulden 10 10 2 2 3 3 3 3 Summary of Matters reserved for the board Robin Rowland 10 10 zz Strategy, management and budget matters: Ralph Findlay 10 10 2 2 Andrew Andrea 10 10 zz Capital structure, dividend policy and financial controls: Derek Andrew 10 10 zz Public and shareholder announcements: Alistair Darby 10 10 zz Internal controls and the identification, monitoring and Stephen Oliver 10 10 management of risk: effeCTiveneSS zz Major capital expenditure, asset acquisitions and disposals: board composition zz Board and Committee membership and corporate up until 1 October 2011, the Board comprised five Executive Directors, governance arrangements: five Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
As announced last year, zz Remuneration of Directors and senior management: and and with effect from 1 October 2011, Alistair Darby was appointed Chief zz Policies, including ethics, health and safety, environmental, Operating Officer COO and Derek Andrew and Stephen Oliver stepped charitable and corporate social responsibility policies.
Thereafter, the Executive Directors comprise the CEO, the COO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
With the announced retirement of Miles Emley at the conclusion of the next The Chairman and Chief executive officer Annual General Meeting AGM, the number of Non-executive Directors There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the will be four.
The Board considers all of its Non-executive Directors to be Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO which are set out in independent within the meaning of the Code.
writing and agreed by the Board.
David Thompson, as Chairman, is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
His role is Further to the Davies Report Women on Boards, FTSE 350 companies to ensure each Non-executive Director makes an effective contribution have been encouraged to promote greater female representation on to the Board through debate and discussion with the Executive boards.
The Company considers that diversity in the boardroom is Directors.
He ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear essential to good business and our appointment processes continue information ahead of each Board meeting and that adequate time is to ensure that all appointments are made on merit and that our Board available at Board meetings to consider all agenda items, especially represents the best interests of shareholders.
30 Marstons PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Governance Following the announcement of Miles Emleys intention to retire, the The Company Secretary advises the Board, through the Chairman, on Board have identified the need for a further financially qualified all governance matters.
All Directors have access to her advice and Non-executive Director.
Further details can be found in the Nomination services.
Directors may, in the performance of their duties, seek Committee section below.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Commitment evaluation Each Director is required to disclose their other significant commitments Having had an externally facilitated evaluation last year, the Chairman, to the Board prior to appointment and when there is any significant assisted by the Company Secretary, led this years performance change.
There is a procedure in place whereby actual and potential evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors and conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
The Articles of Association reported his findings to the Board.
The process was based on allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest and to impose questionnaires and one-to-one discussions by the Chairman with each such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Prior to the appointment of any Director and the Company Secretary.
Each Committee also discussed, new Director, or if a new potential conflict arises, the appropriate and reported to the Board on, its own performance and effectiveness.
The Board considers all Directors to allocate The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities met without the Chairman to appraise his performance.
Each Committee and the Board concluded that it was satisfied overall The Chairman is a Director of Ragleth ltd, the controlling shareholder of with its own effectiveness and the contribution and commitment of each Anglia Maltings Holdings ltd and a supplier to the Company.
The Board agenda has been updated to reflect the contracts are concluded on ordinary commercial terms without the impact of changes in Executive Directors and the role of the COO.
The Chairman being present in contract negotiations or in the event of any timetable of future meetings and agenda items has also been updated consideration of these by the Board.
The Chairman has no controlling to reflect the feedback received during the evaluation process.
interest in Ragleth ltd and consequently the transactions between the re-election Group and Ragleth ltd are not Related Party Transactions as defined by All Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment which set out International Financial Reporting Standards.
They are appointed for terms of three Training and development years and any subsequent re-appointment is given careful consideration Each Director takes responsibility for ensuring that he or she remains up by the Board prior to recommending them to shareholders for approval.
to date in his or her skills and knowledge of the Company and this is Notwithstanding this, all Directors offer themselves for re-election at reviewed by the Chairman in the annual appraisal and evaluation each AGM.
Details of each Director serving on the Board at the date of meeting with each Director.
Where appropriate, the Company provides this Report are set out on pages 26 and 27. the resources to meet Directors development requirements.
All nomination Committee Directors have regular opportunities to meet with senior management in Membership the pubs and breweries to maintain and deepen their understanding of David Thompson Chairman the business.
Miles Emley Each Director has had a tailored induction programme on joining the Ralph Findlay Board covering the operations of the Group, the industry and markets within which it operates and its governance arrangements.
There is an lord Hodgson ongoing process of regular updates on the Companys activities and Rosalind Cuschieri initiatives for all Non-executive Directors with a formal schedule of presentations by senior management.
Neil Goulden During the year the Board visited a number of its managed pubs and Other Executive Directors, senior management and external advisers met with local management to further its understanding of operational may be invited to attend meetings.
Individually, the Non-executive Directors spent time with senior responsibilities managers visiting managed and tenanted pubs.
zz To ensure the Board and its Committees have the right balance of information and Support skills, knowledge and experience.
Board and Committee members are supplied with briefings on zz To plan for the orderly succession of Directors to the Board and substantive issues in advance of meetings and there is a regular other senior executives.
timetable of matters for consideration during the year.
The Chairman zz To identify and nominate suitable candidates for Executive and agrees the agenda for each meeting in conjunction with the CEO and Non-executive Director vacancies having regard to, amongst other Company Secretary.
Regular reports cover the Groups financial factors, the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
position, risk management and regulatory compliance.
The Managing Directors of each division provide regular updates on activities and The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found in the performance against targets which, going forward, will be reported to Investors section of the Companys website.
the Board through the COO in a monthly summary of key business operations.
Stock Exchange Code: MARS 31 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Section 3: Governance CorPorAte governAnCe rePort CONTINuED The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the activities Companys risk management and internal control systems, which is Having announced Executive Director changes at the start of the year, co-ordinated by the internal audit function.
The review this year the Committee reviewed the long-term succession plans for Nonconfirmed that there is a clear link between the key risks of the business executive Directors and the ongoing structure, size and composition of and the controls used to manage those risks.
Ownership of the controls the Board and its Committees.
This review was undertaken recognising by the managers within the business is well defined, and there are no the forthcoming retirement of Miles Emley.
significant weaknesses that require remedial actions to take place.
The Committee identified that it would be desirable to strengthen the Audit Committee with the recruitment of a further financially qualified risk management system independent Non-executive Director and, accordingly, have appointed There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing external consultants, Blackwood Group, to draw up a list of potential the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board reviews the risks candidates for the Committees consideration.
This process is ongoing annually and the divisional Managing Directors identify and regularly at the date of this Report.
review the top risks with their management teams and the Corporate Risk Manager.
These reviews cover strategic, financial, operational and In the light of Miles Emleys retirement, the Committee proposed compliance risks.
and the Board approved the appointment of Robin Rowland to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 October 2011.
Managers are required to identify key internal controls for each of the risks they are responsible for.
The identified risks are classified and In accordance with the requirements of the Code and with the exception recorded in the Groups risk register.
of Miles Emley, all members of the Board will seek re-election at the The internal audit strategy takes into account the key business risks of AGM.
The Committee reviewed the contribution and performance of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the each Director having regard to the outcomes of the Board evaluation effectiveness of the internal control environment in mitigating the risks to exercise.
No Director was involved in any decision regarding his an acceptable level.
The risk management programme provides vital or her own re-appointment.
Following the reviews, the Committee information to ensure that the internal audit strategy provides sufficient recommended that each Director be proposed by the Board for coverage of the critical areas of internal control.
re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
aCCounTabiLiTy audit Committee and auditors Membership internal controls Neil Goulden Chairman from 3 December 2010 The Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
The implementation of risk Miles Emley Chairman until 3 December 2010 management and internal control systems is the responsibility of the lord Hodgson Executive Directors.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and by their nature can provide only a reasonable and not Rosalind Cuschieri absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of The Board regards Neil Goulden as having recent and relevant financial the law.
experience given his recent roles as Executive Chairman and acting Control environment Chief Executive of Gala Coral Group.
Other individuals, such as the CEO, CFO, Corporate Risk Manager and Key features of the internal control system external Auditors are usually invited to attend all or part of the zz a clearly defined management structure operating within a Committees meetings.
The Corporate Risk Manager reports to each framework of policies and procedures covering authority meeting and has the right to approach the Committee directly.
At least levels, responsibilities and accountabilities: once a year, the external Auditors meet the Committee without any zz a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, Executive Director present.
with the annual Group budget and projections for future responsibilities years being formally approved by the Board: The Committee is responsible for: zz established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring capital expenditure and major projects: zz Reviewing the integrity of the Companys financial statements including the annual and interim reports.
zz Board approval is needed for all major investment, divestment and strategic plans and programmes: zz Reviewing the effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management system.
zz at each meeting the Board reviews financial and non financial progress towards the Companys goals: zz Reviewing the Companys systems for detecting fraud, preventing bribery and allowing employees to raise concerns in a safe and zz an internal audit function that scrutinises internal controls confidential manner.
and conducts audits on controls associated with key risks of the business, and which recommends improvements.
zz Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
zz Overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors,  llP, specifically reviewing and approving their fees, the terms of engagement and their objectivity and independence on an annual basis.
32 Marstons PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
co. uk 20680-04 2 12 11 Proof 6 Governance auditors SharehoLDer reLa TionS In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee found An investor relations programme is in place between the Executive itself satisfied with the scope of their work, their effectiveness and fee Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
In proposal and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
The addition, the CEO and CFO meet with Private Client Fund Managers in a external Auditors conduct an annual review of their independence number of locations on a quarterly basis.
Matters such as strategy, identifying all services provided to the Group and assessing whether performance, management and governance are discussed within the the content and scale of such work is a threat to their independence.
In constraints of information already made publicly available.
addition, the audit partner is changed every five years and the current The Board considers it important to understand the views of partner has been in the role for two years.
Following this years review shareholders and issues which concern them.
At least twice each year, the Auditors concluded that there are no factors which would impair it receives written feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders their objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied that on their meetings with Executive Directors.
During the year the adequate safeguards are in place to protect the independence and Chairman and Senior Independent Director were available to meet with objectivity of the service provided by the external Auditors.
the Companys major institutional investors who are also offered the The Committee accepts that some non-audit work is most appropriately opportunity to meet with newly appointed directors.
Where such work is expected to be in The Company Secretary oversees communication with private excess of a specified amount, the Chairman of the Audit Committee shareholders on behalf of the Board.
The Annual Report and Accounts must approve the work.
Below that amount, the CFO has authority to is the principal means of communication and the Companys website is approve such work once he is satisfied that the Auditors are the most an important method of communication for the majority of its appropriate providers.
The Group has used other accounting firms for shareholders providing comprehensive share price information, results some non-audit work.
In each case, consideration was given to the presentations, financial calendars and announcements.
need for value for money, experience and objectivity required in the particular circumstances.
The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with all its shareholders.
Recent trading performance and developments in the activities business are explained prior to the formal business of the meeting.
During the year the Committee met three times to consider and review Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting, which is the risks to the Group, the internal control and risk management followed by an opportunity to meet with the Directors on an informal systems and to assess the annual internal audit plan.
The Company will release the results of voting, including proxy Risk Manager presented to each of the meetings.
The Committee also votes on each resolution, on its website on the next business day at considered and recommended for Board approval the Annual Report, www.
Interim Results and the preliminary announcement.
To provide the Committee with the opportunity to review and challenge the integrity of the companys financial reports, the external auditors attended each meeting at which they presented either their audit strategy, or findings and conclusions in respect of the Annual or Interim Results.
In addition the Committee reviewed a number of standing items including the Groups whistleblowing policy and arrangements thereunder, matters arising from internal audits and compliance and legal developments.
reMuneraTion Information on the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the AGM.
