16 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operating review Throughout this financial year MITIE has operated in three divisions.
Facilities, Property and Asset Management.
With effect from 1 April 2010 we are operating as Alan... four divisions.
The commentary and financial data below reflects the performance streamlining and in the organisational structures that applied during the period to 31 March 2010.
The comparatives and proforma analysis for the segmental financial performance boosting productivity for both structures are shown in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
for a business in the process of transition Facilities MITIE had a long-term partnership with Somerfield prior to securing the contract to provide cleaning Management for the enlarged portfolio of all the Read about our new contract wins 2426 Co-operative Group stores after they acquired Somerfield.
MITIE bid for six different regional tenders and was awarded the contract for the entire national estate on the back of our ability to streamline management and productivity which translated into significant savings for the The Facilities Management division Revenue Co-operative Group.
Facilities Management delivers facilities consultancy, 5.5% management and integrated service 78 3,200 delivery to our clients.
It has expertise 78 contractors and sub- 1 Ezi-tracker that drives pay contractors to one supplier and invoicing, allowing us and service delivery capability in the 2009 781.8 to seamlessly mobilise 2010 824.6 areas of business services, catering, 3,200 staff members client services, facilities services, Operating profit PFI services, security, cleaning and 3.5m 2,650 before other items 3.5m investment in 2,650 stores with separate environmental services, pest control, 7.0% Facilities Management machinery that saves time management channels waste management and landscaping.
and reduces accidents simplified to one national helpdesk As customers continue to look for cost 2009 47.2 savings from their property portfolios, 50.5 2010 12 5m MITIE is well placed to lead and meet 12 types of liquid chemicals 5m per annum the different and changing needs of the per store to just one liquid savings Co-op can Operating profit margin and one concentrated reinvest in its business Facilities Management facilities management market.
Economic 0.1pp powder, saving storage, pressures are encouraging customers transport and mitigating their carbon footprint to expand the traditional portfolio of outsourced facilities services in order 2009 6.0 2010 6.1 to find further cost savings from areas 1 7 2 that may not have been previously Other items are analysed in Note 4. considered.
Customers are now looking to 6 3 all their assets to create value within their organisations and MITIE has been able to 5 4 assist customers by combining our flexible Our strategy and broad range of expertise in asset, Clients People energy and property management Risk Responsibility alongside our FM capabilities.
Integration MITIE is uniquely placed to successfully deliver very large scale, national contracts within the FM industry.
MITIE has a presence on virtually every high street in Britain providing services for supermarkets, banks and other retail chains across the UK.
17 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01 38 Our experience and national delivery capability will allow us to capitalise on this position and increase our market share as smaller regional contracts continue to be combined to help clients maximise their savings.
With green issues being higher on the 60 FM agenda than ever, CarbonCare, MITIEs market-leading energy offering has already helped to secure new work across the division and we expect it to be an important differentiator in MITIEs service offering going forward.
During the year, Facilities Management has continued to focus on increasing the integration across the division in the way we bid and operate our contracts.
Additional work secured during the year has come from existing customers that want to contract out larger packages of work to gain the economies of scale involved in rationalising their supply chains.
This has come in the form of expanding regional contracts into larger national ones as well as customers adding extra services onto multi-service contracts or transitioning to a full FM service in an effort to realise the maximum amount of cost savings.
With a retention rate for rebid contracts in the year at 87%, we are demonstrating that the investment that we have made in customer relationship management and in our larger integrated multi-service and FM contract capabilities, particularly during the last 18 months, is paying off.
Alan Usher Account Manager for The Co-operative Group Accounts Governance Business review Overview 18 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operating review Property Management has expanded its capabilities to offer an integrated property management service.
Clients are Property increasingly looking for a broader range of services that include mechanical and electrical, energy and more general facilities management services in addition Management to the traditional services such as maintenance, refurbishment, painting, Read about our new contract wins 2426 roofing, interior fit-out, fire protection and plumbing and heating.
The social housing market is developing rapidly and we have made a strategic shift in the way we operate.
Clients want to form long-term relationships with partners who work collaboratively to provide estate management, planned and responsive maintenance, capital projects, environmental improvements and help to address fuel poverty.
Revenue Property Management 1.0% 2009 297.9 2010 295.0 Operating profit before other items 12.8% Property Management 2009 17.9 2010 20.2 Operating profit margin Property Management 0.8pp 2009 6.0 6.8 2010 Other items are analysed in Note 4 19 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 MITIE is now ranked seventh in the UK IFS technology also supports planning and This move enhances the capabilities of social housing market.
It operates as an scheduling, budgets, cost reports, tenant the division in terms of mechanical and integrated national business with the liaison, environmental impacts and electrical services contracting which is capability to support our clients property satisfaction levels.
We are well placed to increasingly becoming part of the capital strategies, collect property information expand our market share in this market.
works, frameworks and fit-out projects and perform stock condition surveys that we are involved with.
The results of The specialist businesses have had as well as manage projects and that business are reported within Asset a mixed year.
The businesses that maintenance contracts across the UK.
Management for the year ended 31 01 predominantly work in the repair and The acquisition of EPS Ltd has added March 2010.
The impact of the transfer in maintenance market, painting, and considerable expertise especially in the financial terms from 1 April 2010 is shown roofing have made good progress.
The South East of England.
One of the major in Note 3 to the accounts.
more cyclical businesses such as interior fitattractions of EPS Ltd was its IFS housing out, fire protection and plumbing have management software that we are suffered from the general downturn in adopting and upgrading as the standard construction activity across the UK, across the social housing business.
although there are some signs that activity This will allow us to manage all the data levels in those markets are increasing.
related to our social housing activities and From 1 April 2010 the Engineering is accessible to clients via a web portal so Contracting businesses have become they can see real time reporting and part of the Property Management division.
Paul... 38 improving homes, local communities and businesses 60 MITIE won a contract with Crawley Borough Council to deliver reactive maintenance and void refurbishments to half of their 8,153 housing stock.
This tenyear contract starts in April 2010 with an estimated value of 3m per annum.
From April 2012, the contract will be extended to cover planned and cyclical works, adding a further 8.4m per annum for the remaining term.
MITIE will help improve homes in the area as well as supporting local people and businesses.
From providing job and training opportunities to supporting community events and initiatives, well be an active member of the local community.
System Thinking delivering on the Crawley Borough Council contract An innovative repairs service that is designed to fix problems permanently, on the first repair, at the customers convenience Emphasis on thinking about how and why work is delivered MITIE has a proven track-record in Systems Thinking and reducing costs, increasing performance and increasing client satisfaction with this innovative delivery model 1 7 2 6 3 5 4 Our strategy Clients People Paul Castle Maintenance technician Risk Responsibility Accounts Governance Business review Overview 20 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operating review Asset Management Read about our new contract wins 24-26 The Asset Management division provides Revenue Asset Management the integration, management and 35.8% maintenance of technical assets to meet the challenges of the low-carbon economy including: energy design, 2009 442.2 2010 600.5 generation and certification, infrastructure projects, building services and mechanical Operating profit and electrical engineering.
Following its before other items acquisition in August 2009 we integrated 44.8% Asset Management Dalkia FM with our Engineering Maintenance business to form Technical 2009 15.4 Facilities Management.
There is a 22.3 2010 separate operational review of Technical Facilities Management in this section.
Operating profit margin Asset Management Asset Management operates across 0.2pp a broad span of public and private sector markets.
Our business this year has been driven increasingly by new 2009 3.5 2010 3.7 economic and technology initiatives that are enabling our customers to optimise Other items are analysed in Note 4 their performance in a rapidly evolving energy landscape.
Waste-to-energy: turning a liability into an asset The traditional method of waste management is becoming increasingly detrimental to the environment and businesses alike.
In fact, it is one of the most expensive problems any organisation has to deal with.
The good news is that smart engineering and new technologies can turn waste streams into valuable revenue streams: as valuable as oil or gas when it comes to generating energy while alleviating pressure on our natural resources and environment.
MITIE has considerable expertise in these waste-toenergy technologies.
We are, for example, investigating the potential use of thermal technology at an aquaculture centre, using organic waste to generate heat, which is then converted to refrigeration.
We are also looking at the conversion of medical waste to produce heat for a leading London hospital.
In addition to conventional thermal waste-to-energy systems, there are some very promising new technologies on the horizon.
21 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 01 Steve... contributing to creative problem solving and systems integration MITIE has developed a creative solution to computer room cooling for Eland House in Westminster which redirects 38 waste heat from the servers to the domestic hot water system.
We already held the FM contract for the Department for Communities and Local Government that occupies the building and were commissioned to design, construct and maintain their energy system as well.
Our solution integrates several 60 technologies to create maximum efficiency.
Cooling units, using chilled water from an air source heat recovery system, provide conditioned air to the cold aisle face of each data cabinet, and heat rejection from the cabinets is coupled to the kitchen calorifiers to provide hot water.
2 1.3 35,000m 2 Power usage effectiveness 35,000 m commercial of 1.3 against an average office building of 2.5, and maximum efficiency of 1.0 32% 77.2% Forecast 32% CO2 Data centre infrastructure reduction in comparison efficiency of 77.2% Steve Hogan Engineer to conventional systems representing a significant performance improvement over the original system 1 7 2 3 6 5 4 Our strategy Clients Risk Responsibility Integration Accounts Governance Business review Overview 22 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operating review Ken and Paul... enabling buildings and their tenants to minimise their environmental impact MITIE Technical Facilities Management works with NB Real Estate which is the property manager for The Co-operative Insurance Society CIS portfolio.
This consists of 2.5bn of property assets and incorporates 18 commercial buildings spanning almost a million square feet.
MITIE delivers technical facilities management and energy services for a number of the buildings in their portfolio.
Using a dynamic sharedsavings CarbonCare business model, everyone involved in running the buildings, including the tenants, have a stake in reducing energy consumption and carbon emissions, and can benefit from the energy cost savings generated.
Savings: Sustainability: 10% 100% 10% targeted energy 100% green, renewable reduction on a 1.1m electricity procured for energy bill the buildings Simplification: 9 Nine-year contract with 4 year-on-year energy Four bills a year for the reductions guaranteed client which cover all their M&E services, energy expenses and 110,000 a contingency fund 110,000 saving delivered in year one Security: Pre-agreed limit on 145,000 tenants energy bill 145,000 saving delivered to ensure they receive in year two no surprises 1 7 2 3 6 5 4 Our strategy Clients People Risk Responsibility Integration 23 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We now have a unified operating Technical Facilities Management structure and a single brand in the UK Technical Facilities Management focuses marketplace.
Moving forward in 2010 on facilities management that is led by we will continue to develop the business technology, engineering and energy in areas including effective talent requirements.
It comprises the integrated mapping, enhanced contract operations of our Engineering management, single quality assurance Maintenance business and Dalkia FM.
procedures, taking the best from previous 01 systems, together with a class leading The division was formed following the approach to the delivery of mobile acquisition in August 2009 of Dalkia FM services and energy data management.
services in the UK by combining it with existing MITIE capabilities and MITIE Our new TFM business is extremely now has the largest Technical Facilities well placed to meet the challenges Management team in the UK.
This was facing our clients in the management part of the Asset Management division of their technical assets and in their until 31 March 2010, from which point response to increased regulations it has traded separately as a new around carbon emissions in a capital operating division of MITIE.
MITIE in a leading position in the FM and engineering maintenance markets in the UK.
It also elevates our competitive advantage in providing MITIE with a critical mass for a wide range of Energy Services including the provision of CRC 38 Energy Efficiency Scheme management solutions as well as a further platform to cross-sell MITIE services.
A specialist integration team worked alongside our newly appointed management team from August 2009.
A detailed plan set out the objectives of establishing clear management control, 60 providing clarity to clients and our people and defining the work streams necessary for effective integration, financial management, communication and rebranding.
Once established, the integration was reviewed weekly to ensure milestones were met and that priority was given to communication and the redefinition of the enlarged business.
Ken Levecque Site Engineer and Paul Carr Operations Manager Accounts Governance Business review Overview
