Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review of operations Morgan Engineered Materials Division Divisional revenue Business description Divisions presence in renewable energy to m The businesses within Engineered Materials now include anode materials for lithium ion are global suppliers of highly engineered batteries.
Today the Engineered Materials 408.0 2010 solutions built from a portfolio of material Division has strong positions in carbon 421.5 2009 technologies that includes carbon, silicon brushes for industrial and rail traction 275.4 2008 carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced applications, seals and bearings for fluid polymeric composites.
The Divisions handling, crucibles for the processing of footprint provides a global reach that non-ferrous metals, high-temperature Divisional EBITA m enables the delivery of market-leading insulation for silicon wafer production and solutions to a variety of chosen endadvanced lightweight protective ceramic 45.5 2010 markets.
These chosen end-markets are composite armour systems.
41.4 2009 served through three global businesses: As at 2 January 2011 the Division employs 40.5 Morgan Advanced Materials & Technology 2008 some 4,000 people, serving customers in Morgan AM&T, NP Aerospace and Molten around 100 countries worldwide.
Its global Metal Systems MMS.
For reporting presence includes 40 operating facilities purposes the Division consists of two global in 25 countries, with major materials reporting segments: Morgan AM&T processing plants in the USA, Europe, including NP Aerospace and Molten Metal South America and Asia feeding an Systems MMS.
integrated network of finishing plants.
The Divisions capabilities are rooted in the The Division benefits from a strategically understanding, application and processing located low-cost manufacturing base, with of its broad range of advanced materials.
sites in Mexico, China, Hungary and India The acquisition of a majority equity stake that allow the Division to serve customers in NP Aerospace in 2009 extended the across the globe.
Divisions materials and ballistic technologies to include lightweight ceramics composites, and the acquisition of Changsha Hairong New Materials Co. Ltd. Hairong in China at the end of 2010 has broadened the Growth in core markets drives significant profit improvement 36 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
