22 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Petrofacs range of services meets our customers needs across the full life cycle of oil & gas facilities.
Our successful track record spans 30 years and several hundred projects and is firmly based on a partnership approach, an absolute commitment to health and safety, and respect and responsibility for the communities in which we operate.
Business review 23 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Strategy This means: We have delivered against a consistent strategy.
Our vision working to world-class standards is for Petrofac to be the global oil & gas industrys premier focusing always on customer satisfaction facilities and infrastructure provider, admired by customers respecting the environment and being and employees for delivering consistently and rewarding sensitive to the communities in which excellence.
we work promoting and rewarding on merit We aim to achieve our vision by delivering against seven key strategic initiatives.
Our progress during the year and some of our future plans are outlined in the following pages: Our strategic initiatives Safety and integrity Services across the asset life cycle New regions Integrated services for resource holders Training and hiring local resources Attracting and retaining key personnel Acquiring complementary businesses 24 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Our strategic initiatives We operate in some difficult and hazardous our recordable incident frequency rate environments and the safety of our people for 2010 fell considerably to 0.18 per is paramount at all times.
We aim to provide 200,000 man-hours 2009: 0.36, which a safe working environment for all operations compares well with industry published that are designed, constructed, operated, data.
Our lost time injury frequency rate managed or supported by Petrofac.
was slightly higher at 0.026 per 200,000 man-hours 2009: 0.020, after four Developments during 2010 successive years of improvement to 2009 we designated 2010 as the Year of Integrity the 2010 lost time statistics above include and Quality across our engineering one fatality, which is detailed on page 60 businesses and created the role of Director of Integrity to champion best practice.
Future milestones Technical integrity was also the theme our health and safety performance is of our annual safety seminar, which was reviewed in full on pages 60 and 61 in attended by 90 senior managers, including the corporate social responsibility report.
our Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Through campaigns such as horizon zero, Operating Officer and our seven business we are committed to improving our safety unit managing directors performance during the year, our employees and Maintaining and subcontractors completed 76 million man-hours 2009: 70 million of activity.
improving our high safety Our lost time injury and recordable injury and integrity standards frequency rates are key performance indicators and are reported on page 29 wherever we work and summarised as follows: We aim to provide a range of services in December 2010, we were awarded a that meet our customers needs across contract for the development of the SEPAT the life cycle of oil & gas assets.
Our offshore early production system on the services include the design and build east coast of Peninsular Malaysia.
The of oil & gas facilities, the operation, contract represents our first major offshore maintenance and management of engineering, procurement, construction, facilities and personnel training.
installation and commissioning EPCIC contract, and builds upon our Developments during 2010 offshore experience gained on Energy the award of a contract in October 2010 Developments Don and Cendor projects for the development of the Laggan Tormore through acquisition see pages 45 and 48 gas processing plant on the Shetland for more detail, we have made the first Islands forms part of the strategic growth steps to position ourselves in the renewable plan for the Offshore Engineering & energy and low carbon sectors, which have Operations business, being our first the potential to be a material market for us predominantly lump-sum engineering, over the long-term procurement and construction EPC contract in the UK Continental Shelf Future milestones UKCS.
We are confident that the our first major EPC award in the UKCS combination of our UKCS operations, Providing a range of services and our first significant offshore EPCIC maintenance and engineering experience contract give us the opportunity to build across the life cycle of the and our Engineering & Construction our credentials in these areas EPC track record can deliver success energy asset in this market we will continue to review opportunities to expand our service offering to meet our strategic goals Business review 25 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Expanding our offering into new regions, prioritising areas with major hydrocarbon reserves and significant capital and operational expenditures While remaining focused on our key markets of the UKCS, the Middle East and Africa, the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Asia Pacific region, we aim to expand into new countries and regions that offer exciting growth opportunities, particularly where they are in close proximity to our existing operations.
Developments during 2010 in November 2010, as well as acquiring a throughout 2010, we worked on 15% interest 12.6% on a fully diluted basis, the US$100 million first phase of the the group entered into a strategic alliance South Yoloten project for Turkmengas agreement with Seven Energy, a Nigerian in Turkmenistan.
Following the successful production and development company, to completion of the first phase, we assist in the development of its production, commenced the 31.5 month US$3.4 billion processing and transportation assets.
second phase in late December 2010.
We have been examining how to establish Turkmenistan is a market where we an ongoing local presence in Nigeria, a will be able to draw on our extensive high growth market, for a number of years experience of designing and constructing and we believe that this partnership gives facilities to handle and process sour gas us a platform to do so see page 45 for see page 40 for more detail more detail we began working on our first major project Future milestones in Iraq for an international oil company in we aim to build upon our positions in mid-2010, undertaking the engineering, Turkmenistan, Iraq and Nigeria over the procurement, fabrication and construction next few years, as we anticipate significant management services for the development capital and operational expenditure in of a new early production system these markets we will continue to look at measured expansion into new countries and regions, for example, central Africa 26 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Our strategic initiatives continued Drawing on the extensive capabilities operations, drilling management, of the wider group, through our Energy production engineering, facilities upgrade Developments and Production Solutions and training skills to increase production business units, we seek to provide fully through improving recovery rates, integrated services for resource holders optimising operational efficiencies under flexible commercial models that and investing to upgrade the facilities are aligned to their specific requirements.
see page 44 for more detail in early 2011, we were awarded a risk Developments during 2010 service contract RSC for the development a key part of Energy Developments of the Berantai field, offshore Peninsular strategy is to consider divestment Malaysia.
The RSC represents a departure or harvest of assets once they have been from the established production sharing developed.
Following the commencement contract PSC framework in Malaysia.
of oil production and significant progress We aim to demonstrate how the on commissioning of the production integrated delivery of our services can infrastructure on the Don fields in the UKCS add significant value for resource holders in 2009 and early 2010, we disposed of our under this alternative commercial framework interests through the EnQuest demerger see page 48 for more detail in April 2010, thereby realising significant value for our shareholders see page 46 Providing fully integrated Future milestones for more detail we plan to create significant growth in services for resource through Production Solutions, we secured the group and value for our shareholders holders under flexible, our first production enhancement contract through the provision of integrated services in July 2010 for the Ticleni oilfield and to resource holders tailored commercial its eight satellite fields in Romania.
models, which leverage Our services will cover a range of our service capability and may include the provision of capital There is an increasing demand from in October, we opened a state-of-the-art resource holders to use and develop technical training centre in Syria, which local workforces as they seek wider we designed, refurbished and equipped, economic benefit from the development and which we will operate for five years.
We The centre, part of the Syrian Governments believe that understanding how to commitment to develop competent harness local resources effectively personnel for the growing oil & gas sector, is key to our success.
has been donated by Petrofac as part of our long-term commitment to CSR and Developments during 2010 training see page 66 for more details the use of local resources, through direct employment and the use of local Future milestones subcontractors, is becoming increasingly in late 2010, we commenced training important in many of the countries in which operations at a facility in Hassi Messaoud, we operate.
Aided by our training capability, Algeria.
In the years ahead we will we have a long track record of working look to train Algerian workers in piping, with local workforces and subcontractors mechanical, electrical and instrumentation disciplines to support our activities in in Turkmenistan, for example, the the country in-country team on the South Yoloten Training and hiring local project has more than 70% local content, which represents a significant achievement resources where we operate in a country where the development of to help develop national oil & gas reserves is in its early stages workforces Business review 27 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review We are a people business and skilled our share ownership plans play an personnel remain in high demand.
important role in helping to attract and Policies to promote and reward on merit, retain key personnel and in encouraging targeted but extensive employee share a culture of personal responsibility that is ownership, a portfolio of world-class critical to our success.
We extended the projects and exciting prospects are reach of our share plans during the year, key to our continued success.
and now have around 3,900 participants 31 December 2009: 3,000, representing Developments during 2010 around 30% 31 December 2009: 28% Petrofac has continued to be successful of the eligible workforce in accessing international labour markets, including graduates, in particular in the Future milestones Middle East and the Indian subcontinent.
we plan to continue to broaden and We grew our headcount from 11,700 at strengthen our senior management team the beginning of the year to approximately and to grow headcount, particularly in 13,900 at 31 December 2010 Engineering & Construction, through our existing operational centres, which will the capacity and capability of our be supported by building a second tower largest reporting segment, Engineering adjacent to our largest operational centre & Construction, has substantially in Sharjah, UAE, and by opening a third Attracting and retaining increased over the year, with an increase office in India, in Delhi 1 in EPC headcount from 5,600 to 7,000 specialists and key personnel 1 EPC headcount is defined as headcount of the Engineering & Construction reporting segment and the headcount of the Mumbai, Chennai and Jakarta offices that are managed through Engineering Services, but primarily support Engineering & Construction.
We have acquired 12 businesses in the the acquisitions of TNEI Services Limited last ten years to broaden our capability.
TNEI, a specialist consultancy supporting Acquisitions have been in the areas of the energy, power and renewable sectors, training, operations and maintenance, and CO2DeepStore, a company focused well operations management, production on the CO2 geological storage sector of enhancement and the renewable energy the carbon capture and storage market, and low carbon sectors.
represent the first steps in positioning us in the renewable energy and low Developments during 2010 carbon sectors see pages 45 and 48 in January 2010, we acquired Scotvalve for more details Services Limited Scotvalve, which provides servicing and repair for oilfield Future milestones pressure control equipment.
Scotvalve we will continue to review acquisition is headquartered in Aberdeen, but its targets which broaden and deepen interests in the Middle East and North the capability of the group Africa enable Offshore Engineering & Operations to provide repair and maintenance services within a wider geographic footprint Identifying, acquiring and in April 2010, we acquired Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited SGC, growing complementary which designs and manufactures metering businesses where they systems.
SGC brings specialist capability and systems that will expand and expand our skill set and differentiate Offshore Engineering & support our strategic goals Operations offering in metering services and enable us to provide managed solutions for our customers 28 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Key performance indicators To help the group assess its performance, the Board and executive management set annual KPI targets and monitor and assess performance against these benchmarks every month.
Throughout this Business Review, performance is assessed against these KPIs, the annual measures of which are presented here.
Revenue EBITDA Net profit including the gain on excluding the gain on Measures the level of operating activity the EnQuest demerger the EnQuest demerger and growth of the business.
Revenue for the year as reported in EBITDA means earnings before interest, Provides a measure of the net the consolidated income statement.
tax, depreciation, amortisation and profitability of the business, that is, impairment and provides a measure of profit for the year attributable to the operating profitability of the business.
EBITDA is calculated as profit before Profit for the year attributable tax and net finance income as per to Petrofac Limited shareholders, the consolidated income statement excluding the gain on the EnQuest adjusted to add back charges for demerger, as reported in the depreciation, amortisation and consolidated income statement.
impairment charges as per note 3 to the financial statements.
US$ millions US$ millions US$ millions 4,354 759.4 433.0 3,655 353.6 3,330 549.7 265.0 419.0 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Business review 29 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Return on capital Earnings per share Cash generated from employed ROCE diluted EPS operations and cash conversion ROCE is a measure of the efficiency EPS provides a measure of net with which the group is generating profitability of the group taking These KPIs measure both the operating profits from its capital.
into account changes in the capital absolute amount of cash generated ROCE is calculated as EBITA earnings structure, for example, the issuance from operations and the conversion before interest, tax, amortisation and of additional share capital.
impairment charges, calculated as As reported in the consolidated income Cash generated from operations is EBITDA less depreciation per note 3 statement and calculated in accordance as per the consolidated cash flow to the financial statements divided by with note 7 to the financial statements.
statement: cash conversion is cash average capital employed being total from operations divided by EBITDA equity and non-current liabilities per excluding the gain on the EnQuest the consolidated balance sheet.
% Cents per share Cash generated from operations Cash conversion US$ millions % 65.2 162.46 228.3 1,276.3 52.7 103.19 46.9 140.0 77.11 586.6 32.7 207.3 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 Lost time injury and Backlog Employee numbers recordable injury The group uses this KPI as a measure Provides an indication of the groups frequency rates of the visibility of future earnings.
Backlog consists of the estimated For the purposes of the Annual Report, Provides a measure of the revenue attributable to the uncompleted employee numbers include agency, safety performance of the group, portion of lump-sum engineering, contract staff and the groups share including partners.
procurement and construction contracts of joint venture employees.
Lost time injury LTI and recordable and variation orders plus, with regard injury RI frequency rates are measured to engineering services and facilities on the basis of reported LTI and RI management contracts, the estimated statistics for all Petrofac companies, revenue attributable to the lesser of subcontractors and partners, expressed the remaining term of the contract as a frequency rate per 200,000 and, in the case of life-of-field facilities man-hours.
We aim to continually management contracts, five years: improve our safety record, but our backlog is not an audited measure: target for these measures is zero.
other companies in the oil & gas industry may calculate this measure differently.
Recordable injury Lost time injury US$ millions Number of employees rates per 200,000 rates per 200,000 man-hours man-hours 11,699 13,900 0.033 0.36 11,700 11,100 0.32 0.026 8,071 0.020 0.18 3,997 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 08 09 10 30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Enterprise risk management and key risks The management of risk is critical to the achievement of our corporate objectives.
Without a robust risk management framework we could not, for example, maintain our high safety and integrity standards or continue to grow and expand our range of services, both technically and geographically.
Over and above the achievement of our Project teams ensure these risks are corporate objectives, the management of reviewed and appropriate responses risk is a crucial element of our competitive are built into the structure of the project advantage and the subsequent creation execution and contracting model, and preservation of shareholder value.
Our corporate functions  and flexible business monitor this risk environment and the Risk model, which generates differentiated returns, Committee of the Board provides additional can involve taking on additional risk where review and oversight.
The Board retains it can be quantified and managed.
As a approval authority for any significant new result, efforts to make our enterprise risk country entry management system comprehensive and project-specific risks pertaining to robust are given high priority within the group.
the execution of projects including technical risk, budget and schedule risk, The groups focus on risk was emphasised performance guarantee levels, safety risk at our 2010 Leadership Conference, where and environmental risk.
These risks are senior management made a review of our directly managed by our project teams.
risk management system one of the groups They are also considered during the risk top priorities for 2011.
Recommendations review process, which reviews all new for change will be presented to the Board business proposals before any formal and outlined in the 2011 Annual Report and commitments are entered into.
The coming review is especially business unit managing directors and relevant given the 2010 publication of the their management teams report on Financial Reporting Councils new UK code, discrete execution risks to the executive which introduced a number of changes, management team, at the monthly including a more explicit requirement on Executive Committee ExCom meetings.
company boards to articulate risk appetite A summary of the discrete risks reviewed and identify the significant risks they are are reported to the Board at each prepared to take.
Through this review process, a constant focus on maintaining Enterprise risk management system and improving our execution capability Our enterprise risk management system is is ensured designed to ensure that all significant risks to our reputation and shareholder value are Board level review appropriately monitored and mitigated in line The Board has ultimate responsibility for with the Boards policy.
These risks fall into managing risk.
Its role is to ensure that the three areas: group defines its risk appetite: maintains industry risks the systemic exposure to a sound system of risk management and fluctuations in core commodity prices and internal controls: and satisfies itself that demand for our services.
These risks are appropriate systems are in place to identify, reviewed and managed directly by the assess and manage key risks, in accordance Board and our senior management team with the terms of the new UK code.
country risks the exposure to external country factors that are inherent in the environments in which we operate, including security, political risk, legal risk and transparency, bribery and corruption, exchange rates and local infrastructure Business review 31 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review In order to fulfil its responsibilities, the Board The Enterprise Risk Committee, which was The delegated authority framework defines receives assurance from the following formed in 2009, focused its efforts during the levels of review that are required based processes and committees: 2010 on country and third party-specific risks on the level of risk.
Potential projects are in high-risk territories.
A list of such high-risk approved at the business or group level Direct Board level risk review territories was defined by the Board in early or escalated to Board level review.
The Board directly reviews risk reports from 2010, and periodic review of this list will take each Petrofac business at every scheduled place.
A review now takes place where the Monthly Executive Committee Board meeting.
These reports cover all areas group wishes to conduct new business in Post-award execution is managed by our of risk but focus on project execution risks.
any predefined high-risk territory, whether we project teams and continuously reviewed They provide the Board with an update on have previously operated there or not.
In such within business units by our executives on a specific discrete risks to our interests and the cases, approval is required from the Group weekly, monthly and quarterly basis.
Issues management strategies deployed to mitigate Chief Operating Officer or the Chief Executive arising from these sessions are picked up them.
More details about the risk matrices of Energy Developments and Production in the monthly Executive Committee, where produced by each business and reviewed Solutions.
In 2010, the Enterprise Risk the business unit managing directors meet by the Board are found on page 77.
Committee met on an ad hoc basis to with the Group Chief Executive and his direct consider country and third party risks reports to review both the performance Risk Committee and Audit Committee in countries including Iraq and Nigeria of each business unit and its discrete risks.
These committees focus on the overall both of which are classified as high-risk.
These meetings focus on strategies to balance of risk and the risk management address and mitigate the identified risks: systems within the Company.
Pre-award, new projects and investments these are reported to the Board along with are reviewed by the business unit-level Risk all discrete risks at each scheduled Board The Risk Committee is comprised of Review Committee.
Based on the delegated meeting, as described above.
non-executive directors though executive authority matrix, if the new commitment is of management are in attendance.
Its principal significant value, it will be escalated from the Monthly risk reporting task is to review and monitor non-financial business unit committee to the Group Risk In late 2010, we established a requirement for risks and to set policy and review compliance Review Committee, which meets as often as each business unit to produce monthly reports of the business in mitigation of these risks.
From there, approval to commit measuring the health of risk management The Committee achieves this through the to the project or investment will be required within their business.
This achieves a approval of policies which are further discussed from the Group Chief Operating Officer or the bottom-up consideration of strategic risk on page 77.
To date, the Committee has Board, primarily based on project size and or issues in each business, rather than relying on approved three group policies: a Sovereign duration.
The remit of this Committee extends Board level review.
A combination of qualitative and Financial Market Risk Policy, an Ethical, beyond the consideration of new projects and quantitative measures are taken of the Social and Regulatory Risk Policy, and an and includes: following seven factors: Operational and Contractual Risk Policy.
moving into new territories the risk to achievement of the annual business plan and targets The ongoing review of these policies, and providing new services the consideration of group performance in the level of market risk and competition making capital investments complying with them, represents the Boards the level of customer relationship risk primary forum for assessing the effectiveness entering lease commitments of our risk management framework.
For the level of commercial and contractual risk making acquisitions and or establishing example, during 2010 management made joint venture relationships the level of execution risk a number of changes to its commitments to monitor and mitigate risk in several areas the level of counterparty risk Business unit-level review throughout the group, including bribery and Significant responsibility for risk identification, the level of resource risk corruption, sovereign risk, counterparty risk review and mitigation exists at the business and security risk.
unit level, as operational teams are closest to The level of risk described in these reports will the detail of our business.
As a result, we have be incorporated into the risk report which is The Audit Committee is also comprised of well-established procedures embedded in reviewed by the Board, as described above.
non-executive directors and among other the organisation for the management of risk.
responsibilities, it reviews the effectiveness of Key risks the groups financial and operational internal Business unit Risk Review Committee The key risks that could lead to a significant control systems.
Our Internal Audit function Pre-award, all new projects and investments loss of reputation or prevent us from receives all risk reports that are presented go through a robust risk review process at executing our strategy and creating to the Board and the Risk Committee and the business unit level.
The first stage involves shareholder value are summarised here, shares its findings with the Audit Committee.
review at the project team level, involving bid along with our approach to mitigating risk analysis, cost and schedule risk analysis, these risks and our progress during 2010.
Enterprise Risk Committee and commercial risk management plans and bid Group Risk Review Committee risk reporting.
Subject to this review being The Enterprise Risk Committee and Group completed satisfactorily, the potential Risk Review Committee look at country award moves to review by the business and project-specific risks associated unit Risk Review Committee.
with entry into certain new geographies or contractual commitments.
They are not formal committees of the Board, they are management committees which are chaired by the Group Chief Operating Officer and the Group Chief Executive respectively.
32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Enterprise risk management and key risks continued Industry risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Level of The demand for our services As noted in the Operating environment For information about how we are demand for is linked to the level of capital section, we expect the demand for our incrementally growing our geographic the groups and operational expenditure services to remain robust over the long-term.
footprint and expanding our service services by the oil & gas industry.
Our recent success in securing substantial offering, see our strategic initiatives new contract awards gives us outstanding on pages 25 and 26. visibility of revenues through 2011 and beyond.
Our continuing geographic and service expansion has helped to grow the size of the addressable market for our services.
Oil & gas Long-term expectations of As detailed in the Operating environment See note 33 to the financial statements for commodity the price of oil & gas may section, demand for our services should details of the oil & gas derivative instruments prices have an impact on the level not be significantly impacted by short-term that were in place at 31 December 2010. of new investment in the fluctuations in oil & gas prices and has proven industry and may therefore robust despite significant volatility in oil & gas affect demand for our prices over the recent economic downturn.
Our formal policy to hedge a proportion The financial performance of of our direct exposure to oil & gas prices Energy Developments is more provides us with a degree of protection leveraged to the price of oil & against fluctuations in the sale price variations gas through its co-investment for oil & gas.
in upstream oil & gas assets, Under our hedging policy we aim to hedge and its financial results may 75% of our forecast production levels for therefore be impacted.
the next 12 months, using pre-defined hedging instruments and with pre-defined counterparties.
We will not undertake hedging until a development has achieved steady-state production.
Availability The availability of skilled We remain confident that our policies to We have increased the number of employee of essential personnel remains one of the promote and reward on merit, targeted, shareholders or participants in employee executive or most significant challenges but extensive, employee share ownership, share schemes to approximately 3,900 project staff facing the oil & gas industry.
management and technical training 2009: 3,000. programmes and access to international We have decided to open a third Indian labour markets, in particular the Middle East, office, in Delhi, to tap another pool of Indian subcontinent and Asia, a portfolio of resources, where the shortage of skilled world-class projects and exciting prospects engineers is less pronounced than in for continued growth will enable us to attract Western countries.
and retain the necessary skilled personnel to undertake our projects in hand.
For more information about how we manage this risk, see our strategic initiatives on page 26.
Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Security We operate in a number of Our Group Head of Security is responsible During 2010, we strengthened the resource countries where the security for undertaking reviews and establishing dedicated to security management and risk is high.
procedures for securing the safety of invested in the development of sound our personnel.
We also use specialist security controls in key territories, consultancies and security services to particularly Iraq.
advise us and to provide protection.
We redefined the use of the Enterprise Risk Committee, which now focuses on country and third party-risks in certain high-risk territories.
Business We are potentially exposed We have rigorous business continuity plans During 2010, our Aberdeen operational continuity to, inter alia, natural hazards, in place at each of our key operating centres, centre achieved certification of its business acts of terrorism, war and civil which are designed to ensure continued continuity system, the first among its peers unrest that could impact our access to our critical business functions.
infrastructure, either through Of our six key operating centres, Woking In addition, the business continuity strategy the unavailability of physical and Aberdeen are fully certified and meet at our Sharjah, Mumbai, Chennai, Jakarta assets or disrupted access the BS 25999 certification standard.
and Kuala Lumpur offices has been fully to systems and data.
implemented and is currently undergoing extensive testing.
The certification process at these offices excluding Kuala Lumpur has been initiated and we expect this process to be completed in 2011. Business review 33 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Exchange Significant movements in While we operate in a number of diverse See note 33 to the financial statements for rates exchange rates could impact geographical locations, the majority of our details of our foreign currency exposures our financial performance.
revenues are denominated in US Dollars and how they are managed.
or currencies pegged to the US Dollar.
In contracts priced in US Dollars or currencies pegged to the US Dollar where the group is procuring equipment or incurring costs in other currencies, we aim to fully hedge transactional exposures using forward currency contracts.
Offshore Engineering & Operations revenues and costs are principally denominated in Sterling.
The groups policy is not to hedge the Sterling profits generated by these activities as they are substantially matched by the Sterling overhead costs of our corporate office and other UK-based businesses.
While we report our results in US Dollars, our share price is quoted in Sterling.
Our share price may therefore be impacted by changes to the US Dollar Sterling exchange rate.
Sovereign We operate in a number of Management carefully monitors this risk.
During 2010, we commenced a process to change of law countries where our ability Wherever it is perceived to be significant, review the viability of securing sovereign risk and contract to rely upon our contracts we will take all reasonable measures to insurance: we aim to complete this in 2011. enforcement for protection is potentially reduce and limit the exposure through the In 2010, the Board also approved a new reduced by the opaqueness use of, for example, out of country arbitration, standard on sovereign risk.
advanced payments and careful cash management.
Specific consideration of During 2011 the Board intends to define this risk is a feature of all new business maximum sovereign risk exposures.
risk reviews and is a major focus of the Risk Committee and the Board.
Breach of legal We recognise the potential As noted in the Corporate Governance Report During 2010, the Board approved a set or regulatory financial and reputational on page 71, we have well-established policies of new Company-wide risk management code risk that could result from a and procedures to address these risks, procedures designed to protect the breach of local or international including a Code of Business Conduct which Company from exposure to bribery laws, particularly in respect of all employees are required to confirm that and corruption.
Implementation of these behaviour relating to bribery they have read and understood.
During 2010 new risk management procedures has and corruption.
we rolled out a Code of Business Conduct begun and a training and communication e-learning module.
programme for our employees will be rolled out in 2011.
Management takes a risk-based approach to due diligence and risk assessment and During 2010, we increased our use of is increasing the level of due diligence independent investigatory consultants undertaken in respect of new contracts in in situations involving parties over which pre-defined high-risk countries, including we have some influence, for example, commissioning independent investigation joint venture partners, agents, subcontractors where appropriate.
and, in some cases, our vendors.
As a consequence of some of these investigations we took remedial action to reduce our risk.
During 2010, our Board made new commitments to review potential exposures to human rights issues in our operations.
In 2011 we will review our systems for ensuring trade compliance with local laws and sanctions compliance, as well as refreshing our Code of Business Conduct.
34 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Enterprise risk management and key risks continued Country risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Political risk We are exposed to potential We monitor carefully the changing landscape During 2010, we redefined the use of the regime change and civil of political risk, particularly for countries Enterprise Risk Committee, which now unrest that could affect that are regarded as high political risk focuses on country and third party risks in our operations.
This is also reviewed regularly certain high-risk territories prior to Petrofac by the Board and the Board Risk Committee.
committing to new projects or investments.
For high-risk countries our management We intend to acquire sovereign risk will also seek to limit political risk exposure insurance in 2011. in individual contracts, when agreeing terms and conditions with our customers.
Project risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Contract Our financial performance We have a strong track-record of successful During 2010, we took steps to mitigate performance could be materially affected project execution which reflects our rigorous significant risk on new contracts: by the performance of a approach to risk identification and mitigation, in Turkmenistan, we structured our relatively small number of from tender to project completion.
contract in two stages, so that we large contracts, particularly Our assurance frameworks for technical risk could measure and mitigate risk those which are lump-sum.
reviews involve the progress made on key before committing ourselves to the Furthermore, our operational projects being formally reported to the Board larger EPC phase performance is important in and senior management on a regular basis.
maintaining our reputation in Iraq, we decided not to take lump-sum for successful project delivery.
Our design integrity assurance process construction risk on our first major project involves the robust challenge of design in the country.
Instead, we are working specifications, whether or not they are defined on a lump-sum engineering and by the customer, including peer assessment.
procurement basis and a reimbursable We undertake ongoing reviews of integrity risk construction management basis throughout the life of a project.
our acquisition of a stake in Seven Energy Our subcontractor risk management has provided us with a lower risk entry strategy involves the retention of competent into the Nigerian market, and the subcontractors with a track record of delivery, opportunity to gain experience in the combined with the use of local companies as operating environment before taking is often required by law.
We have a number on an enlarged scope of work of strong subcontractor relationships with proven high quality companies that we seek to work with wherever possible.
As regards financial performance, we do not recognise profits in the early stages of lump-sum contracts and we maintain contingencies to cover unforeseen cost increases.
Business review 35 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Project risk Description Mitigation Progress in 2010 Counterparty There is a risk of commercial In Engineering & Construction, we typically At the end of 2010, we converted into counterparties defaulting on receive advance payments on contracts, the larger EPC phase of the South Yoloten payment terms or financial which generally have positive cash flow contract in Turkmenistan.
As this is our counterparties defaulting profiles over the duration of the contract.
largest contract to date, we have secured on deposits that we hold a larger than normal cash advance from In Offshore Engineering & Operations, many with them.
the customer as a way of mitigating contracts are neutrally-funded or have modest counterparty risk.
Our services are often critical in ensuring that customers Financial counterparty exposure is now continue to produce oil & gas and, reviewed on a monthly basis by the consequently, they are likely to honour Treasury Management Committee and contractual terms.
In some cases we request material exposures are monitored daily a parent company guarantee or a letter of by group Treasury.
credit to further mitigate counterparty risk.
During 2010, we redefined our financial In Energy Developments, remuneration is counterparty limits and our risk management from oil & gas sales to a range of customers, strategy of counterparty risk, both of which including national oil companies, who are were approved by the Board.
Nonetheless, the group continues to regularly monitor its receivable balances and take appropriate action where necessary.
With respect to counterparty risk arising from other financial assets, we regularly monitor our exposure and ensure that our financial assets are spread across a large number of creditworthy financial institutions.
Our sovereign and financial market risk policy has established limits on counterparty exposure.
Further analysis of credit risk and other financial risks associated with or managed through the use of financial instruments, such as interest rate and liquidity risk, are disclosed in note 33 to the financial statements.
Cost inflation Unexpected inflation in costs Our largest exposure to cost inflation is During 2010, we managed cash before and could adversely impact the in the provision of lump-sum Engineering after bid submissions in the following ways: financial performance of & Construction services.
Our exposure conditional on the award of a major our contracts.
to increases in capital expenditure costs contract, we typically negotiate associated with Energy Developments agreements to procure equipment and or projects is managed in a similar manner arrangements with key subcontractors, to lump-sum Engineering & Construction on back-to-back terms where possible projects.
expectations of wage inflation are The majority of the costs of our Offshore factored into project costings for Engineering & Operations and Engineering, bid submissions and budgets Training Services and Production Solutions contracts are reimbursed by customers, the group maintains contingencies either on an actual cost basis or through to cover unforeseen cost increases a periodically revised schedule of rates.
Health, A serious health, safety or Our strong culture of health, safety and During 2010, we appointed a Group Head safety and environmental incident on environmental HSE awareness is central of Environment to help raise standards environmental any of our projects has the to our operational and business activities, across the Company and lead strategic performance potential to cause significant our system of business management environmental initiatives.
commercial and reputational and our delivery of quality and business As of 31 December 2010, 95% of our damage.
As we enter new geographical facilities were accredited to ISO 14001 markets, sometimes with new customers and requirements for the environmental partners, and assume responsibility for new management systems they have in place.
infrastructure, it is particularly important that our focus on HSE is maintained.
Our financial Recorded incident data demonstrates exposure to a significant HSE incident is our ongoing improvement in managing generally mitigated through our commercial health and safety risks see pages arrangements and insurance programme, 60 and 61 for details.
although an incident may have a financial impact on our performance-based income.
The list above does not purport to be exhaustive.
There may be other risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be less material, which could affect the performance of the business.
36 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating environment Overview In contrast to the decrease in global demand The International Energy Agencys IEA 3 new policies scenario anticipates that for oil & gas in 2009 as a result of the economic global primary demand for energy will increase by approximately 36% from 2008 downturn, 2010 saw oil demand rise by to 2035, or around 1.2% per annum.
Growth 1 approximately 3.2%, leading to a sustained is driven by non-OECD demand, particularly in China which is now the worlds largest recovery in oil prices which averaged around energy consumer, India and the Middle East.
2 Meanwhile, BP projects that world primary US$80 per barrel during the year.
energy demand will rise by 39% over the 4 next 20 years, equivalent to 1.7% per annum, driven by growth in the global population, gross domestic product GDP and energy While such short-term indicators are positive, intensity per capita.
it is the medium to long-term trends in global What is common to both studies is the energy demand and supply that are most conviction that fossil fuels will remain the predominant means of satisfying global relevant in shaping our operating environment.
energy demand over the long-term.
Under the IEAs more conservative projection albeit based on different assumptions, demand for oil is expected to increase by 15%, an average of 0.5% per annum, to approximately 99 million barrels per day by 2035.
Global demand for gas is expected to increase considerably faster at 1.4% per annum, reaching approximately 4,500 billion cubic metres per annum bcma by 2035 equivalent to approximately 75 million barrels of oil per day.
The natural decline of existing oil & gas production is of even greater significance than the anticipated growth in demand for oil & gas.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates undertook a study of 1,000 oilfields and, while only 40% of production came from fields in decline, the aggregate decline rate applied to all fields currently in production was estimated at 4.5% per 5 annum.
Similarly, in 2009, the IEA estimated that less than one third of global gas production in 2030 will be met by existing 6 production.
Large-scale investment in oil & gas projects is therefore required to both limit and compensate for decline rates through enhanced oil recovery and investment in new developments to replace existing production and satisfy the expected growth in demand.
1 International Energy Agency, Oil Market Report, 18 January 2011.
2 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$79.50 per barrel for 2010 2009: US$61.67 per barrel.
3 In the IEAs World Energy Outlook 2010, the reference scenario which describes what would happen if, among other things, governments were to take no new initiatives bearing on the energy sector is replaced by the current policies scenario, but the mid-case which is referred to here, is termed the new policies scenario, which assumes that governments will implement the measures that they have already declared.
BPs projection is not a business as usual extrapolation, or an attempt at modelling policy targets.
Instead it is built to the best of our knowledge, reflecting our judgement of the likely path of global energy markets to 2030.
5 Cambridge Energy Research Associates, The Future of Global Oil Supply: Understanding the Building Blocks, 2009.
6 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2009, November 2009. Business review 37 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Offshore Engineering & Operations Energy Developments and World oil production by type Around 90% of Offshore Engineering & Production Solutions in the New Policies Scenario Operations revenues are generated from We believe that a strategic opportunity exists activities in the UKCS.
The UKCS market for the group to support some of the worlds 100 is relatively concentrated and during the major oil & gas resource holders.
80 economic downturn many customers took the opportunity to retender contracts.
We Resource holders need to develop new 60 succeeded in retaining and extending many opportunities and invest increasing levels 40 contracts where we were the incumbent of time, effort and capital in operating and contractor and have grown our market share maintaining their existing production.
As 20 by securing a number of new contracts many resource holders are well-funded, 0 see page 43.
Internationally, we have a small or have alternative sources of capital, 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 proportion of the available market and would and there is often political sensitivity Unconventional oil Crude oil: fields yet like to grow our market share as we extend around transferring ownership of reserves, to be developed Natural gas liquids our geographic reach.
As a result we believe that resource holders key Crude oil: currently of securing new contracts and extensions, requirement is capability.
Crude oil: fields yet producing fields to be found backlog has increased from US$1.6 billion to US$2.4 billion over the course of 2010.
Drawing upon the extensive capabilities of Source: World Energy Outlook 2010, OECD IEA, the wider group, which include engineering, figure 3.19, page 122 Engineering Services operations, training, well management After a modest increase in 2010, capital and specialist petro-technical consulting expenditure on exploration and production businesses, we are seeking opportunities to spending is expected to increase more provide a fully integrated service for resource Engineering & Construction and Engineering 2 substantially in 2011, which should see holders.
We are happy to work under a range & Construction Ventures an increase in conceptual studies and of flexible commercial models that are aligned Driven by the operating environment FEED studies.
This will hopefully lead to to specific customer requirements.
Such described on page 36, investment in oil & gas an increase in opportunities for external projects may cover upstream developments, infrastructure is expected to be more than work for our Engineering Services business.
both greenfield and brownfield, and related 1 US$15 trillion in the period 2010 to 2035. energy infrastructure investments, and can Approximately US$6 trillion in excess of Training Services include the provision of capital.
US$200 billion per annum of this expenditure We believe that the long-term drivers for is expected to be in our core Engineering & this business remain robust: The recent awards to Petrofac of the Ticleni Construction markets of the CIS, Middle East contract in Romania see page 44 for more and Africa although our current addressable the industry will be required to recruit detail and the Berantai project in Malaysia market is a subset of the total market.
and train many new skilled engineers see page 48 are interesting examples of We had a successful year for new contract and technicians to replace those set what we believe are very exciting opportunities awards for Engineering & Construction in to retire over the next few years for the group.
2010, with an order intake of US$6 billion, there is an increasing focus on local however this represents a relatively small content requirements, particularly as In summary share of this large and growing market.
sovereign state resource holders try We had an exceptional year in 2010, securing Our strategy is to move incrementally into to extract more economic value from a number of new contracts across the group.
new geographies and expand our range oil & gas developments.
In this regard, As a result, our backlog finished the year of services so that our addressable market Training Services supports not only our at a record level of US$11.7 billion 2009: grows as a percentage of the overall global customers, but also the rest the group US$8.1 billion.
We have continued that market.
Consequently, we expect demand success as we move into 2011, having for the groups services that rely on capital following events in the Gulf of Mexico in secured a contract in Algeria in January 2011 expenditure predominantly the Engineering & 2010, there is likely to be an increasing for US$1.2 billion and a risk service contract Construction business units to remain strong focus in some markets on critical incident for the Berantai field in Malaysia.
Overall, we over the long-term.
management and emergency response have outstanding visibility of revenues for training, as well as on quality assurance 2011 and beyond.
Operational expenditures and technical training Industry-wide operational expenditures Notwithstanding that we still face significant are expected to increase.
The average We estimate our current market share competition in many of our established cost per barrel of developing, operating and to be around 2% of the global market markets, the key drivers of capital and maintaining new fields, which are increasingly for the training services that we provide.
operational expenditures and our geographic in more remote or harsher environments, is The above drivers should all increase the focus should ensure that our medium likely to rise over time.
The cost of maintaining size of our potential market over the medium to long-term prospects remain strong.
and producing mature fields, which require to long-term and we have ambitions to grow greater healthcare as they deplete, is also our relatively small market share in what is likely to increase.
Increasing operational a highly fragmented market.
expenditures should benefit a number of our businesses: we look at the operating environment for each in more detail: 1 International Energy Agency, World Energy Outlook 2010, November 2010.
2 By around 16%, according to JP Morgan Cazenove, Global E&P Spending Analysis, 8 February 2011. mb d 38 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations Business review 39 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Our operations are organised into seven business units, which report under four segments: Business unit Reporting segment Engineering & Construction Engineering & Construction Engineering & Construction Ventures Offshore Engineering & Operations Offshore Engineering & Operations Engineering Services Training Services Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions Production Solutions Energy Developments Energy Developments We present below an update on each of the groups reporting segments: 1 2 Revenue Operating profit Net profit EBITDA US$ millions 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Engineering & Construction 3,253.9 2,509.0 438.9 312.4 373.0 265.1 474.3 337.3 Offshore Engineering & Operations 721.9 626.7 24.5 17.8 17.2 12.8 27.3 19.7 Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions 355.3 349.7 26.6 34.5 27.6 32.4 34.7 42.6 Energy Developments 188.2 248.7 191.2 77.4 156.4 46.2 241.0 160.9 Corporate, consolidation and elimination 165.1 78.7 17.7 10.1 16.4 2.9 17.9 10.8 Group 4,354.2 3,655.4 663.5 432.0 557.8 353.6 759.4 549.7 Revenue growth Operating margin Net margin EBITDA margin Growth margin analysis % 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Engineering & Construction 29.7 25.9 13.5 12.5 11.5 10.6 14.6 13.4 Offshore Engineering & Operations 15.2 19.3 3.4 2.8 2.4 2.0 3.8 3.1 Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions 1.6 31.5 7.5 9.9 7.8 9.3 9.8 12.2 Energy Developments 24.3 62.1 101.6 31.1 83.1 18.6 128.0 64.7 Group 19.1 9.8 15.2 11.8 12.8 9.7 17.4 15.0 1 Profit from operations before tax and finance costs.
2 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
40 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations continued Engineering & Construction The Engineering & Construction reporting segment includes the groups Sharjah-based Engineering & Construction business unit and Engineering & Construction Ventures, which has been established to target new markets, such as Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia, and Turkmenistan.
We have delivered good progress on our Pipelines from Mina Al-Ahmadi to Engineering & Construction generally current portfolio of contracts including power stations, Kuwait undertakes engineering, procurement the handover or substantial completion In July 2010, we were awarded a US$400 and construction projects on a lump-sum of the following: million contract by Kuwait Oil Company for basis, with a typical duration of between EPC services for the installation of fuel gas two to four years, and is focused on in Syria, we completed and commissioned and gas oil pipelines from Mina Al-Ahmadi markets in the Middle East, Africa, the Ebla gas plant for PetroCanada in to the Azzour and Shuaiba Power Stations Asia Pacific and the Commonwealth April 2010, two months ahead of schedule, in Kuwait.
The project follows on from the of Independent States, particularly the earning an early completion bonus.
We pipelines contract referred to above and is Caspian region.
have also completed and commissioned expected to last approximately two years.
the Jihar gas plant for the Hayan Petroleum Order intake in 2010 exceeded US$6.0 Company a joint venture between the Water injection project, Kuwait billion.
This includes our largest ever state-owned Syrian Petroleum Company In August 2010, we were awarded a further award, of US$3.4 billion, for the second and INA Industrija Nafte d. d. -Naftaplin EPC project by KOC for US$430 million for phase of our contract with Turkmengas of Croatia effluent water and sea water injection facilities.
on the South Yoloten project in in Oman, we completed the Harweel The project involves the installation of a Turkmenistan, as well as contracts cluster development project for the new central injection pumping facility and in Qatar, Kuwait and Malaysia.
Petroleum Development Oman PDO, modifications to three existing gathering achieving the introduction of hydrocarbons centres and seawater treatment plant.
When in January 2011 completed, both effluent water and sea water will be fed into a central injection pumping in Kuwait, we substantially completed the facility and injected into the wells with the Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery pipelines project objective of increasing oil recovery from the for Kuwait Oil Company KOC, which was Raudhatain and Sabriyah fields.
Completion awarded in November 2008 is estimated within 36 months.
in Algeria, we made good progress on Revenue Net profit the In Salah gas compression project for SEPAT offshore early production US$ millions US$ millions Sonatrach, BP and Statoil.
Two of the system, Malaysia three fields are now in operation and the In December 2010, we secured an award for 3,254 373.0 compression facility and power generation the engineering, procurement, construction, 2,509 on the Krechbah field were substantially installation and commissioning of an 265.1 1,994 completed by the end of the year offshore early production system on 206.3 the east coast of Peninsular Malaysia.
We were awarded the following principal The contract, worth approximately US$280 contracts during the year, on which initial million, was awarded by Petronas Carigali progress has been in line with our expectations: Sdn Bhd.
First oil is expected by the end 08 09 10 08 09 10 of 2011 and the project is estimated to Gas sweetening facilities, Qatar be completed by April 2012.
In March 2010, we were successful in Net profit margin securing an award for gas sweetening South Yoloten development, % facilities in Qatar from Qatar Petroleum.
Turkmenistan 11.5 The contract, for more than US$600 million, In December 2010, we commenced 10.6 10.4 includes the engineering, procurement, the second phase of the South Yoloten installation and commissioning of gas contract, worth US$3.4 billion, for sweetening facilities in Qatars Messaieed Turkmengas, the state-owned national gas and Dukhan industrial districts.
The project company of Turkmenistan.
This followed the includes a sulphur recovery upgrade in completion of the first phase of the project, Messaieed and an acid gas recovery plant which involved a front end engineering and in Dukhan.
Work on the projects is due for design FEED study and early engineering 08 09 10 completion within 38 months.
work for the gas processing development.
Business review 41 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Commencing the second stage of engineering work of the South Yoloten, The second phase of the contract is scheduled to last 31.5 months, during which gas field development, time we will provide engineering, procurement and commissioning work on a lump-sum basis for a 10 bcma gas processing plant Turkmenistan along with the infrastructure and pipelines for the entire 20 bcma development.
The structuring of this contract in two phases was important for risk mitigation and the work completed in phase one gives us a higher level of confidence that we can execute the project in accordance with our high standards.
Results High activity levels, due principally to projects won in 2009 and late 2008, resulted in Engineering & Construction growing revenues strongly by 29.7% to US$3,253.9 million 2009: US$2,509.0 million.
The main contributors to revenue were: the El Merk central processing facility in Algeria: the Asab project in Abu Dhabi: the Kauther gas compression project in Oman: the Mina Al-Ahmadi refinery pipelines project in Kuwait, and the Karan utilities package in Saudi Arabia.
Net profit increased by 40.7% to US$373.0 million 2009: US$265.1 million, representing a net margin of 11.5% 2009: 10.6%.
The increase in net margin is due to continued strong operational performance, including the delivery of a number of projects during the year, and first time profit recognition on a number of projects.
A variation order on a project agreed in the first half of 2010 was not reflected in the interim results, leading to an understatement of revenue by US$35 million and net profit by US$32 million.
These amounts have been recognised in the second half of 2010 and therefore there is no overall financial impact on the reported results for the year ended 31 December 2010.
Over the year, Engineering & Construction grew its headcount from 4,200 to 5,400, in response to the record intake in 2009 and in anticipation of our largest ever award, in Turkmenistan.
In addition, headcount in our engineering offices in Mumbai and Chennai, which principally support our Engineering & Construction activities although they are reported within our Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions segment also grew strongly.
At 31 December 2010, we had approximately 1,600 employees in our Indian offices 2009: 1,300.
At 31 December, the Engineering & Construction backlog stood at a record US$9.0 billion 2009: US$6.2 billion, reflecting the high level of order intake during the year.
42 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations continued Offshore Engineering & Operations Offshore Engineering & Operations Offshore Engineering & Operations provides activities are primarily in the UKCS and are predominantly provided on engineering and construction services at all a reimbursable basis, but often with incentive income linked to the successful stages of greenfield and brownfield offshore delivery of performance targets.
In addition, through the provision of of our operations contracts are long-term typically three to five years and in the operations management services, we deliver case of the provision of Duty Holder 1 services are often open-ended.
production and maintenance support and Activity levels in Offshore Engineering extend field life.
& Operations improved in 2010 due to the commencement of work on major contracts awarded in 2009, good bidding success and a general improvement in market conditions.
Our strong record of operational performance, company-wide capability and established presence in core markets helped us achieve an order intake of US$1.6 billion, taking backlog to record levels of US$2.4 billion.
1 Contracts where the group takes full responsibility for managing a customers asset and is responsible for the safety case of the asset, reporting to the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Providing Duty Holder services to Sajaa Gas Plant, Sharjah Business review 43 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review The key awards secured were: In addition to securing these new commencement of major contracts awards, we have been successful in secured in the second half of 2009 and Sharjah Government Duty Holder extending a number of our operations a general improvement in the operating contract, UAE and maintenance contracts with both oil environment.
Approximately 90% of In October 2010, we secured a Duty majors and independents.
These include Offshore Engineering & Operations Holder contract to provide a full range a five-year agreement with BHP Billiton revenue is generated in the UKCS, with of facilities management services to the to provide operations and maintenance these revenues generally denominated in Government of Sharjah on the Sajaa Gas personnel support for the Liverpool Bay Sterling.
The average US Dollar to Sterling Plant and related assets.
This contract, Development in the Irish Sea and a exchange rate for 2010 was broadly which furthers our aim to grow the five-year extension to our operations similar to the rate for 2009.
Offshore Engineering & Operations and maintenance support contract business internationally, will run for with CNR International in the North Sea.
Net profit increased by 34.5% to US$17.2 five years and is worth more than million 2009: US$12.8 million, again US$250 million.
From October 2010, the technical reflecting increased activity levels.
services agreement with the Government Net margin on revenue excluding Laggan Tormore EPC contract, UK of Dubai was reported through the pass-through revenue increased to In October 2010, we won an engineering, Offshore Engineering & Operations 3.3%, compared to 2.9% in 2009, procurement, supply, construction, reporting segment having previously driven by new higher margin contracts.
commissioning and start-up contract been reported through Engineering, with Total for the development of a gas Training Services and Production Over the year, Offshore Engineering & processing plant on the Shetland Islands.
The transition from having Operations grew its headcount from Offshore Engineering & Operations operational control over these assets 4,100 to 4,400, mostly attributable to the will develop this facility, supported by to the new technical services agreement staff added on new contracts, including Engineering & Construction.
This is was effected smoothly.
Laggan Tormore and the Sharjah the first time that we have secured a Government Duty Holder contract.
predominantly lump-sum EPC contract Acquisitions in the UK.
The contract is worth more We successfully completed two small Backlog for Offshore Engineering & than 500 million, with first gas expected acquisitions in 2010 which broaden our Operations increased to a record high in Q2 2014. capability: Scotvalve Services Limited, of US$2.4 billion at 31 December 2010 which provides servicing and repair for 2009: US$1.6 billion.
This includes Maersk Oil engineering services oilfield pressure control equipment, and approximately half of the backlog booked contract, UK Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited, in relation to the Total EPC contract In November 2010, we were awarded which designs and manufactures awarded in October 2010.
The remainder a contract worth 40 million over three metering systems see note 10 to the of the backlog has been booked years for the provision of engineering financial statements.
by Engineering & Construction, as it services to the UKCS assets of Maersk will support Offshore Engineering & Oil.
The contract includes three one-year Results Operations on the project.
options for extension, and broadens Reported revenue for the year increased Petrofacs scope of services for these by 15.2% to US$721.9 million 2009: assets, building upon the offshore US$626.7 million and revenue excluding 1 operations and support services we pass-through revenue increased 1 Pass-through revenue refers to the revenue have been providing since 2000. by 20.6% to US$526.4 million 2009: recognised from low or zero margin third-party US$436.4 million, reflecting the procurement services provided to customers.
Revenue Net profit US$ millions US$ millions 777 17.2 16.4 722 627 12.8 08 09 10 08 09 10 Net profit margin % 3.3 3.0 2.9 08 09 10 on revenue excluding pass-through revenue 44 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations continued Engineering, Training Services and Production Solutions The Engineering Services, Training Services and Production Solutions business units are reported together in this segment.
Engineering Services provides early were slightly higher than in 2009, and Production Solutions provides customers stage engineering studies, including we saw strong growth from international with a wide range of services to conceptual studies and FEED studies, markets, including our facilities at help improve production, profitability, primarily on a reimbursable basis.
Sakhalin Island, Russia, and Baku, operational efficiency, asset integrity and Engineering Services has two offices Azerbaijan.
In October 2010, our training the recovery of their reserves.
In addition in India in Mumbai and Chennai centre located near Homs in Syria was to providing these specialist services on which primarily support Engineering & opened at a ceremony attended by the a stand-alone basis, we are increasingly Construction and a UK office in Woking Syrian Prime Minister.
The facility, which offering customers these services which is more externally focused.
Activity Petrofac will operate for five years, packaged together where we are levels were significantly higher at will deliver operations and maintenance remunerated on a tariff or quasi-equity our Indian offices in 2010, reflecting training for Syrian graduates joining the basis.
We were awarded our first such Engineering & Constructions increased oil & gas industry.
production enhancement contract by demand for the units services, resulting Petrom in early July 2010.
Under the from the reporting segments record Training Services remains focused terms of the 15-year contract, which backlog entering into 2010 and its on strategic business development includes an option for extension by a contract wins throughout the year.
opportunities, both in the UK and further ten years, Petrofac will provide At our Woking office activity levels were internationally.
Demand for our Training production enhancement services to marginally lower.
Utilisation rates rose Services business is driven by a number Petrom as the concession holder for across all three offices throughout 2010. of factors, including the nationalisation the Ticleni oilfield and its eight satellite of government workforces, the ageing of fields in Romania.
We will be paid a tariff Training Services provides competencethe industrys personnel and the potential per barrel of oil produced, including led training services, consultancy and increase in industry regulation in the an enhanced tariff for incremental managed solutions which are designed wake of the Gulf of Mexico incident: production.
Petrofac successfully to increase competence and minimise these provide us with interesting medium completed the transition to assume risk.
Services are provided primarily on to long-term opportunities.
full operational responsibility for these a reimbursable basis.
Delegate numbers fields in November 2010: average oil production volumes from the first two months of operation were around 2.3% above baseline production.
Continued demand for our Training services Business review 45 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review In November 2010, Production Solutions entered into a strategic alliance with Seven Energy International Limited Seven Energy, a Nigerian production and development company.
Under the terms of the agreement Petrofac agreed to invest US$100 million to acquire a 15% interest in Seven Energy 12.6% on a fully diluted basis and will assist Seven Energy with the development of its production, processing and transportation assets.
Seven Energy has also issued warrants which, subject to the satisfaction of certain performance conditions and milestones in relation to project execution, will enable us to invest up to a further US$52 million, and take our interest to 19.2% on a fully diluted basis.
Petrofac is providing experienced personnel to Seven Energy and is Dubai Petroleum represented on its Board and management committees.
The opportunity to co-invest and co-develop Acquisitions Net profit was 14.8% lower at US$27.6 with Seven Energy, while deploying Within Engineering Services, the million 2009: US$32.4 million, principally some of our own people, will give us the acquisition of TNEI represents the reflecting the change in scope on the platform to establish a local presence first step in positioning Petrofac in Dubai Petroleum contract.
This was in Nigeria, a high growth market where the renewable energy sector.
TNEI also the primary driver for net margin we have been seeking commercial was acquired in June 2010 for a total on revenue excluding pass-through opportunities for some years.
consideration of 6.1 million see note 10 revenue falling to 8.5% 2009: 10.4%.
TNEI is a In October 2010, following a successful specialist consultancy providing services At 31 December 2010, headcount three and a half years of our service in the areas of power transmission and including long-term contractors operator contract for Dubai Petroleums distribution, particularly in relation to was higher at 3,400 2009: 2,900.
The offshore oil & gas assets, we successfully offshore wind projects, planning and addition of approximately 900 Romanian completed the transition to a technical environmental consent and energy workers on the Ticleni oilfield more than services agreement with the Government management.
TNEI has 50 staff in offset the reduction in headcount that of Dubai.
The technical services Newcastle and Manchester.
The followed the transfer of Dubai Petroleum agreement will be reported through acquisition further broadens Petrofacs staff to the Government of Dubai.
also continued to grow our Mumbai and Chennai offices, which are reported Results through Engineering Services but Reported revenue for the year was predominantly support the businesses in slightly higher at US$355.3 million our Engineering & Construction reporting 2009: US$349.7 million as was revenue segment.
We have recently decided to excluding pass-through revenue at open a third Indian office in Delhi, and US$322.8 million 2009: US$309.7 expect to accomplish this during 2011.
Revenue Net profit million, with an increase in revenues in US$ millions US$ millions both Engineering Services and Training Backlog for the Engineering, Training 510 33.1 32.4 Services being partially offset by lower Services and Production Solutions 27.6 revenues in Production Solutions as a reporting segment was unchanged 355 350 consequence of the transition of our role at year-end, at US$0.3 billion 2009: on the Dubai Petroleum contract from US$0.3 billion.
The main factors affecting service operator to a technical services backlog related to Production Solutions, agreement and now accounted for in which saw order intake primarily arising Offshore Engineering & Operations.
from the Ticleni contract offset by 08 09 10 08 09 10 the change in scope on the Dubai Petroleum contract.
Net profit margin % 10.4 8.5 7.3 08 09 10 on revenue excluding pass-through revenue 46 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations continued Energy Developments are reimbursed for development costs and Where we can leverage our service capabilities their share of the projects operating costs.
The joint venture contractors return for to realise value, mitigate risks and reduce costs, undertaking this investment is earned by way of remuneration equivalent to a percentage Energy Developments provides a fully integrated of the eligible development costs and our service for resource holders under flexible entitlement is paid from the monthly liquids production: hence any changes in production commercial models that are aligned to their will vary the number of days over which the entitlement is earned.
Projects cover upstream Overall production was slightly lower than in developments, both greenfield and brownfield, 2009, averaging approximately 113,000 bpd of oil equivalent 2009: 123,100 bpd of oil and related energy infrastructure projects, equivalent.
On average, we earned our share and can include the provision of capital.
of the monthly liquids production by the 11th day of the month 2009: 15th, reflecting higher average oil & gas prices, partly offset by slightly lower production rates.
The RSC contract is due to expire at the end of October 2011: eight years from first gas, over which time we expect to have earned our defined return.
Chergui field, Tunisia In Tunisia, Energy Developments has a 45% In the first demonstration of our build The Cendor field had another year of good operating interest in the Chergui gas plant.
and harvest strategy, we completed the performance, producing an average of 13,300 This interest was obtained in 2007 from demerger of Energy Developments UKCS bpd of oil 2009: 14,400 bpd and achieving Entreprise Tunisienne dActivits Ptrolires assets, including its investments in the Don production uptime of over 99%.
Production ETAP, the Tunisian national oil company, fields, in April 2010.
These assets were is now in decline as a result of the natural which holds the remaining 55% interest.
demerged to create EnQuest PLC, an decrease in field pressure.
Energy Energy Developments interest is held through independent company which subsequently Developments received approval for the a Concession.
The commercial export of gas listed on the London and Stockholm stock Field Development Programme FDP for commenced in August 2008.
Our investment in the Don project the second phase of development of Block is sold to the national gas company, Socit generated a capital gain of US$124.9 million PM304 in November 2010.
This second Tunisienne fide Llectricit et du Gaz STEG, and an internal rate of return from inception phase will involve the replacement of the under a gas pricing formula fixed by existing to demerger of approximately 35%.
We existing Mobile Offshore Production Unit law, in which the price of gas is linked to believe this transaction demonstrates the MOPU and Floating Storage and Offloading free-on-board Mediterranean FOB Med value of our build and harvest strategy.
FSO vessel with a Floating Production, fuel oil prices.
Storage and Offloading FPSO vessel During the year, good progress was made on and fixed wellhead structures, designed The Chergui gas plant produced an average Energy Developments portfolio of operational to increase production capacity to 35,000 of 27.8 million standard cubic feet per day assets Cendor, Ohanet, Chergui and the bopd.
Preparations for this second phase mmscfd of gas during the year 2009: 26.5 Kyrgyz Petroleum Company KPC refinery, are progressing well with the aim of beginning mmscfd, above the original nameplate design as explored below: work in the first half of 2011. capacity of 20 mmscfd.
A third production well was tied into the plant in early July 2010 Cendor PM304, Malaysia Ohanet, Algeria to boost the production rate and increase Energy Developments operates the Cendor Energy Developments, in a joint venture with gas recovery: production in December 2010 field, in Block PM304, offshore Peninsular BHP Billiton as joint venture operator, Japan was the highest recorded rate since the Malaysia, in which it holds a 30% interest.
Ohanet Oil & Gas Co and Woodside Energy start-up of the gas plant in June 2008.
The This interest was acquired in 2004 and is Algeria, has invested more than US$100 development programme for 2011 includes held by way of a production sharing contract million for a 10% share in a RSC with the commitment to drill two to three wells PSC.
Energy Developments partners on Sonatrach, Algerias national oil company.
to increase reserves and to explore the this field are PETRONAS, Kuwait Foreign Through Engineering & Construction, we production of oil, as well as gas, from the Petroleum Exploration Company KUFPEC undertook the EPC contract for the gas field.
Following recent civil unrest in Tunisia, and PetroVietnam, which hold interests processing facilities in joint venture with we have had some short unplanned shut-ins of 30%, 25% and 15% respectively.
ABB Lummus and were responsible for part of production, but generally the plant is of the on-site commissioning works.
We continue to keep of the RSC, the joint venture contractors the situation under review.
Business review 47 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Chergui gas plant produced an average of 27.8 million standard cubic feet per day in 2010 KPC refinery, Kyrgyzstan and Rob Roy Fields, in the UK North Sea, Revenue Net profit Energy Developments owns a 50% share in from 1989, with the Renee and Rubie Fields US$ millions US$ millions the Kyrgyz Petroleum Company KPC which produced over it since 1999.
The vessel has is engaged in the refining of crude oil and the a processing capacity of 45,000 bpd of oil 249 156.4 marketing of oil products from the 10,000 bpd and 56 mmscfd of gas with water injection 188 capacity KPC refinery.
KPC is jointly owned capability of 90,000 bpd and water treatment 153 by Petrofac and Kyrgyzneftegaz, the of 40,000 bpd.
state-owned oil & gas company in the Kyrgyz 46.2 21.9 Republic.
Petrofac has managed KPCs The vessel remains quayside at the McNulty facilities and operations since 1998. offshore facility in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, while options for its redeployment on fields, 08 09 10 08 09 10 During 2010, the refinery performed in line including those where Energy Developments with expectations, producing an average of has or can take an interest, are considered.
EBITDA approximately 1,700 bpd 2009: 2,000 bpd, Several options for deployment, including US$ millions principally of gasoline, diesel and fuel oil.
The in the UK North Sea, have been identified 241.0 decrease in throughput was primarily due to and are being pursued with conceptual civil unrest in the country, which shut down engineering and proposal preparation operations and halted processing at the work.
We expect that a redeployment 160.9 refinery in April and June 2010.
On both contract for the vessel will be secured in 89.1 occasions the demobilisation of expatriate 2011.
We are currently completing general and local staff was deemed necessary.
repair and upgrade work on the vessel, which will be followed by planned specific FPF1 Floating Production Facility, dry-dock work to satisfy external verification 08 09 10 undeployed requirements to obtain a class certificate.
In July 2009, Energy Developments This will enable the FPF1 continued operation acquired a floating production facility, AH001 in the harsh environment of the UK North Sea subsequently renamed the FPF1, from Hess for ten years, without the need for a and Endeavour Energy UK.
been deployed on the Hess-operated Ivanhoe 48 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Review of operations continued Energy Developments continued Gateway Storage Company of which Petrofacs share is 50%.
Under the Limited, UK terms of the RSC, the Berantai partners are In December 2010, Energy Developments expected to receive a rate of return linked to acquired a 20% interest in Gateway Storage their performance against an agreed incentive Company Limited Gateway, to progress and structure, including project costs, timing to first develop the Gateway Gas Storage project gas and sustained gas delivery measured in the East Irish Sea.
This project would six months after project completion, with add nearly 30% to the current gas storage an ongoing incentive structure based on capacity in the UK market, and has secured operational uptime.
the first gas storage licence from the UK Department of Energy & Climate Change Acquisitions in February 2010.
Petrofac joined Gateway Petrofac completed the acquisition of as the technical project operator and is CO2DeepStore in April 2010, a UK-based represented on Gateways board.
CO2 storage company see note 10 to the financial statements.
The combination of Berantai field development and CO2DeepStore and Petrofac establishes East Fortune FPSO, Malaysia a leading development capability for CO2 In January 2011, Energy Developments storage projects, providing a complete signed a RSC to lead the development of the service for power generators and other Berantai field, offshore Peninsular Malaysia, CO2 emitters.
for PETRONAS, Malaysias national oil company.
Petrofac has a 50% interest in In October 2010, CO2DeepStore signed the RSC, alongside our Malaysian partners an agreement with Shell U. K. Limited Shell Kencana Energy Sdn Bhd and Sapura Energy for the re-development of the Goldeneye Ventures Sdn Bhd, both of which hold a 25% gas field in the North Sea as a potential interest together known as the Berantai CO2 storage facility.
The agreement will see partners.
The Berantai partners will develop CO2DeepStore and Shell work together to the field and will subsequently operate the develop the potential CO2 storage solution field for a period of seven years after first for the ScottishPower Carbon Capture and gas production.
Work on the initial design phase for the project is due to The capital budget for the full field complete in the first half of 2011 and, subject development, excluding delivery of the to satisfactory contract negotiations, achieve FPSO, is approximately US$800 million, contract award later in the year.
CO DeepStore provides 2 investment and service capability for the CCS market Business review 49 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Operating review Asset Country Asset Investment Customer Date of Partners Partner Licence name type commitment investment interests Operator Berantai Malaysia Oil & gas field Risk service PETRONAS January 2011 Petrofac 50% Petrofac Energy contract Kencana 25% Developments Sapura 25% Kencana Sapura Cendor Malaysia Oil field Production PETRONAS May 2004 Petrofac 30% Petrofac Energy sharing contract PETRONAS 30% Developments KUFPEC 25% PetroVietnam 15% Chergui Tunisia Gas field Concession ETAP February 2007 ETAP 55% ETAP Petrofac 45% FPF1 Vessel currently Floating Owner of N A July 2009 None 100% owned N A located in the production infrastructure by Petrofac United Kingdom facility Gateway United Kingdom Gas storage Equity stake in a N A December 2010 Various 20% owned Petrofac facility company developing by Petrofac Energy the project Developments KPC Kyrgyzstan Refinery Equity stake in a Kyrgyzneftgaz January 2004 Petrofac 50% Petrofac refinery company which Kyrgyzneftgaz 50% Energy owns the infrastructure Developments Ohanet Algeria Gas field Risk service Sonatrach July 2000 BHP Billiton 45% BHP Billiton contract Japan Ohanet 30% Oil & Gas Woodside Energy 15% Petrofac 10% Results Energy Developments revenue was lower at US$188.2 million in 2010 2009: US$248.7 million, primarily due to the disposal of the Don assets following the April 2010 demerger.
On a like-for-like basis excluding the contribution of the Don assets, Energy Developments revenue was marginally higher at US$172.8 million this year 2009: US$170.4 million.
Including the gain on the EnQuest demerger, net profit for Energy Developments rose by 238% to US$156.4 million 2009: US$46.2 million.
Excluding this gain, despite the higher 1 average oil price in 2010 and notwithstanding the non-recurring NT P68 write-off of US$3.7 million in the prior year, the loss of contribution from the Don assets as well as lower production on Cendor meant that profit was lower at US$31.5 million 2009: US$46.2 million.
On a like-for-like basis excluding the contribution of the Don assets and the gain on the EnQuest demerger, trading net profit for Energy Developments was US$29.4 million in 2010 2009: US$33.5 million.
An analysis of Energy Developments oil & gas reserve entitlements is presented on page 159.
1 For example, Brent, a benchmark crude oil, averaged US$79.50 per barrel for 2010 2009: US$61.67 per barrel.
