Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Business review: Review of Operations operations With effect from 2 February 2009, the Group has adopted The assumptions on which we based our strategy and IFRS 8, Operating Segments.
This has not affected the our focus towards our core strategic pillars have both financial results of the Group, but has resulted in a change continued to be validated.
The EDE market sector has to the Groups segmental disclosures.
The previous two continued to outperform the MRO market sector in sales divisions within the MDD have been split into three growth and gross margin in every region.
Our focus on distribution divisions within MDD with CPC previously in eCommerce has allowed us to drive efficiencies in our MDD Europe and Asia Pacific and MCM previously cost base, as the web continues to be our customers in MDD Americas now both categorised in the Other channel of choice.
Sales throughout the year grew Distribution Division.
Comparatives have been re-presented strongly in the high growth markets of China, India accordingly.
This presentation is consistent with the and Eastern Europe and sales from our developing structure of internal management reporting.
markets achieved 19.8% of total Group sales in the year.
The margin rich characteristics of EDE together with our The results of CadSoft are included within MDD from focus on the profitable segments of the MRO market its acquisition in September 2009. provided us with a fourth year of gross margin stability, a clear differentiator in our industry.
MarKEtIng and dIstrIButIon dIvIsIon Mdd In the first three quarters of the year the Division incurred MDD Comprises: Newark, Farnell, Premier Electronics, one-off restructuring costs of 7.6 million.
These costs CPC and MCM represent the accelerated transformation of our business m 2010 2009 Growth structure and cost base to reflect the future shape of our organisation and to align resources, skills, technology and Revenue 718.4 727.1 -9.5% processes to future needs.
The annualised benefits of Underlying operating profit 69.8 85.7 -26.4% these actions are 12 million.
These actions combined Underlying operating margin 9.7% 11.8% with the actions taken in fourth quarter of the prior year will result in ongoing annual cost savings of 16 million.
E xcluding restructuring costs of 7.6 million 2009: 2.9 million and The positive impact of these restructuring actions to align the one-off non-cash gain from reorganisation of the North American pension plans of 5.3 million 2009: nil.
our cost base is reflected in our improving operating See note a on page 39. margin from the second quarter onwards.
The challenging global economic environment over the During the year incremental investments in our strategic past 12 months impacted the performance of the Division, initiatives totalled 15 million as we innovated and invested particularly in the first half of the year.
MDD sales were in our proposition to meet the evolving needs of our EDE down 9.5% and underlying operating profit was down customer segment.
Early in the second half of the year we 26.4% for the year, however for the final quarter of the took the positive decision to invest 12 million to significantly year the Division returned to strong year-on-year growth broaden our EDE product portfolio with a further 28,000 at both revenue and underlying operating profit levels.
targeted EDE products and increase our inventory in key product areas in anticipation of the erratic supply chain Year-on-year sales improved from a decline of 14.9% demands in key technology segments.
and 17.0% in the first and second quarters, respectively, to sales growth of 6.7% in the fourth quarter as end markets The second quarter saw the launch of our element14 began to show signs of improvement.
The combination community website and the third quarter saw the of our sales recovery combined with improved operating acquisition of CadSoft Computer GmbH.
These efficiency provided a full year operating margin of 9.7% investments represent significant milestones in our 2009: 11.8%, with the fourth quarter at 11.3% 2009: 11.0%.
strategic journey to meet all the workplace needs of our targeted EDE customer base.
We have integrated the Throughout the year we continued with our planned CadSoft proposition with element14 and our transactional investment in and execution of our strategy.
We have websites, significantly enhancing our services offering to capitalised on the growth opportunities inherent in our our existing EDE customers and driving the development industry by focusing on the strategic pillars we adopted of new customer relationships.
three years ago EDE, the web and internationalisation while continuing to serve the profitable MRO market segments.
42 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Review of Operations Operations continued Since acquiring CadSoft sales have seen strong positive New supplier relationships developed include: momentum and have contributed 0.6 million to the Groups overall revenue.
Recently we launched a new major suPPliers freemium version of CadSofts EAGLE software that Altera Programmable logic us allows EDEs to use the software on a 60-day free trial and in the coming year we will develop EAGLE for our Bridgelux optoelectronics global international markets.
MMD Monitor Quartztek radio Frequency rF us As the Division continued its transformational journey On Semiconductor semiconductors asia strategic investments were made in our web environment Spansion Memory global and eTools suite, EDE initiatives and the virtual expansion Yageo Passives global of our international footprint.
Sales via the web grew 12.3% year-on-year and eCommerce exited the year representing 41.5% of MDD new emerging technology suPPliers sales and global EDE sales growth outperformed MRO Aptina sensoring sales growth by 12.3 percentage points.
Our content Aurel rF rich websites carry up to three gigabytes of product, legislative and environmental information for each of Cadeka Comlinear rF our over 400,000 products.
This information is extremely Eseye communications valuable to customers and over the year we have acquired communications 63,000 new EDE customers.
Kvaser development tools The true international nature of our operations can be Gigatronix rF seen in the continued development of our global supply Mipot rF chain which crosses Europe, Asia and North America, providing a strong service proposition in all three regions.
Olimex development tools This, together with our extensive product range, bestPhyton Programmers in-class supplier portfolio and industry leading web Summit Microelectronics Power Management environments provides us with a wealth of opportunity, whether that is to drive significant market share growth Quatech communications Modules in our existing markets and increased penetration in more 4D Systems optoelectronics mature markets, or leverage our strong proposition to Teltonika Wireless connectivity enter new emerging markets.
Skyworks rF Product and suPPlier Portfolio Telit Wireless connectivity The Group has a differentiating and world class EDE RFMD rF and MRO line card that now includes most of the worlds leading electronic component brands as well as a strong Amiho Wireless connectivity base of selected suppliers of emerging technology.
Mixed signal We continually review our franchise portfolio to ensure Woolfson semiconductors that we have the right products and suppliers on our line ACME Electric Power Management card to meet both the developing technological needs of EDE customers working at the leading edge of design and Altium design tools of profitable MRO customers requiring specific products Austria Microsystems analogue for the maintenance and repair work they conduct.
CDM Electronics connectors During the year we added a number of additional regional Exar analogue and global franchises as well as deepening our relationships Power Integrations analogue with a number of developers and suppliers of emerging technologies.
ADDA thermal Management In support of our focus towards strengthening our supplier Our developing EDE proposition, now extending beyond portfolio we continued to conduct a number of technical the distribution of product, makes it attractive for suppliers and corporate social responsibility audits of new and to form partnerships with us.
This can be seen through existing suppliers.
the master sampling programmes we have with our suppliers and the privileges that accompany our franchise agreement.
These privileges extend to marketing support when launching new products to market as well as the ability to return slow selling or obsolete products.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Business review: Review of Operations Throughout the year we added 44,000 esoteric EDE This year we relaunched our Brazilian local language products to broaden our portfolio, of these 8,000 were website.
This, together with the continued enhancement new-to-market technologies that are highly desirable of Newarks industry leading website, Search Engine products for our EDE customers.
Whilst adding new EDE Optimisation SEO and Search Engine Marketing SEM and profitable MRO products to our range we continually initiatives and the introduction of iBuy, our innovative review the performance of existing products and during eProcurement solution, resulted in eCommerce sales the year we deleted 39,000 products from our stock for the Division exiting the year accounting for 25.8% holding range that no longer fit within our strategic goals of total sales.
The Divisions portfolio has a strong Our commitment to investing, combined with the well-balanced mix of established and emerging technology introduction of transactional automation, has accelerated suppliers, providing design engineers across the globe the transformation of our cost base.
We have continued with increased access to an impressive depth and to capitalise on the efficiency opportunities that the web breadth of product.
offers and with our one touch order processing we have significantly improved our service by cutting down the Mdd aMErIcas nEWarK time it takes to get the order picked and packed, and reducing errors.
We closed a further 22 branches during m 2010 2009 Growth the period, leaving nine branches located in the US and Revenue 310.0 335.5 -17.7% Canada, down from 42 branches we had at the start of Underlying operating profit 12.3 31.2 -65.0% our strategic journey three years ago.
This acceleration of Newarks strategic transformation to a multi-channel EDE Underlying operating margin 4.0% 9.3% centric business also saw us invest in the development of E xcluding restructuring costs of 4.7 million 2009: 0.9 million and c. 60,000 sq.
ft. state of the art technical and transactional the one-off non-cash gain from reorganisation of the North American contact centre in North America.
This contact centre that pension plans of 5.0 million 2009: nil.
will maintain the one-to-one relationship with customers See note a on page 39. previously managed through field branches.
This further MDD Americas comprises Newark and Farnell Newark, enhances Newarks multi-channel sales approach and our Brazilian business.
Customers include electronic ensures we have the right proposition and strong presence design engineers, maintenance repair technicians and in 45 geographical markets across North America to purchasing professionals in the US, Canada, Mexico support the needs of all our customers.
Although full year underlying operating margin was Year-on-year sales in MDD Americas declined 17.7% for 4.0% 2009: 9.3%, the transformation of our cost base, the year, reflecting the Divisions heightened exposure together with improving sales, saw the Divisions underlying to the US MRO market, which experienced steep sales operating margin recover to 6.2% in the fourth quarter declines through the year.
However, by accelerating the despite incremental costs of 0.9 million relating to our Divisions sales mix towards the EDE market sector MDD US pension plan which had the effect of reducing fourth Americas achieved consecutive month-on-month sales quarter return on sales by 1.2 percentage points.
growth for the last eight months of the year and fourth With the structure and cost base of the business now quarter sales finished flat on the prior year.
In North consistent with our multi channel approach and with the America the Semiconductor Industry Association SIA, web becoming our customers channel of choice we are which is indicative of the EDE market, reported sales now in a position to target delivery of return on sales at growth of 6.4% for the year with the first half declining levels similar to our other MDD businesses.
13.6% and the second half growing 29.5%.
However the SIA themselves cited that the market statistics in the second half of the year had been positively impacted by Mdd EuroPE and asIa PacIFIc increased demand in high volume end markets of Farnell & Premier Electronics personal computers and cell phones, which account for m 2010 2009 Growth approximately 60% of total semiconductor consumption, and consumer electronics.
These low margin high volume Revenue 317.0 303.8 -2.9% segments do not form part of our target market.
Underlying operating profit 48.5 44.8 -2.6% Even in challenging market conditions significant progress Underlying operating margin 15.3% 14.7% was made in following each of our strategic pillars.
Newark Excluding restructuring costs of 2.9 million 2009: 1.8 million.
introduced 22,000 new EDE products to its product See note a on page 39. portfolio and, as we predicted, sales to the EDE market sector significantly outperformed sales to the MRO market segment throughout the year.
Providing our customers with the latest esoteric product, crucial electronic design resources and industry leading environmental design guidance, has continued to drive customer acquisition, with Newark adding 20,000 new EDE customers during the year.
44 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Review of Operations Operations continued MDD Europe and APAC sales declined 2.9% for the year, however they recovered strongly from the decline in the first quarter to achieve year-on-year growth of 14.5% in We originally invested in Premier Farnell the fourth quarter, reflecting the strength inherent in our strategy.
The benefit of restructuring actions taken in the in 2006.
At the time, we believed in the fourth quarter of the prior year and in the first half saw long term future of the business due to its operating margins for the year improve by 0.6% over the prior year to 15.3%, with a return on sales of 16.6% growth potential, its high returns on capital achieved in the fourth quarter.
and the strong market position, which we In Europe and APAC we have continued to make good believed should allow it to maintain these progress with the embedding of our strategic pillars.
We have increased the business sales mix towards the strong returns.
Over the past three years EDE market sector which was a significant contributor towards the Division ending the year positively and sales we have been impressed by the to the EDE market sector significantly outperformed sales commitment to drive the Group harder to the MRO market sector over the year.
and further than we had originally believed The web continued to be the customers channel of choice with web sales growing 12.2% in the year.
In our opinion, the progress sales increased to account for 57.7% of total sales as made has been exceptional.
The Group we exited the year, including over 90% of sales in Eastern Europe coming from eCommerce channels.
iBuy continued has become much more efficient, which to receive high adoptions levels and sales from this has driven returns upwards, and has innovative eProcurement solution grew in every quarter in both Europe and APAC.
As the mobility of the web moved quickly to establish strong becomes ever present in todays world, we launched positions in Asia and Eastern Europe.
an iPhone application for Farnell Europes transactional websites, complementing our growing suite of web This, in combination with the strategy tools and services and in recognition of our innovative approach to distribution in the third quarter we were of concentrating on the faster-growing awarded the European distributor of the year award EDE customer segment, should give at Elektra the European Electronics Industry Awards.
Our dynamic inventory and product portfolio investment the Group a strong platform to continue programmes in the third quarter were successful in to grow very profitably into the future.
developing sales and maintaining service levels as the electronics supply chain began to show signs We remain enthusiastic and supportive of a recalibration.
Institutional Investor Sales from our targeted international markets Eastern A long term leading shareholder in Premier Farnell Europe, China and India all achieved year-on-year strong growth in all four quarters and our investments in the strategy have created a strong indigenous proposition in all three of these regions.
In the coming year we will focus on developing our high service proposition in these markets to provide a strong competitive advantage that will drive accelerated market share growth.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Business review: Review of Operations rEvEnuE By rEgIon Investments in the first quarter to align our operations in Europe to our strategic priorities have helped create an m 2010 2009 Growth organisational culture that is focused towards achieving UK including exports 111.8 113.2 -1.2% the same goals.
Our expansion into Eastern Europe continued throughout the year and with the integration Mainland Europe 161.8 155.0 -6.3% of the acquisition of Microdis in the prior year, sales in APAC 43.4 35.6 7.3% the region grew 55.2% year-on-year.
During the year we launched two new local language websites, in Turkey See note a on page 39. and in Russia.
Within the first three months of the Russian uK websites launch the site attracted over 43,000 customer Farnell: Farnell markets and distributes electronic visits transacting from as far afield as Eastern Siberia components, test and measurement equipment and MRO products to design engineers, purchasing professionals and maintenance technicians, with businesses in the UK, mainland Europe and Asia Pacific.
Farnell is a great company that offers Farnell UKs full year sales declined 1.2%, although sales real development opportunities both recovered strongly in the second half of the year and the fourth quarter grew 13.7% year-on-year.
Despite the professionally and personally through difficult market conditions, Farnell UK significantly training, ongoing support to its employees outperformed the wider UK market which declined 9.8% in the year as reported by Association of Franchised and good working environment.
Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC, excluding Employee Farnell.
The business has continued to develop refined customer and product segmentation strategies and with Susana Garcia, Regional Sales Manager a strong web presence our UK business has added 2,500 Farnell Spain new customers in the year.
asia Pacific Sales in Asia Pacific were up 7.3% in the year with fourth mainland euroPe quarter sales improving 37.4% year-on-year, reflecting the During the year Mainland Europe saw individual markets significant growth seen in the Asian markets during the experience significantly varied depths of recession.
year being offset by challenging market conditions in This led to our sales declining 6.3% for the year, however the more mature markets of Australia and New Zealand in fourth quarter sales returned to growth, up 10.4% ANZ.
This represents an outperformance of the wider year-on-year.
When compared to the wider European Asia Pacific market, which grew 4.6% in the year, as market, which declined 24.0% in the calendar year reported by the SIA reflecting a first half decline of according to the Distributors and Manufacturers 15.4% and second half growth of 27.1%.
Association of Semiconductor Specialists DMASS, this represents a significant outperformance.
Our strategy predicted that China and India would continue to see strong growth, even if western economies entered a downturn, and sales within these markets grew throughout the economic downturn.
The markets of China and India continue to surpass our expectations in terms Our electronic workshop supports the Civil of EDE and web sales and in the coming year we see Engineering department for the university.
great opportunity to leverage our global reach to achieve further market penetration in the APAC region.
As we are in a constant state of research Full year sales in China increased by 24.8% as customer and design and small production runs, acquisition activities, broad product offering and a targeted the ease of online searching and ordering approach to higher growth segments of the market continued to deliver growth.
In China we increased our coupled with the reliability of next day logistical capabilities so that we can now ship orders to delivery has positioned Farnell as our 130 cities across China and we have continued to work closely with our suppliers, signing sampling programmes number one component supplier.
with Littelfuse and Texas Instruments.
Through our Customer continued commitment to developing innovative solutions for design engineers we also received recognition from Department of Civil & Natural Resources Engineering, the electronics industry as the engineers high service University of Canterbury New Zealand distributor of choice in China.
46 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review: Review of Operations Operations continued Farnell India has been quick to adopt our high service othEr dIstrIButIon dIvIsIon proposition and with a rapidly growing engineering CPC and MCM community our proposition in the region is becoming m 2010 2009 Growth increasingly attractive.
India achieved sales growth of 97.6% for the year, despite the completion of some Revenue 91.4 87.8 0.9% significant infrastructure projects following the acquisition Underlying operating profit 9.0 9.7 -10.0% of Hynetic Electronics in 2008.
With nine branches Underlying operating margin 9.8% 11.0% supporting the major electronic engineering design centres across the country, a localised website and Excluding restructuring costs of nil 2009: 0.2 million and the one-off non-cash gain from reorganisation of the North American pension plans catalogue, and superior logistics, Farnell India is of 0.3 million 2009: nil.
Our industry leading product See note a on page 39. portfolio provides our customers in India with access to more than four million products and with the strength cPc of our proposition we see a wealth of opportunity to In challenging market conditions in the UK electrical and increase our market share.
electronic equipment and accessories market CPC achieved an impressive full year sales growth of 4.1%.
The business Markets continued to be challenging in ANZ.
The business strong value proposition combined with a competitive benefited from the restructuring actions taken in the prior product offering has seen web sales grow 20.3% year but market conditions saw the sales decline in the year-on-year.
During the year 11,000 new products were early part of the year offset the more recent recovery added to the CPC product range, enhancing both its in sales levels.
To this end full year sales declined 5.3% branded and private label product offerings.
on the prior year, although the fourth quarter saw year-on-year growth of 2.0%.
Marketing continues to focus on a multi-channel approach with a combination of eCommerce marketing, direct mail and catalogue production as well as high profile media.
This has driven the number of new Youre clearly ahead of the game with spending customers in the year to grow 15.1%, when compared to the prior year.
everything thats going on with element14 and hopefully well get involved with it and mcm Overall sales at MCM were impacted by the wider start to see some of our own information.
economic downturn seen in the US economy, declining Supplier 6.8% on the prior year.
Director of Global Communications Direct marketing through eChannels has driven accelerated Analog Devices customer acquisition and the number of active customers increased by 14.8% over the prior year.
These marketing activities also drove an increase in eCommerce revenue, which exited the year accounting for 41.4% of sales.
IndustrIal Products dIvIsIon IPd Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable IPD comprises two businesses, Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable, both supplying high performance products to specialist industrial markets.
m 2010 2009 Growth Revenue 76.9 77.3 -11.1% Underlying operating profit 13.6 14.3 -16.6% Underlying operating margin 17.7% 18.5% E xcluding restructuring costs of nil 2009: 0.2 million and the one-off non-cash gain from reorganisation of the North American pension plans of 1.0 million 2009: nil.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Business review: Review of Operations tPc wire & caBle TPC is a distributor of high performance electrical wire, cable and connectors designed for heavy duty or harsh Farnell is such an easy company to deal industrial environments in the US, Canada and Mexico.
with, handling my business with efficiency In the early part of the year TPC sales were severely impacted by the downturn in activity in the US steel and and speed.
In order to mitigate this the Wood & Douglas United Kingdom business accelerated the execution of its multi-channel diversification strategy into the refinery, rig and marine The IPD has historically predominantly supplied products fabrication, hoisting equipment, government, utility, for North American industrial markets.
Both businesses mining and food and beverage end markets.
This are increasingly combining continued focus on home diversification partly offset the impact that more traditional markets with expansion into international markets.
end markets had on the business sales performance.
Full year sales for the Division declined 11.1% or 5.1% Year-on-year sales declined 16.6%, with the first half excluding Cadillac which was closed at the end of the down 28.6% but the second half declining only 2.9%.
prior year With a diverse product range and newly launched website the business is well positioned for future growth from these new sectors as well as recovery in its traditional aKron Brass markets.
Akron Brass is a market-leader in the manufacture and sale of high performance fire-fighting equipment for fire truck manufacturers, public fire services and industrial facilities.
Its products are designed to improve the safety and efficiency of personnel and equipment engaged in Akron Brass is a trusted employer that the suppression of fire and also includes lighting and communicates with its employees and electrical control solutions.
It sells through its own field sales force and through distributors to customers is constantly working to engineer new around the world.
products that the industry has asked for.
Domestic sales in the US are focused either directly Customers are held in the highest regard.
or indirectly on government spending.
The economic environment impacted significantly on these markets, What is important to them is important to however the strength of the Akron Brass brand combined Akron Brass.
Employee with effective cost control and well established customer relationships limited the businesses sales decline to 2.0%.
June Peebles, Credit Manager Akron Brass North America Akron has a significant share of the North American market and over the year the business has continued to seek growth by broadening its product range and reach into new geographic and industrial markets.
The ongoing investments in Akrons product portfolio led to the business securing its single largest ever project in the third quarter, which was located in Poland.
More recently Akron has expanded its operations into Dubai and China.
