Business review For more information visit: www.
com Operational review Business overview Punch Taverns plc is the UKs leading pub operator of over 6,700 leased, tenanted and managed pubs.
The Group has scale The Group has scale across the market, being number two by number of leased and tenanted pubs, as well as number two by number of managed pubs.
across the market, The UK on-trade has experienced significant beer volume declines in each of the last two years as a result of the cumulative effect of the smoking ban, counter productive tax and duty increases being number two and the wider recessionary conditions.
This volume reduction has been more acute in smaller drink led pubs where profits have reduced substantially and compromised their sustainability.
In by number of leased response to these market conditions we have taken a series of decisions to stabilise the business.
We have reduced our debt levels, focused on a smaller higher quality estate and implemented and tenanted pubs, operational strategies across both sides of the business.
Some of these decisions, such as increasing financial support to our Partners and limiting beer price increases, have put pressure on our short term profitability but will, we believe, help provide the platform as well as number for improved profitability in the longer term.
Leased estate two by number of We have continued to evolve the leased business model as we focus on long term sustainable value creation for ourselves and our Partners.
A key element of this is our commitment to develop more open relationships with our Partners through our strategic change managed pubs.
programme called Pathway to Partnership, setting ourselves the ambitious goal of becoming The Most Trusted and Best Value Pub Partnership Business in the UK.
In this continuing difficult economic environment, we believe that it is important to work closely with our Partners, not only to help them develop their business but also to offer financial support where appropriate, through rent concessions and special discount schemes.
We have taken proactive steps to increase our support which continues to run at just under 2m per month, up from an average of 1.6m per month last year.
In addition, we have once again restricted price increases to our Partners this year to an average of only 1% for the majority of beers compared to wholesale market price increases of c. 3%.
We are beginning to see the benefit of this assistance with the number of pubs returned from our Partners being almost half the previous years level and the number of closed and Tenancy at Will properties available for let also down on last year.
The estate has been strengthened by the number of pubs on substantive agreements being increased to 86% and we are confident that the leased model continues to offer an attractive proposition to entrepreneurs seeking a low cost method of entering the trade and running their own business.
11 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review We have taken proactive steps to increase Partner support.
Business review Operational review continued Leased estate continued We have relaunched our recruitment website which now provides an indication of expected earnings from running a particular pub together with a clear choice of rents linked to different levels of discount on tied products.
Furthermore, we were the first major pub company to publish our BIIBAS accredited Code of Practice, which exceeds the BBPA industry framework and is now live across the business, setting the basis of our relationship with our Partners.
The next stage of the Pathway to Partnership programme is the Partner relationship launch of our Punch Buying Club which enables our Partners to transact more efficiently with us online.
Our new Punch Buying Based on Partner feedback, we have trialled a new Club Agreement is now in place which offers Partners the option Partner Development Manager PDM role in the of free of tie pricing and freedom to source local ales benefiting Midlands and South West.
Partner Development Manager, Zoe Griffiths said: Whilst we remain committed to the future of the British pub, Having spent a number of years in this role, we believe that fundamental change in consumer habits will I see this as a great step forward to empowering result in some pubs not surviving.
We have identified a core estate our Partners using our time and expertise to really of c. 4,700 leased pubs which have a long term, sustainable future.
grow their businesses whether through investment, The remainder of the estate where we believe long term viability training or reviewing the offer and developing is compromised will ultimately be disposed of, representing c. 1,300 a quality marketing plan.
Within this financial year, we disposed of 893 leased pubs and other assets largely from the non core estate, raising 254m at an average multiple of 16 times EBITDA.
The proceeds have been used to reduce indebtedness and to invest in our core estate.
During the year we invested in over 800 pubs at a cost of 45m.
Whilst management actions have had a positive impact on stabilising the estate, consistent with our focus on long term sustainability, the polarisation of performance between core and non core pubs has continued.
Within the core estate, like for like EBITDA has declined by 9% driven principally by lower beer volumes and reduced rental settlements.
However, the non core estate has seen like for like EBITDA reduce by 28% driven by returned pubs and much reduced levels of beer volumes sold.
As a result, across the total estate the rate of like for like decline in the period is 11% with average EBITDA per pub down 6%, benefiting from estate churn.
Our programme to dispose of non core assets has further reduced EBITDA c. 16m annualised resulting in an EBITDA for the period of 331m.
Pa rtner support 2m per month 12 www.
com We have invested over 58m in our pubs during the course of the year.
For more information visit: www.
com Managed estate As with the leased estate, management actions have been focused on stabilising business performance and on building trading momentum.
Consequently, although like for like sales in the 52 week period were 2.0% below last year, improved trading has been delivered in the second half of the year and particularly in the final quarter where like for like sales for the last 12 weeks were up 2.6%.
Underpinning these results has been the increased investment in the estate and the continuation of our Operational The Apprentice youre hired Excellence programme.
Recruiting and retaining a high calibre team Over the last year, successful pilots of new concept refurbishments continues to be a key business driver.
The Punch have been completed and we have now commenced the rollout Academy Apprenticeship is designed to help Team of these concepts across the estate.
During the year we have Players grow and develop their skills and knowledge.
completed 52 Chef & Brewer and 27 Fayre & Square new concept In July, 45 Team Players were promoted to Team refurbishments which are achieving our financial return targets.
In addition, refurbishment activity across the rest of the estate means that we have invested in over 220 pubs during the course Rafe Hamilton, who is a Team Player at the of the year, which together with replacement capital expenditure Bridgewater in Worsley, Manchester said: The across the whole estate, cost 58m.
We expect to invest in course has provided me with the opportunities to a similar number of pubs over the next 12 months.
I have acquired more knowledge which has given me the confidence to The objective of our Operational Excellence programme has been deal appropriately with potentially difficult situations.
to simplify ways of working, streamline pub structures and have the right people in place focusing on the right things.
Significant improvements in both employee retention and in guest advocacy measures have been achieved.
The implementation phase of the programme is now complete with focus shifting to embedding cultural change and financial benefits.
Within this financial year we disposed of 43 managed pubs, raising 45m at an average multiple of 19 times EBITDA.
Our programme to dispose of non core assets has reduced EBITDA c. 2m annualised resulting in EBITDA for the year of 88m.
Investment 58m 13 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review Business review Operational review continued Matthew Clark joint venture Matthew Clark, the 50% joint venture with Constellation Brands Inc, continues to perform satisfactorily in a very competitive market providing a post tax contribution to the Group of 4m for the period.
Matthew Clark has significant scale in its marketplace as the largest independent drinks wholesaler and distributor to the UK leisure and hospitality industry, with gross annual turnover of c. 600m and c. 20,000 customers.
Investing For Growth Financial Profit before tax and exceptional items was 131m 2009: 160m.
The Hare & Hounds in Beverley, Yorkshire benefited Basic earnings per share before exceptional items were 14.4p from an interior and external refurbishment to 2009: 36.1p reflecting the increased number of shares following increase customer appeal.
The development has seen the July 2009 equity raise.
the pub transformed with contemporary styling throughout, including a fully refurbished tap room A number of exceptional items were incurred in the period and sports bar.
resulting in a net charge of 253m.
The principal items were a 218m impairment charge on the carrying value of non core Partner Tracy Durrant said: I believe we have created assets, a 68m charge for the mark to market of certain interest a great environment for all and that is really paying rate swaps, 44m gain on the repurchase of debt, 33m onerous off with the comments we have received from our lease provision, 2m of reorganisation costs, 6m loss on asset customers.
We have had great support from Punch disposals and 9m charge on disposed goodwill.
The tax effect Taverns in relaunching the pub and Im sure that it of these items, together with finalising a number of prior year tax will continue to go from strength to strength.
matters with HMRC, gave rise to an exceptional tax credit of 37m.
We continue to review the balance sheet values ascribed to non core assets, both freehold and leasehold.
To this end, we have taken a further impairment charge on our non core leased estate which, as evidenced by its poor trading performance in each of the last two years, do not have a sustainable future.
We have also reassessed the provision we hold against those assets which make losses after rental charges.
In recent years we have been subject to a number of reversionary leases arising from pre-packed administrations.
Our policy is to make a provision against these loss making assets which has been increased by 33m to 80m.
We will seek to dispose of these sites as expediently as possible and in the meantime seek to optimise their cash generation capability.
The effective pre-exceptional tax charge was 29% 2009: 29% with no cash tax paid in the period 2009: 8m repayment.
As previously announced the Board considers it prudent to continue to retain cash and further strengthen the balance sheet.
Consequently no dividend will be paid for the period.
com Since the start of the year we have reduced gross debt by 684m.
com Capital structure We have made good progress in strengthening our balance sheet.
Since the start of the financial year we have reduced gross debt by 684m, being 17%, at a cost of 636m excluding swap break costs, 647m of which was bought back ahead of schedule.
Net debt at 21 August 2010 stood at 3,143m.
Following the repayment of our convertible bond, all of our debt is in the form of long term mortgage type finance which has a Chef & Brewer raises the bar weighted average life of 17 years secured on over 6,500 of our pubs.
The debt fully repays over terms extending to 25 years and Over the last 12 months Punch Pub Company has is effectively at a fixed rate of interest of 6.8%.
We have no bank been investing in its flagship brand Chef & Brewer, debt or bullet finance and consequently we have no refinancing building a platform for ongoing success.
requirements in the foreseeable future.
52 out of 127 Chef & Brewer pubs across the UK We have three debt finance structures: Punch A, Punch B and enjoyed a facelift, which in turn has played a key role Spirit, all of which have a key Debt Service Cover Ratio DSCR in building guest loyalty and ultimately driving sales.
Headroom against these covenants has been maintained by our actions in pre-paying certain tranches of debt Wine festivals, fish and game seasonal promotions and by utilising cash held outside the debt structures to support and revamped menus supported by high profile the profit performance within them.
The annualised cost of this PR campaigns, have all played a critical part in support was 43m in the year and was largely mitigated by cash positioning Chef & Brewer as being serious about upstreamed to the Group for tax purposes.
Current trading and outlook Trading in the first seven weeks of the new financial year has been in line with the improved trading performance seen in the fourth quarter of last year.
The change programmes and continued management actions in both sides of our estate are strengthening the business to deliver solid long term operational performance.
However, we still expect the trading outlook in the near term to continue to be uncertain.
Tax rises and reduction in public spending will inevitably put further pressure on unemployment levels, reduce disposable incomes and constrain consumer confidence.
Against this backdrop, we believe it is sensible to adopt a cautious approach and we have prepared our financial plans accordingly.
Reduced gross debt 684m 15 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review
