About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Chairmans statement Operating review Government has yet to announce the details.
As there has In volume terms Redrow has seen a small reduction in the levels seen during the summer.
This remained the case for been little in the way of transitional guidance, planning is number of reservations in the first ten weeks of our the balance of the financial year with the exception of a currently in a state of limbo, with many local authorities financial year.
This has been offset however by the few weeks affected by Christmas and the bad weather using this vacuum to slow down even further, often increase in average selling price as a result of the growing that followed.
The Group recorded 2,211 private refusing to process applications.
influence of The New Heritage Collection.
Overall like for reservations in the year an increase of 22% on the like sales in the year to date are marginally ahead of the previous year.
The cancellation rate in the year was 17% Harrow Estates same period last year.
which was lower than the level experienced in previous The acquisition of the Harrow business in October 2009 years.
We closed the year with a private order book of 597 brought with it a strong management team, expert in the Redrow is in good shape with a low level of gearing, a units, in line with the previous year in terms of volume but purchasing, remediating and replanning of brownfield strong and more streamlined management team, ahead by 18% in revenue due to a higher average selling sites.
Since the acquisition Harrow has purchased two improving margins and an excellent new product.
Social housing reservations declined as additional sites and the business is actively pursuing a collapse of market conditions from those we have a consequence of fewer new outlets coming through and further land opportunities.
experienced to date, I expect the Group to make further the social order book reduced from 547 units to 468. progress during the current year.
Since the year end we have seen a seasonal downturn in The five sites Harrow owned when it was acquired by the market in contrast to our experience last year.
Redrow are all now in production and progress is being made on a pipeline of option sites.
The Group delivered 2,587 legal completions in the year including 373 social units.
John Tutte Group Managing Director Redrow Commercial Developments has now been absorbed into the Harrow team and as such Harrow has Steve Morgan taken responsibility for all commercial property within the Chairman Introduction Private order book by volume Group.
The past year has been one of considerable change on the Jun 10 597 operating side of the business.
We have introduced our People new product, re-opened offices, strengthened and Dec 09 491 The last year in Redrow has been one of monumental restructured our management teams, embarked upon an 600 Jun 09 change within the business, together with some incredibly ambitious land buying programme, integrated Harrow challenging trading conditions.
The considerable advances Estates into the Group and doubled build output in which have been made could not have been achieved response to an improved sales market.
without the dedication and commitment of all of the We started the year with 75 selling outlets and ended the members of the Redrow team.
I would like to express my Our regional teams have coped enthusiastically with the year with 74.
In the period we opened 23 new outlets and sincere gratitude to all of them for their efforts in helping closed 24.
Our private sales rate per outlet was 0.58 per changes and are now well placed to respond to the return Redrow once again to be one of the leading builders week helped by relatively strong performances from our demands of growing the business in a challenging in the sector.
three City apartment schemes in Birmingham and Barking.
We ended the year with 225 unsold stock units on these In September 2009 Colin Lewis, who was the Western Sales Market schemes.
On these and other apartment schemes we have Regional Chairman, resigned from the business following The financial year started strongly with an opening order successfully re-focused our sales strategies away from the the Group reorganisation.
In December 2009 David Arnold investor market towards owner-occupiers.
We also made book of 600 private units compared to 492 units the year resigned as Group Finance Director and was replaced in good progress on our planned disposal of the remaining before.
Reservations in July and August were better than January 2010 by Barbara Richmond.
I would like to thank Debut units and ended the year with just 23 units on two anticipated and there was little evidence of a seasonal both Colin and David for their efforts over the years.
In the autumn year-on-year reservations sites.
We continue to closely monitor stock and work in remained ahead but were only marginally better than the progress levels across all of our developments striking a We continue to regard Health and Safety as key to our balance between controlling capital employed and having business and this has again been recognised as we received an appropriate level of stock to support changing market a gold RoSPA for the fifth year running.
Legal completions Outlook The average selling price for the year of plots legally We remain in a period of tough economic conditions and 2,214 completed was 149,300 compared to 137,400 in the Private uncertainty.
The new Coalition Government has previous year.
The second half average selling price was 5% 1,702 announced a programme of considerable spending cuts ahead of the first half largely due to mix.
Prices moved in and tax increases which will have a negative impact on line with published housing indices during the first few 373 everybody in the UK.
The housing market has seen a Social months of the year and then remained fairly flat with 411 reduction in the volume of transactions since the election, some small increases secured in the spring.
Prices on The both as a result of the economic uncertainty and the lack New Heritage Collection were generally more resilient.
Key 2010 2009 of available mortgage finance.
Page 8 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 9 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Operating review Trading in the north relied more upon incentives such as realistic prices coming to the market.
Including 584 plots Home-Buy Direct HBD than the south.
The Group acquired as part of the Harrow Estates acquisition, the secured 13% of its reservations using HBD and has been Group acquired 3,281 plots in the year across 31 sites of allocated a further 430 HBD units under Kickstart 2: the which 1,462 plots were held under contract.
Of those plots Group has only limited exposure to shared equity, other acquired, 338 were transferred from the Forward Land than HBD, and has tightly controlled part exchange.
The year end current land bank closed at 13,170 Group has also secured 2.9m of gap funding on its plots in line with the opening position after taking into Devonport project under the Kickstart 2 scheme.
The funds account a reduction of 654 plots as a result of selling one will be used to facilitate further infrastructure necessary site that no longer matched our strategy, and a review of to bring forward the next phases of the project.
We were particularly strong on acquiring land in the Midlands where our strategic need to The availability of mortgage funds was a constraint on the replace low priced apartments with family housing has industry during the year and particularly affected firstbeen most acute.
time-buyers and those with small deposits.
Net mortgage lending remains at historically low levels and lenders All the plots acquired in the year will be developed with continue to be cautious: surveyors also remain hesitant The New Heritage Collection product and are in the main and we continue to experience down valuations.
planned for two storey housing.
Land At Moston, in Manchester, the Group entered a joint The regional land teams were increased during the autumn venture with Manchester City Council to develop six of 2009 which coincided with more opportunities at previously cleared sites with over 400 two storey family Barking Central, London.
The first site is now well underway and the Product response from local home buyers has been very The New Heritage Collection was launched in February encouraging.
and is now being built on over 30% of sites.
In the coming year the New Heritage Collection is expected to account Forward Land remains an important source of land for the for over 40% of output.
During the year we acquired a further 3,095 plots including 1,100 plots as part of the Harrow Estates The launch was accompanied by new marketing material acquisition.
The Forward Land portfolio was reviewed in that reflects the spirit of the new collection.
The web site light of emerging planning policy and reduced by 3,657 to was also completely revamped and is an increasingly close at 21,900 a net 900 plot reduction on the opening essential sales and marketing tool for attracting customers position.
The Group has enjoyed some planning success to our sites: the new web site has had over 400,000 with its Forward Land portfolio, and subject to agreeing unique visitors since it was launched in February.
satisfactory draw-down terms, expects the Forward Land portfolio to make a strong contribution to the current land We have also launched Redrow TV: the first housebuilder bank in 2010 2011. to do so.
Redrow TV is a broadband based TV channel that Launch weekend at Heritage Gardens, Tipton: a site acquired as part of the Harrow business acquisition during the year.
runs news bulletins and provides information on our Page 10 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 11 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Gross profit 41.7m 2009: 5.4m developments and product: Redrow TV can be accessed The New Heritage Collection has been meticulously Alongside the quality of the design of the product sits the Delivering our product responsibly and safely is through the web site.
designed in response to market research with particular quality of build and the level of service we give to our fundamental to our business, and it is reassuring to report attention paid to the smallest details.
A record number of 14 of our site managers our focus on this area has for the fifth year running been The New Heritage Collection returns the business to its Collection is as much aimed at those looking to buy in the have gained NHBC Pride in the Job Awards in the past year recognised by a Gold Award from RoSPA.
successful roots of building family housing, housing that is second-hand market as those that prefer new.
and go forward to the next round.
We have also achieved traditional in its appearance but internally planned and record levels of customer satisfaction as measured by an Harrow Estates specified with modern day living in mind.
The external The New Heritage Collection currently consists of 40 external source carrying out monthly telephone surveys.
Harrow was acquired in October 2009 and was quickly elevations are reminiscent of the Arts & Crafts movement house types ranging from one bed apartments to large six Across the year 92% of our customers were satisfied or integrated into the business.
Harrow specialises in adding which can generally be found in the best parts of most bedroom detached houses.
Despite a higher internal and very satisfied with their new home and 96% would value to land through the planning and where appropriate, towns.
Internally space is arranged around family living external specification, increased costs have been mitigated recommend us to a friend: it is pleasing to note our results remediation process and has particular skills in cleaning up and the specification is high.
Kitchens are functional and by expanding Group deals, limiting the range of materials improved as we progressed through the year.
We received contaminated brownfield land.
It also uses its master attractive with built-in bookcases and integrated used and achieving more efficient build.
The overriding a 4 star rating in the nationally published Home Builders planning skills to promote greenfield land.
Bathrooms have clean lines with contemporary objective has been to ensure that perceived value Federation survey.
both an additional source of land for the Group as well as sanitaryware.
a source of profit through land trading.
Page 12 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 13 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Equivalent units built 2,475 2009: 1,234 Harrow acquired c. 500 plots on 2 sites in the year and has recruiting at all levels in the business.
At the end of June Whilst we have expanded the business at the divisional training ranged from induction programmes on joining, to made good progress on the options under its control, in we employed 840 people, an increase of over 20% on the level, we have streamlined the overall organisational management training and on-site Health and Safety particular, the large site in Cambridge has gained planning previous year.
It is also even more satisfying to report that structure by removing a regional tier of management.
It is pleasing to report that 7 of our site managers permission for around 300 units and decontamination many of those that have joined us are returning to the The divisions now report directly into Group.
This has studied for and passed NVQ level 4 during the year.
improved lines of communications and simplified the We have resumed recruiting trade apprentices and expect decision-making process.
As a consequence the divisional an intake of 50 new apprentices to commence this month.
Harrow also now oversees all the commercial We re-opened our offices in Yorkshire, North West and teams are now more responsible and accountable for the Finally we are planning to reintroduce our graduate development activities in the Group and successfully South Midlands in the year to regain much of the day-to-day operation of their businesses.
Group training programme next year.
disposed of 4 properties and 3 parcels of land during the geographical coverage we lost in the downturn.
We now departments that service and support the divisions are year.
operate from nine regional offices and cover most of the represented on the Executive Board and meet monthly.
stronger housing markets in the country: there remains People scope however to further expand in the South East, South, We have continued to develop our people through training Central to our business are our people.
After two very South West and Midlands and we will look to do so when during the year and have delivered 1,324 training days to difficult years when we had to drastically reduce our the time is right.
our employees, and in addition we have provided a John Tutte workforce it is encouraging to report we have been significant level of training to our subcontractors.
This Group Managing Director Page 14 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 15
