20 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report operating review In 2010, our focus on the fundamentals of cost control, cash group overview optimisation and return on capital resulted in excellent organic profit growth and a stronger balance sheet.
In 2010 we delivered excellent results.
Full details of the financial performance as well as the statutory results can be found in the financial review on pages 26 to 33 but, Volumes improved across many of our in summary, sales from total operations were 4,962m, up 2% on last year.
Excluding the impact of pass through of metal and plastic businesses as the global economy resin costs to customers, sales grew by 3% in Beverage Cans and stabilised.
Consumer confidence returned were broadly flat in Plastic Packaging.
Total underlying operating profit rose 20% to 535m, mainly due to the impact of cost in many of our markets, albeit cautiously, reduction and restructuring programmes as well as the improved volumes and better product mix in Beverage Cans.
and the cost reduction and restructuring We reduced costs by 88m compared with last year.
In line with programme started in 2008 delivered our achievements in recent years, and consistent with our core value of continuous improvement, we delivered further efficiencies the expected incremental savings during of 39m from total operations.
Return on capital employed improved to 12.3%, up from 9.5% in 2009.
We are committed to further improving this measure, and our strategic priorities and internal metrics are geared to achieving this.
Total underlying profit before tax increased 45% to 412m 2009: 285m.
Free cash flow was 316m and net debt reduced to 1.68bn.
Andre Balbi Cervio group director, Tomas Sjlin group director, beverage cans beverage can americas beverage can europe & asia 2010 2009 growth Sales 3,677m 3,573m 3% Underlying operating profit 394m 310m 27% Return on sales 10.7% 8.7% Return on net assets 27.6% 22.4% Beverage Cans, which accounts for 77% of the Groups continuing operating profit, is a global business that operates in three main Malcolm Harrison group director, plastic packaging regions, Europe & Asia, North America and South America.
This gives us exposure to a good mix of developed and emerging markets and we are highly focused on the dynamics and needs of each region.
Our businesses collaborate on a global basis to ensure that we leverage areas such as supply chain, engineering, innovation, research and development and marketing intelligence.
Beverage can making is a high speed, high precision business.
The focus on manufacturing and engineering excellence and on cost reduction, six sigma and lean enterprise methodologies and best practice sharing, along with world class customer service, are key to our success.
Rexams overall beverage can volumes grew 2%, driven by strong volume growth in specialty cans across all our regions and good growth in South America.
Reported sales were up 3% on 2009 due to good pricing in Europe and South America.
Adjusted for currency translation, growth was 2%.
21 The improvement in underlying operating profit of 27% arose from better pricing, volume growth, a better product mix along with continued cost reductions and further cost efficiencies.
For example, total ef ciency gains 20062010 our unrelenting efforts to lightweight the can, which, according to industry statistics, is already 15% lighter than it was in the mid 2010 39m 20m 19m nineties, led to a reduction in 2010 of c. 6,500 tonnes in aluminium 2009 42m 19m 23m usage across our can making business.
2008 35m 14m 21m 2007 32m 17m 15m beverage can Europe & Asia 2006 28m 14m 14m Europe is a 56bn beverage can market and Rexam is the leading can maker with a more than 45% market share.
The European beverage can market returned to growth in 2010 with volumes increasing 5% mainly driven by growth in cans for carbonated soft drinks CSDs.
Cans also made some gains against other types of Beverage Cans containers in the beverage pack mix.
Plastic Packaging Growth trends varied across western Europe.
The UK enjoyed strong growth in standard cans supported by the promotion of multipacks for CSDs.
The Nordic markets continued to grow as the beverage can consolidated its position in the pack mix supported by successful can recycling systems in the different countries in the region.
Germany also saw good growth, albeit from a low base, as retailers started to restock cans on their shelves.
Our standard can volumes declined following the closure last year of plants in Dunkirk, France, and Dmitrov, Russia.
Additionally, in line with our focus on returns, we relinquished some lower margin business.
We have already secured volumes in standard cans to regain the 2010 volume loss and recover our market position in 2011.
Our specialty cans returned to growth due to restocking by our customers in the first half of the year as well as a recovery in underlying demand.
In Russia, predictions about the negative impact of an increase in beer duty on beverage can volumes showed themselves to be at the lower end of the expected range as the Russian economy fared better than expected, and there was a long, hot summer.
Our own volumes in Russia were down due to the weak demand and the presence of a new beverage can maker in this market.
We remain optimistic about Russia in the longer term.
The market fundamentals continue to be good: there is a growing middle class, and the shift away from spirits to beer continues.
To our advantage, operational excellence we were the first beverage can maker to establish ourselves there, in 1998, having opened up the market with exports from our Scandinavian business in 1994.
We are focused on further can lightweighting strengthening our relationships with our existing customer base The 24oz beverage can is a growth engine for our North by investing in new sizes to make Rexam an even more attractive American Beverage Cans business.
In recent years, we have partner for our customers in this market.
been implementing a downgauging programme in our plants in Winston Salem, Whitehouse, Longview and Chatsworth to reduce the amount of aluminium used without sacrificing can quality.
We have reduced material usage and improved our cost structure but importantly, during the downgauging process, we continued to meet production, quality, cost and spoilage targets.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 22 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report operating review Towards the end of the year we converted a line in Egypt from steel to aluminium can production and we are due to complete conversion of the second line in Egypt and an additional line in northern Spain in the first half of 2011.
The Middle East and North Africa are becoming predominantly aluminium can markets and the switch will enable us to capture growth in this vibrant region, while in Spain the conversion enables us to meet local demand that would otherwise have been satisfied by imports.
Innovation in sizes and decorative techniques are a key part of how we make a positive difference to our customers brand portfolios.
It was therefore particularly rewarding to see the first commercial Rexam Fusion aluminium bottles being made at our Ejpovice plant in the Czech Republic.
Fusion is a technological breakthrough and with the increased interest for niche products, represents an opportunity to create a whole new category of beverage packaging.
beverage can North America With its c. 100bn cans per year, North America is the largest beverage can market in the world with important global customers.
We are the number two player with a 21% share of the market.
It is a very attractive market in terms of cash generation and return on net assets.
Growth is mainly in specialty cans and we are realigning our manufacturing capability to ensure that we are best performance well placed to capture this growth.
In 2010, the beverage can market in North America was flat as an focus on cash increase in volumes of cans for alcoholic beverages was offset by Cash optimisation is a main focus in Rexam.
It requires a slight decline in cans for non alcoholic beverages.
At the start of teamwork across the entire company.
In 2010 Plastic Packaging the year retailers promotions boosted volumes of beverage cans established a financial shared service centre to handle all for CSDs.
With the reduction in such activities in the second half, aspects of cash management for its US business which has CSD volumes reverted to the regions normal volume trend.
The centre teamed with sales, customer service, finance, supply chain, operations and SAP to deliver Our own volumes of standard cans were down compared with significant improvements in accounts receivable and accounts the market partly because we chose to lose some lower margin payable and achieve cash generation objectives.
We continued to see excellent growth in our specialty can receivable, there was a 33% improvement in receivables current, a substantial increase on the previous year.
There was strong growth in 24oz cans across iced tea, also went through a lean business process to drive efficiencies energy drink and beer categories.
In addition, our Rexam Sleek in accounts payable, with the aim of increasing the number package continued to attract great interest in CSDs, energy drinks of invoices that could be handled per month.
To support growth in specialty cans, we are investing in Mapping was used to review existing procedures and identify a new 24oz can line in our Mexico plant where we are currently areas for improvement.
The result was a more simplified, satisfying domestic needs with imports from the US system.
This efficient, procure to pay process and uniform training for new capacity is part of an increase of more than 10% in 24oz everyone involved.
The teams continue to share best practices to drive additional successes across the organisation.
capacity that we are implementing in North America through to 2012 to support customer growth.
33% 23 winning organisation committed to delivery In May 2010 Guatemala suffered two natural disasters within days of each other: first a volcano erupted then the country was hit by tropical storm Agatha.
Mudslides destroyed homes and hundreds of roads were closed.
Our plant, a joint venture with Envases Universales fide Mexico, resumed production after being shut down for just 48 hours an extraordinary effort by an exceptional team.
The plant was back to producing more than 3m cans per day, with efficiency, a key measure, at more than 90%.
There 90% is an incredible bond between the people here, a visible pride in what the team does, says Leopoldo Munguia, the plant manager.
This team will do anything it can to meet commitments, keep customers satisfied and support each other.
We are encouraged by the outcome of our contract negotiations in Rexam is the market leader in Brazil with just over 60% market North America during 2010.
Although there will be a net volume share in an 18bn can market.
Our well located manufacturing loss in 2011, underlying operating profit for that year for the North footprint provides us with strong competitive advantage in terms of American business is expected to be comparable with 2010, as logistics.
The market in 2010 was sold out and during the year we improved pricing, new customers, continued growth in specialty imported close to 1bn cans from our North American business to cans and further cost control initiatives, including manufacturing meet demand.
The market is expected to continue to grow at a high efficiencies and lightweighting, will offset the impact of lower 12oz single digit rate over the next three years.
The awarding of the FIFA volumes.
As a result of various negotiations, we have diversified the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic games in 2016 to Brazil customer base for all can sizes and have signed medium term underpins the likelihood of further economic growth and our contracts to recover most of the 2011 volume loss by 2013. customers are investing in new production and filling facilities.
To meet the growth in the market, all can makers in the region beverage can South America are installing or have installed capacity.
This includes the need Beverage can volumes in the South American market continued to provide for the cans currently imported from North America to grow strongly with the total market growing 16% for the year.
The Brazilian can market grew almost 18%.
Growth was broad based across both standard and specialty cans and across Rexam is investing to capture these growth opportunities and categories such as beer, CSD, energy drinks and juices.
It was support our customers.
Mindful of how we deploy our capital driven by continued and stable growth in GDP, higher employment, expenditure, we have increased efficiency, speeded up a number the availability of credit and the growth of the middle class.
of our existing lines and, in December 2010, we reopened the Pouso Alegre plant in Minas Gerais which has a capacity of 800m 12oz cans.
We have now started to build a second line at this plant.
By the end of 2012, our can making capacity will have increased to c. 14bn compared with c. 11bn at the end of 2009.
In 2010, we signed a long term contract with our largest customer in Brazil which underpins returns on our current and future capital investment plans.
Our ability to meet our customers needs is not only predicated on assuring the proper amount of capacity for existing sizes, but on our ability to innovate and provide full product, service, and logistics solutions to help strengthen their business.
Rexam is the clear innovation leader, delivering 8.4oz, 16oz, Slim and Sleek options in cans, innovations in graphics, special inks and varnishes as well as new coloured and laser engraved tabs to support customer needs for differentiation.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 24 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report operating review One of the main areas of focus during the year was the successful plastic packaging execution of the restructuring plan introduced at the end of 2009 and implemented fully during 2010.
In total, including the Closures 2009 division, the restructuring programme in Plastic Packaging saw 2010 restated growth the closure of eight plants in the US and Europe and an overall Sales 942m 908m 4% reduction in employees of around 10%.
These measures which Underlying operating profit 119m 102m 17% were delivered on time and on budget have resulted in total annual Return on sales 12.6% 11.2% savings to date of some 34m at a total cash cost of 39m.
Return on net assets 29.1% 25.6% Organic underlying operating profit was up 16%, benefiting from the higher volumes in Personal Care together with efficiency gains The figures in the table above reflect continuing operations.
from operational efficiencies and the impact of the restructuring Consistent with Rexams ongoing policy to manage its portfolio of programme offset by inflationary cost increases, the absence of businesses, we are currently marketing the beverage and specialty some of the cost benefits achieved in 2009 from shortened working operations of the Closures division for disposal.
We have hours as well as competitive sales price pressure.
previously highlighted the issues in these operations, which healthcare are almost exclusively North American, and in 2010 they Our Healthcare division is a leading provider of pharmaceutical continued to experience challenging conditions.
There was an packaging, drug delivery devices, dispensing systems and general anticipated reduction in sales to the CSD segment and a further medical devices.
We have facilities in Europe, the US, Mexico, decline almost 30% in our volumes of closures for water bottles China and India where we manufacture a range of products in the US.
As a consequence of our marketing activity, the business including dry powder inhalers, pharmaceutical pumps and has been reclassified to discontinued operations, more details of valves, eye droppers, nasal sprays, medical devices, diagnostic which can be found on page 30.
We will retain the High Barrier disposables and injectable devices, infusion pumps and insulin food containers business as well as certain closures for our pens, and pill jars and closures.
Volume growth in the Pharma Going forward, Plastic Packaging will consist of Personal Care business was driven by the ramp up of new products together with into which High Barrier food containers will be consolidated the sustained growth of existing product lines such as inhalers and and Healthcare.
Together they comprise a portfolio of high quality, insulin pens.
This was offset by overall lower volumes in Primary rigid plastic packaging businesses with better opportunities for Packaging where new business gains did not offset the loss of growth.
In 2010, they accounted for 23% of Rexams underlying a significant contract in 2009.
In the Prescription business both operating profit from continuing operations.
The keys to success volumes and sales were flat year on year, and there was some in this area are the ability to innovate and remain entrepreneurial price pressure.
Consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry and while leveraging a global network of production and technical general government pressure on healthcare costs, such as a switch capabilities to bring value to our customers both locally and to generic drugs, are expected to lead to continued pricing globally: a focus on operational excellence and the use of leading pressure.
edge technology: the anticipation of market trends and the provision of packaging solutions.
New product development is essential in a business such as Healthcare.
Our aim is to provide customers with innovative and In 2010, against the backdrop of a major restructuring programme, cost effective products which are safe, reliable and user friendly.
Plastic Packaging traded in line with our expectations as the One example was the launch in 2010 of a multidose eyedropper, general economic environment in both the US and Europe Novelia.
Preservatives in eye dropper solutions maintain the improved and overall volumes stabilised.
Organic sales grew 4%, solutions integrity but they have been associated with side effects almost entirely due to the pass through to customers of higher resin and allergic reactions.
Novelias design and construction allow for costs.
The good volume recovery in parts of Personal Care and the the use of multidose preservative free solutions and represents a growth of new drug delivery devices in Healthcare were partly major innovation in ophthalmic drug delivery devices in a patient offset by pricing pressure in the parts of the business operating friendly package.
in an increasingly competitive environment.
25 personal care outlook Personal Care is a global business with manufacturing facilities in Europe, the US, China, Indonesia and Brazil.
We make a range of products for end markets such as cosmetics, toiletries and In 2010 we delivered record profits and cash flow, improved ROCE household care.
Applications include lipstick cases, compacts, and significantly strengthened our balance sheet.
dispensing systems pumps, shaving trays, laundry spouts and Going forward, we will remain focused on increasing our return air fresheners.
on capital, optimising cash and controlling costs, while making Our sales recovered well during the year, up 4% overall, primarily disciplined investments to improve our growth and returns driven by volume growth in Dispensing Systems.
element of restocking in this growth and it appears that the supply We expect 2011 to be a year of continued progress.
Customers, in their efforts to improve their own working capital management, are realising that they can operate efficiently with lower stock levels.
Increased volumes in Dispensing Systems sales were driven by improved sales in pumps for fragrances and lotions as well as foam pumps and samplers.
Make Up volumes decreased in a market where new programme activity remained modest.
Among Household Care products, volumes recovered primarily due to restocking.
New product development is a key requirement and the Personal Care Innovation Centre in Chicago, Illinois, has enhanced our capability in this area.
From product development to retail display, the centre underscores our dedication to customer centric, consumer focused innovation and the growth of long term business partnerships.
Examples of new product development during the year include extending the EZi foamers range of applications and the launches of Glossy Days, a collection of eight patented new gloss applicators, and the Sliding Mirror, a combined lipstick applicator and mirror.
We are also successfully exploring further uses of the foam pump for different applications such as laundry detergent, spot cleaner, and other cleaning products.
Sales in High Barrier food containers grew 8%.
The full commercialisation during the year of a plastic can that replicates a conventional metal can was an industry first by Rexam.
This new product development has aroused interest in the food canning industry where escalating tin plate prices along with consumers and retailers desire for modern, convenient packaging are driving brand owners to look for alternative types of packaging.
customer and supplier relationships easy option Foam, as opposed to liquid, is proving to be an effective way of delivering product, and the major cosmetic brands are turning to foam dispensing technology to deliver and differentiate new formulations.
Rexam is a leader in this area and we have a line of foamers to meet this growing trend.
Our new EZi foamer, for example, offers the market an exciting option as customers add shampoos, body washes and other product submarkets to their range of toiletries.
The additional manufacturing capacity installed at our Thomaston facility in the US demonstrates our commitment to customer service and to remain a leader in this market.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
