26 Operations review SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Operations review Latin America: Strong EBITA growth on an organic, constant currency basis of 17% through pricing and cost productivity a soft prior year comparative, assisted by Easter trading Latin America and strong market execution, notwithstanding a price increase to recover the beer tax rise imposed in February.
Financial summary 2010 2009 % Our share of the alcohol market remained in line with Group revenue including the prior year at approximately 66%.
Volumes benefited share of associates US$m 5,905 5,495 7 from our balanced brand and pack portfolio and efforts to attract a wider consumer base and drive consumption 1 EBITA US$m 1,386 1,173 18 frequency.
Premium brand volumes increased 29% EBITA margin % 23.5 21.4 aided by strong growth of Club Colombia and Redds.
Mainstream brand volumes grew 2%, with Aguila Light Sales volumes hl 000 continuing to outperform on the back of a trend to lighter beer.
We continued our focus on improving customer Lager 38,075 37,138 3 service and trade execution, while working with retailers Soft drinks 15,895 18,509 14 to increase affordability.
Raw material costs benefited from lower prices, while fixed costs improved in real Soft drinks organic 15,895 15,071 5 terms following restructuring and cost reductions.
1 In 2010 before exceptional charges of US$156 million being In February 2010, the business announced plans to business capability programme costs of US$97 million, transfer production from its central Bogota brewery to restructuring and integration costs of US$14 million and impairments of US$45 million 2009: net exceptional credits the nearby Tocancip facility.
As a result, a US$59 million of US$45 million being profits on disposal of the Colombian exceptional charge has been taken in the year, of which water business and the Bolivian soft drinks operations of US$45 million relates to the impairment of asset values.
US$89 million, net of integration and restructuring costs The initiative is expected to have a payback of less than of US$31 million and a US$13 million charge in respect two years.
In Peru we continued to gain beer market share with Key focus areas both volume and value share growing to approximately Further enhance the beer categorys appeal 90%.
Improved trading in the fourth quarter lifted lager across consumer segments and occasions volumes to end the year in line with the prior year.
Profitability Increase share of alcohol, capitalising on well grew strongly, benefiting from a national price increase differentiated brand portfolios in April 2009 and positive sales mix resulting from growth of our premium brands and contraction of the economy Optimise and extend distribution network and segment.
Our local premium brand, Cusquea, grew sales reach volumes 7%.
Mainstream brands grew 1% as they Pursue operational excellence and efficiency in recovered share from the economy segment led by our businesses, optimising resources and costs Pilsen Callao, which is priced at the upper mainstream in some markets.
Following the introduction of a new IT platform as part of the ongoing group business capability In a year characterised by difficult economic and trading programme, direct distribution now accounts for 76% of conditions across Latin America, management delivered all deliveries and management of trade receivables has EBITA growth of 18% on a reported and 17% on an improved.
Fixed cost control, more effective marketing organic, constant currency basis.
The year saw lager spend and containment of raw material costs further volume growth of 3%, benefiting from enhanced sales enhanced EBITA margin.
execution with a strong fourth quarter supported by Our operations in Ecuador saw robust growth with signs of improving economic conditions across the two increases in national minimum wages supporting region.
We grew or held market share in most of our consumer spending.
Lager volumes grew by 9% with markets while revenue was boosted by strong pricing 37% growth from the premium segment reflecting the taken last year and beneficial mix resulting in organic continued success of our local premium brand, Club, revenue per hectolitre growth of 4% at constant currency.
following its relaunch in the prior year.
Our flagship Margin was further enhanced by marketing efficiencies mainstream brand, Pilsener, also grew strongly, assisted and restructuring benefits.
by the launch of a new 225ml returnable pack in January.
In Colombia we performed strongly, delivering a 270 In the non-alcoholic malt beverage category, our brand, basis point improvement in EBITA margin on an organic, Pony Malta, saw growth of 19% following pack extensions.
constant currency basis, and significantly improved cash Continued development of the sales and distribution model flow generation.
Revenue was supported in the first half in the provincial areas led to simultaneous improvements of the year by price increases taken in the prior year in service levels, efficiencies and reach resulting in better while the second half benefited from volume recovery outlet coverage and product availability.
Outlet penetration and continued mix improvement.
Full-year lager volumes rose 5% to 85%.
In a highly dynamic market, our share grew 3%, with a particularly encouraging last quarter.
of the alcohol market remained at 44%.
Fourth quarter lager volumes grew by 13%, albeit against
