On the Groups development Operational review operations, more than half a million operated man hours have now been completed at the Bualuang oil field without an LTI.
Group production reached record levels At Kambuna, project and operations activities exceed during 2010 averaging 20,300 boepd, 2.5 million man hours without an LTI.
It is pleasing continuing our track record of delivering that we are able to continue to report that both the year-on-year production growth for a Groups Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF and Total fifth successive year.
Indeed the compound average Recordable Injury Rate TRIR are well below the Oil growth rate since 2006 is 36%.
With a number of and Gas Producers OGP averages for Southeast further developments underway, and others expected Asia.
More detail on the Groups HSE performance to be approved during 2011, the Group can foresee can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section production growing to 30,000 boepd for 2013.
reserves upgrade at the Bualuang field more than offset the downgrade at Kambuna and consequently Reserves and resources Group reserves as at 1 January 2011 stood at 66.3 The Group entered 2010 with 64.8 MMboe of proved MMboe.
Whilst the initial exploration results in 2010 and probable 2P reserves.
Following revisions due were disappointing, the success of the Angklung-1 to a reserves upgrade and the acquisition of an exploration well in November meant that the Group additional 40% interest in the Bualuang oil field, set ended the year with a significant discovery that has against a downgrade to the Kambuna field, a further material upside potential.
The exploration programme 8.5 MMboe net were added during the year whilst remains active with a further 13 exploration and total Group production for 2010 was 7.0 MMboe.
As a appraisal wells planned in 2011. result, at 31 December 2010 the Groups 2P reserves were 66.3 MMboe, a 2.3% increase on the previous Health, safety and the environment year and a reserves replacement ratio of 121%.
Events in the Gulf of Mexico during 2010 have heightened public scrutiny of oil and gas companies Production and development health, safety and environmental HSE performance The Groups average daily production for 2010 and underlined the critical importance of following increased by 49% year on year to 20,300 boepd.
This proper procedures while executing exploration and comprised 66% liquids and 34% gas.
The growth was production operations.
Whilst our HSE record was primarily attributable to a full years production from already better than the industry average, since the the Kambuna field and additional production from Gulf of Mexico events the Group has reinforced the Bualuang oil field reflecting further development the strict adherence to its operational policies and drilling and the Groups increased equity interest in procedures in all of its operating offices through the field.
meetings and engagement from Board level executives and senior management throughout Further growth is expected during 2011 with net daily the organisation.
We are also working closely with production expected to average between 22,000 and regulators to promote awareness and with our 23,000 boepd.
Growth will be driven by additional contractors to ensure that they are committed to development drilling on the Bualuang oil field.
In meeting the same standards that the Group seeks to addition the Group will be drilling three development achieve and maintain.
wells on the South Sembakung field as it invests in bringing new assets on stream.
The Group is proud to have maintained an excellent HSE record in 2010.
Over 2.5 million man hours Further growth in the near to medium term will come were worked during the year on operated projects.
from a combination of future phases of development Unfortunately the Group recorded its first, and so far on the Bualuang oil field and the development its only, Lost Time Injury LTI on a contracted drilling of the Groups gas assets in East Kalimantan.
The support vessel in Vietnam.
Thankfully the incident East Kalimantan gas portfolio includes the South was isolated and relatively minor in nature.
As a result Sembakung and Kerendan fields which, along with of Salamanders investigation, and in cooperation the South Sebuku and Tutung discoveries, are with the contractor concerned, the contractor has expected to be producing approximately 8,000 been able to improve the safety measures in place boepd net to Salamander by 2014.
15 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 northern part of the structure some 4.5 kilometres Operational review continued away from the producing wells.
The pressure survey showed limited decline at PH-1 compared to the producing wells indicating partial connectivity to the production area in the south of the field.
This Thailand suggests that the northern part of the Sinphuhorm Bualuang Oil Field, Block B8 38 structure may have the potential to contain significant 100%, Operator additional reserves as yet untapped by the current Gross production from the Bualuang field averaged development wells.
A 3D seismic survey commenced approximately 8,200 boepd in 2010.
Phase IV of the over the field in late 2010 to image the fracture field development was successfully completed in 1H network within the reservoir and optimise the chances 2010 and saw the conversion of three of the original of success with future appraisal drilling to assess the slant wells into horizontal producing wells with upside potential of the field.
horizontal sections of between 600 and 800 metres.
Indonesia The field had produced over 7.2 million barrels by Kambuna Gas and Condensate Field, the end of 2010 with no lost time injuries reflecting Glagah-Kambuna TAC 50%, Operator the Groups stated commitment to health and safety.
Gross production from the field averaged The uptime on both the FPSO and the wellhead 9,200 boepd during 2010.
This comprised 31 MMscfd platform has also been excellent, exceeding 99%.
of gas and 2,700 barrels of condensate per day.
The current Bualuang Alpha wellhead platform has Production during 1Q 2010 was at temporarily recently been extended to facilitate the installation reduced levels as a result of production being shut in.
of more electric pump drives and therefore to allow This was initially due to the buyer PLN bringing one ten of the 12 well slots on the platform to be used of its gas turbines at the Belawan power plant on line, as oil producers.
The current phase of development and then due to the gas transporter PGN completing drilling will result in ten producers and two water maintenance on the pipeline delivering Kambuna gas disposal wells being on line.
This programme will to the power plant.
From May 2010 onwards, once increase production during 2011 to an average of these downstream issues were resolved, the field approximately 10,500 bopd.
reliably produced at or above the daily contracted quantity DCQ volume of 40 MMscfd and 3,500 During the period the Group completed the barrels of condensate per day.
acquisition of the remaining 40% interest in the B8 38 licence that it did not already own.
Following the In October 2010 the Group completed the completion of this transaction the Board decided to construction of the permanent onshore receiving accelerate the development plan for the field.
As facilities at Pangkalan Brandan.
This enabled the part of this plan in 4Q 2010 the Group commenced Group to release the rented facilities that it had activities to design, build and install the 16 slot been using.
As a result the commissioning of the Bualuang Bravo wellhead platform.
The contract permanent facilities will considerably reduce the for the Bravo platform was awarded in 1Q 2011 for operating costs associated with the Kambuna field.
The Group plans to utilise the In August 2010 the Group announced a revision to Bravo platform to double the number of horizontal its reserve estimate for the Kambuna field.
It reduced production wells with drilling commencing in 2H its net entitlement proven and probable reserves by 2012.
These new wells will complete a skimming 1.8 MMboe 7.5 MMboe on a net working interest network across the attic of the reservoir and it is basis as a result of observing a faster than anticipated anticipated that this will result in the fields production pressure decline in the Kambuna-3 well.
Since then growing to 15,000 bopd in 2013. the pressure decline has continued, although there Sinphuhorm Gas Field, are indications of some pressure support from outside Production licences EU1 E5N 9.5% the high quality reservoir area, and this gas influx Daily production from the Sinphuhorm gas field was may contribute further to recoverable reserves.
We in line with expectations and averaged 87 MMscfd.
continue to monitor this situation closely and manage The operator, Hess, is commencing a workover the reservoir to maximise recovery of both reserves programme on two of the existing production wells and data.
In order to sustain the productive capacity and also undertook a pressure survey in the Phu of the field the installation of compression facilities Horm-1 discovery well.
This well is located in the has been brought forward to 2011.
16 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Offshore Northwest Java PSC ONWJ as a stand-alone accumulation.
The Angklung Southeast Sumatra PSC SES 5% in both discovery however has opened up a seismically well Production from ONWJ exceeded expectations defined Pliocene channel sand play with significant averaging 64 Mboepd whilst production from SES reserves potential located within 60 kilometres of the was in line with expectations averaging 59 Mboepd.
Bontang LNG plant, which is short of feedstock.
The Extensive infill drilling continued across both of these well also found Upper Miocene sands with indications licences throughout the year.
The new operator of of oil over a long vertical section.
If these sands ONWJ, Pertamina, continues to pursue a more active can be found in locations with better preservation programme to add reserves and arrest production of permeability they will offer considerable follow decline.
Oil production rates from ONWJ are now on potential.
back to a level not seen since 2004.
Indonesia Kerendan Field Development, Bangkanai PSC Bontang PSC 100%, Operator 69%, Operator The Angklung-1 well was drilled in November The Group completed the acquisition of a 69% 2010 in the offshore portion of the licence area.
It operated interest in the Bangkanai PSC during 2010, encountered approximately 23 metres of net gas which contains the Kerendan gas field development pay in a high quality Lower Pliocene sandstone.
Test and surrounding exploration acreage.
The Kerendan analyses confirm that the reservoir has high porosity gas field was discovered by Unocal in 1982 and and permeability.
The well flowed at a rate of 24 flowed 15.5 MMscfd gas and 330 bpd of condensate MMscfd from a ten metre interval.
The flow rate was on a long term test from the Kerendan-1 well but was constrained by surface equipment and it has been not progressed at that time due to the then limited calculated that it would have flowed at approximately gas market opportunities.
It is a sweet A plan of development for the Kerendan field was gas with no indication of H S or CO2.
2 approved by BP Migas in July 2006.
The Group The gas bearing Pliocene sandstone correlates is currently finalising the negotiation of a Gas Sales with strong amplitude anomalies on the 3D seismic Agreement for 20 MMscfd over 20 years.
Start of data implying that this distinctive seismic signature production is targeted in 2014.
The gas will supply indicates the location of gas-charged sandstones.
a new build 120 MW power plant located close to the Initial interpretation of the results of the Angklung-1 field, which will be connected by transmission lines well implies mean resources of 290 Bcf in the to the rest of the Kalimantan electricity grid.
Pliocene sands over the Angklung structure.
Applying South Sembakung Development, this seismic calibration to the Kecapi and Bedug Simenggaris PSC 21.5% prospects, which are adjacent to Angklung and in The development of the South Sembakung gas field the same channel sand complex, gives potential continues with three development wells planned in mean resources of 209 Bcf and 344 Bcf respectively.
Construction of the gas processing facilities There are additional channel features elsewhere on commenced in 2010 and will continue during 2011. the block containing a number of other prospects First gas production is anticipated during 1H 2012 at and the Group is continuing its technical work volumes of c. 25 MMscfd.
The Gas Sales Agreement to further evaluate the potential of the Pliocene is at a price of $3.00 per Mscf plus an inflator linked sandstone gas play across its full prospect inventory to prevailing methanol prices and will see the gas in the Bontang PSC.
piped to the nearby Bunyu Island Methanol Plant.
In addition to the gas discovery in the Pliocene Further seismic acquisition over the field area and on sandstone, the Angklung-1 well encountered a gross surrounding exploration discoveries and prospects 256 metre section of interbedded sandstones and is underway.
shales in the deeper, Upper Miocene section.
This was interpreted to contain a net 120 metres of oil Exploration and appraisal bearing sandstones which have low permeability and The Group drilled a total of six exploration and are not considered to be net pay at this location.
Whilst the riskier wells in the The presence of such a thickness of sandstone in the earlier part of the programme proved disappointing, Upper Miocene has not been seen in previous wells the year closed with gas discoveries in the Kutai on the acreage and the Group is currently analysing PSC Dambus-1 and the Bontang PSC Angklung-1.
the depositional setting and distribution of the Dambus is currently considered to be sub-commercial Miocene sandstones to aid it in identifying this oil play fairway.
17 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Further 3D seismic acquisition is planned in the Operational review continued vicinity of the Dambus discovery to fully define the follow up potential in the area.
Bengara I PSC 41.7% Indonesia continued The South Sebuku-2 appraisal well is scheduled to spud in April 2011.
South Sebuku is a gas The Group plans to drill a follow up to the Angklung-1 discovery located 15 kilometres away from the well in 4Q 2011 and will be looking to select a South Sembakung field development.
If the well is location where it can both appraise the Pliocene gas successful it is anticipated that a plan of development play and explore for the Miocene oil play.
will be submitted in 2H 2011 that would see the On the Tutung gas-condensate discovery, the Group discovery being tied to market through the South has completed preparations for the Tutung Alpha-3 Sembakung facilities.
appraisal well that is scheduled to be drilled in 2011.
Thailand On successful completion of the Tutung Alpha-3 well a plan of development will be submitted to BP Migas.
Block B8 38 100%, Operator In 1H 2010 the Group completed a 3D seismic survey Southeast Sangatta PSC 75%, Operator over the B8 38 licence area.
The survey defined The Southeast Sangatta PSC is in the Kutei basin numerous prospects on the block.
These include the immediately adjacent to the Bontang PSC.
The Bualuang East Terrace prospect, which is an undrilled Angklung discovery extends into the Southeast fault terrace adjacent to the main Bualuang field: and Sangatta block and the acreage contains a number the Bualuang NW Terrace prospects that comprise of comparable leads on trend with Angklung.
It also a series of small but numerous fault terraces located contains a separate Oligocene-Eocene play in the directly on the oil migration fairway from the basin north of the licence.
Both 2D and 3D seismic surveys centre to the Bualuang field.
It is planned that the were acquired in 1Q 2011 and will be used to locate B8 38 exploration prospects will be drilled in 2011 a well in 4Q 2011 either to appraise the Angklung once the Ocean Sovereign jack up rig has completed discovery or to explore one of the other prospects the development drilling on the Bualuang field.
that the 3D data set is expected to define.
L15 50 50%, Operator Glagah-Kambuna TAC 50%, Operator Block L15 50 contains the Dao Ruang discovery that An exploration well on the North Kambuna is estimated to contain mean prospective resource prospect is planned for 3Q 2011.
The objective in Dao Ruang is a Permian is a combination  trap at the Pha Nok Khao fractured carbonate reservoir.
The key level of the Belumai sandstone, the primary reservoir to achieving commercial flow rates is thought to lie in in the Kambuna Field.
An underlying Lower Belumai the ability to intersect the open fracture network.
Until sand may also be prospective in the North Kambuna recently, exploration of this play in the Khorat plateau structure.
The North Kambuna prospect will be of Northeast Thailand has involved drilling on the reached by a well drilled directionally from the basis of sparse 2D seismic.
Salamander has pioneered Kambuna platform and in the event of success the the use of high resolution multi-azimuth 3D seismic well can be brought on stream immediately to identify the fracture zones and then target these through the existing facilities.
with slanted wells through the reservoir.
Kutai PSC 23.4% The Dao Ruang-2 appraisal well was drilled on the The operator of the Kutai PSC drilled two exploration faulted eastern margin of the structure to planned TD wells in 2010.
The Dambus-1 well found excellent in March 2011 and slanted through the reservoir in quality gas bearing sandstones in a stacked sequence order to maximise the chances of intersecting as many of Miocene age.
However it appears that some of of the seismically identified fractures as possible.
The the sandstones are juxtaposed and leak across the well penetrated a number of fracture zones associated bounding fault so reducing the net pay.
As a result with an increase in gas while drilling.
There were the discovery was deemed to be sub-commercial.
strong gas shows at TD and, as it was still within The Marindan-1 exploration well encountered thin structural closure, the well was deepened to further hydrocarbon bearing sandstone and carbonate investigate the structure.
On completion of drilling reservoirs but the operator deemed the volume and logging of Dao Ruang-2 the decision was taken of hydrocarbons to be insufficient to justify to test the well and these operations are now underway.
18 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 The Dao Ruang-3 appraisal well will be drilled once and high quality reservoir sandstones but these were the MB Century 26 rig has finished operations on the water-wet in the Tertiary clastic section.
It will appraise the faulted northern Subsequently the Group announced that the flank of the Dao Ruang structure and is being drilled Tom Hum Xanh-1X exploration well in Block 31, orthogonally to the Dao Ruang-2 well.
offshore Southern Vietnam, had not encountered L26 50 50% Operator hydrocarbons and would be plugged and abandoned The results of the Bang Nouan-1 well on the as a dry hole.
This well penetrated a section of basal neighbouring Savannakhet PSC in Lao PDR were tertiary volcanics overlying the granitic basement but significant for L26 50 prospectivity in that the encountered no hydrocarbon shows.
The well data is discovery of a highly porous and permeable zone now being reviewed to determine where within the within the Pha Nok Khao reservoir has helped to Vinh Chau graben a working hydrocarbon source fide-risk four large, potentially gas bearing structures may be operating.
These structures are Block 101-100 04 50%, Operator located closer to the mapped source kitchen and In March 2010 the Group announced that it had confirmation from the Bang Nouan-1 well of the agreed to acquire a 50% operated interest in Block presence of a working hydrocarbon system in the 101-100 04, located in the Hanoi Trough, offshore area has provided sufficient encouragement for the Northern Vietnam.
The primary prospectivity in Group to shoot a high resolution 3D seismic survey the block is a buried hill oil play with a number on L26 50 in 2Q 2011. of structures on trend with the producing Beibu L13 48 16.3% Wan fields to the east and the recent Ham Rong oil In early 2010 APICO, the operator of L13 48, discovery in the adjacent Block 106 to the west.
101- completed operations on the Si That-3 appraisal well 100 04 is covered by 2D and 3D seismic data and this in Northeast Thailand.
The well intersected a fractured will be used to locate a well on the Cat Ba prospect.
permeable section in the target Permian Pha Nok The Cat Ba prospect has gross mean prospective Khao carbonate reservoir but the productive horizons resources of 99 MMbo.
The Group has contracted the were below the closure of the Si That structure and Aquamarine Driller jack up rig and plans to drill the were found to be water bearing.
In 2H 2010 APICO Cat Ba exploration well in 3Q 2011. and its partners decided to withdraw from the L13 48 licence and this has now been relinquished.
Lao PDR L27 43 27.3% Savannakhet PSC 30%, Operator During the first half of 2010, APICO, the operator of The Bang Nouan-1 exploration well was a high risk L27 43, completed operations on the Phu Kheng-1 well looking to confirm an eastwards extension of exploration well in Northeast Thailand.
The well the Pha Nok Khao formation play fairway that is encountered gas shows in both the lower Nam Phong producing on the western side of the Khorat Plateau formation and the shallower Phu Kradung formation.
Hydraulic fracture testing was completed on both The well was plugged and abandoned without finding of these intervals: however the low permeability of commercial hydrocarbons: however it did confirm the rock limited the effectiveness of the fracturing several elements of the hydrocarbon play.
Gas shows operations and neither zone flowed on test.
As a in the secondary objective Kuchinarai formation result the well was plugged and abandoned.
The demonstrate that long distance gas migration from prospectivity of the acreage is the subject of further the source kitchen is occurring.
The well also found a review as there are reports of a recent gas discovery high permeability reservoir within the Pha Nok Khao on neighbouring acreage close to the southeastern formation which constitutes a target for future wells in corner of block L27 43. the area.
The well result provides technical support to Vietnam reduce the risks associated with other large prospects across the border in Thailand in Block L26 50, which DBSCL-01 75%, Operator & Block 31 lie on the migration route for gas migrating from the 35%, Operator kitchen area.
In June 2010 the Group announced that the Tom Su Lua-1X exploration well in Block DBSCL-01, southern In December 2010 the Group and its partners elected Vietnam, had been plugged and abandoned as a to relinquish the Savannakhet PSC.
The well encountered both potential seals 19 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Operational review continued Lao PDR continued Champasak and Saravan PSC 20% A 2D seismic survey is underway in the block to define prospects for drilling in 2012.
Philippines In August 2010 the Group and its partners relinquished the SC41 licence in the Sandakan basin, having been unable to secure a farm in partner ahead of the deadline for renewing the licence and committing to drilling a deepwater exploration well in 2011.
Summary The 2011 drilling programme includes 13 exploration and appraisal wells commencing with predominantly high value step out exploration and appraisal drilling in 1H, before moving to targets with a larger potential resource in 2H.
The combined programme is targeting 312 MMboe of mean net prospective resource on an unrisked basis, 95 MMboe on a net risked basis.
Mike Buck Chief Operating Officer 23 March 2011 20 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
