Section 3 Operating Review Civil Government Bringing service to life...
The Barclays Cycle Hire scheme, London 26 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 26 14 03 2011 14:22 in transport During 2010, we launched a brand new way of travelling round communities we work in, by creating jobs in areas of London with the streets of London the Barclays Cycle Hire scheme.
We placed our call centre in Eneld and our a few months, the distinctive bikes have become an integral part of operations centre in Islington, and then recruited around three the citys streetscape.
By the end of the year, customers had made quarters of our 280 staff through JobCentre Plus, which helps 2.15 million journeys and the scheme had 112,000 registered people of working age get off welfare and into work.
In a survey, 91% of members said they were happy with the service, which we deliver on behalf of Transport for London.
We are also helping young people into work with our apprenticeships.
In total, we have 27 apprentices aged 18 to 25.
Barclays Cycle Hire is the first such scheme in the UK and They are learning mechanical and engineering skills, undertaking demonstrates our ability to take on new challenges for our customers.
routine maintenance and keeping our bikes roadworthy.
The next We were able to draw on operational, financial, commercial and step is for them to train to become qualied mechanics.
transition expertise from around Serco to launch the service within just 11 months of signing the contract.
This success was reected There will be further benets for customers and more scope for in Serco being highly commended at the Mayors Procurement job creation as Barclays Cycle Hire extends towards east London Awards 2010. in readiness for the 2012 Olympics.
The planned expansion will increase the area covered to 65km, with around 8,000 hire bikes The scheme has made a big difference to the lives of those travelling available from 600 docking stations.
around London but we have also been able to make life better for the Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 27 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 27 14 03 2011 14:22 Section 3 Operating Review Civil Government The operating review outlines Our work in Civil Government employment.
We have been awarded a place on the framework to deliver the Governments contract wins which are covers the home affairs, new Work Programme in seven regions, the significant because of their health, transport and welfare maximum number that could be awarded to value or their contribution to to work sectors.
In home affairs, we are the UKs leading 2010 Performance We also won numerous other private provider of custodial accommodation, Civil Governments revenue grew 9.8% smaller and medium-sized operating four prisons with a fifth, Belmarsh to 1,126.9m 2009: 1,026.3m and contracts, details of some of West, under construction.
We also run a represented 26% of Group revenue in both young offender institution and a secure which can be found on our 2010 and 2009.
The growth, which was training centre.
We provide court escort particularly strong considering the change website at www.
and custody services as well as electronic in accounting for Train Operating Company monitoring of offenders and individuals track access charges, which reduced released on bail.
We run two immigration Further information available online revenue by 26.5m, derived principally from removal centres and provide immigration the large contracts awarded in 2009 which control, case management, homeland became operational during 2010.
These security and technology services.
included the Flexible New Deal contracts under the welfare to work programme, which In health, our groundbreaking pathology started in October 2009, and the Barclays joint venture with Guys and St Thomas and Cycle Hire scheme in London.
We also Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation benefited from contract wins during 2010 such Trusts combines their clinical excellence with as the expansion, in September, of the GSTS our management expertise.
We are one of the Pathology joint venture to include Kings UKs leading providers of occupational health College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust.
services, supporting the health and wellbeing of over 450,000 of our customers Transport Rail and Metro employees nationwide.
We are also the We run three of the best performing leading independent provider of custodial train operating contracts in the UK.
health services, providing for thousands of people in custody across the UK.
We deliver Both Northern Rail and Merseyrail, joint unscheduled care services in Cornwall, ventures with Abellio, continued to deliver providing reliable access to doctors and strong operating performances.
appropriate medical assistance outside normal working hours.
Northern Rail achieved 90.8% punctuality as of the last period and overall satisfaction We are a key provider of transport in the in the National Passenger Survey was 82% UK through our rail, metro, road and ferry unchanged from the previous year.
With our partner Abellio we run recently been awarded Train Operator of the both Northern Rail, the UKs largest train Year in the Rail Business Awards, recognising franchise, and Merseyrail, the UKs most We are a key provider of transport services the investment made by Serco and Abellio in the UK including trafc management.
In London, we above and beyond the franchise requirements.
operate the Docklands Light Railway, the In addition, Northern Rail received two top Woolwich Ferry and the East London Trafc national awards and four commendations Control System.
We designed, implemented in the Railway Industry Innovation Awards, and operate Transport for Londons awardas well as the top transport title from the winning Barclays Cycle Hire scheme.
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents We deliver national motorway trafc for the second year running.
infrastructure services, install and maintain road safety cameras, and run the National Trafc Control Centre.
We began operations as a leading prime contractor of welfare to work services in October 2009.
Since then, our delivery network has helped approximately 18,000 The Docklands Light Railway carried more than 75 million passengers in 2010. long-term unemployed people into 28 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 28 14 03 2011 14:22 Merseyrail was the UKs most punctual railway during 2010, with 95.2% of trains on time over the year, and was also the highest-rated train operating company, with a 93% satisfaction rating in the independent National Passenger Survey.
On the Docklands Light Railway, the roll out of a full three-carriage service has increased capacity by 50%.
Customer satisfaction was 95.4% for overall service and 96.3% for safety and security in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Increased service reliability resulted in 97.1% of trains running to schedule, on the most recent gures.
Passenger numbers grew again in 2010, and were 9.3% higher at 75.2 million journeys.
Northern Rail signed a two-year extension to its franchise, on the same terms as its existing contract.
Sercos share of the extension to September 2013 is valued at approximately 530m.
In Rail Technology, we have completed our contracted development work on the Asset Inspection Train for the London Underground and, following earlier delays, now look forward to the final handover.
We launched Barclays Cycle Hire for Transport for London.
By the end of the year, over 110,000 members had registered and the scheme is also now We are the UKs leading independent provider of custodial health services.
In total, over 2 million journeys have been made to date and in a survey, 91% of members said they were happy with the service.
The schemes success has resulted in plans to extend it towards east London in readiness for the 2012 Olympics, increasing the area covered to 65km.
Around 8,000 hire bikes will be available from 14,400 docking points, spread across 600 docking stations.
Our Merseyrail joint venture is the UKs most The Barclays Cycle Hire scheme saw more punctual railway.
than 2 million journeys in just five months.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 29 14 03 2011 14:23 Section 3 Operating Review Civil Government Bringing service to life... A theatre workshop at HMP & YOI Doncaster 30 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 30 14 03 2011 14:23 in offender management HMP & YOI Doncaster holds an offender on average for just their impact on victims, says John.
When they performed in the 12-16 weeks, making its population one of the hardest to houseblocks, the audience also got the message.
When John Biggin took over as the prisons director, he was prepared for the challenge.
I had a vision for the prison To help offenders re-enter the community, Doncasters team helps and the difference it could make to peoples lives, he says.
them access housing, benets, employment or training.
Charity Catch22 provides round-the-clock mentoring after an offender John sharpened the prisons focus on reducing re-offending, leaves prison.
introducing innovative schemes and a zero tolerance for violence and drugs.
Research shows that offenders with strong family ties Johns initiatives have produced a sharp drop in violence, drug use are six times less likely to re-offend, so new fathers now have a and smuggling by visitors.
The next step will be payment by results, separate visiting area, helping them to bond with, feed and bathe with part of our revenue at Doncaster dependent on reduced their babies.
Visits take place outside in summer and the prison re-offending six months after release.
In recognition of his achievements, John was voted the 2010 A new directorate brings outside groups into the prison, helping Guardian Public Servant of the ear.
Underpinning his success Doncaster achieve more without extra funding.
One example is Sercos way of working.
I was encouraged to have a vision and is the theatre work with the Central School of Speech and Drama.
Serco gave me the chance to get Doncaster Our restorative justice project gave the men a real insight into ahead of the game.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 31 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 31 14 03 2011 14:23 Section 3 Operating Review Civil Government Home Affairs We were delighted that John Biggin, director We signed a contract with the Ministry of of HMP & YOI Doncaster, was named Public Justice to provide and operate a new prison Servant of the Year at the Guardian Public at Belmarsh West, London.
The contract has Service Awards.
This is the first time a private a value to us of approximately 415m over sector employee has received such an 26 years.
The prison will be built by our award.
We also received a British Safety construction partner Skanska, with equity Council Five Star Health and Safety Audit and debt finance secured from third parties, Award for HMP Dovegate, and recognition and is on track to be completed in the first in the Healthcare 100 awards for our work half of 2012.
Belmarsh West is the first UK at Yarls Wood Immigration Removal Centre.
prison contract to be awarded to an alliance of the private and voluntary sectors.
With our Welfare to Work partners, Turning Point and Catch22, we will We have made a successful start in the focus on cost-effective care and successful welfare to work market.
As prime contractor, rehabilitation, creating an environment that under our three Flexible New Deal FND prepares those in our care for release.
contracts with the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, we help people claiming We were disappointed to be informed that, Jobseekers Allowance, who have been having been appointed preferred bidder unemployed for more than 12 months, to nd to provide and operate a further prison at sustainable work.
We achieve this through our Maghull, the project would not go ahead unique model of subcontracting to networks as a result of the Comprehensive Spending of successful providers, including private, Review.
We fully understand the decision and public and voluntary sector organisations.
look forward to working with the Government Since the start of these contracts in October on its proposals to deliver innovative, 2009, we have enabled nearly 18,000 people We extended our electronic monitoring effective rehabilitation to reduce re-offending.
to move back into employment.
contracts for England and Wales, and Scotland.
We were awarded a number of contract These existing FND contracts, and all other extensions, including a two-year extension, existing back-to-work schemes, will now end valued at 38m, to our contract to run in June 2011 and be replaced by the Work Colnbrook Immigration Removal Centre, and Programme, which will be substantially larger, a three-year, 32m extension to our contract longer and have greater scope.
It will extend to manage Yarls Wood Immigration Removal support to additional groups including those Centre.
We were also awarded an additional who have been unemployed for less than two years for our electronic monitoring 12 months and those claiming incapacity contract for Scotland, valued at around 10m, benets.
Contracts are being tendered for and signed a one-year extension to our in 2011 and let through a new framework on electronic monitoring contract for England which we are placed in seven out of eleven and Wales, valued at an additional 38m of available regions across the UK.
Each region revenue at current levels.
is made up of between one and three We have helped nearly 18,000 people into Contact Package Areas, in which there will employment through our welfare to work In border security and control, the Home be at least two suppliers.
Ofce has announced the termination of its opportunity for us to substantially extend e-Borders contract with Raytheon, the prime our footprint in the market.
supplier of this advanced border control and security services programme to the Our welfare to work team has expanded UK Border Agency.
As a subcontractor on into an adjacent market, winning a number the programme, we are continuing to full of contracts, valued in aggregate at around our obligations to operate key parts of the 19m, to implement Job Deal which helps existing service, and continue to work with ex-offenders nd jobs.
The programme is the UK Border Agency on how we can jointly funded by the European Social Fund best support them in the future on the and the DWP, and is managed by the National e-Borders programme.
Serco is the UKs leading private provider of custodial accommodation.
32 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 32 14 03 2011 14:23 Our joint venture is now the UKs largest provider of pathology services.
Health Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Kings joined GSTS Pathology, our joint venture with Guys & St Thomas NHS Foundation Trust, and awarded it a contract to provide pathology services.
This will result in incremental revenue to Serco of approximately 110m over ten years.
Kings has one of the largest integrated automated laboratories in Europe and will further enhance the range of tests available to GSTS Pathologys customers.
GSTS Pathology is now the UKs largest pathology service provider and has achieved considerable success in improving service levels.
Among a wide range of improvements, cervical cancer screening times and the turnaround times for some forms of diabetic monitoring tests have been halved.
We have achieved even better results for HIV genotyping assays, reducing the time taken from 28 to 10 days.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33 Serco AR10 Section3b.
indd 33 14 03 2011 14:24 Section 3 Operating Review Defence, Science and Nuclear Bringing service to life...
The depth maintenance facility at RNAS Culdrose 34 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3c.
indd 34 14 03 2011 14:24 in UK defence Royal Naval Air Station Culdrose, in Cornwall, UK, is Europes Our services are mission-critical, so we form a team with our largest military helicopter unit.
Serco has a crucial role, helping to customers, to ensure they get what they need.
We then employ maximise the time those helicopters are available for deployment.
people with a real depth of knowledge and the service ethos to make this happen.
We have two contracts at Culdrose.
Under our multi-activity contract with the Fleet Air Arm of the Navy Command, our wide range of We encourage innovation to overcome our customers issues.
services includes supporting the Sea King helicopters used in search For example, Peter Morrissey, an aircraft welder on the Merlin and rescue missions and providing jet pilots for training exercises.
support contract, invented a new way to repair Merlin exhausts Our second contract is to provide a deep maintenance facility for when spare parts were in short supply.
By preventing the need Merlin helicopters on behalf of their manufacturer, AgustaWestland.
for slow and costly off-site repairs, Peter made sure the helicopters were available for the Royal Navy and saved more than 2.6m Serco began operating at Culdrose in 1996.
Since then, our services over four years.
From 26 employees at the start, we now have more than 350 at the base.
As one indication of the scale of our The outcome of our approach is that helicopters spend more time work, we deliver 10 million litres of fuel each year, ensuring the on the frontline and we get excellent feedback from our customers.
As well as receiving numerous awards and commendations, the Culdrose team scored an average of nine out of ten in a recent Ministry of Defence customer satisfaction survey.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 35 Serco AR10 Section3c.
indd 35 14 03 2011 14:24 Section 3 Operating Review Defence, Science and Nuclear Defence, Science and Nuclear 2010 Performance DSNs revenue reduced by 1.1% to 910.8m DSN delivers services to the 2009: 921.2m which represented 21% UK and German governments.
This decline reected a slowdown in advance of the In the UK, we provide training, engineering UK election and the Strategic Defence and operational support to the Royal Air and Security Review during 2010, both in Force, and the aviation arms of the British decision making and in major Army and Royal Navy.
We also support the contract awards.
Royal Navys three main UK bases and operate and maintain strategic assets such Key awards last year included a renewed and as secure satellite communications, the expanded multi-activity contract valued at Defence Academy of the United Kingdom, 100m over ten years, to provide services at the Emergency Planning College and the RAF Halton, which we have served since UKs ballistic missile early warning system 1997, and RAF High Wycombe, the home of at RAF Fylingdales.
We provide systems Headquarters Air Command.
At RAF Brize engineering, safety assurance and risk Norton, the main gateway for British military management services, and support the personnel on overseas operations, the essential defence and force protection Ministry of Defence MOD awarded us a research carried out at the Defence Science contract for up to six years to deliver essential and Technology Laboratory.
We have supported the RAF there since 1997 In Germany, we have supported the German and this contract confirms and reinforces our armed forces for over 40 years, delivering position supporting the MODs Programme training, logistics and operational support Future Brize, which will see RAF Brize Norton services.
We also provide facilities Serco has supported the RAF at Brize develop into the core Air Transport and management, prison and IT services to Norton since 1997.
commercial companies and the German Government.
Utilising our scientific capabilities, our joint venture to manage and operate AWE We manage the National Physical Laboratory, continues to achieve excellent delivery one of the worlds major scientific against key milestones.
With our partners Battelle transformation programme is delivering and the University of Manchester, we also significant benets, working with the MOD to manage the National Nuclear Laboratory, reduce costs while maintaining performance one of the UKs leading technology service levels.
In addition, we have delivered the providers and a centre of excellence in Project Orion laser facility, a world-leading nuclear non-proliferation.
high energy density physics experimental facility, on time and to the MODs We have an integral role in the UK defence requirements.
We are delighted that and civil nuclear industries.
Our joint We manage scientific establishments, a team from AWE has been awarded venture with Lockheed Martin and Jacobs including the world-leading National Physical a Commendation by the MODs Chief Engineering manages the UK Atomic Laboratory.
scientific Advisor, for work on collaborative Weapons Establishment AWE, which arms verication with Norway.
provides the warheads for the UKs nuclear deterrent.
In addition we have provided Bridging the defence and energy markets, nuclear safety advice to the Royal Navys a new eight-year contract with the MOD, submarine eet for nearly half a century.
valued at around 20m to Serco, will help the UK tackle climate change through We also offer specialist technical support off-shore wind energy.
As prime contractor, to the UKs civil nuclear industry, providing we are working with Lockheed Martin to safety, environmental, risk and asset introduce radar technology that resists management advice and operational interference from wind farms, removing a solutions.
We support the operation of significant obstacle to the roll out of off-shore over 20 nuclear reactors.
This new We enable the Royal Navy to move in and technology has already been commended for out of port at its three main UK bases.
innovation at the 2010 National Buying & Selling Energy Awards.
36 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3c.
indd 36 14 03 2011 14:24 The National Physical Laboratory grew its commercial revenues to more than 30% of its overall income.
In the civil energy market, Westinghouse National Physical Laboratory NPL appointed Serco as its lead nuclear safety commercial revenues have expanded and advisor in the UK.
Sercos role is to lead they now represent more than 30% of its a team of experts to help Westinghouse overall income.
This includes orders from complete Step 4 of the Generic Design the environmental and sustainability sectors, Assessment for the AP1000, a critical stage in responding to environmental legislation the reactor design approval process being and the growing sustainability agenda.
conducted by the UK Nuclear Regulators Customers include E. ON, BP, Veolia which is due to complete in 2011.
The Environment and the Department of Food contract is strategically important for Serco, and Rural Affairs.
The business case for a coming at the beginning of a new Centre for Carbon Measurement has been era for nuclear energy in the UK.
developed and is being considered with our stakeholder community.
It will support Our European defence operations secured national and international efforts to over 50m in new business and renewals understand and mitigate climate change of existing contracts, including several with the through accelerating the development of German Ministry of Defence.
This included the the low-carbon technology sector.
NPL also planning and installation of communications received the highest recognition after a paper and laboratory equipment and a contract to co-authored by NPL scientists was cited in deliver deployable network solutions.
support of the Nobel Prize in Physics.
In the expanding training market, we secured a 15-year contract worth more than 55m to manage and operate the Emergency Planning College EPC on behalf of the Cabinet Ofce, placing us at the heart of UK civil resilience and positioning us well for future opportunities.
We manage all services at the EPC, including training delivery and support, sales and marketing, finance, estate management, ICT and security.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 Serco AR10 Section3c.
indd 37 14 03 2011 14:24 Section 3 Operating Review Local Government and Commercial Bringing service to life... in local government 7HFKQRORJ KHOSV FRXQFLOV LQFUHDVH WKHLU HIFLHQF DQG LPSURYH As part of this, Eneld like all local authorities wants more citizens VHUYLFH WR FLWL]HQV to access its services online.
This reduces costs and makes services available quickly and easily to users, at a time that suits them.
Serco has delivered information and communication technology Enabling safe and secure access is vital.
That is why Eneld has ICT services to the London Borough of Eneld since 1999.
In 2010, adopted a pioneering new service we have created in partnership we signed a new contract with Eneld to provide ICT services for with Microsoft and identity management specialists GB Group.
Under this contract, we provide IT support, operate the councils IT network, data centre and helpdesk, and deliver Users will only have to register their details the first time they use programme management for projects.
Once their identity has been veried, they are issued with a unique electronic identity token for all their online The contract guarantees 20% cost savings for Eneld.
We will realise transactions with the council.
these efficiencies by introducing new services, such as helping council employees increase their effectiveness through exible and We are incredibly pleased with the potential benefit this service mobile working.
provides to our citizens, in terms of secure access and safe transactions, says Councillor Andrew Stafford, Cabinet Member We will also help the council transform the way it interacts with the for Finance at Eneld.
It marks a step change in our approach to local community, increasing access to services and improving the using technology to improve the customer experience and to save councils ability to offer a more focused and personalised approach.
money, which we can use to protect frontline services.
38 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3d.
indd 38 14 03 2011 14:25, &7 VHUYLFHV RQGRQ %RURXJK RI QHOG Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39 Serco AR10 Section3d.
indd 39 14 03 2011 14:25 Section 3 Operating Review Local Government and Commercial In the UK, Local Government South East Regional Development Agencies, were reduced in scope and some customers and Commercial LG C delayed decisions on discretionary project delivers essential services for work following the outcome of the more than 100 local authorities, Comprehensive Spending Review.
helping them to serve their, 7 %32 communities.
We signed a new contract with Hertfordshire County Council to deliver a ground-breaking We improve services for our customers, strategic partnership.
The contract, due to increasing productivity and delivering better commence in April 2011, is valued at up to outcomes for them and the public.
We listen, 200m over eight years and will achieve so we can innovate and tailor our solutions efficiency savings for the Council of at least to meet our customers aspirations, 25m.
We will provide front and back ofce building long-term strategic partnerships operations including ICT services, business in the process.
processes such as finance, payroll and human resources, and support services such Our solutions meet a wide range of local as facilities management, customer contact governments current and emerging needs, centres and occupational health.
These with services covering streetscene, waste services will also be offered to other public management and recycling, e-government, sector bodies in the area, including leisure, education and childrens services, Hertfordshires ten district councils and the economic development and enterprise countys police authority.
The new contract support, and information and builds on our 18-year track record of working communications technology ICT.
with the Council and is signicantly larger Technology helps councils improve than the existing 8m per annum service.
We also implement service transformation efficiency and service quality.
programmes, employing technology We successfully rebid our contract to provide to deliver more effective, efficient and ICT support services to the London Borough responsive services.
The new contract will deliver guaranteed cost savings of 20% for the Our business in the private sector is Council, improve services for its employees dominated by multi-service facilities and improve communication and interaction management contracts, delivering a range with residents.
The initial five-year contract of services from helpdesk operations to is valued at 24m, with an option to extend buildings maintenance, reception services, for a further four years.
catering, cleaning, chauffeur services and stores management in fact, any activity The replacement of Regional Development that is non-core for our customers.
Agencies with Local Enterprise Partnerships and related funding cuts will see our regional 3HUIRUPDQFH Business Link services close by the end of The revenue of LG&C increased by 5.5% to 2011.
Although there may be new 853.9m 2009: 809.2m, which represented opportunities with the introduction of 20% of Group revenue in both 2010 and 2009. business support programmes from national and local government, it is not yet clear when Growth was driven by a number of 2009 these will start to emerge.
wins which became operational during 2010, including a full range of environmental services for the London Borough of Bexley: In March 2010, we acquired RB Solutions, a expanding our presence in integrated successful provider in the revenues and services markets with the Plymouth Hospitals benets market.
This gave us an additional NHS Trust and Airbus: as well as support capability in this market, enabling us to win services for The European Space Agency five new contracts including Dacorum and Peterborough City Councils ICT services.
Borough Council and Dudley Metropolitan This performance was robust given Business Borough Council, to provide benets Link services, provided for the London and processing services.
We help UK councils increase recycling rates and reduce the waste sent to landll.
40 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3d.
indd 40 14 03 2011 14:25 We secured two contracts with the European Space Agency ESA valued at 35m over the first three years, strengthening our position as a leading service provider to Europes space and technology agencies.
Under the first contract, we are leading a consortium to provide operations and maintenance to ESAs Earth Observation programme.
The second is an expansion of an existing contract, covering engineering and management support for the ESA Earth Observation payload data ground segment.
We were delighted that Duncan Mackison, who leads our highly-successful ACCESS joint venture with Glasgow City Council, was named Outsourcing Professional of the Year by the National Outsourcing Association.
QWHJUDWHG DQG Our education contracts continue to deliver good results for pupils.
QYLURQPHQWDO 6HUYLFHV Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council awarded us its new 25-year Waste GXFDWLRQ Improvement Plan contract, valued at Our education services contracts in Bradford around 650m.
We are providing refuse and and Walsall continued to perform well.
recycling collection services, street cleansing We were delighted that our Bradford contract services and delivering waste processing and continues to deliver significant improvements.
disposal, including the construction of At Key Stage two, 73% of pupils are now a new waste transfer station.
Our innovative achieving Level 4 or higher in English and approach will increase recycling rates and Maths combined, equivalent to the national signicantly reduce the amount of waste average.
At GCSE level, more than twice as sent to landll.
This will help the Council many of the districts 16-year-olds gained 5 meet Government recycling targets and AC grades in 2010 71.9% compared with reduce costs such as landll taxes.
2001 34.3% when Serco was asked to manage education services in Bradford.
In Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital July our ten-year contract with Bradford extended our contract for a further five years Council comes to an end and we will transfer until 2016.
The extension, under which we will the responsibility for all education services continue to provide a full range of integrated back to the Council.
non-clinical support services, is valued at 75m.
In Walsall we are continuing to see significant We are a leading provider to Europes space and technology agencies.
improvements at both Key Stage two and four.
We also began our contract to provide At Key Stage two, pupils are achieving above facilities management services to the new national averages in Level four and above Forth Valley Royal Hospital in Scotland, for English and Maths, and at Key Stage four, one of the most modern and well-equipped improvements in the most important measure hospitals in Europe.
Our services include of five good GCSEs including English and operating and maintaining a team of robotic Maths continue to outpace national vehicles, which help to keep patient areas improvements by some margin.
free of trolleys and other related items, reduce infection risks and free up our staff to focus on patients priorities.
The contract is valued at 600m over 30 years.
Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital extended our integrated support services contract for a further five years.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41 Serco AR10 Section3d.
indd 41 14 03 2011 14:25 Section 3 Operating Review Americas Bringing service to life... in US defence :KHQ WKH 86 1DY EHFRPHV LQYROYHG LQ FRQLFW RU SURYLGHV As well as an eye for detail, the ability to respond quickly is vital.
KXPDQLWDULDQ DLG WKH VHQG WHPSRUDU KRVSLWDOV WR ZKHUHYHU Just days after the earthquake struck Haiti, our team had assembled WKH DUH QHHGHG Our logistics team, based in Williamsburg, 16,000 items of supplies, to set up a 150-bed hospital.
Virginia, works with the US Navy Expeditionary Medical Support Command to make this happen.
We also maintain and repair the high-tech equipment used to give more complex medical attention.
Items like life-support machines, Having a clean, modern hospital for Navy doctors to work in laboratory equipment and refrigerators for blood all need looking means that lives are saved and communities have somewhere after as they leave one eld hospital, pass back through our to go for their urgent medical needs.
These hospitals might be warehouses and then go on to their next destination.
meeting military requirements in isolated areas of Afghanistan or responding to humanitarian crises in the aftermath of natural Less than a year after our contract began we have been given a disasters.
Because they have to be prepared for many different Bravo ulu award by our customers Commanding officer.
Bravo situations, the equipment our team organises includes everything ulu refers to the signal ags of the letters B and.
When own from ambulances and generators to scalpels and CT-scanners.
together from a Navy ships mast, they traditionally mean well done.
42 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3e.
indd 42 14 03 2011 17:05 RJLVWLFV WHDP :LOOLDPVEXUJ 9LUJLQLD Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 43 Serco AR10 Section3e.
indd 43 14 03 2011 14:26 Section 3 Operating Review Americas We are a leading provider of 2010 Performance Revenue grew 9.3%, 8% excluding currency professional, technology and effects to 953.9m 2009: 872.6m.
This management services focused represented 22% of Group revenue both in on the US federal government.
Growth in the second half of We provide mission-critical the year was very strong following lower growth in the first half, largely reecting a particularly services to every branch of the strong prior period.
This strong organic growth US military, key federal civilian arose from new task orders in both federal agencies and the intelligence defence and civilian contracts, including community.
We are ranked in program management work for an intelligence agency and the Canadian Driver Examination the top 30 US federal Services, as it recovered the backlog government contractors.
We also benefited in the second half from 109 task orders valued We apply our award-winning enterprise at US$80m under the Government-wide architecture to define, design and satisfy single-award IDIQ for Command, Control, defense agencies Command, Control, Computer, Communications, Intelligence, Communications, Computer and Intelligence Information Technology, Surveillance and requirements.
system installations for the US Navys eet and are one of the largest systems A key focus during the year was to increase contractors for the US Air Force Space collaboration between our business units and Command, supporting a wide range of leverage our wide range of capabilities across military satellite systems.
Several of our business Our logistics team in Williamsburg, Virginia, units came together to win new work with the Our support for wounded soldiers ensures equips temporary hospitals for the US Navy.
Department of Veterans Affairs, valued at they have the medical attention, benets and approximately US$20m over its first one-year services they need.
We help soldiers base period with additional funding expected transition to civilian life and provide personnel for the four option years.
We will provide and family services to two million soldiers and programme management: a knowledge their families.
We designed software and management-based web portal with job hiring provide systems, data centers and call tools, e-Learning elements and simulations, centers to support four million government videos and chat rooms: mobile web technologies: employees with their retirement plans.
We a call centre: and career coaching.
issue more than 1.2 million identication cards to defense personnel.
Other examples of integrated working include expanding the use of our Command, Control, We process over 20 million visa transactions Communications and Computer skills across each year for the Department of State and all branches of the military, the Department manage more than 62 million active records of Homeland Security and the intelligence We help the US military with its critical and handle applications received by the communications.
We are also using our enterprise Department of Homeland Security US architecture capabilities to support more Citizenship and Immigration Services.
We Department of Defense agencies and have installed detection systems in over 100 commands, exploring opportunities to use locations in 30 countries, to help prevent a our economic cost analysis expertise with the nuclear threat from entering the US.
US Air Force and the intelligence community, and looking to expand our logistics support Our work includes overseeing the preto additional military customers.
classication of all US patents.
We also provide web-based support for USA.
gov Many government agencies use IDIQ and other e-government initiatives.
contract vehicles, where we are one of a number of companies able to bid for task We manage 65 Federal Aviation orders.
To leverage our position fully, we have Administration control towers and have increased resources to respond to key received five safety and excellence awards.
opportunities under these vehicles, which We support the US Navys procurement, handling and disposal of hazardous Our transportation business includes a include Alliant, HRsolutions, Seaport-e, Ofce materials.
contract with the Georgia Department of of Personnel Managements Training and Transportation to manage, install and Management Assistance Program and maintain its intelligent transportation system.
several General Services Administration 44 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3e.
indd 44 14 03 2011 17:06 department schedules, including facilities management and IT.
We have also strengthened our business development team, reecting our greater concentration on larger prime contracts.
Other awards included the renewal of a single award IDIQ where there are no other awardees contract with the US Navys Commander, Fleet and Industrial Supply Centers to support the procurement, management, issuance and disposal of hazardous materials HAZMAT.
The contract has a six-month base period with three one-year option periods and is valued at approximately US$84m, including the options.
We also received a new single award IDIQ contract to perform HAZMAT management services and provide consolidated HAZMAT reutilisation and inventory management to the US Navys Fleet and Industrial Supply Center Norfolk.
The contract has a one-year base period with four one-year option periods and is valued at approximately US$88m, if all option years are exercised.
The Naval Operational Logistics Support Center awarded us a new single-award IDIQ contract to provide program management and technical services.
The contract has a one-year base period and four one-year options, with a ceiling value of US$44m if all option years are exercised.
We provide air trafc control services at 65 towers for the Federal Aviation Administration.
We strengthened our position on major US We were pleased to receive the 2010 Government programs through an award by Defense Enterprise Architecture Achievement the US Army of an IDIQ contract to compete Award, for supporting the Air Force Space for task orders supporting the Assistant Commands Joint Space Operations Center Secretary of the Army Manpower and Reserve Mission System programme.
We are among 12 awardees on this the None in a Million Federal Aviation US$1.3bn contract, allowing us to compete Administration award for achieving for the for work in areas such as business planning second time one million error-free and research and evaluation.
The contract operations at Goodyear, Arizona air trafc has a five-year term, comprising a one-year control, as well as the Bravo Zulu Award base period and four one-year option periods.
for exceptional work on behalf of the Navy Expeditionary Medical Support Command, Within the civilian arena we were awarded for relief efforts in Haiti.
a contract to provide air trafc control services to the Federal Aviation Administration Contract Tower Program, valued at approximately US$170m over five years.
We are also contracted to provide comprehensive management, installation and maintenance of the Georgia Department of Transportations intelligent transportation system, valued at approximately US$50m We run Georgias intelligent transportation system.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 45 Serco AR10 Section3e.
indd 45 14 03 2011 14:26 Section 3 Operating Review AMEAA Bringing service to life...
The Dubai Metro, United Arab Emirates 46 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3f.
indd 46 14 03 2011 14:27 in metro services The Serco-run Dubai Metro launched in September 2009 Some issues may be escalated to our management forum and and has grown rapidly.
During 2010, it carried 38.8 million become part of broader initiatives, such as our zero delay days.
passengers and expanded from 10 stations to 26.
Despite this level These campaigns select one issue, such as delays caused by of change, the Metros performance has been exceptional for a new platform screen doors, and aim to have one day where none occurs.
During 2010, we achieved availability and punctuality of We then measure our performance and feed back to our people, 99.6% and 97.9% respectively, and in December, 100% of trains so they understand that what they do has a positive impact.
We also embrace other sources of feedback.
The Metro is subject to Managing growth while delivering to the highest standards requires a number of surveys including the Governments Dubai Excellence the right processes and procedures, and a partnership approach programme, which focuses on world-class customer service.
We also to working with our customer and contractors.
Ultimately, though, ask our customer the Dubai Roads and Transport Authority for its it is our culture and our peoples desire to improve that make views on how we are doing.
This is essential for us to improve our the difference.
Our internal performance attribution process is an important tool Carefully managing network projects and the systems growth is here.
We investigate every train delay so we know what caused it vital, with a further 19 stations due in 2011.
Our project team treats and why.
We then develop actions and plans to prevent a recurrence our operational team as its customer, so that everyone focuses on or reduce its impact.
We repeat this process every day.
maintaining our service standards as new stations open.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 47 Serco AR10 Section3f.
indd 47 14 03 2011 14:27 Section 3 Operating Review AMEAA AMEAA includes our 2010 Performance Revenue grew 41.2% to 481.2m 2009: businesses in Africa, the Middle 340.7m and represented 11% of Group East, Asia and Australasia.
Excluding the impact of currency, particularly given In Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong, the strong Australian dollar, growth was 26%.
we have contracts in defence, offender management, immigration, transport, health, This high revenue growth reects the infrastructure services and consulting.
Our contracts that became operational during two defence joint ventures make us a key late 2009 and early 2010, in our markets partner of the Australia Defence Force.
We in Australia, the Middle East and India.
have the only contract in New Zealand for a privately operated prison and our two In home affairs in Australia, we continue Australian prisons have received numerous to work with the Australian Department awards and positive independent of Immigration and Citizenship to transform inspections.
In 2010 we successfully its immigration services, while expanding transitioned additional immigration sites, with capacity to support the increasing number an increase from five to 23.
We own and of people in our care.
Serco has been operate Great Southern Rail in Australia and recognised for the transformation we have we are the largest tunnel operator in Hong achieved, our humane approach, the Kong.
In 2011, we will enter the Australian constructive mood in the centres and the health market through a contract at Fiona positive relationship between our employees Stanley Hospital.
and the people in our care.
The Middle East is home to some of Sercos In defence, our 50:50 joint venture with oldest contracts in aviation, which continue to We expanded our air trafc control and P&O Maritime Services renewed its contract, expand as the regions air trafc grows.
We airside engineering services in Dubai.
valued at A$250m to us, to provide harbour are the largest international player in surface and offshore services to the Royal Australian transport in the region.
Most notably, we Navy for ten years.
operate the Dubai Metro, the worlds largest and most-advanced driverless light rail We expanded into a new market when system and the first of its kind in the Gulf and we were appointed preferred bidder for a Middle East.
Our Technology business serves substantial ten-year contract at Fiona Stanley the telecommunications, marine and Hospital in Perth.
When it opens in 2014, biomedical sectors.
We have also expanded the 783-bed hospital will be a major tertiary our facilities management FM business, hospital for the area.
We will provide all recently winning a contract to provide non-clinical services, including managed integrated FM services at the New York equipment services, transport, procurement, University in Abu Dhabi.
sterilisation and clerical services, drawing on our extensive experience of hospital support India is the second fastest growing economy Our joint venture with P&O Maritime Services contracts in the UK.
in the world and presents opportunities for renewed its contract with the Royal Serco.
Our BPO operation delivers valueAustralian Navy.
driven products in the banking, insurance, telecom and retail sectors.
We also see demand for new services in India, particularly in transport and healthcare as we leverage our global experience to build local capability for these markets.
In India, our BPO operation is developing products for banking, insurance, telecom and retail customers.
48 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3f.
indd 48 14 03 2011 14:27 Great Southern Rail runs The Ghan, Australias iconic transcontinental railway We were delighted to win the Operator and We were delighted to play our part in Service Provider Excellence Award at the the opening of Dubais second airport, Dubai prestigious National Infrastructure Awards.
World Central Al Maktoum International, The award recognises our high standards where we provide air trafc control and at Acacia, Western Australias only privatelyairside engineering services.
This is an operated prison.
Borallon Correctional Centre addition, valued at around 3.5m per annum, was awarded two Ministers Awards for to our existing contract with Dubai Airports Excellence for its innovative recycling project Company, which dates back to the 1960s, and health initiatives.
In December, we entered another new Elsewhere in the Middle East, we won market when we were appointed preferred a one-year, 10.5m contract to deliver bidder to manage the Mt Eden and Auckland operations and maintenance consultancy Central Remand Prison in New Zealand.
services to the Al Mashaaer Al Mugaddassah The contract, signed in February 2011 Metro Southern Line in Makkah, Kingdom to commence in August 2011, includes of Saudi Arabia.
rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for prisoners, as well as logistics and India continues to present excellent infrastructure management.
The six-year opportunities for the future.
Our BPO The Dubai Metro delivered exceptional service levels in 2010. contract has an option for a further four years, operation is developing value-driving and is valued at around NZ$300m over the products for banking, insurance, telecom full ten years.
In the Middle East, the Dubai Metro has continued to achieve high levels of service, with availability and punctuality at 99.6% and 97.9% respectively for the year.
38.8 million passengers used the Metro during 2010 and a further 16 stations opened, bringing the total to 26.
We also expanded our presence in Dubai through a five-year, 15m contract to operate and maintain the 5.4km Palm Jumeirah Monorail.
We focus on the dignity, respect and well-being of everyone we care for in 23 Australian immigration centres.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 49 Serco AR10 Section3f.
indd 49 14 03 2011 14:28 Section 3 Operating Review AMEAA Bringing service to life... in immigration management Controlling borders is a key task for governments.
In Australia, The number of people we employ has also risen sharply, requiring we support the Department of Immigration and Citizenship through us to spend more than A$1m on training.
We have lived up to our contract to manage immigration centres throughout the country.
our commitment to employ local people, including more Indigenous Australians.
Unrest in countries such as Afghanistan, Iran and Sri Lanka has seen the number of people in our care surge to unprecedented Working in the right way has always been a fundamental part of levels.
At the end of 2010, there were around 6,500 people in what we do, so we ensured that we did not compromise on our detention, more than four times the number when we began the decency agenda focusing on the dignity, respect and well-being contract.
The five facilities we ran have expanded to 23. of the people in our care.
For example, every client is allocated a client support officer to look after their needs while they stay with us.
Coping with this increase in demand for our services has required We also provide activities such as English lessons, sport, art and exibility, innovation and plenty of hard work.
We created a living skills classes.
Serco exceeds the contracts requirements for commissioning team, so we could react quickly when new facilities providing these activities and programmes.
were opened, and called on the support of our Civil Government colleagues in the UK.
This allowed our contract management team We have received recognition from visitors for the transformation to concentrate on the smooth operation of all the centres.
we have achieved, along with our humane approach, the constructive mood and the positive relationship between our employees and the people in our care.
50 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3f.
indd 50 14 03 2011 14:28 Immigration services, Australia Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 51 Serco AR10 Section3f.
