D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW O perating review This is an exceptional set of results.
Group revenue Last year I outlined the work in progress to strengthen increased by 10% to 10.2bn and adjusted operating our portfolio of grocery businesses.
This has comprised profit increased by 26% to 909m.
With 56% of sales the integration of Pataks and Jordans with the and 46% of operating profit generated outside the existing grocery businesses in the UK, the creation UK, the translated results of overseas businesses of a wholly-branded operation in the US, a recovery This years outstanding benefited from the weakness of sterling.
At constant in UK bread with the relaunch of the Kingsmill brand, currency, and adjusted for the impact of acquisitions and rationalisation of the cost base.
The increase results represent a step and disposals, group revenue increased by 6% but in margin and profit this year reflects some of the profit was little affected and was still 25% ahead.
benefits from these activities now coming through.
Four of our five business segments reported record Further work is under way, especially in Twinings and profits and Agriculture almost equalled last years record.
the meat business in Australia, which we expect to A number of major deliver further benefit in the future.
The drivers of this growth were returns from recent investments made, the restructuring of some of A high level of capital investment has been a feature projects will be completed our operations and recovery in others.
New stores for of recent years.
Expenditure has been incurred this Primark, enzyme capacity expansion and an increase year on a number of projects, with those completed over the coming year in sugar production in Zambia all contributed to the during the year including new stores for Primark, increase in profit for the year.
We completed the the sugar factory capacity expansion in Mozambique which will underpin restructuring of a number of our US and UK grocery and the yeast capacity expansion at Harbin in China.
businesses, the early benefits of which can be seen Yeast extract capacity in China is in the process of future profit delivery in margin improvement.
During the coming year, further new significantly with recovery in our UK sugar, China stores will be opened by Primark, we will commission and provide a platform sugar and US vegetable oil businesses.
both the new meat factory in Australia and the Vivergo biofuels plant in Hull, and increased sugar Sugar has received substantial investment through for further growth.
capacity in Swaziland will come on stream.
capital expenditure and acquisitions over a number of years.
A business that was heavily dependent on This years outstanding results represent a step UK beet sugar profit prior to reform of the EU sugar change for the group.
A number of major projects regime has been transformed.
It now comprises will be completed over the coming year which businesses in the EU which have a more stable cash will underpin future profit delivery and provide generative outlook, and businesses in the developing a platform for further growth.
Opportunities for regions of Africa and China which provide the further attractive investment are plentiful and the prospect of volume growth.
The potential for this group has the financial capacity to exploit them.
group is evident from the level of profitability and the international scale now achieved.
Primarks performance was truly outstanding and has taken profitability to a new level.
The improvement in margin has been delivered with a much weaker sterling dollar exchange rate compared to two years ago and has benefited from consistently strong volume growth.
Trading in our stores in continental Europe stood out this year with sales densities already ahead of the Primark average and delivering a strong profit margin.
Primark has now demonstrated the strength of its consumer appeal in a number of countries which provides every encouragement for its continued expansion.
6 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW A business that was heavily dependent on UK beet sugar profit prior to reform of the EU sugar regime has been transformed.
It now comprises businesses in the EU which have a more stable cash generative outlook, and businesses in the developing regions of Africa and China which provide the prospect of volume growth.
The results from Sugar improved substantially this In Spain, Azucarera had a very poor campaign Sugar year with revenue ahead by 32% primarily as a result in the south where extensive flooding in the spring Revenue of a full years sales from Azucarera, acquired in damaged beet quality and volumes.
In the north, April 2009, but also with good growth in the UK heavy rains interrupted the campaign which was 1,941m 2009, 1,475m and from cane sugar in China.
This revenue growth, only finally completed in May.
Planting for the current Adjusted operating profit together with an improvement in UK and Chinese season was delayed as a consequence and crop margins, drove a profit increase of 43%.
development in the north is later than normal.
240m 2009, 168m A total of 394,000 tonnes of beet sugar was In the EU, the UK business had an excellent produced and 145,000 tonnes of raw sugars were campaign.
Favourable growing conditions and processed through the Guadalete refinery which improved beet yields led to production of 1.3 million was successfully commissioned at the beginning tonnes of sugar which was 9% more than the of the year.
50,000 tonnes of non-quota sugar previous year.
Profit and margin were also significantly was exported, also benefiting from the temporary ahead.
Factory performance was excellent with increase in licences.
Profit in the first half was further improvements in energy consumption and constrained by the volume of high-cost inventory costs savings achieved through optimising logistics.
brought forward from the previous year, all of which The business also benefited from firmer pricing, had been sold by the half year, and the second half of a stronger euro and 120,000 tonnes of non-quota the year was substantially more profitable as a result.
exports into the world market enabled by a temporary increase in export licences issued by the European The sale of the Polish sugar business was completed Commission.
These exports were made at prices on 25 November 2009 and its revenue and profit above the average for last year.
to the date of disposal are excluded from the results of continuing businesses.
A profit of 33m on this British Sugar has successfully developed, over many transaction is included in the income statement within years, a number of co-products which maximise the profit less losses on sale and closure of businesses value from the processing of sugar.
These notably which is excluded from adjusted operating profit.
include molasses, animal feed, electricity generation and bioethanol for road transport.
The glasshouse At Illovo, profit was adversely affected by lower adjacent to the Wissington sugar factory, which uses volumes, a weakening of the African currencies waste heat and CO2 to produce tomatoes, is being other than South Africa on the translation of results, expanded by 70% to become the UKs largest tomato the rands strength on South African exports and nursery.
During the year, work also commenced on the effect of a weakening euro on exports to the the development of a liquefaction plant in conjunction European market.
We produced 1.7 million tonnes of with Air Liquide to supply CO2 to UK bottlers and at sugar in the 2009 10 season, which ended in March.
the same time further improve Wissingtons carbon This was 10% below the previous years level and the footprint.
At Newark a raw sugar co-refining plant was start to the new season has been slower than planned successfully installed and commissioned, providing with drought in South Africa impacting crop volumes the capacity to process some 30,000 tonnes of and continued rain in Mozambique and Malawi raw sugar to supplement the annual beet quota.
impacting crop harvesting and sucrose levels.
Opportunities to build similar plants at other UK sites The Zambian factory, where capacity was doubled are under review.
Construction of Vivergos wheat last year, ran efficiently following completion of bioethanol plant in Hull in the UK will be completed commissioning in the first half.
in December, and commissioned during spring 2011 with operation scheduled for the summer.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Sugar The significant increase in sales and profit this year is the result of several years of substantial capital investment and the successful delivery of growth initiatives.
2009 Revenue 1,475m Adjusted operating profit 168m 2010 Revenue 1,941m Adjusted operating profit 240m D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Guadelete Refinery, Cdiz Strategically sited at a European seaport, the recently commissioned white sugar refinery in Spain can refine 400,000 tonnes of raw sugar each year.
Most of this comes from the Least Developed Countries for whom this trade represents an important source of foreign earnings.
Factory expansion at Maragra in Mozambique was AB Agri had another strong year following last years Agriculture completed on plan, doubling production capacity in record performance.
UK feed revenues were ahead of Revenue time for the new season.
Expansion of the Ubombo last year in all sectors, Frontiers grain trading revenues operation in Swaziland is under way which will result held up well despite less volatility in commodity prices 954m 2009, 913m in a substantial increase in milling capacity when it for most of the year, and continued progress was made comes on stream in time for the 2011 12 season.
Adjusted operating profit by Premier Nutrition and AB Vista.
The factorys power co-generating capacity is 33m 2009, 34m KW Trident, our ruminant feeds business, achieved also to be increased, yielding surplus electricity for strong volume growth driven by very high sugar beet commercial export to the national grid.
This project crop yields, although the benefit was partly offset is linked to the completion of a major new dam by lower prices in a tough trading environment.
and canal system sponsored by the Swaziland Work continued with the agriculture industry to government to facilitate the development of some help UK farms reduce the level of greenhouse gas 5,000 hectares of new out-grower cane land.
ABN made further progress with good The financial results of our Chinese sugar operations underlying organic growth as a result of the pig and were much improved this year.
Sugar prices recovered poultry markets benefiting from sterling weakness, strongly from last years depressed levels and which kept pressure on import prices, and continued have recently strengthened further to record levels.
consumer support for British agriculture.
New Our cane sugar business in the south has consistently information systems were successfully implemented delivered a profit.
Cane sugar volumes were in this year in both of these businesses which will line with last year at 474,000 tonnes.
In the north provide much improved support for our customer 104,000 tonnes of beet sugar were produced, and business needs.
which was much lower than last year, as the Premier Nutrition had a successful year with high business focused its agricultural development on a demand for piglet starter feeds and premixes in smaller acreage with processing at seven factories.
the UK and rapid expansion into central and eastern Agricultural yield remains the largest challenge for European markets.
Strong specialist feed enzyme this business.
Substantial progress has been made sales were achieved by AB Vista following European with local government in securing support for beet.
regulatory approval of its new enzyme, Econase XT.
This year a large number of farmers have been International sales, particularly to the Americas and trained in chemical usage and control, the use of Asia, continued to develop well with investment in appropriately designed machinery and irrigation.
selling, technical and research resources supporting As a consequence, beet volumes for the coming the introduction of a range of new products.
year are anticipated to be significantly higher.
Demand for both pig and poultry feed in China was below last year driven by lower consumer prices for meat and eggs which resulted in a reduction in livestock levels.
Construction of the new ruminant feed mill in Tianjin is nearing completion.
Grain trading markets were less volatile for most of the year, following high global grain production last year, but trading activity increased towards the end of the financial year with concerns over crop losses in eastern Europe and Russias imposition of export restrictions.
Frontiers grain trading business performed well, delivering a good result with a strong focus on customer service and merchandising of its fertilisers and crop protection products.
10 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW U bombo sugar factory development Our policy of investing for growth and our approach to sustainable development is exemplified by Illovos expansion of its Ubombo sugar factory which is situated in the south east of Swaziland.
Construction of the Lubovane dam together with its associated canal systems and infrastructure was sponsored by the Swaziland government and completed in March 2009.
The dam, supplied by water from the Usuthu River via a feeder As well as enabling the factory and its estates canal, was designed to supply irrigation water for 11,500 hectares of land in the to become self-sufficient in electricity, it will see Lower Usuthu basin.
It forms part of the independent Lower Usuthu Smallholder Ubombo supply power to the countrys national Irrigation Project which is aimed at alleviating poverty in this area by facilitating grid for 48 weeks of the year.
commercial irrigated agriculture for smallholder farmers.
At least 5,000 hectares of this area is planned to be developed under sugar cane from smallholder farmers.
48 Development of the first 885 hectares of land is nearing completion and will be harvested in 2011.
Plans for the development of a further 600 hectares are being drawn up.
Construction of the dam has provided the agricultural infrastructure to enable Illovo to expand the Ubombo factory, increasing its annual sugar capacity from 230,000 tonnes to over 300,000 tonnes.
The project, which will cost some 100m, will also increase the plants power generation capacity by using biomass as a supplementary fuel for its boilers.
Not only will the factory and its estates become self-sufficient in electricity, it will supply power to the countrys national grid for 48 weeks of the year under an agreement reached with the Swaziland Electricity Company.
By registering the co-generation project, the company will seek to earn carbon credits under the Kyoto Protocols Clean Development Mechanism.
The expanded factory is due to be commissioned in time for the 2011 12 season.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Agriculture Another strong year following l ast years record performance.
2010 Revenue 2009 Revenue 954m Adjusted operating profit 913m Adjusted operating profit 33m 34m D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW AB Agri driving change in agriculture Since its emergence in 1985 as a fledgling operation with a single product and only a handful of employees, AB Agri has become a major business in UK agriculture.
Today it employs over 2,000 people in the UK and China, it operates through six divisions, sells to 43 countries around the world and has strong market positions in all of the sectors in which it operates.
Being part of Associated British Foods has been a key factor in AB Agris success.
AB Agri developed its core expertise around co-product management by adding value to the co-products from British Sugars UK factories.
Today the relationship with British Sugar continues to play a key part in its success but it has since leveraged synergies with other businesses in the group including Ryvita, Allied Bakeries, AB Mauri, AB Enzymes and Vivergo Fuels.
These businesses rely on its expertise to source the raw materials that they need to produce their core products.
For example, the million tonnes of wheat that Vivergo will use to produce bioethanol will be sourced by AB Agri.
The business also adds value to the co-products of other group businesses, such as waste bread from the bakeries by incorporating them into animal feeds, thus reducing the environmental impact of food waste and avoiding high disposal costs.
Many of our food, drink and biofuel businesses have a vested interest in the agricultural sector, driven by what they consume or what they produce, but AB Agris leading position in UK agriculture allows it to provide a wealth of services not only to our businesses, but also to organisations outside the group.
Sustained investment in acquisitions, the recruitment of talented people and innovation in nutrition have also been major factors in the continued growth and success of the business.
Over the last 25 years the group has established a significant position in the Chinese agriculture industry, acquired more than 25 individual businesses, opened new routes to market, extended its manufacturing base and capability, and developed new areas of expertise.
Today it operates across the entire breadth of the agri-food chain, it is recognised for its expertise in food safety and the manufacture of quality feed and feed ingredients, it supplies premixes and specialist feed inputs to pet and animal feed manufacturers internationally, and supplies over 20% of the inputs, such as fertiliser and seed, to UK arable farmers.
Challenging established practices and driving change in agriculture is all part of what makes AB Agri a success.
Whether it is establishing the worlds first international phytase summit or creating new models to measure, track and reduce carbon emissions from farms, it truly is a business breaking new ground and challenging the status quo.
It is one of the few agricultural businesses to realise the critical importance of alliances along the food chain.
Today AB Agri invests in activities to promote British meat through its support of the Red Tractor.
It also provides biodiversity solutions and carbon reduction programmes to Waitrose and Sainsburys to enhance their sustainable sourcing initiatives and create value for consumers, farmers and processors.
AB Agri supplies premixes and specialist feed At AB Agri, excellence at speed, relentless innovation and continued investment inputs to pet and animal feed manufacturers has allowed it to create and sustain its market-leading positions.
Equally focused worldwide, and supplies over 20% of the on its people and its customers, it believes that partnerships and alliances along % inputs to UK arable farmers.
the food chain are fundamental to those who wish to succeed in the long term.
20 14 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Store expansion by region Republic UK of Ireland Iberia Other Total sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores September 2009 4,380 136 970 38 450 15 80 2 5,880 191 Change in year 340 7 40 120 4 100 2 600 13 September 2010 4,720 143 1,010 38 570 19 180 4 6,480 204 8% 4% 27% 125% 10% Primark had an exceptional year.
Revenue increased both through our membership of the Ethical Trading Retail by 18% with like-for-like sales growth of 6% and Initiative ETI, and externally with non-ETI members.
Revenue the benefit of continued investment in new stores.
As well as working with our suppliers we have Our stores in continental Europe, particularly continued the process of building an ethical supply 2,730m 2009, 2,314m those in Spain, performed ahead of expectations culture amongst our own staff and the subject is Adjusted operating profit and provide encouragement for expansion into a feature of the induction training provided to all these new markets.
In the UK, which remains our new employees.
341m 2009, 252m most important market with over 70% of the groups 13 new stores were opened during the year: three total retail space, like-for-like sales were strong, in Spain: our first store in Belgium in Lige: one each particularly by comparison with other high street in Portugal and Germany: and seven in the UK.
In Ireland, however, the weak economy also relocated our stores in Waterford and Killarney in had an adverse effect on trading.
Ireland and Braehead in Scotland to larger premises.
Profit was 35% ahead and operating margin This brings the total number of stores trading by the improved substantially from 10.9% to 12.5%.
This year end to 204 with 6.5 million sq ft of selling space, improvement was largely driven by economies of an increase of 10% since last year end.
A number scale as revenues increased, and by sterlings relative of stores, including those extended during the year, strength against the US dollar in the first half which have been redesigned and refitted to include upgraded benefited the cost of goods sourced in dollars and in-store display and merchandising features.
This not sold in the second half.
However, we expect some of only increased the area available for display but also this margin improvement to be eroded in the coming served to refresh the appearance of the stores and financial year due to higher cotton prices and freight provide even more attractive places for our customers costs and increases in VAT, already implemented to shop.
in Spain and planned for the UK in January 2011.
Primark continues to lead the growing value sector of the market with its on-trend product offering and commitment to maintaining its position of Fashionable Netherlands price leadership on the high street.
Customers vote with their feet.
Time and again the Primark further developed its ethical trading agenda opening of a new Primark will result in significant increases in footfall in the town.
This phenomenon during the year and now has a highly experienced has led some analysts to describe Primark as ethical trade team of full-time staff supporting the a destination store.
This was certainly the case Ethical Trade director, in the UK, Bangladesh, China, when Primark opened in Rotterdam, Netherlands.
The target of 1,000 audits set last 40% of the customers visiting the store had year was comfortably exceeded with 1,136 audits travelled between 25km and 40km and many completed, representing 94% of our top 250 suppliers from as far afield as Amsterdam.
and 87% of the products we purchase.
Over half of the audits carried out in 2010 were follow-up audits demonstrating our commitment to ensuring that our suppliers continue to improve.
We provide support for them through dedicated training whether on site in factories or through informal supply training sessions, and online.
Engaging directly with our suppliers is central to our objective of continually improving working conditions.
With 95% of the factories shared by other high street brands, we also continue to collaborate with other retailers and non-governmental organisations on addressing the industry challenges, Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Retail Primark had an exceptional year.
Revenue increased by 18%, with like-for-like sales growth of 6%, and profit was 35% ahead.
2009 Revenue 2,314m Adjusted operating profit 252m 2010 Revenue 2,730m Adjusted operating profit 341m D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW P rimark When you first step inside a Primark store you will be pleasantly surprised.
Youll have heard of Primarks broad acclaim as the best value fashion store on the high street, so the unbelievably low price tickets wont come as a shock.
What will surprise you is that on first impressions, the visual merchandising of the store would not shame a retailer several tiers above Primark.
There is no secret, as thousands of eager customers will testify.
Primark has successfully brought together up-to-the-minute fashion, affordability and quality in a contemporary environment.
This focus on the merchandise and the stores in which it is sold is a continuous process of investment, improvement and innovation.
Every new store opened presents an opportunity to push architectural boundaries to new heights and we have invested heavily in both fabric and fit-out.
But it isnt just new stores receiving this degree of attention: existing stores are being extended and at the same time refurbished.
The merchandise itself has acquired an enviable reputation for providing up-to-the-minute fashion and Primark has invested in its UK and international buying offices to maintain and enhance this market position.
The roll-out of stores across continental Europe has also required range adaptation to suit particular market needs and tastes and, of course, absolute dedication to garment quality, fit and consistency as a prerequisite for customer retention.
In store, the story is very similar.
Furnishings and fittings are of high quality and the visual merchandising is designed to inspire customers.
Key seasonal items are grouped together using feature walls, and focus fixtures are being added to encourage customers to put together the whole outfit or look a familiar concept at the top end of the sector but less common in value retailers.
18 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Healthy options From bread to breakfast cereal, our businesses have created food and drink brands that taste great and can be easily enjoyed as part of a balanced and varied diet.
Just two slices of Kingsmill Tasty Wholemeal, for example, provide 100% of our daily recommended amount of wholegrains.
Of course Ryvita and Jordans also provide a rich source of healthy wholegrains.
Our brands have also been at the forefront in the drive to reduce levels of dietary salt.
Kingsmill, George Weston Foods, Pataks and Blue Dragon have all made significant salt reductions in their recipes.
Jordans has removed salt from its products altogether with no adverse effect on product performance.
We are continually working to secure new stores Grocery revenue increased by 7% to 3.4bn driven Grocery in each of the countries where we now operate.
mainly by the benefit of currency translation on Revenue For those locations where contracts have already the sales of George Weston Foods in Australia.
been exchanged and the required consents received, At constant currency, sales were level with last year.
3,406m 2009, 3,188m we expect to add another 0.5 million sq ft of selling Continued strong trading by Twinings Ovaltine was space.
This includes the remaining eight of the ten Adjusted operating profit offset by lower vegetable oil sales in the US and UK stores purchased from Bhs which are now in the Mexico where lower consumer prices reflected a large 229m 2009, 191m process of being refitted and will open progressively fall in commodity costs.
Grocery profit increased by during the year, together with a further six stores 20% to 229m with the benefit of the restructuring in Spain, the Netherlands, Germany and the UK.
work undertaken last year and the first half recovery We also expect to start work during the financial year in our US bottled oils business.
This years result on a number of further stores, including a second includes rationalisation costs of 29m, 19m of store on Londons Oxford Street following agreement which relates to the manufacturing reorganisation of a conditional lease contract in August.
These are at Twinings, and 7m has been provided for planned to open in time for Christmas 2011. rationalisation of the meat business in Australia.
We have also invested this year in improving the In the UK, Allied Bakeries enjoyed considerable efficiency and increasing the capacity of our logistics success with its Little Big Loaf, a new format for the network.
The new 220,000 sq ft freehold warehouse bread industry, which received Sainsburys branded in Naas, Ireland, is now operational and the former new product of the year award for 2010.
This leased premises will be vacated at the end of 2010. contributed to the increase in Kingsmills volume The 200,000 sq ft leasehold warehouse at Torija in and market share over the year.
The bread market Spain is also now operational, providing regional remained very competitive with high levels of distribution capability for southern continental promotional activity.
Margins showed improvement Europe and reducing haulage from Dublin to Spain.
over last year but much higher wheat costs seen Both of these new sites provide the opportunity towards the end of the year will put pressure on for further expansion.
Allied Bakeries continued to invest in the environment and its commitment to carbon reduction has resulted in the introduction of aerodynamically designed, lightweight trucks that use less fuel and reduce carbon and other engine exhaust emissions.
Primark new store openings Relocations Twinings Ovaltine achieved good sales and profit Barcelona Spain Braehead UK growth with particularly encouraging progress for Elche Spain Killarney Ireland Twinings in North America and the UK.
Advertising Castelln fide la Plana Waterford Ireland expenditure was increased with television campaigns Spain in support of infusions in the UK, and Chai and Porto Portugal flavoured black teas in the US.
In France we launched Lige Belgium Twinings Fresh, an innovative cold-infused teabag Frankfurt Germany that has been well received by the market, and in Blackburn UK Australia, speciality teas, green tea and infusions Bury UK all performed well.
Ovaltine continued to build on its Cambridge UK success in Thailand and strong growth was achieved Chester UK in its developing markets.
The restructuring of Folkestone UK Twinings manufacturing base is progressing to plan Guildford UK with capacity expansion in China well under way and Wood Green UK construction of a new factory in Poland planned to Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Groc ery The increase in profit and margin this year reflects work undertaken to strengthen our portfolio of businesses.
2009 Revenue 3,188m Adjusted operating profit 191m 2010 Revenue 3,406m Adjusted operating profit 229m D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW New product development The introduction of Kingsmills Little Big Loaf was inspired.
Truly one of those ideas which make you wonder why nobody had thought of it before.
Aimed at the increasing number of smaller households, it is the only loaf that offers full size slices, only fewer of them, so that every slice is as fresh as the last.
Of the 19m charge for A much improved performance from Jordans Country In Australia, growth of premium and continental this reorganisation, 8m is non-cash and relates to Crisp and a strong second half for Ryvita crispbread branded breads, together with supplies to in-store the writing off of plant and equipment.
were the main drivers of a significantly better year bakeries, was made at the expense of private label.
Two new crispbread varieties were The launch of Abbotts Village Bakery in the premium Retail sugar continues to be a very competitive launched supported by television advertising, and bread segment of the market was particularly market although operating margins improved with the Thins range is now well established following successful and we increased market share in bakery the benefit of cost savings from the packaging plant its launch last year.
In May the business announced snacks.
Bakery margins further benefited from rationalisation completed last year.
A resurgence in proposals to rationalise manufacturing with the improvement in operations.
The meat business home baking drove volume growth for Silver Spoons closure of its Stockport factory and the transfer of continued to experience difficulties.
Volumes were caster, icing and brown sugars and the Allinson production to its site in Poole, Dorset.
A provision affected by the reduced supply of bulk bacon and range of flours.
Whilst best known for its bread flours, of 3m has been made in these accounts for the ham to the important delicatessen section of the Allinson has always had a presence in culinary flour costs of closure and the rationalisation will be major supermarkets.
In the branded pre-pack with its wholemeal plain and self-raising products complete by summer 2011. segment, market share was maintained but margins and has recently launched Nature Friendly culinary came under pressure from discounted retail pricing.
flour made from Conservation Grade wheat.
At ACH in the US, profit was well ahead with the absence of losses on vegetable oil futures incurred The opening of the new meat factory at Castlemaine AB World Foods delivered a strong performance in the first half last year.
Following consumer price next summer and the subsequent closure of the this year.
A notable success was the relaunch of the reductions reflecting the large fall in commodity Altona factory in Melbourne will go some way to Pataks range with improved recipes, new products, oil costs in 2009, there was greater market stability improve margins and a provision of 7m has been new pack formats and advertising support.
Blue which enabled some margin recovery for Mazola and charged against adjusted operating profit for Dragon export volumes increased, especially in Capullo in the first half.
However, margins tightened rationalisation of this business.
Significant progress Australia where distribution was taken in-house.
in the second half as corn oil costs began to increase.
has been made in the construction of the new factory Profit margins were much improved with recovery A number of new products were launched and, in with fit-out now well under way.
Early in the year we of increased commodity input costs, better factory the baking sector, our strong brands benefited from announced the closure of the abattoir in Queensland, operations in Poland and the UK, and good returns exclusive listings.
The Stratas joint venture successfully which had been acquired with the KR Castlemaine from investment in UK capacity.
Westmill Foods transitioned its manufacturing capacity from business, and a provision of 8m for this exit has been increased profit despite the decline in the Indian and ACH factories to its own plants, production at our charged in the income statement to profits less losses Chinese restaurant trade.
Investment in our brands, Champaign and Jacksonville sites ceased during on sale and closure of businesses.
particularly Pataks catering pastes, Green Dragon the year, and the sale of the Champaign site was rice, Rajah spices and Lucky Boat noodles, resulted completed shortly after the year end.
in an increased share of the UK ethnic food market.
22 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Twinings sister brand in the groups grocery portfolio is Ovaltine.
Launched in Switzerland by Dr. George Wander in 1904, it was the first convenient E veryday products and complete milk fortifier to provide hot nutritional drinks to strengthen under-nourished children, breastfeeding women, the weak and the infirm.
Ovaltine even accompanied Sir Edmund Hillary on his ascent of Everest in 1953!
for people everywhere Today, it is sold in more than 50 countries around the world and is particularly popular in the Far East, where it is largely drunk cold by children.
Also in the UK, the Ryvita crispbread was first manufactured in 1925 and has A well-managed food brand is far more than just a been advertised as a healthy way to stay slim by a succession of celebrities, label.
It is an indication of quality and a guarantee including the actress Julie Andrews.
Ryvita is still the UKs leading brand of crispbread today.
of consistency that reflects the values of the consumer.
Good brands are built using insight In Britains vibrant ethnic food sector, the Pataks brand was launched in 1957 by the Pathak family as one of the countrys first authentic ranges of pickles and and understanding of customers tastes and Indian cooking sauces.
Now, under the stewardship of Associated British Foods and the next generation of the Pathak family, the Pataks brand has been culture to create a bond of trust, often over brought together with our Blue Dragon range of oriental sauces and ingredients, many years, if not generations.
as part of the newly formed AB World Foods operation.
Associated British Foods, through its global businesses, is the owner of an Around the world, we continue to manage our portfolio of food brands enviable portfolio of leading food brands that reflect the wonderful tastes to engage with local tastes and customs so as to provide people with the of food from a diversity of cultures around the world.
flavours and tastes they love.
Whether it is Omega 3 in bread, Rainforest Alliance certified teas, pioneering wildlife-friendly cereals from Jordans and Allinson or George Weston Foods is Australias second largest food manufacturer and if ready-to-drink cool Ovaltine, Associated British Foods continues to ensure that you ask the average Australian to name a brand of bread theyll say Tip Top.
our leading food brands remain as fresh and inventive to consumers as the day Tip Top Bakeries was founded in the 1940s from the amalgamation of several they were launched.
small bakeries in New South Wales and Victoria.
Today, Tip Top is one of the most recognisable national food brands in Australia and a true Australian icon, enjoyed by generations of Australians because of its taste, texture and wholesomeness.
In the US and Mexico, Mazola cooking oil was established in 1911 and plays a major role in many traditional recipes.
Today, along with its sister brand Capullo, it is one of the leading cooking oil brands in the region.
Karo, Argo and Fleishmanns are also an integral part of American baking culture and are essential ingredients in important seasonal celebrations such as Thanksgiving as well as in traditional American dishes.
Established in 1902, Karo corn syrup is well and truly an American favourite a mixture of corn syrup, sugar, eggs, vanilla and pecans baked in a pastry case produces the classic pecan pie.
In the southern states, that same recipe continues to be called Karo pie.
Argo and Fleishmanns yeast, together with Tones spices, share a similar illustrious history in the US dating as far back as 1868 products that are still found today in millions of kitchen cupboards across the country.
In the UK, Thomas Twining first set up shop on Londons Strand in 1706.
In the age of coffee shops, he was the man who loved tea and worked hard to bring it to the people.
More than 300 years later, the passion is still there and so is Twinings, who still sell tea from Thomass shop.
Twinings now sells over 100 varieties of tea that are drunk all over the world and its expert blenders taste more than 3,000 cups of tea every week!
Thomas Twining first set up shop on Londons Strand.
More than 300 years later, the passion is still 1706 there and so is Twinings.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Ingredients Capital investment in expansion projects across the yeast, yeast extracts and bakery ingredients businesses is continuing, 2009 Revenue providing further capacity 989m for organic growth.
Adjusted operating profit 88m 2010 Revenue 1,067m Adjusted operating profit 104m D IRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW Cross-business collaboration ABF Ingredients sells internationally to a wide range of third-party customers.
In addition it has fostered a symbiotic commercial relationship with sister companies in the group.
For example close collaboration with AB Mauri has led to the successful construction of a brand new yeast extracts plant in China adjacent to AB Mauris Harbin yeast facility.
In addition, the groups AB Enzymes unit has managed joint developments with AB Agri in animal feeds and AB Mauri in bakery ingredients.
Ingredients achieved a revenue increase of 8% ABF Ingredients had a much better year with strong Ingredients over last year and operating profit rose by 18%.
revenue growth from enzymes and speciality lipids in Revenue The improvement in margin was driven by a strong the US.
The global enzyme market continued to grow, performance from the bakery ingredients and new feed and bakery enzymes were launched during 1,067m 2009, 989m enzymes businesses.
the year and our distribution and market coverage Adjusted operating profit was again increased.
The operational performance The yeast and bakery ingredients business of of our manufacturing plant in Finland was improved 104m 2009, 88m AB Mauri achieved a good result.
Bakery ingredients following the capacity expansion completed last year.
had another strong year of growth by concentrating Improved key account management and growth in on expansion of its range of icings, toppings and pharmaceutical excipients strengthened our speciality fillings in the UK and major new product launches lipids business in the US which out-performed last into the craft bakery sector in Brazil, Argentina, year.
The proteins business made a good recovery, Peru and Colombia drove growth in South America.
with the benefit of higher and more stable dairy In the US and Mexico we continued to build on our protein and lactose pricing.
The sale of the milk range of technical ingredients as exemplified by protein facility in Norfolk, Nebraska was completed the launch of a technologically advanced system in February.
for coating dough with an enhanced leavening ingredient which produces tortillas with improved The new yeast extracts plant in Harbin, China, is in eating qualities, lower sodium and better functional the final stages of commissioning.
The earthquake that hit Chile in provide a low-cost complement to our existing facility February caused some structural damage to our in Hamburg, Germany, and capacity for further operations in Santiago but our employees sustained expansion both in the domestic Chinese market and no injuries and they implemented a recovery plan in exports to other countries in Asia and Europe.
Further progress was made by our yeast business, especially in Germany and Argentina, and a number of operational improvements were George Weston achieved in Italy, Spain and France that will deliver Chief Executive savings next year.
A high level of capital investment continued this year behind several expansion projects and improvements to a number of effluent treatment plants across the business.
The new yeast plant in Harbin, China was completed at the end of the year and is now operational.
Capital expenditure on further expansionary projects in the Americas, China and Europe is planned for the yeast business in the coming year.
26 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW The science behind the art of baking In addition to its global presence in the production and marketing of yeast, AB Mauri is a major international player in the bakery ingredients market.
AB Mauri markets its bakery ingredients expertise and capabilities through demonstrating an understanding of all the elements of the baking business chain including consumer needs, distribution, technology, the materials used and the variety of processes employed.
Working with customers both large and small, we have developed genuine leadership in applying baking technology and creating an extensive range of bakery ingredient formulations.
Central to this unique approach to customer service is the Baking Technology Group, a team of highly skilled baking scientists and technologists based at their centre in the Netherlands serving AB Mauri customers worldwide.
It is the innovation and technology engine room of our bakery ingredients development.
With teams focused on new technology research, formula creativity and bakery application, it delivers genuine added value in fulfilling customers requirements.
Bakery scientists examine many baking raw materials for ingredient synergies including enzyme system selection and application.
They examine all aspects of product performance from taste profiling to the causes of shelf life deterioration, in pursuit of the ideal cost quality ratio.
Moreover they assist their customers in developing and defining the optimum process to ensure repeatability and consistent quality.
Research programmes are managed across the bakery business developing new propositions consistent with consumer trends and demands.
It is the AB Mauri belief that today, more than ever, our bakery customers all over the world need technology partners to drive product improvement and development, whilst at the same time optimising their baking processes for best results.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
