Business Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS A CLOSER LOOK AT OUR ACTIVITIES IN SOUTH EAST ASIA AND AFRICA The Company continued on schedule, achieving South East Asia fabrication and installation targets, to bring the largest development project in its history on stream Vietnam mid-year of 2011.
SOCO also continued the most SOCOs Block 16-1 and Block 9-2 projects in active drilling programme in its history throughout Vietnam are located offshore in the oil rich Cuu 2010 with development and appraisal drilling in Long Basin, which is a shallow water, near shore Vietnam and exploration drilling in the Democratic area dened by several high prole producing oil Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC.
elds, the largest of which, Bach Ho, is located between the two Blocks and has produced more Development drilling on the Te Giac Trang than one billion barrels of oil to date.
The projects TGT eld offshore Vietnam progressed the are operated through non-profit Joint Operating project towards first oil which remains targeted Companies JOCs wherein each participating party for August 2011.
Gross production from this owns shares equivalent to its respective interests first phase of development is expected to be in the Petroleum Contracts governing the projects.
approximately 55,000 barrels of oil per day BOPD.
All seven of the development wells The Groups interests are held through its 80% drilled to date have come in on or better than owned subsidiary SOCO Vietnam Ltd and through Antony Maris pre-drill prognosis.
its 100% ownership of OPECO, Inc. SOCO Vietnam Vice President Ltd holds a 25% working interest in Block 9-2, Operations and Production Although the initial drilling programme onshore which is operated by the Hoan Vu JOC HVJOC and in the DRC did not result in any commercial a 28.5% working interest in Block 16-1, which is discoveries, drilling results did provide significant operated by the Hoang Long JOC HLJOC.
Oil and gas shows, reservoir Inc. holds a 2% working interest in Block 16-1. sands and source rocks were encountered by SOCOs partners on both Blocks are Petrovietnam, the inaugural wells in the first onshore drilling the national oil company of Vietnam, and PTTEP, campaign to be carried out in the DRC in over the national oil company of Thailand.
The information gathered allows us to rene our interpretation and better understand the Development prospectivity of the high potential Nganzi Block.
Te Giac Trang TGT Field, Block 16-1 The TGT eld extends over 15 kilometres along Total production net to the Groups working interest the north-eastern part of Block 16-1, west of during 2010 was 4,648 barrels of oil equivalent Block 9-2, offshore Vietnam.
First oil is targeted per day BOEPD sourced from its Vietnam and for mid-2011 with production from this first phase Thailand operations up until the date of sale of development expected to be approximately compared with 6,415 BOEPD produced from 55,000 BOPD.
Following the successful installation of the platform jacket in the northern area of the eld the first Related sections and more information two development wells on the TGT development were completed in October.
Preliminary log analysis Highlights of our of the first well, the TGT-H1-1P, drilled to essentially twin one of the original discovery wells, indicated 2010 operations p02 that the well encountered the top of the target Our Non-Financial Key reservoir horizon on prognosis.
The second well, Performance Indicators p07 the TGT-H1-2P, encountered the reservoir section approximately 10 metres higher in the section Our outlook for the coming year p10 than the pre-drill prognosis which strongly supports the favourable structural reservoir How we identify analysis following the reprocessed pre-stack and mitigate risks p26 depth migrated seismic that the TGT eld extends to the east.
SOCO International plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew The third development well, the TGT-H1-3P drilled Appraisal to the north west of the eld, was completed in Te Giac Den TGD Appraisal Area, Block 16-1 December 2010.
Preliminary log analysis indicated The TGD Appraisal Area encompasses 150 square that the well encountered the top of the target kilometres and includes the high pressure, high reservoir horizon as expected, based on the temperature discovery well, TGD-1X-ST1, on reprocessed pre-stack depth migrated seismic.
Prospect E and the analogous E South Prospect.
This area borders the southern Four further development wells were batch boundary of the TGT Field.
The initial interpretation of the results Vietnam of these wells has supported the use of the In June 2010, drilling operations began on the pre-stack depth migrated seismic interpretation.
TGD-2X appraisal well, targeting reserves in the The petrophysical analysis has also enabled supravolcanics interval that had been briey renement to the geologic model and the tested by the TGD-1X-ST1 discovery well in 2008. distribution of porosity and oil saturation across Drilled on a sole risk basis, the appraisal well Thailand the northern area of the eld.
This work will was drilled to demonstrate commerciality of the enable better well placement for improving initial discovery.
recovery once the eld starts production.
An eighth development well was commenced at The appraisal well reached a Total Depth of the end of February 2011.
All development wells 4,669 metres at the end of August 2010 after Block: B8 38 will be suspended to become producing wells penetrating the target hydrocarbon zone in the Sold Block: 16-1 upon start-up of production in 2011.
The well encountered Appraisal eld development significant hydrocarbons in a clastics reservoir Production from the TGT eld will be delivered into sequence at approximately 4,550 metres Block: 9-2 a Floating Production Storage and Ofoading unit Measured Depth and produced both black oil and Field development production FPSO.
Work on the conversion of the FPSO by gas.
Subsequent testing, however, revealed that BAB-VSP, a joint venture between BAB Armada and the gas content that had been encountered by Vietsovpetro, has commenced at Keppells shipyard the earlier TGD-1X and TGD-1X-ST1 wells on the in Singapore.
During the year, all the necessary crest of the structure was lacking on the oil leg preparation work was completed and the encountered by the TGD-2X well on the ank, installation of the production process modules and thus the reservoir energy was insufficient commenced.
The work on the vessel remains on to generate acceptable commercial ow rates.
target for a sail-away date from the yard in July The well was plugged and abandoned.
2011 to meet the production start-up target.
Poised for growth Vietnam Gross Production Vietnam Gross Production 2010 Average, BOEPD 2011 Year End Potential, BOEPD 9,000 65,000 SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 O Te Giac Trang TGT : Construction is under way for Vietnams offshore TGT production facilities.
SOCO International plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew Business Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED To allow an appropriate evaluation of the TGD In April 2010, Phase II of the CNV Development drilling results to date and an opportunity to acquire Drilling Programme began with the drilling of the further seismic over the appraisal area, the HLJOC CNV-6P-ST1 well, a side-track of the CNV-6P well has applied to extend the exploration licence and targeting the western side of the eld.
This beyond its December 2010 expiry.
Whilst the well was converted to a water injector well to Company has been informed that the Ministry of provide early water ooding, which would enable Trade and Industry in Vietnam was not supportive plateau production to be reached and avoid gas of the initial application, the HLJOC is continuing breakthrough.
Indications are that the reservoir to pursue the extension with the case that the has reacted well to the pressure maintenance.
HLJOCs level of geological knowledge of the appraisal effort offers the most expedient route to The eld had a brief, planned shut-in during the unlocking this vast potential resource and thus, third quarter for reservoir pressure surveying.
provides the most immediate benefit to Vietnam.
Based on the survey, the consortium is considering drilling an additional producing well, Production which would eventually be converted to a water Ca Ngu Vang CNV Field, Block 9-2 injector.
The well is tentatively scheduled to be The CNV eld is located in the western part of drilled in the second half of 2011.
Gordon Graham Block 9-2, offshore Vietnam.
First oil commenced Group Exploration Manager in 2008 and the eld is currently producing Thailand at approximately 11,250 BOEPD, comprising Bualuang Field approximately 7,825 BOPD and 20 million In September 2010, the Company completed the standard cubic feet of gas and gas liquids per day.
disposal of its wholly owned subsidiary SOCO Thailand LLC, the entity that held the Groups Production resumed in early February 2010 40% interest in the Bualuang eld located in after a two month suspension due to a pipeline Block B8 38, offshore in the Gulf of Thailand for inspection gauge becoming stuck in the gross proceeds of $105 million.
Details of this production line that connects the CNV platform transaction can be found in the Financial Review to the Bach Ho CPP-3 production platform.
Proved and Probable Reserves SOCO continued the most active drilling programme in its history throughout 2010 Thailand TGT CNV Congo sold Vietnam Vietnam SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 w Business Review REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED Africa SOCOs co-venturers in Angola.
The remaining 15% interest is held by the national oil company, Congo Brazzaville La Congolaise des Hydrocarbures Cohydro.
SOCO holds a 29% interest in the Marine XI Block and a 29.4% interest in the Marine XIV Block.
Per the agreement, INPEX funds 40% of the cost, Marine XI is located adjacent to the coast in the with half of the funding obligation subject to certain Lower Congo Basin, offshore Congo Brazzaville, caps on cost overruns, associated with a three well in shallow waters with depths ranging up to 110 exploration drilling programme.
Following the initial metres and covering approximately 1,400 square three well programme, INPEX will fund its kilometres.
Marine XIV is located also in shallow participating interest share of costs associated waters adjacent to Marine XI.
In addition, INPEX will fund its participating interest share of the cost recoverable Appraisal Analysis historical costs incurred by SOCO E&P DRC on Viodo Field, Marine XI the Nganzi Block.
The assignment of interest was From analysis following the results from the 2009 approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities appraisal drilling on the Viodo eld on Marine XI, of the Government of the DRC.
it was determined that the eld should qualify for Serge Lescaut marginal eld designation from the Government.
Exploration General Manager, An application has been submitted and the partners Nganzi Block Africa Region are awaiting the determination before deciding The Nganzi Block is situated some 50 kilometres how to proceed with the development of the eld.
from the west coast and is approximately 60 kilometres from an export facility located offshore After receiving an extension of the Production in DRC waters.
Following the farm-out agreement, Sharing Agreement PSA for the Block, a contract SOCO E&P DRC holds a 65% working interest in was agreed with Pride International to drill an the Block and is the designated operator.
exploration well on the Block during the third quarter of 2011.
In July 2010, SOCO E&P DRC became the first company in over 40 years to drill onshore the DRC Marine XIV and the first on the Nganzi Block.
SOCO E&P DRC During 2010, the partners reprocessed the seismic drilled three exploration wells all of which data from the 100 kilometre multi-azimuthal 3D encountered oil and gas shows, reservoir sands seismic programme completed over Marine XIV and source rocks.
Although these have not resulted the previous year.
An application was made and in a commercial discovery to date, the information ofcial notice received from the Oil Minister of a gathered allows us to rene our interpretation and one year extension of Phase I of the PSA for this better understand the prospectivity of this high Block.
An exploration well is planned for the third potential Block.
Nganga Prospect, Nganzi Block Democratic Republic Of The first exploration well on the Nganzi Block Congo Kinshasa DRC was spudded on 15 July 2010 on the Nganga SOCO holds its interests in DRC, all onshore, through Prospect, previously designated as Prospect B. its 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration & The well was drilled to 2,175 metres Measured Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC.
Depth reaching the Basement as prognosed.
The well encountered approximately 500 metres Farm-Out Agreement of source rock with significant hydrocarbon In July 2010, SOCO E&P DRC entered into a farm-out shows and approximately 245 metres of good In July 2010, SOCO agreement wherein it agreed to farm-out a 20% quality porous sand with an average porosity agreed to farm out interest in the Nganzi Block to INPEX CORPORATION of ca.
INPEX is a current oil producer in another petrophysical interpretation of the logs acquired a 20% interest in area of the DRC holding a 32.28% interest in various across the reservoir interval indicated that the the Nganzi Block offshore producing elds and facilities and is one of sands were water bearing.
The predicted lateral SOCO International plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew seal for the reservoir horizon was not present there have been recent discoveries in the same because of the change in the basin margin basin.
The Block covers an area of 7,105 square adjacent to the well location, which can now kilometres and includes part of the Virunga National be seen to have provided a local sediment entry Park, including part of Lake Edward, but specically point for sands.
The Nganga-1 well was plugged excludes any habitat of the Mountain Gorilla.
and abandoned and the rig was moved to the Kinganga Nyanya Prospect, previously In June 2010, the PSA for Block V received the designated as Prospect D. Presidential Decree, the final step in the concession award of the Block.
The Block V partnership DR Congo Kinganga Nyanya Prospect, Nganzi Block consists of SOCO E&P DRC holding 38.25%, The Kinganga Nyanya 1 KNY-1 exploration well Dominion Petroleum Congo SPRL with 46.75% Block: V Block Evaluation spudded on 1 October 2010 and was drilled to and Cohydro, the DRC state oil company with 15%.
The well drilled During the initial five year exploration period, the good source rock shales in the Middle and Lower Block V partnership have committed to acquire Block: Cabinda Onshore North Bucomazi, interbedded with Lower Bucomazi 300km of seismic data and drill two exploration Evaluation sands.
It also encountered the target Lucula wells, pending governmental approval to proceed Exploration Block: formation sands although these were not with each phase of activity.
If approved, a Phase I Marine XI hydrocarbon bearing.
There were oil shows in seismic study comprising compressed air will be Block: Nganzi Exploration Exploration Appraisal the Lower Bucomazi and the Chela formations.
conducted over part of Lake Edward.
Angola Log analysis indicated oil pay in the secondary Block: target Chela formation sands.
Although the well As is always the case in the areas where Marine XIV Exploration bore was not ideally situated to encounter the the Company plans operations, a base line thickest part of the Chela sands, an abbreviated environmental impact assessment EIA has been test was carried out to determine the reservoir carried out.
A social impact assessment will be characteristic.
On test the sands were found to be submitted for governmental approval prior to the tight.
The data will be incorporated into the area commencement of activity.
A security assessment evaluation to determine if there is a possibility of a is additionally under way.
The EIA was submitted commercial accumulation of hydrocarbons up-dip to the government in March 2011 and is awaiting of the KNY-1 well.
No exploration will commence without the permission of the Bayingu Prospect, Nganzi Block government of DRC.
The wildcat exploration well, Bayingu-1 BYU-1, spudded in December 2010 on the prospect Angola previously designated as Prospect H, located in Block Evaluation and Exploration the southern portion of the Nganzi Block.
The well Cabinda Onshore North Block encountered oil and gas shows in both the primary SOCO Cabinda Limited, the Companys 80% owned and secondary reservoir targets.
subsidiary, holds a 17% participating interest in African Project Gross Acreage the Production Sharing Agreement for the Cabinda 2 km The reservoir sands at the primary Lower Bucomazi Onshore North Block in the Angolan enclave of Key target, however, were poorly developed, whilst the Cabinda.
The Block, which is operated by Sonangol, zOnshore residual nature of the oil shows in the secondary covers 1,400 square kilometres and is bordered in zOffshore Chela formation indicates lack of closure at this the north by Congo Brazzaville and in the south location.
The well was plugged and abandoned and east by the DRC.
A seismic acquisition programme that began in Block Evaluation late 2009 was suspended in January 2010 by Block V the operator due to multiple security incidents SOCO E&P DRC holds a 38.25% participating in the region.
The acquisition programme interest in and is operator of a PSA for Block V recommenced in May 2010 and is expected located in the southern Albertine Graben in eastern to continue throughout much of this year.
No Congo Angola DRC 1,665 1,400 7,905 DRC, adjacent to the border with Uganda where drilling is anticipated in Cabinda during 2011.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19
