Operating Review Materials Analysis Highlights Overview Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation to the metals and Strong growth in pharmaceuticals mining, pharmaceutical and life sciences, and electronics industries, and to academic and life sciences and research institutions.
Our products help customers to improve accuracy and speed Some softening in academic R&D of materials analysis in the laboratory and in process manufacturing applications.
The H2 recovery in metals and mining operating companies in this segment are Malvern Instruments, PANalytical and Particle Measuring Systems.
3 bolt-on acquisitions Segment performance Sales in Materials Analysis, at 271.6 million, increased by 9% compared with the prior year up 8% at constant currencies, including 3% from acquisitions.
Operating profit increased by 24% to 39.5 million.
Operating margins improved from 12.9% to 14.5%, as a result of volume, pricing and mix, including a favourable shift towards aftersales services, which grew by 15% and now represent 31% of sales.
Activity in the metals, minerals and mining sector, the largest end-user market for this segment, was slow in the first half of the year but improved in the second half.
A number of orders for laboratory automation projects were secured, particularly in Latin America and Europe.
These included an order from a major steel producer in the UK for a fully automated system for iron and steel analysis.
Continued investment in infrastructure projects, particularly in China and the Middle East, provided good demand for our equipment, and we received a large number of orders for our X-ray analysis systems from the cement industry in China and, in the Middle East, for our rheometers to control the quality of asphalt production.
Demand from the pharmaceutical industry grew by over 40% in 2010.
New regulations in China have led to the enforcement of stricter safety standards covering the production of food and pharmaceutical products, with standards equivalent to the FDA regulations 271.6m in North America.
As a result, we made a number of important sales to customers who Sales up 9% need to comply with these regulations and the State Food & Drug Administration in China also purchased our particle characterisation instruments to assist in standards enforcement.
We also launched a new facility monitoring system which detects both molecular and microbial contamination, combining the MicroSafe microbial detection 39.5m and monitoring products acquired in 2009 with our existing particulate measurement Operating profit up 24% products, and secured a major US manufacturer as the first customer.
Sales to the academic sector and to research institutions were very good in 2009, helped by government stimulus packages in a number of regions.
Although some of these government-funded research programmes in the developed economies ended during 2010, the market overall remained resilient, with Germany benefiting from sustained investment in the university R&D sector and sales to emerging markets continuing to increase.
Our new Empyrean X-ray system, launched in the first quarter, has also proved attractive to the academic and research market, enabling customers to carry out experiments that were not previously possible.
We have long-standing relationships with many of our customers in this market and our equipment is used extensively in their laboratories, with new systems adding to the research capabilities they can provide.
The electronics industry experienced a strong recovery in 2010 as a result of large investments in semiconductor manufacturing capacity, driven by growth in PCs, flat panel TVs, LEDs and smart phones, and we sold a number of products to manufacturers 14 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements for upgrading their facilities.
In July, we launched the UltraChem 40 particle counter for the semiconductor industry.
This instrument uses proprietary digital imaging technology to detect ultra-small particles and is the most sensitive particle counter in the industry.
Increasing demand for the high-brightness LEDs used for display backlighting in devices such as computers, televisions and in-car lighting also provided good demand from Korea and China for our high resolution X-ray diffraction instruments.
These are the systems of choice for process control by the majority of manufacturers and suppliers of gallium Increasing regional expansion nitride, the key material used in these devices.
with a focus on emerging markets Segment outlook Spectris office in So Paulo, Brazil, The outlook for metals, minerals and mining is good, with further recovery expected provides sales and support for a number in mining and steel as commodity prices rise.
Some softness is expected to remain of our operating companies in Latin in academic segments: however, this will be mitigated by continued investment in America, enabling them to provide emerging markets and an increase in industrial R&D as the global economy grows.
a direct response to the increasing The semiconductor market is forecast to remain strong in 2011 and we expect to see number of customers in this region.
more investment in process monitoring in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly Customers include the University of So in China.
The acquisitions made in this segment will further strengthen our Asia Paulo, where PANalyticals applications presence in 2011. laboratory is used for research and support applications, primarily in the materials and industrial segments.
Samples for analysis are received from government institutions and industrial companies as well as from students with their own research projects.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 15 Operating Review continued Test and Measurement Highlights Overview Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software Automotive customers reinstate for product design optimisation, manufacturing control and environmental monitoring development budgets systems.
Markets are principally the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics Strong profit contribution industries.
For customers in the automotive and aerospace industries, our products and Good demand from aerospace applications help them to design and test new products whilst reducing time to market.
In consumer electronics, our equipment and software enable customers to refine the Good growth regionally, performance and accuracy of their products.
In the environmental monitoring market, especially Asia the desire for higher standards of community comfort is driving increasing demand.
The operating companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and HBM.
Segment performance Sales in Test and Measurement increased by 11% organic increase of 11% at constant currencies to 297.4 million.
Operating profit increased to 34.8 million 2009: 1.4 million.
The margin effect of the increase in sales was boosted by a year-on-year reduction in overhead costs.
This reflects an increase in restructuring benefits and a reduction in restructuring charges, combined with good cost control throughout the segment.
Operating margins were 11.7% compared with 0.5% in the prior year.
Of this increase, 2.6 percentage points pp came from an increase in gross margins, 3.1pp from a reduction in restructuring costs and 5.5pp from operating leverage as the benefits of the restructuring were realised.
The automotive market, a key end-user market for this segment, experienced a dramatic slowdown in 2009 and, although not returning to the high levels of 2008, saw a major improvement in 2010 as customers began to reinstate budgets.
The world of data acquisition and analysis is changing rapidly as our customers are under growing competitive pressure to launch products with reduced development times and which meet increasingly stringent environmental and legislative compliance, and we 297.4m are developing new products to help them to meet these requirements.
In September, Sales up 11% we signed an exclusive partnership agreement with MIRA, the Motor Industry Research Association in the UK, to jointly provide engineering services to Chinese automotive customers.
MIRA is a world leader in advanced engineering, research and product testing, with facilities located around the world, and its work includes the development of 34.8m ground-breaking low carbon vehicle technologies.
In return, MIRA has made significant Operating profit up from 1.4m investment in our equipment, including a noise vibration harshness NVH simulator, for use in these services.
The NVH simulators saw good demand from vehicle manufacturers and a major Japanese manufacturer invested in a number of our solutions for vehicle development including an NVH simulator, transducers, in-vehicle measurement and analysis systems, and array systems for wind tunnel testing.
In February, Scuderia Ferrari took delivery of a data acquisition system and software for test bench balancing for their Formula One engines.
Engine balancing leads to superior performance and increased safety and reliability and has taken on a new importance since the introduction of new rules limiting the number of engines per driver per season.
The growth of consumer electronics products such as smart phones, MP3 players and tablet computers also benefited this segment.
In order to achieve the very high product quality the market demands, manufacturers have increased production testing standards for operational and environmental performance.
Our ability to offer complete solutions for both acoustics and vibration has led to new opportunities in the quality assurance testing of smart phones and we secured orders for our microphones and conditioning amplifiers from a number of manufacturers.
16 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Building our presence in key strategic growth areas In the automotive industry, a key end-user market for Test and Measurement, Ferrari have selected During the year, sales of our products to the aerospace industry increased, particularly our PULSE LAN-XI data acquisition for satellite testing.
In October, Spains National Institute for Aerospace Technology system for testing engine vibration successfully achieved noise certification of the Airbus A330 Multi Role Transport Tanker in their Formula One cars.
With the using our data acquisition system.
This aircraft can operate in civil airports, for example engines running at up to 20,000 rpm, during international human aid operations.
We also sold equipment for structural testing vibration is a critical issue.
Balancing of new aircraft in China and Japan, and our recently-launched optical strain gauges are the crankshaft to reduce engine proving successful for stress analysis of the composite materials used in aircraft design.
vibration leads to superior performance and increased safety and reliability.
A In the environmental noise market, there was good demand for our noise monitoring second PULSE system, together with services and we secured orders from a number of airports around the world.
Our flight a mannequin with built-in ear and tracking service is also proving successful, assisting in the management of aircraft noise mouth simulators, is used to test the and safety at airports worldwide.
radio communication link between the racing driver and the engineers at the Our recently-launched urban and industrial noise monitoring application is aimed at pit.
With the driver exposed to noise installations which are required to report compliance with noise regulations, such as equivalent to a jet engine taking off, mines, ports, industrial premises, power stations, wind farms and large construction miniature loudspeakers are built into projects.
This system negates the need for in-house expertise by outsourcing compliance special silicone earplugs that protect his via our managed service and is generating significant interest with industrial plant hearing whilst allowing him to listen to managers who are faced with noise management issues in their local communities.
Segment outlook The automotive, aerospace and consumer electronics segments all recovered well in 2010 and are expected to continue to provide good opportunities for growth.
The market for urban and airport noise monitoring is expected to continue to grow as regulation of environmental noise levels increases.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 17 Operating Review continued In-line Instrumentation Highlights Overview In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring Good growth and record profitability and on-line controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
Our Pulp and paper strong products and applications provide precision measurement in challenging operating Strong growth in converting environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, safety, and improved yield.
and plastics The operating companies in this segment are Beta LaserMike, Brel & Kjr Vibro, BTG Group, Fusion UV Systems, NDC Infrared Engineering, and Servomex.
Acquisition of Delta F Corporation Segment performance Sales in In-line Instrumentation increased by 20% increase of 17% at constant currencies and organic to 273.1 million.
Operating profit increased by 41% to 58.3 million and operating margins increased to a record 21.3%, up 3.1pp from last year.
This was partly due to gross margin increases and partly to operating leverage.
Sales of service, spare parts and consumables are a key feature of this segment and represent 43% of revenues.
The In-line Instrumentation segment saw good growth in all major regions and markets and strong profitability.
The pulp and paper industry, the largest end-user market for this segment, performed well as paper mills placed increased emphasis on cost reduction in response to higher energy and fibre costs and we saw strong demand for both our instruments and creping blades.
Our high performance blades are particularly successful in tissue production where they provide enhanced product properties such as tissue bulk and softness whilst improving tissue uniformity compared with traditional steel blades.
This results in more efficient tissue converting and less wastage.
Demand for our instruments was also good, particularly in China, where new paper mill expansion projects are under way, and orders were also received from a number of mills in Latin America.
Our new optical consistency transmitters are performing well.
These units can accurately measure consistency over a wide range of pulp types and generate savings in fibre, fillers, chemical consumption and lost production.
We received an order for a new 273.1m newsprint machine in the UK, which will be the first paper machine in the world to be Sales up 20% entirely fitted out with optical transmitters.
Sales in the energy, refining and industrial gas markets continued to recover in all regions, with excellent growth in China, Middle East, India and Latin America.
New business 58.3m centres were opened in Brazil and India, providing sales and service for customers in Operating profit up 41% these regions.
In November, we acquired Delta F Corporation, a specialist manufacturer of process analyser technologies.
The acquisition further enhances our ability to deliver a complete range and choice of process gas analysis technologies and systems to industry worldwide.
Demand for condition monitoring systems was also strong from the energy sector and in October we introduced the VDAU-6000 condition monitor, a product providing cost-effective condition monitoring and analysis as a bolt-on to existing safety systems or for balance of plant applications.
The hydro-electric power market continued to show strong signs of growth, particularly in eastern Europe and also in Latin America, where we were nominated as an approved vendor for the supply of safety and condition monitoring equipment for two hydropower plant projects in Brazil.
We also had a record year for remote monitoring orders for wind power applications and we entered into a frame agreement with Arise Windpower, a leading player in the Swedish wind power market, for the supply of condition monitoring solutions for wind turbine applications.
In the converting industry, sales to the wire and cable market of our non-eccentricity gauge, launched in the first half, greatly exceeded our expectations and our non-contact length and speed measurement gauge also saw good success with original equipment manufacturers in Europe.
These products provide more accurate control of the production process and improve product quality whilst reducing material consumption.
18 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Growing existing businesses through acquisition In November, we acquired Delta F Corporation, a leading manufacturer of specialist gas analysers, based in Boston, In the fibre optic market, we continued to see the adoption of our non-contact Massachusetts, USA.
Delta F develops, measurement systems among the leading optical manufacturers, particularly in China, to manufactures and distributes a range improve product quality and increase production yields.
Our FiberMike systems, which of trace oxygen and moisture analysers, include diameter gauges and flaw detectors, are used to monitor each stage of the draw primarily for use in the semiconductor tower process.
This bolt-on acquisition increases our offering in the We made good progress in high technology markets such as coating lines and separator In-line Instrumentation segment, with film lines for the production of lithium ion batteries.
Most of the increase in battery Delta Fs products, technologies and production is in Asia, followed by North America.
expertise complementing those of Servomex, enabling the company to The investment in new technologies to improve the image quality of displays and new deliver a complete range of process products such as 3DTV, as previously mentioned in the Materials Analysis segment, was gas analysis systems to customers also beneficial for the In-line Instrumentation segment and we sold a number of systems worldwide.
for UV curing of back light units and brightness-enhancing films for flat panel displays in Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
The adoption of UV in industrial markets also continues to expand, with China one of the fastest-growing markets for the curing of industrial coatings and the use of UV curing technology.
Segment outlook Conditions have recovered in this segments end markets, driven by customer investments in upgrades to facilities and a demand for greater production efficiencies.
We have increased our focus on service and support and we anticipate that this will continue to provide a resilient revenue base.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 19 Operating Review continued Industrial Controls Highlights Overview Industrial Controls supplies automation and control products for the discrete General manufacturing and manufacturing industries.
Our products provide identification and tracking solutions electronics sectors return to growth during the manufacturing process, displays for process monitoring and control, and data Good growth in all major regions interfaces for a broad range of manufacturing industries.
Sales are made indirectly to N-Tron acquisition gives foothold in end users via distributors as well as directly to original equipment manufacturers, with a industrial networking applications significant proportion of repeat business.
The operating companies in this segment are Microscan and Red Lion Controls.
Segment performance Sales in Industrial Controls increased by 34% to 59.8 million increase of 32% at constant currencies, including 8% from acquisitions.
Operating profit increased by 119% to 9.5 million.
Operating margins were 15.9% compared with 9.9% in 2009.
The expansion in operating margins was largely due to the increased volume and the benefits of the restructuring and integration actions taken in 2009.
The electronics and general manufacturing sectors returned to growth in 2010.
Activity in the industrial controls and machine building markets continued to increase, particularly with original equipment manufacturers, and we secured a number of orders for private labelling of our networking products.
Our Data Station product continued to find new applications, and traditional interface products also continued to benefit from the recovery in the global manufacturing sector.
In October, we acquired the business of N-Tron Corp, a leading manufacturer of rugged ethernet switches the products used to connect multiple ethernet devices to each other and to build network infrastructure and associated components for the industrial, infrastructure and power generation markets.
In the pharmaceutical market, demand was strong for our laser scanners in China, where 59.8m they are used in systems which validate compliance to the new regulations regarding Sales up 34% manufacture and distribution of pharmaceutical products.
All products covered by the scheme are now required to have an e-tracking bar code affixed to the packaging so that they can be traced.
In October, we introduced a new inspection and verification solution for pharmaceutical packaging.
The VS-1 track and trace machine vision system features 9.5m a smart camera, integrated lighting and powerful machine vision tools to read barcodes, Operating profit up 119% verify text and inspect labels for misalignment.
Segment outlook 2010 saw a recovery in demand from the general manufacturing sector, which we expect to continue, with good opportunities in China.
We anticipate that our portfolio of track, trace and control solutions will continue to find opportunities across a number of industrial controls sectors.
The segment has been strengthened by the acquisition of N-Tron, and we expect to see growth from increased demand for industrial networking components.
20 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Building our presence in key strategic growth areas In October, we acquired N-Tron, a leading US manufacturer of rugged industrial networking components.
N-Tron supplies ethernet switches and associated components to the industrial, infrastructure and power generation markets.
Over the past few years wind turbine manufacturers have embraced the use of ethernet to monitor and control wind farms worldwide and use N-Trons switches to optimise their operation.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 21 Operating Review continued Strengthening market positions through innovation VDAU-6000 condition monitoring system This state-of-the-art system provides a cost-effective alternative to rack-based condition monitoring systems for rotating machinery.
The VDAU-6000 can monitor auxiliary machines or act as an extension to existing safety systems for monitoring all types of machines, including critical turbo machinery.
Its powerful, user-friendly scalar condition monitoring functionality enables narrow band measurements for monitoring specific frequencies, such as running speed, blade pass and bearing defect.
The values are easy to monitor and trend, providing reliable early fault detection.
BioLaz real-time microbial K-OR optical strain gauge monitor The BioLaz real-time microbial monitor Although this strain gauge rosette is the provides rapid detection of airborne smallest in the world, it is designed for biological organisms in controlled withstanding extreme loads, even in adverse environments.
This compact device can fit ambient conditions and potentially explosive in restricted spaces and provides immediate environments.
Optical devices require no notification when biological particles electrical signal and are easy to install, are present and real-time verification opening up new opportunities for use in of biological activity levels during filling experimental stress analysis.
This results in faster batch measures strain in three directions, from releases, improving productivity in which the two-dimensional mechanical sterile manufacturing processes in the stress state is calculated.
Typical applications pharmaceutical and biotech industries.
include materials testing, for example on the rotor blades of wind turbines.
22 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Noise Sentinel noise VS-1 Track and Trace machine monitoring system vision inspection system This urban and industrial noise monitoring Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly application is aimed at installations which required to meet strict regulations on are required to report compliance with the manufacture and distribution of their noise regulations, such as mines, ports, products.
The VS-1 system provides a industrial premises, power stations, wind complete solution for pharmaceutical farms and large construction projects.
Featuring a smart The system negates the need for in-house camera, integrated lighting and powerful expertise by outsourcing compliance machine vision tools, it is designed to read via our managed service.
This provides barcodes, verify text and inspect labels alerts when compliance with the relevant for misalignment.
noise restrictions is exceeded, delivers the information necessary to investigate and compiles regular reports demonstrating compliance.
Empyrean X-ray diffraction platform Empyrean is our new X-ray diffraction platform for materials research.
Featuring 3D PIXcel, the worlds first 3D detection system on a diffractometer, Empyrean is unique in its ability to measure all sample types, from powders to thin films, nanomaterials and 3D objects, on a single instrument.
The system enables analysis of the widest range of properties of any existing or novel materials with a minimum of sample preparation time, speeding up research and development processes.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 23
