17 Stobart Group Limited Business Review Stobart Group Operations William Stobart, Chief Operations Officer Built around four coherent operational Divisions, Stobart Group continues to demonstrate resilience and growth by providing its customers with a choice of the most efficient and most environmentally friendly solutions to meet their needs.
Celebrating its 40th anniversary in 2010, Eddie Stobart forms the centrepiece of this successful group which also covers Rail, Sea and Air transport and related activities.
Introduction This business review includes information on our various Stobart We employ around 5,000 people in more than 40 sites in the UK, Group Divisions Eddie Stobart road transport, distribution and Ireland and mainland Europe.
The Group operates more than warehousing, Stobart Rail, Stobart Ports and Stobart Air.
It also 1,800 trucks and six million square feet of warehousing, five rail covers the recent investment by Eddie Stobart into Stobart freight services, including the new Spanish service to the UK, a civil Biomass Products.
There is information on the markets in which we engineering business, inland port, sea port and now two airports.
operate, and our corporate responsibilities.
In conclusion, Stobart is increasingly a one-stop shop to anyone Our goal: to become the UKs leading provider of multimodal transwho needs transport and logistics.
We not only offer every possible port and logistics solutions: means providing our customers with a mode of transport, all carefully linked, but we offer a variety of storchoice of the most efficient and most environmentally friendly soluage and handling facilities which we can develop to our customers tions to meet their needs.
specification through our in-house teams.
This is indeed why so many new customers choose Stobart, and our existing customers Today, we are a true multimodal provider.
Stobart Group continues stay loyal.
Our asset developments generate a variety of revenue to succeed in its core road transportation business, attracting new streams, ultimately creating profit and an attractive return on investcustomers who appreciate the superior load utilisation efficiencies ment on disposal.
and resulting cost savings we can offer.
Despite the recession, the Group achieved several important business wins from blue-chip clients, including Unilever, Tesco and Nestl.
This past year has seen substantial progress in our rail, port and air operations, culminating in the planning permission received for London Southend Airport, superbly positioned to benefit from the increased utilisation heading into the 2012 Olympics.
Report and Accounts 2010 18 Stobart Group Operations Eddie Stobart This covers our road transport General, Chilled, Environmental, The specialist and primary fleets are each controlled by their own International and Ireland and Warehousing, and is the biggest dedicated National Traffic Planning Control Centres.
These state of element of the Stobart business.
the art facilities operate the latest in planning and satellite tracking, so operators know the exact location of each vehicle.
GTS Planning It includes the successful integration of the James Irlam business.
All Screens give an instant real-time picture of load status, including Irlam transport operations, depot network operations and front and estimated time of arrival ETA and the exact speed and direction of back office functions have now been fully integrated without any travel of the vehicle.
This efficiency through technology is a major interruption to our customers.
Due to the growth in the business over corporate asset.
the past few years, we now have a Managing Director and a Finance Director for each transport fleet and the warehousing operation.
Eddie Stobart drivers offer another real advantage.
Smartly turned out and well trained, Stobart long-haul drivers, known as trampers, Recently, Stobart placed a large order with Scania GB, mostly to can spend up to six days at a time on the road.
Because they do replace current vehicles.
Stobart and A. W. Jenkinson, a Stobart not have to return to a Stobart depot at the end of the day, they customer and business partner for its new biomass joint venture, offer maximum flexibility.
together ordered 1,000 new vehicles over the next 24 months, Scanias largest order to date.
The deliveries commenced in March The fully equipped tramper cab offers a comfortable bed, a night 2010.
The trucks all comply with the latest Euro 5 environmental heater, fridge, microwave cooking and TV.
In addition Stobart legislation, and will both replace some existing vehicles, and depots have full driver welfare facilities including cafeteria, washexpand the size of the Stobart fleet, reflecting anticipated growth.
Eddie Stobart road transport has many important competitive advantages, not least its pay as you go shared user system, which increases efficiency, reduces costs and helps the environment.
19 Stobart Group Limited Business Review Eddie Stobart General Distribution This operates the biggest fleet in the Eddie Stobart Division, and provides UK transport solutions for a wide variety of retail, food, consumer, manufacturing, industrial and defence sectors.
General Distributions road freight capacity is supported by a national network of about 30 depots, strategically located at key transport hubs throughout the UK.
Now that the Irlam business has been successfully integrated, the general operation runs to 1,250 trucks and 2,400 trailers.
Eddie Stobarts UK utilisation efficiency is 83.7 percent compared with the industry average of 70 percent, and less for own account operators.
This means only 16.3 percent of our trucks are not carrying a load.
This is a slight reduction compared with a year ago, and is due to the integration of the Irlam business, which has lower utilisation levels.
The integration and synergies have led to annualised savings of around 1.1 million.
New business wins have included a 25 million per annum contract for Tesco in Teesport, to distribute imports from China.
This became fully operational in the new financial year.
Unilever was also a major win at around 20 million per annum.
Stobart was chosen for its full multimodal offering, and the companys ability to move goods cost effectively and in an environmentally friendly manner.
Scottish-based AG Barr, best known for its Irn-Bru soft drink, awarded Stobart a three-year, 6 million per annum distribution and warehousing contract starting in May 2010.
Stobart Rail will move goods from the AG Barr factory in Cumbernauld to the new central warehouse in Crick, from where Stobart trucks will distribute to retailers throughout the UK.
Its also been a strong year on business retention.
The Group has signed a new nine-year deal with Crown, which will have a new warehouse at Stobarts Carlisle Lake District Airport site to act as distribution centre for the UK.
Crown is Stobarts longest standing customer, and has been using Stobart for its haulage since the early 1970s.
A new nine-year deal with Crown, will see Stobarts longest standing client utilise a purpose-built warehouse at the Groups Carlisle Lake District Airport which will act as its UK Distribution Centre.
Report and Accounts 2010 20 Stobart Group Operations Continued Eddie Stobart Environmental Transport Eddie Stobart International Stobarts relatively new Environmental Transport fleet division The Groups international fleet serves continental Europe with a distributes environmentally friendly biomass mostly expired dedicated high specification fleet, and is controlled using the same timber, forestry residues and compostable material.
This fast advanced IT system that monitors and ensures the timeliness and growing market carries the chipped wood to the new generation of efficiency of Stobarts UK haulage operations.
On mainland green low-carbon power stations that burn renewable fuels.
Europe, the main warehouse is sited in Lokeren, Belgium, while the Stobarts large fleet of Chipliner and Walking Floor trailers are UKs distribution logistics are also widely utilised.
Additional ideal for carrying this bulky, loose material.
features include making key data available instantly to international customers by email, online or via dedicated directly linked screens.
A new area of business for the Group is the joint venture with A. W. Jenkinson, the UKs leading supplier of wood-related biomass New volume this year includes substantial growth to support the fuels.
Newly formed Stobart Biomass Products has been created to new Spanish train service, from Valencia.
Trucks are used on those source and distribute supplies of biomass fuel to the UK renewable days when the train doesnt run, to build volume.
A significant amount of the cost of biomass fuel volume is sufficient, more train services will be introduced.
relates to its transport and logistics and Stobarts multimodal Early in 2010, Stobart invested in a fleet of new Schmitz Cargobull model can offer big savings and efficiencies.
refrigerated trailers, reflecting the growth of the International operation.
The biomass market is set to boom following directives that, in the Eddie Stobart Ireland EU, 15 percent of energy must come from renewable sources by 2020, while in the UK the target is even higher at 30 percent.
There has been strong growth in Stobarts Irish operation in the past year.
Of particular note was the major win, from Tesco in In 2008, 85 percent of renewable energy generated in the UK was Donabate, to handle Irish ambient distribution.
This 13 million from biomass substantially more than other highly publicised contract trebles Stobarts Irish turnover, and justifies Stobarts renewable generators, such as wind turbines.
decision to make a strategic stand-alone investment in Ireland in Stobart has secured a ten-year contract with A. W. Jenkinson, to 2008.
The operation has its own office and depot in Dublin, transport hundreds of tonnes of its biomass from collection and including warehousing and cross-docking.
processing sites to energy generation stations.
The Irish fleet works especially closely with other Stobart fleets to In addition to this contract, Stobart will control all future transport ensure efficient planning of Irish import and export work.
requirements of the new joint venture company.
The market for biomass is set to boom following directives that, in the EU, 15 percent of energy must come from renewable sources by 2020, while in the UK the target is even higher at 30 percent.
21 Stobart Group Limited Business Review In July 2008 Stobart acquired Innovates chilled business, renamed Stobart Chilled, it has now been totally, and successfully integrated into the Group.
Eddie Stobart Chilled Distribution Stobart bought Innovates chilled business in July 2008, and it has now been totally, and successfully integrated into the Group.
A restructure saw two sites close, with a saving of 1million per annum.
The introduction of Stobarts advanced IT systems has greatly improved efficiencies.
Payroll costs have been reduced, load fill has increased from 70 percent to 76 percent, and revenue has grown by 18 percent compared with last year.
Chilled Distribution continues to focus on improving load fill.
Key customers have been retained and major new business has been added, including the Co-Op.
In all, 7 million of new business Eddie Stobart Warehousing was won in the past year, generating good return on investment, Operating over six million square feet of quality state-of-the-art and moving the Chilled operation significantly into profit.
storage facilities, Eddie Stobarts warehousing operation is trusted by many of the best-known names in UK retailing and The operation utilises chilled cross-docking facilities throughout the manufacturing.
It comprises a full range of chilled, ambient and UK and in Dublin and includes around 300 high-specification artics specialist storage in a variety of racked, stacked and mixed layouts.
with the latest dual-compartment, multi-temperature trailers.
The Facility use is highly flexible and can be operated as single-user, units operate 24 7, handle all categories of chilled food and are part-user or multi-user format.
fully approved to the highest level of the stringent European Food Safety Inspection Service EFSIS standards.
The warehouses are all controlled using a fully trackable, 100 percent accurate system that uses barcode tracking to give clients real-time stock data through web, email or direct communication.
They play a key role in fulfilling the wider multi-modal logistical offerings of the group.
There is potential for several major new warehouse developments at our inland port in Widnes 1.5 million square feet and at Carlisle Lake District Airport 400,000 square feet.
Work is set to start shortly.
Stobarts new site in Bardon, Leicestershire, has come on stream giving the Group one of the most advanced automated warehousing facilities in the UK.
This site comprises both chilled and ambient storage to a capacity of 115,000 pallet locations.
A ten-year contract sees the Group handle 75 percent of Nestls UK confectionery distribution and is worth approximately 11 million per annum.
The new 360,000 square foot purpose-built facility in Daresbury accommodates Stobarts expanding relationship with Johnson & Johnson, who have now signed a new long-term contract for warehousing and transport.
This is only three miles from the Widnes terminal and is another great example of a multimodal revenue stream for the Group, using road, warehousing, rail and ports.
This site has achieved accreditation with the MHRA Medical Healthcare Regulation Agency for over-the-counter and prescription-only medicine, along with BSI 9001:2008, placing Stobart at the forefront for meeting specific customer requirements.
Danone Water, a former Irlam transport customer, has now engaged Stobart for its warehousing under a three-year deal, showing how the Group can grow newly integrated business organically thanks to its extended service offerings.
Report and Accounts 2010 22 Stobart Group Divisional Profile VERSION 4 Continued Stobart Rail Stobart Rail Freight Distribution Stobart Rail Infrastructure Engineering Stobarts first dedicated rail freight service Stobart is one of the UKs leading names in Infrastructure Engineering also provides was launched in 2006 and, since then, has rail network maintenance, repair and imcivil engineering services for all Group fidegrown rapidly.
Stobart now has a further provement, and is active across the UK.
It is playing a key role in the three UK trains running between five and Network Rail Principal Contractors Licence development of the new rail station at six days a week, and an additional route enables it to work independently on NetSouthend airport, at the Widnes inland port from Barking to Wakefield is due to comwork Rail assets, providing further revenue and the giant Bardon warehousing site for mence later in 2010. for the Group.
Nestl and Daresbury warehouse for Johnson & Johnson.
Rail is ideally suited to long distance journeys with minimal stops for loading and unloading: it is also ideal for large volumes.
UK and Scottish governments continue to support rail services, making grants available.
They reduce congestion on the UKs crowded roads, and are environmentally friendly, reducing carbon emissions.
In the past year, Stobart has launched a new European service from Valencia in southern Spain to Barking near London, in partnership with DB Schenker, Europes largest rail freight operator.
The dedicated train links the fruit, vegetable and salad growing areas of Spain to the UKs major grocery retailers, and the journey takes only 53 hours faster than could be achieved by road.
The new service provides maximum flexibility.
Customers may place regular bookings of single or multiple containers, paying only for space utilised.
The weekly service is due to expand to three trains a week at the end of 2010, expanding to five times a week as take-up further increases.
The route is also due to be extended north to Widnes, site of Stobarts new multimodal hub, with potential for over two million square feet of storage and cross-docking facilities linked to road, rail, sea and air.
23 Stobart Group Limited Business Review Stobart Developments This has been an especially fast growing element of the Stobart Rail DiStobart Developments has vision.
It is responsible for the development and improvement of assets for the Group and its customers.
During the week, Stobart Developbeen an especially fast ments utilises labour and plant which is also used on the Divisions rail infrastructure projects at the weekend.
growing part of the business.
The biggest current project is the Mersey Multimodal Gateway 3MG at It is active in developing and Widnes, which will boost the companys total warehousing capacity to over seven million square feet.
Seventy-three acres have already been improving Group property developed, including the new Chilled Distribution Centre for Tesco.
A further 90 acres are awaiting development and will be marketed to cusholdings, and specialises in the tomers looking for a convenient location, combined with the benefits of direct access to all four forms of transport offered by the Group.
regeneration of brownfield sites When complete, most of the energy requirements will be supplied by an on-site biomass powerplant.
Water recycling and other environmentally into valuable business space.
friendly measures are also being developed.
The development team responsible for Widnes will also be responsible for delivering the expansion plans at London Southend Airport and a number of other specific civils projects directly for customers.
Report and Accounts 2010 24 Stobart Group Operations Continued Stobart Ports Stobart Air The Ports Division comprises two main Stobart Air operates two airport facilities at Many high-tech companies are also based operations: An inland port container London Southend Airport and at Carlisle at London Southend Airport, including handling facility at Widnes and the nearby Lake District Airport.
These airports will many involved in aircraft maintenance, Mersey Gateway Port.
grow, in both passengers and freight.
business jet operations and aviation related manufacturing.
There are more than 1,000 The inland Widnes facility, also known as London Southend, acquired by Stobart in people currently working on site.
the Mersey Multimodal Gateway 3MG, is December 2008, has huge potential one of the Groups biggest projects.
It has because of its proximity to central London, Carlisle Lake District Airport, acquired by direct access to the West Coast Mainline and to the new Olympic Park.
Planning perStobart in May 2009, has long been overand is close to major waterways and Livermission has been granted for a runway due for development as a valuable tourist pool Airport, and just four miles from the M6 extension that will enable London Southend route into the popular destinations of the and M56.
It manages nearly 1,000 vehicle to handle popular passenger and freight Lake District, Hadrians Wall and the Scotmovements a day, with an average turnplanes such as the Boeing 737 and Airbus tish Borders region.
Currently, the nearest around time of only 12 minutes per vehicle.
The extension will be completed well large airport is 70 miles away.
in advance of the 2012 Olympics.
Widnes handles over 120,000 containers a Stobart will also develop the area as a busiyear.
There is secure storage for more than A new railway station, currently under conness site, and plans to combine the 6,000 containers.
A new 528,000 square struction alongside the planned new Groups seven locations currently dotted foot Chilled Distribution Centre was compassenger terminal, will be finished later in around Carlisle into a single, highly efficient pleted, on time and on budget, in July 2010 and will provide up to eight train servfacility.
An important regional cross-docking 2009, and now handles Northern Distribuices an hour, direct to Stratford, the site of warehouse will also serve Scotland.
tion for Tescos fresh operations.
Stobart the Olympics, in 42 minutes and to LonPlans are well advanced to link Carlisle Lake has been confirmed as the transport condon Liverpool Street in 49 minutes.
District Airport to London Southend Airport.
tractor, using its multimodal skills.
Nearby, Stobart Ports is also developing the Mersey Gateway Port at the Manchester Ship Canal River Mersey junction.
When finished, this once-underutilised port may handle ocean-going container ships, bulk dry cargoes, palletised products, bonded goods, steel coil, bulk liquids or imported biomass products.
It is within easy reach of Manchester and Liverpool, and close to the M6, M62, M56 motorway hub.
Stobart Ports operates its own fleet of spePart of the development plans for Stobarts cialist skeletal units for carrying containers, which rely on Stobarts renowned IT, trackLondon Southend Airport, the 28m high ing and planning systems.
The volume of work, for the Ports Division, Control Tower is now under construction.
has increased over the past year, especially as Far Eastern imports have grown.
25 Stobart Group Limited Business Review Report and Accounts 2010 26 Eddie Stobart, 40 years in the making Eddie Stobart looks forward to its 40th Anniversary as an incorporated business on 23 November this year.
27 Stobart Group Limited Business Review An original early 1970s Atkinson Borderer makes the slow haul up Newlands Hill to the site of the original Eddie Stobart yard, leaving the Cumbrian hill village of Hesket Newmarket behind.
Eddie Stobart started as a private agricultural contractor in the early of the drivers, vehicles, personnel, warehousing and premises.
A dri- 60s, based in the isolated Lake District village of Hesket Newmarvers truck is his home.
He keeps it immaculate and hands it, freshly ket.
My father began Eddie Stobart Limited so my older brother cleaned, to the next driver.
These values get handed from manager to Edward and I could operate it as a business and allow him to conmanager, from driver to driver, from generation to generation.
tinue as a sole trader said son William, now Chief Operating Eddie Stobart is now, without doubt, the best-known name in UK Officer of the Stobart Group.
road transport, and even has its own Members Club of 15,000 We had four vehicles and employed six or seven drivers.
We people Eddie Spotters are also familiar sights near motorways.
mostly transported and spread lime and fertiliser.
Then we got into Why such warmth to a haulage company?
There must be no other haulage and thats when my dad went limited.
Haulage was riskier, transport brand so loved.
The warmth reflects the professionalism a limited company protected us, in case people wouldnt pay.
That of the brand says William, who spent four years driving for the really concerned my dad.
We personalised our trucks, all with girls names, and we were one of the first operators to have our I was nine years old when it started and remember it well.
You always know when you overtake an Eddie Stobart ber the signwriter putting Ltd after Eddie Stobart on our four trucks.
We were very good at attention to detail and we still are.
People cant imagine just how much effort goes into nurturing, Is the culture still similar?
The business is steeped in our protecting and developing the brand.
First and foremost, they are about house keeping in every sense, including professional administration and the appearance William Stobart Chief Operating Officer Report and Accounts 2010 28
