24 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Operations review Synergy is a leading specialist in sterilisation services for hospitals and medical device manufacturers, as well as having an expanding expertise in infection prevention.
Having developed very successful business models in the UK, which have the bene t of signi cant barriers to entry, good cash generation and long-term contracts, we have been taking the model to other parts of the world.
Initially we established services in Europe, and more recently we have established a presence in Asia, and our strategy is to provide these services selectively on a global basis over the medium term.
Last years primary focus was on improving the quality and sustainability of our business with an emphasis on lifting margins and the returns on capital employed.
This year has proved to be successful with Group margins restored, capacity utilisation of our facilities improved and our cash generation strong.
To ensure that these improvements are sustainable we reshaped the management team into three regions to ensure that we have senior leadership and strategic oversight close to the local markets.
The three regions are UK and Ireland: Europe and Middle East: and Asia and Africa.
Regional CEOs were appointed internally and their new senior teams have been supplemented by a small number of new senior leaders in Europe and Asia.
As a result of these changes we have a much more robust regional presence that will enable us to lift our growth rates while sustaining our overall service, quality and financial performance.
We remain committed to developing our business in all three regions but given the faster growth in the Asian economies, we expect to see the UK become less dominant as our presence in Asia grows.
Revenues in the UK and Ireland represented 55.2% of Group revenues, down from 58.5% in 2009 and 60.0% in 2008.
Europe and Middle East represented 41.0% of revenues compared with 38.2% and 36.8% in the previous two years respectively.
Asia and Africa represented 3.8% of revenues up from 3.3% last year and 3.2% two years ago.
Revenue Adjusted operating pro t UK and Ireland 55.2% UK and Ireland 53.9% Europe and Europe and Middle East 41.0% Middle East 41.1% Asia and Africa 3.8% Asia and Africa 5.0% Synergy Health plc 25 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 United Kingdom and Ireland In the UK and Ireland our strategy is to continue to grow all of The region is an important hub for medical device manufacturing and our core businesses organically by promoting further outsourcing continues to be an important market for our future growth.
We saw to generate ef ciencies for our customers.
The region performed good progress in both the UK and Ireland by expanding the range strongly in the year with good growth from our main services as of validation and testing services as well as adding the new electron well as a strong recovery in UK margins, although revenue growth beam service in Tullamore, Ireland.
During the year we won a was masked by lower revenues from non-core businesses.
Reported 0.7 million per annum contract to provide sterilisation services revenues for the period were 158.0 million 2009: 160.3 million for a large US multinational relocating its manufacturing to Ireland.
down 1.4% with underlying revenues as fide ned on page 29 up Towards the end of the year we took the decision to close the major 3.1% re ecting good growth from our sterilisation, decontamination part of the ageing Harwell facility in the UK, which operates two and healthcare services.
Operating margins improved 2.4% to 14.8% electron beams and one ion beam.
The electron beams at this site resulting in operating pro ts of 23.3 million 2009: 19.9 million, were more than 40 years old and inef cient to operate.
The restoration of margins occurred principally in the ef ciency drive we decided to close the beams and relocate the work to decontamination and linen businesses.
Decontamination had our more modern facilities in Daventry and Tullamore resulting in suffered from a one-off dilutive event in the previous financial improved service for our customers and improved returns on capital.
year, which has now been favourably resolved.
The closure resulted in a 0.6 million restructuring cost recognised at the year end.
2010 2009 % 000 000 change The outsourcing market for hospital support services such as linen Revenues 158,034 160,286 1.4 rental and decontamination remains healthy in the UK with continued Segment operating pro t 23,327 19,902 17.2 demand for outsourcing.
As a result revenue growth remained strong although sales were impacted in the first two weeks of 2010 by poor weather conditions, resulting in the cancellation of large numbers Revenue m of surgical procedures.
Our bid pipeline has been growing signi cantly during the last 1.4% quarter of the financial year as acute hospitals look for opportunities to improve their ef ciency.
In the year we won a number of smaller 10 158.0 decontamination contracts worth 1.2 million per annum to be serviced 09 160.3 08 135.0 from our existing network.
In addition we have begun building a new 07 112.9 decontamination facility in Leicester that will open in February 2011 and we will soon commence the construction of a further facility in Shef eld that will open in May 2011.
These two facilities with projected Segment operating profit m initial revenues of approximately 3 million and 5 million per annum respectively, will take the UK network to 18 facilities.
In Ireland we are also bidding for a contract to build a small network of facilities that will 17.2% meet new decontamination quality standards.
Synergys expertise 10 23.3 in sterilisation is well regarded in Ireland and this has placed us in a 09 19.9 strong position, although we are at an early stage of the process.
08 21.0 07 15.8 Progress with our products based infection control business has been slower in the UK.
A new management team has been appointed with a mandate to lift performance with greater focus and tighter control over costs.
As we announced last year we are exiting a number of non-core business lines and products as part of our refocus on infection control.
These business lines include the healthcare distribution business in Scotland, the incontinence products business and a number of other small product businesses which are a legacy from the Vernon Carus and Shiloh acquisitions.
We expect these business lines will have wound down by the end of the new financial year.
26 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Europe and the Middle East Our strategy in Europe is to expand our range of sterilisation The region enjoys the bene t of well established, stable businesses.
technologies, develop opportunities to expand our decontamination The economic growth prospects for Europe are relatively subdued and sterilisation services for hospitals and to increase revenues however, and we have recognised the need to be more proactive in derived from our infection control products.
Our linen business in the Netherlands operates in a mainly mature outsourced market.
Our principal growth opportunities During the year we achieved steady growth that resulted in revenues are to increase our market share of sterilisation services for the medical of 117.4 million 2009: 104.7 million, increasing 12.2%.
device industry, more aggressively expand our decontamination and Operating margins improved 0.4% to 15.1% resulting in operating hospital sterilisation services in Europe and increase our penetration pro ts of 17.8 million 2009: 15.4 million, up 15.1%.
of infection control products into Europe and the Middle East.
Synergy is the leading provider of sterilisation services in this region, with 2010 2009 % 000 000 change a particular strength in the gamma radiation technology.
Two years ago we began offering ethylene oxide sterilisation in Europe for the first time Revenues 117,426 104,684 12.2 with a new facility in Venlo in the Netherlands as part of a strategy to Segment operating pro t 17,769 15,439 15.1 broaden our capabilities.
We have made good progress lling the facility over the last 12 months and as one of our local competitors is about to close its competing facility, we expect to see Venlo operating 24 hours per Revenue m day later this year.
Indeed it is likely that we will consider adding additional processing lines towards the end of the new financial year to increase 12.2% capacity to meet the expected demand.
We will also expand our gamma 10 117.4 radiation capacity in Europe by building a facility in Marcoule in France, 09 104.7 a project that was delayed in 2008 because of the economic downturn.
08 82.7 We remain at full capacity at our other French facility at Marseille and 07 68.3 the Marcoule facility will provide much needed capacity to enable us to increase our market share in the region.
Our decontamination services, which presently operate in two of the Segment operating profit m largest hospitals in the Netherlands and Belgium, have been slow to develop.
The reorganisation of the management team has sought to 15.1 % address this situation and we will see a renewed effort to expand our services particularly into Germany where our competitors positions 10 17.
8 09 15.4 have weakened over the last year.
As the market leader in Europe we 08 12.9 are con dent that our service quality is unbeaten, and with our scale we 07 11.7 have the ability to offer outsourced services that meet the highest quality standards as well as generating ef ciencies that improve the performance of our customers.
Our new operating model, which is based on the well established retention of employment model, allows us to avoid the VAT issues we identi ed last year.
Sales of our infection control products have grown well during the year albeit from a low base.
We have distributors in place throughout Europe and the Middle East and this has resulted in good revenue growth assisted to some extent by the devaluation of Sterling.
Continued international growth is regarded as strategically important as it enables the Group to achieve increased scale that will strengthen our competitive position in the UK as well as enable greater spending on research and development.
Synergy Health plc 27 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Asia and Africa We operate services in South Africa, Thailand, Malaysia and most In China we have established our first hospital decontamination and recently in China.
From a low base, Asia has been our fastest growing sterilisation service in response to the new processing regulations that region and Synergy has a strategy to generate approximately one-third came into force in December 2009.
The service began processing of its revenues from here in the medium term.
However, in the last work in September and completed the transition of the first three year our sterilisation services have been held back by declining foundation customers by the end of November.
Since then additional demand for medical devices sterilised in the region but consumed in hospitals and other healthcare providers have begun using the service.
the US offset by the a six month revenue contribution from our new We are actively marketing the service within the Suzhou area and we hospital and medical device sterilisation facility in Suzhou, China.
expect to make steady progress lling the facility.
Having created a working model we have plans to build a network of facilities in China similar to the UK.
Our current development work is concentrating 2010 2009 % 000 000 change on the Jiangsu Province where we have in place all the necessary approvals to operate.
There are 13 major cities in the province with Revenues 10,961 9,130 20.1 a population of approximately 100 million people and we are aiming Segment operating pro t 2,165 3,033 28.6 to have a facility in each of these urban centres over the coming three years secured with long-term contracts.
To date the most promising opportunities appear to be new hospitals, where building a Revenue m decontamination facility is optional given the option of an outsourced service.
The speed at which we can build our network at present is being driven by the timing of these new build hospitals together 20.1% with the time required to establish appropriate relationships with all 10 11.
09 9.1 08 7.3 The outlook 07 5.8 Synergy has ended the financial year in a very strong position and with a restructured management team that will support a sustainable performance.
We remain very positive about all three regions despite Segment operating profit m the scal problems in the UK and Ireland, and Europe.
The Governments of both the UK and Ireland are under pressure to 28.6% deliver higher quality healthcare at lower costs.
Synergys outsourced 10 2.2 services achieve both of these outcomes and for this reason the level of 09 3.0 enquiries has seen a signi cant upturn in recent months.
Speci cally in 08 2.1 the UK the National Health Service is funded to meet patient demand 07 1.7 but there are constraints on capital expenditure and a focus on improving ef ciency.
Synergy is well placed to continue to upgrade the decontamination infrastructure for the NHS and with the use of its Revenues for the region were up 20.1% to 11.0 million technology is able to demonstrate signi cant ef ciency gains through 2009: 9.1 million whilst operating pro ts declined to 2.2 million outsourcing.
The regional medical device market also remains solid as 2009: 3.0 million.
The 28.6% reduction in operating margins a major hub for innovation and manufacturing and we continue to see to 19.8% re ects the start-up costs incurred in China.
strong demand for outsourced sterilisation services.
In Malaysia and Thailand our sterilisation services for both the medical In Europe and the Middle East, the markets for our outsourced services device and food decontamination markets have been at, impacted for hospital decontamination and sterilisation remain active although linen by the economic slowdown in the US.
The first tentative signs of services are largely mature with the majority of work already outsourced.
improving demand have been seen early in the new financial year but The medical device market is expected to continue growing but at a we expect the improvement to be gradual.
In China our facility is fully slightly slower rate as a result of the poor economic environment.
open and we are continuing to validate the sterilisation of new products In Asia and Africa we are seeing a return of demand from the US primarily for the large US based multinationals.
Routine sterilisation markets, which we expect to build throughout the year.
Meanwhile the processing has been slower than expected, but the pipeline is decontamination and sterilisation markets in China provide exciting promising and we expect to make more progress in the new financial growth opportunities for Synergy over the coming years.
Our strategy for our sterilisation services is to continue to build our presence in the region as part of a group objective to become Having met the short-term objectives we set last year we have begun the second-largest global service provider.
reinvesting in our commercial teams to proactively develop top line revenue growth.
The commercial disciplines that we have put in place will remain and we will continue to be selective about the contracts that we take on to ensure that our margins are maintained and our target returns on capital employed are comfortably met.
Overall we expect to see some further margin progression in the first half with the bene t of the investments in our commercial teams driving more progressive revenue growth during the second half of the current financial year.
