Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa Continued success in Africa In Ghana and Uganda, Tullow had major operational success throughout the year.
Ghana and West African Equatorial Atlantic is currently around 110,000 bwpd and a further four In the Equatorial Atlantic region offshore West water injection wells will be completed during 2011 Africa Tullow has interests in 10 blocks across four to maintain plateau oil production levels.
Gas countries: Sierra Leone, Liberia, Cte dIvoire and injection will commence in March and a second Ghana.
2010 has been a period of strong delivery injection well is expected to be completed in the forTullows operations in Ghana, culminating in third quarter of 2011. thedelivery of First Oil from the Jubilee field in Further phases of Jubilee development November.
Exploration and appraisal success Planning work for Phase 1a of the Jubilee continued throughout the year in Ghana and Sierra development, to comprise between five and eight Leone where significant new fields have been further wells, commenced in the fourth quarter discovered.
This development will help maintain field programme has the potential to transform this production at plateau levels and develop further areainto one of Africas most substantial oil reserves.
It is anticipated that the investment producingregions.
decision will be made in the third quarter of 2011 First Oil from Jubilee field Phase 1 development following analysis of reservoir performance and Production from the Phase 1 development of the submission of plans to the Government of Ghana.
Jubilee field commenced on 28 November and Sub-surface planning work is well advanced and was inaugurated by the President of Ghana on has already identified the additional well locations.
This milestone was achieved A deepwater rig to execute the programme, starting around 40 months after discovery of the field, early in 2012, is currently being tendered.
with top quartile safety performance, and the final The operator of the West Cape Three Points WCTP cost is expected to be within 5% of the original licence submitted a Declaration of Commerciality $3.1 billion budget.
The project has set a significant for the Mahogany East Area previously known as new global benchmark for the delivery of major Southeast Jubilee area in September 2010.
Plan of Development for the Mahogany East Area is Gross production of over 69,000 bopd has been currently under discussion with the Government of achieved from five wells and full production Ghana.
The development of the Mahogany East Area capacity of 120,000 bopd is expected to be reached reservoirs, which are extensive but generally thinner in the next five months as the remaining four than in the main Jubilee reservoirs, is currently production wells are completed and brought on planned to consist of a four-to-six well tie-back to line.
On 5 January 2011, the first lifting of Jubilee the existing Jubilee subsea infrastructure when crude oil, a 650,000 barrel Tullow cargo, was capacity is available.
However, an accelerated successfully completed.
Once plateau production development as part of an integrated project with isreached an average of three offtakes are other WCTP discoveries may be considered expected each month.
Water injection to two wells depending upon further exploration and appraisal success in the WCTP licence.
Enyenra formerly Owo and Tweneboa 39,000 boepd In February 2010, the first appraisal well on the Average working interest production Tweneboa field, Tweneboa-2, in the Deepwater Tano licence offshore Ghana, intersected a significant Glossary combined hydrocarbon column.
Coupled with the boepd Barrels of oil equivalent per day Tweneboa-1 discovery in 2009, Tweneboa was bopd Barrels of oil per day established as a major gas-condensate and oil field.
CNOOC China National Offshore OilCorporation In July 2010, the Owo-1 and Owo-1 sidetrack wells DRC Democratic Republic of Congo continued the success of Tullows West African EA Exploration Area Equatorial Atlantic drilling campaign.
The wells FEED Front End Engineering and Design intersected a total of 69 metres of net oil pay in FPSO Floating Production Storage andOffloading vessel asubstantial gross oil column of 200 metres and FTG Full Tensor Gravity Gradiometry established Enyenra as a major new oil field in its km kilometres own right.
The wells also intersected 13 metres of P50 Reserves and or resources estimates that have a 50 per cent probability of being met or exceeded net condensate pay and six metres of net gas pay WCTP West Cape Three Points below the Enyenra oil field.
52 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p48-p61 AW.
indd 52 52 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:36 09:36 3 A campaign of appraisal wells and flow tests has West African Equatorial Atlantic region now commenced across both the Enyenra and Tweneboa fields.
The programme is designed to determine reservoir extent and connectivity and to Sierra provide rock and fluid data.
The first well in this Guinea Leone campaign was Tweneboa-3, drilled in December 2010, which confirmed producible gas-condensate at this location.
In February 2011, Enyenra-2A was drilled and encountered oil in excellent quality Liberia reservoirs which are in communication with the Cte dIvoire original Owo-1 discovery well located 7km up-dip.
Ghana The result confirms Enyenra as a major light oil discovery.
The activity programme this year will lead to a Declaration of Commerciality for the Enyenra and Tweneboa fields being submitted Venus to the Government of Ghana later in 2011.
The Discovery Mercury expected schedule of wells includes Tweneboa-4, Discovery Tweneboa-DST, Enyenra-3A, Enyenra-DST and Enyenra-4A.
Development studies for both fields are focused onoptimising the recovery of the light oil discovered Jubilee Teak Unit at Enyenra and maximising both liquid and gas Area Odum Oil field recovery from the Tweneboa field.
Conceptual Gas condensate & oil field developments include the use of a large FPSO with Enyenra Tweneboa Tullow operated block liquid rates in the range of 75,000 to 125,000 bopd.
Mahogany East Tullow non-operated block Water and gas is expected to be injected into the reservoirs to optimise both oil and condensate Jubilee Phase 1 development area recovery levels.
Gas export infrastructure to shore will also be put in place to satisfy the growing demand in Ghana.
A Plan of Development will be prepared for submission in the first quarter of 2012 and, pending approvals and a timely sanction of the project, first production would be anticipated before the end of 2014.
Further West African Equatorial Atlantic exploration and appraisal activity In 2010, Tullow has continued to progress the Jubilee play in the West African Equatorial Atlantic region including Cte dIvoire, Sierra Leone and Liberia.
In addition to the successes with Enyenra and Tweneboa, Tullow has also made other important discoveries through a campaign of wells inGhana and Sierra Leone.
Following the interpretation of 10,000 sq km of 3Ddata over Tullows acreage in Sierra Leone and Liberia, several Jubilee-type prospects have been identified.
The Mercury-1 well offshore Sierra Leone was drilled in November and encountered 35metres of excellent quality oil pay in the primary objective and a further six metre oil pay in a shallower secondary objective.
These accumulations are currently being assessed with a view to drilling a potential appraisal well during 2011.
In Liberia, Deep Pioneer installing subsea equipment on the Jubilee field, offshore Ghana.
indd 53 53 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:36 09:36 Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa Togo Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued the high potential Montserrado formerly Cobalt Production and Development in Cte dIvoire prospect is now scheduled for drilling in the third Net production from the East and West Espoir fields quarter of 2011 with the operator having recently was in line with expectations averaging 3,850 boepd secured the Transocean Discoverer Spirit drillship 2009: 5,000 boepd.
The decrease in production for a campaign in the region.
from 2009 levels was due to planned shutdowns to facilitate the upgrade to the FPSO and because of In Ghana, another important discovery was made the natural decline of the fields.
The upgrade to the inFebruary 2011 when the Teak-1 well in the West processing facilities was completed successfully in Cape Three Points licence found hydrocarbons in the middle of the year.
An investigation into the all five prospective horizons.
An extensive multifeasibility of adding extra well slots to both platforms well exploration campaign is continuing in the is at an advanced stage and infill drilling from both licence before the exploration period expires in the East and West wellhead towers is anticipated mid-2011.
The current well, Teak-2, is being drilled in2012 or 2013. into a fault block adjacent to that intersected by Teak-1 and a result is expected later in March.
Ghana Listing In November 2010, Tullow announced that in The Dahoma-1 exploration well in the West Cape orderto create a more accessible opportunity for Three Points licence and the Onyina-1 exploration Ghanaian individuals and institutions to invest in well in the Deepwater Tano licence were drilled the future of their oil industry, through Tullow, the inApril and October 2010 respectively and were Group was planning a secondary listing on the unsuccessful.
The results from these wells Ghana Stock Exchange.
Originally planned for havehelped us to calibrate the basin and the December, the Listing has been postponed due to Onyina-1 result also supported the required 25% the requirement over that period to focus on First relinquishment of non-prospective acreage in Oil from the Jubilee field and year-end corporate January 2011. planning.
The Listing is now planned to go ahead assoon as practicable after our year-end results In Cte dIvoire, advanced processing of the large 3D surveys acquired in blocks CI-103 and CI-105 in and the issue of our Annual Report.
2010 have been completed and the interpretation ofthese datasets has revealed a number of Uganda potential targets for the two wells scheduled for Tullow has had interests in the Lake Albert Rift thesecond half of 2011.
Interpretation of the Basin in Uganda since 2004 when it acquired reprocessed 3D seismic data over CI-102 revealed Energy Africa.
Since then, the Group has limited prospectivity so Tullow withdrew from this drilledapproximately 40 wells with all but one Joint Venture at the end of December 2010.
To date, one billion the current political uncertainty in Cte dIvoire is resolved our exploration licences have been placed in Force Majeure, however, there has been no impact on production.
82% Exploration and appraisal success rate Enyenra Major light oil discovery Deepwater Millennium which drilled the successful Mercury-1 well offshore Sierra Leone.
54 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p48-p61 AW.
A legally binding Memorandum of and1.5 billion barrels of P50 prospective resources Understanding has been drafted.
Over this period, Tullow has acquired will pave the way for the farm-down and additional equity by purchasing Hardman Resources development of all assets within the Lake Albert in 2007 and Heritage Oil and Gas Limiteds Rift Basin by Tullow, Total and CNOOC.
Tullow is now finalising Exploration and appraisal plans to farm down a one-third interest to both The successful exploration and appraisal campaign CNOOC and Total to align interests across the basin in Uganda continued in 2010 with ten wells drilled, and accelerate basin-wide development.
Ultimately, all of which encountered hydrocarbons.
This led Tullow expects the basin to be producing in excess to the estimated P50 resource base for Uganda of 200,000 bopd.
being revised upwards from 800 million barrels Purchase of Heritage interests and farm-down at the beginning of the year to 1 billion barrels at toCNOOC and Total year-end.
On 17 January 2010, Tullow exercised its right to The 2010 Ugandan drilling campaign commenced pre-empt the sale by Heritage of its interests in in January with the Kasamene appraisal Uganda to a third party.
This resulted in Tullow programme where the OGEC-750 rig drilled three acquiring a 50% interest in Exploration Areas 1 and wells: Kasamene-2, 3 and 3A.
Positive results from 3A EA 1 and EA3A for $1.45 billion on 26 July 2010. these wells give strong support to the development $1.05 billion was paid directly to Heritage, $121 of this field.
million was deposited with the Ugandan Revenue Authority and$283 million was put into escrow In May, the Nzizi-3 appraisal well was drilled, pending resolution of a dispute between the establishing reservoir connectivity with the Nzizi-2 Government of Uganda and Heritage over payment well and proving the wells viability as a future of capital gains tax.
Conditional approval from the gas producer for the integrated power project.
Government of Uganda was received for the In June, the OGEC-600 rig arrived in EA 1 and a purchase and a subsequent farm-down to CNOOC comprehensive two-rig exploration and appraisal and Total: however, the Government of Uganda has campaign commenced across EA 1 and EA 2.
In stated that final approval for both transactions total, a further six successful appraisal wells were would not be received until a basis for resolution of drilled and the Mpyo-1 exploration well made a the Heritage capital gains tax dispute has been material discovery.
Good progress is being made in defining numerous Tullow and the Government of Uganda have been new exploration and appraisal drilling targets for engaged in negotiations aimed at resolving this the drill-out campaign in 2011 which will accelerate Upgrade of processing facilities on the Espoir field FPSO, Accelerated weight drop units used in seismic acquisition, offshore Cte dIvoire.
indd 55 55 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 14:32 14:32 Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued once the transaction with CNOOC and Total is to progress these developments to sanction.
Following a short drilling hiatus, one Nzizi gas field development will deliver gas to a new rig is now operational in EA 2, a second rig is on power plant in the Lake Albert area.
First gas from standby and further rigs are being contracted.
Nzizi is subject to gas sales agreements and the In 2011, two successful appraisal wells have been readiness of the new Lake Albert Power Plant, drilled Nsoga-2 and Kigogole-6.
Ngege-2 is which is expected in 2012.
The timing of the currently drilling.
Kasamene development, based on a production facility with an initial capacity of up to 10,000 bopd, During the year, three 2D seismic surveys have is under review to determine how this development been completed in the Butiaba Area of the basin will be best integrated into the overall Lake Albert resulting in a total of 767 line kilometres of good development plan.
These surveys have firmed up a series of large prospects and have assisted in the placement Following completion of the farm-down to CNOOC of wells to finalise the appraisal of a number of and Total, the partners will work closely with the discoveries.
In addition, a new 3D survey is ongoing Government on a development plan aimed at and will run through to the fourth quarter of 2011. delivering in excess of 200,000 bopd which will include refinery options to supply petroleum Lake Albert Rift Basin Development products for the region as well as pipeline export During the year, good progress has been made routes to international markets.
The target for onthe first phase of the EA 2 development.
An achieving significant oil production from this phase Extended Well Testing programme is planned to of the development is currently 2015. start in the second quarter of 2011 with test crude to be sold to a domestic industrial user.
Field Focus on Capacity Building in Uganda Development Plans have also been submitted to Tullow has facilitated considerable growth in the the Government of Uganda for the Waraga, Mputa petroleum sector in Uganda.
Tullows Kampala team and Nzizi discoveries as required at the end of the has grown with the focus firmly on maximising appraisal period.
It is anticipated that the Kasamene recruitment of Ugandan nationals in order to Field Development Plan will be submitted in the ensure the long-term sustainability of the project second quarter of 2011. and of the industry as a whole.
Over 80% of the team working in Kampala, Cape Town and London The Front-End Engineering and Design FEED are Ugandans and competencies continue to build phase for the Nzizi and Kasamene development through on-the-job experience and formal training.
projects has been completed and work is underway Staff members from the Kampala office, Uganda.
Production facilities at the Onal field, Gabon.
56 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p48-p61 AW.
indd 56 56 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:36 09:36 3 Tullow has also stepped up its programme this year to build capacity in the supply sector by encouraging 3.5 years local businesses to partner with international From Jubilee discovery to First Oil specialists.
A Logistics Suppliers Open Day, held in January 2011, attracted over 500 service providers and provided a forum for debate on the way in which 100,000 sq km access to the industry by local entrepreneurs can New Kenya and Ethiopia Acreage be supported.
Further events planned in 2011 will expand these efforts to every sector of the industry.
Kenya and Ethiopia In the second half of 2010, Tullow farmed in to blocks 10A, 10BA, 10BB, 12A & 13T in Kenya and Equatorial Guinea the South Omo block in Ethiopia.
The deal was Net production from the Ceiba field was ahead completed in early 2011 and Tullow now operates ofexpectations, averaging 3,950 bopd in 2010, due all six blocks covering an area of around 100,000 to the optimised use of the subsea pumps.
The acreage covers the Turkana Rift Basin, production from the Okume Complex averaged which is similar in character to the Lake Albert Rift 11,750 bopd in 2010 as new production wells kept Basin, and also a south-east extension of the the field on plateau whilst uptime and throughput geologically older Sudan rift basins trend.
A 600 km were enhanced leading to slightly higher average 2D seismic survey has already been completed in production than 2009.
Block 10BB and an 800 km 2D seismic survey covering Block 10A is in progress.
A Full Tensor During the year, two drilling rigs completed Gravity Gradiometry FTG survey will commence separate development drilling campaigns on the inthe first quarter of 2011 followed by multiple 2D deep water and shallow water sections of the seismic programmes across all the blocks.
Two Okume Complex, with eight new wells drilled wildcat exploration wells are planned for late 2011. aheadof schedule.
In the third quarter of 2010, In March 2011, Tullow also farmed in to Block L8 atime lapse 3D 4D seismic survey was acquired offshore Kenya, subject to certain approvals.
On over the Ceiba field and the deep water part of the completion, Tullow will gain a 10% interest and Okume Complex which is expected to assist with have an option to increase its interest by a further selecting future infill well locations.
5% in this highly prospective acreage.
Gabon Congo DRC Net production in Gabon averaged 12,850 bopd from In 2006, Tullow was awarded two Congo DRC 13 fields during 2010, an increase of 7% over the licences, adjacent to its Ugandan acreage on Lake previous year.
The Niungo, Echira and Tchatamba Albert, through a transparent bidding process.
In fields all performed well and work is ongoing to June 2010, the Government awarded the licences further enhance production.
Tullow and its partners via Presidential decree to two British Virgin drilled 53 wells in Gabon during 2010, including Islands-registered companies.
Tullow commenced aseries of very successful exploratory appraisal legal proceedings to challenge that award and wells, and in 2011 the level of drilling activity will obtained an interim injunction preventing those besustained with over 50 wells planned.
Further companies carrying out any work until Tullows seismic evaluation is also planned to support the rights had been legally determined.
proceedings, it became clear that Tullows rights In February 2010 the Maroc-Nord-1 exploration were not likely to be upheld so long as the DRC well discovered 50 metres of net oil pay in an Government maintained its position that it had the emerging under-explored stratigraphic trap play right to ignore or revoke the earlier award to Tullow.
which is currently being appraised and will be Given the expense of further proceedings and the brought into the Onal area development in 2011. difficulty in enforcing any award against the DRC The Noix fide Coco1 exploration well was drilled even in the event of success, the Board has in April 2010 on the Tullow operated Azobe regretfully taken the decision to discontinue the exploration block but the well encountered legal proceedings and withdraw from the DRC.
indd 57 57 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:36 09:36 Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa Directors Report: Business review Operations review: Africa continued non-commercial levels of hydrocarbons and Tanzania following a full review the licence was relinquished.
In April 2010, the Likonde-1 exploration well in the Tullow entered an agreement with Perenco to farm Lindi Block was drilled to a depth of 3,647 metres in to the offshore Arouwe exploration block for a testing Tertiary and Cretaceous sequences.
The Falcon North-1 exploration well amounts of residual oil and gas were found: however, was drilled in December 2010 and encountered no commercial quantities would have been producible non-commercial volumes of hydrocarbon: however, from the well.
Tullows strategy of exploring for oil in material prospectivity remains in the licence for the the Ruvuma Basin continued throughout 2010 with new exploration campaign ahead.
theentire seismic dataset being reprocessed to better image potential objectives in the Lindi and Mtwara blocks with a second commitment well planned Congo Brazzaville laterin2011.
Net production from the MBoundi field averaged 4,000 bopd in 2010.
A delay in the ramp up of water injection has resulted in a decline in average Madagascar reservoir pressure and hence a decline in well Due to the political instability in Madagascar during productivity.
Infill drilling however continued 2010, Tullow elected to delay the 2D seismic acquisition throughout the year, with the delivery of 30 new programme until 2011.
However, Tullow completed an wells.
Hydraulic fracturing has been successful extensive geological field study programme to better inimproving productivity of a number of wells and define areas of high prospectivity targeting a light oil downhole pumps are being installed in producer play in the Permo-Triassic Karoo interval.
Oil sampled wells to deal with the rising watercut.
from natural seepages along the faults which bound the prospects is being analysed.
Tullow has also completed a reprocessing project of the historical Mauritania and Senegal seismic data which has resulted in a large improvement In Mauritania, the Chinguetti field production of the dataset.
The assignment of Madagascar Oils ratedeclined in line with expectations, averaging 50% equity in Block 3109 to Tullow completed by the 1,500 boepd net to Tullow.
Towards the end of 2010, endof 2010 and a well in Block 3111 is planned for 2012. aprogramme of well and flowline optimisation resulted in a reduction in the rate of decline and the potential for further optimisation in 2011 and Namibia beyond is being evaluated.
Terms of a new Kudu Petroleum Agreement have been agreed with the Ministry of Mines and Energy and a The Cormoran-1 exploration well, located in revised 25 year Production Licence is expected to be offshore Block 7, completed drilling in January issued in the first quarter of 2011.
The objective of the well was to appraise the ofthe Production Licence partners NAMCOR, Gazprom Pelican gas discovery and to target two underlying International and Itochu, has completed the concept exploration prospects, Cormoran and Petronia.
The selection study for the offshore development of the well successfully intersected gas in both Pelican Kudu gas field and is now entering into technical and Cormoran.
The Pelican interval was flow tested integration discussions with NamPower to optimise at a stabilised flow rate of approximately 23 mmscfd.
design concepts of both the offshore development In the deeper Petronia target, the well encountered and the Kudu Power Station.
In parallel, discussions rich gas in Turonian-age reservoirs.
However, are underway with NamPower on the gas supply drilling had to be stopped for operational reasons agreements and for the 800MW power station and, soon after penetrating the trap.
subject to progress, Tullow expects to initiate detailed The result from the Gharabi-1 well, in Mauritania design of the offshore development in the second quarter of 2011.
Block 6, was announced in February 2011.
The well, which was selected by the operator to meet licence commitments, intersected poorly developed Angola water-bearing reservoirs.
The result has no impact On 30 November 2010, Tullow elected to withdraw on Tullows future plans for its Mauritanian or other fromthe Block 1 06 licence in Angola on commercial West African acreage.
In 2011, Tullow will continue grounds.
The first exploration period has terminated defining prospects throughout the Mauritaniaand in-country operations are due to complete by Senegal basin with further planned exploration mid-year.
58 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p48-p61 AW.
