16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Minerals Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Minerals is the global leader in the provision of slurry handling equipment and associated spare parts for abrasive high wear Order Input applications.
Mining and minerals is the divisions largest sector but it also has aligned product sales into several niche markets, including 984m Up 26% oil sands and flue gas equipment FGD.
Products include pumps, hydrocyclones, valves, dewatering equipment and wear resistant Revenue linings and, following the acquisition of Linatex in September 2010, rubber products and screening machines.
The divisions partnership 901m with KHD Humboldt signed in May 2010 extends its reach into Up 3% high pressure grinding rollers, an exciting new breakthrough in milling technology.
Operating profit 174.5m The divisions strong competitive position is underpinned by core Up 24% competencies in materials technology and engineered hydraulics, which are naturally aligned with aggressive wear applications Sector input breakdown ensuring a sustainable business model with a large proportion of Minerals business coming from the aftermarket.
This ongoing relationship 74% brings the division closer to its customers, as trusted suppliers General Industry 9% with the expertise to resolve issues in a number of critical applicaOil & Gas 8% tions central to determining operational success.
Through these Power Generation 7% competencies the divisions market presence will continue to be Other 2% extended into new applications, where a source of competitive advantage can be offered to customers.
The division operates in all key mining markets with an extensive service and support footprint, including South America, Australia, Asia-Pacific, Africa and Geographic input breakdown North America.
North America 21% Market review South America 21% Australia Market conditions improved in 2010 underpinned by strong demand 19% for commodities, particularly from emerging markets, with rising Middle East Africa 15% commodity prices through the year.
Most mothballed mines were Asia Pacific 15% re-started to meet global ore production growth of around 10% - a Europe FSU 9% key driver for the aftermarket business.
Increased activity was also evident in the Canadian oil sands market where capital spend is mainly targeted at addressing environmental issues or improving production efficiencies.
Increases in capital expenditure were announced by a number of customers driving increased project enquiries and engineering studies.
As the year progressed and sector confidence grew, most previously deferred projects were re-activated and a number of brownfield expansions actioned translated into increased original equipment orders.
The FGD market continued to be generally flat given a lack of new coal plant starts in 1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits the US and China.
stated before intangibles amortisation 17 Achievements & contract wins Acquired and successfully integrating Linatex products into the Weir Minerals portfolio and Weir Production System.
Opened a fully integrated, state-of-the-art foundry and manufacturing facility outside Sao Paulo in Jundiai, Brasil.
Initiated 20 year agreement with KHD to market High Pressure Grinding Rollers HPGRs in the mining and minerals processing market, with Weir Minerals Australia selling the first HPGR unit.
The next generation Warman WBH centrifugal slurry pump has been launched and is gathering recognition with orders from customers for its reduced energy usage, ease of maintenance and enhanced performance.
Weir Minerals Canada provided Suncor Energy with three large dewatering barge systems for use in extremely harsh and remote environments.
The barges, weighing in excess of 400 tonnes, are designed to meet rigorous naval architecture requirements.
Weir Minerals Peru and Weir Minerals Netherlands received orders exceeding US$20m The next generation Warman WBH centrifugal slurry to supply a copper mine expansion project with a range of GEHO and Warman pumps.
pump - set to be Warmans next gold standard pump Orders totalling US$7.7m received from an iron ore concentration plant project in Brasil for supply of a range of Warman slurry and rubber lined pumps and Cavex cyclones.
Good growth in the Minerals Total Care centres realised 19% increase year on year with significant increases in Africa 37%, Brasil 46%, Europe 55%, and Canada 88%.
Continued building long-term relationships with the major mining houses including receiving in principle commitments for five new major projects.
Operational performance The division delivered another record financial performance benefiting from improving markets and a higher proportion of aftermarket revenues from a business model that provides exposure to both capital expenditure trends and commodity production volumes.
Good progress was made in delivering on the divisions strategic growth initiatives of extending its market presence and product portfolio.
The integration of Linatex is progressing well with synergy State-of-the-art foundry at Weir Minerals new facility savings estimates increased by US$5m to US$10-US$15m by the near Sao Paulo, Brasil end of 2012.
This broad based performance continues to demonstrate the resilience of the divisions business model.
Order input increased 26% to 984m 2009: 782m reflecting a 32% and 21% increase in original equipment and aftermarket orders respectively.
Original equipment orders represented 43% of total order input 2009:41%.
On a like-for-like basis, ignoring the impact of the Linatex acquisition which contributed 28m, order input was up 22%.
All regions showed growth benefiting from a broader product portfolio and exposure to a wide range of commodities.
Emerging markets accounted for 51% of input, up from 49% in 2009. Notable slurry pump wins were achieved in the Philippines nickel, Brasil iron-ore and Mongolia copper while ancillary 18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Minerals Division Operational review continued The growing installed base product orders were up 38% in the year.
These included a CAD$50m provides future aftermarket award, for delivery in 2011, to supply barges and an integrated opportunities while long term package of Weir products to a major oil sands project in Canada market fundamentals remain while in Chile the business was successful in extending its presence strong driven by urbanisation into the mill circuit spools market with a number of significant in emerging markets and their contract wins totalling US$18m.
Aftermarket input benefited from a high demand for raw materials.
restocking effect in the early part of the year, higher activity levels in the mining and oil sands markets and growing service support revenues as the division extended its service footprint.
Revenue increased by 3% to 901m 2009: 879m including a 27m first contribution from Linatex.
Like-for-like revenues remained flat reflecting a lower opening orderbook offset by strong growth in Aftermarket input m shorter cycle aftermarket revenues in Australia, Canada, South 564.1 600 America and Africa and a pickup in the last quarter in original 470.3 464.8 500 equipment sales which accounted for 39% 2009: 47% of annual 400 divisional revenue.
300 Operating profit increased by 24% to 174.5m 2009: 140.5m 200 and included 1.9m from Linatex offset by 8.3m of restructuring 100 and acquisition costs.
This strong underlying improvement reflects 2008 2009 2010 the increased aftermarket mix, improved operating efficiencies and raw material pricing benefits in the early part of the year.
Operating margin improved to 19.4% 2009: 16.0% reflecting a higher proportion of aftermarket sales and, in the second half, the impact of the Linatex acquisition and associated restructuring costs.
Investment The division has continued to invest in materials and product technology as well as its operating facilities to meet the needs of a growing business.
Capital expenditure was 30.2m 2009: 29.7m with significant investment in South America and Asia while research and development spend rose 42% to 8.2m.
During the year, Multiflo moved to a AUD$9m purpose-built facility in Queensland, Australia, consolidating four sites into one.
In addition to doubling capacity and the increased operational synergies of being in one location, the new complex was designed around state-of-the-art energy efficiency principles.
In early 2011, an assembly centre and test stand for GEHO pump products was opened in Taicang, China.
GEHO pumps are world market and technological leaders, handling a wide range of applications including longdistance slurry pipeline transport and high density tailings disposal.
The Taicang facility will be a key element in executing GEHOs strategy to support the aftermarket of the already large installed base in China.
A number of new service centres were also opened in the year including in Africa, Indonesia and Russia, extending the divisions emerging markets presence.
Additional efforts are underway to expand the capabilities of our service centres to include servicing of KHD and Linatex products.
19 Weir Minerals continue to develop the Warman brand in the drive for a superior pump Weir in action for heavy duty applications.
By examining industry issues, leveraging the features that Customer made the Warman AH pump the gold standard for a generation and modifying its design, When a new plant starts up, the last thing the the engineering team has created the Warman WBH slurry pump range with a range of operations team wants is equipment failure early improved features.
A number of customer trials were launched in the year with positive on, which unfortunately happened at PanAusts feedback, confirming a material reduction in total life cycle costs through improvements in Phu Kham Copper-Gold Operation in Laos wear life, energy usage and flow rates.
when one of the original valves became a big headache.
After four to six months the complete The acquisition of Linatex, a global provider of wear-resistant products to the mining valve needed replacing with a new one.
and sand & aggregates industries based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia was completed in September 2010, for a total consideration of 124.4m after taking account of net indebtedness acquired of 12.7m at the exchange rate ruling at date of transaction.
This acquisition represents an excellent opportunity for the division to grow its global capability, emerging market footprint and further strengthen its aftermarket presence.
Linatex has a geographic footprint well-aligned to the division, together with an established emerging market base served from core manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and China.
Its market leading rubber products are highly complementary to the existing portfolio with significant potential for expansion in the Canadian oil sands through newly developed Linatex product.
This will enable the business to leverage off the divisions existing global sales network to grow product sales.
Integration is progressing well with realised annualised synergy savings achieved to date of US$8.8m and total savings now expected to be around US$10-US$15m by the end of 2012 against our earlier expectations of US$5-US$10m.
Phu Kham copper-gold operation in Laos The divisions partnership with KHD Humboldt also brings further exciting opportunities to leverage the existing customer base and service infrastructure by offering customers Brief innovative new technology in high pressure grinding.
This break through in grinding The site operations team at Southeast Asias technology creates the potential to significantly enhance customers productivity, as a leading copper and gold producers key asset highly efficient alternative to traditional mill set ups, whilst positioning the division for growth had done a magnificent job working through in this high potential market.
the challenges of the new plant, achieving record production.
They were determined to Employees remain at the heart of the business and it is their engineering and operatioovercome the obstacle arising from the valve final skills which provide the basis of the divisions competitive advantage.
The division operations and carried out an in-house survey.
recognises the importance of continuing to invest not only in technology, but also in They turned to Weir Minerals, trusting their long strengthening the customers experience and the capability of employees to deliver term experience and expertise in slurry lines.
In 2010, the Mill Circuit University was introduced for employees to learn about the The PanAust team knew they would get an entire minerals processing circuit.
This training expands the breadth of expertise that the informed option.
attendees possess, while also enhancing the professionalism with which the division can Solution package products as solutions for customers process critical applications.
By taking a big picture perspective of the slurry line, Weir Minerals identified the problem, which embraced not only the original valves but Outlook the piping too.
A trial of two different kinds of Weir Minerals Isogate valves seemed certain Weir Minerals is well positioned for future growth, with positive market conditions across to lead to a far better solution, along with a the mining and oil sands markets expected to continue through 2011.
Increases in capital cost-effective piping alternative.
expenditure have been announced by some customers which have resulted in increased Result project enquiries and engineering studies with a number of mega-projects likely to get The Isogate valves ran up 8 to 10 months without underway in 2011 12 principally across South America and the Asia-Pacific regions.
It a hitch and maintenance only involved changing is anticipated that this will translate into further original equipment order growth.
A more valve sleeves and re-installing the valve.
Nick modest growth in aftermarket orders is expected given the 2010 restocking effect and Opiti, PanAusts Plant Reliability Engineer for forecast commodity production volume trends.
Together with a strong opening order book Fixed Plant Maintenance said: Expertise and and a full year Linatex contribution, it is expected that 2011 revenue and operating profit experience is built over time and since Weir will be higher than 2010 with operating margins reflecting a higher proportion of original Minerals provided a practical solution for a real time issue we have maximised performance equipment revenue compared to the prior year.
The growing installed base provides future of the plant.
aftermarket opportunities while long term market fundamentals remain strong driven by urbanisation in emerging markets and high demand for raw materials.
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Oil & Gas Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufactures pumps and ancillary equipment for the global upstream and downstream oil and gas Order Input markets and provides substantial aftermarket service and support activities.
The upstream operation specialises in the manufacture of 626m Up 97% high-pressure well service pumps and related flow control equipment along with repairs, parts and service of pressure control and Revenue upstream rotating equipment.
The downstream business is focused on the design and manufacture to order of centrifugal pumps, mainly 462m used in the refining industry.
The divisions principal operations are Up 50% located in North America, Europe and the Middle East, while its expanding geographic footprint now includes Asia-Pacific and Operating profit South America.
117.4m Up 122% Market review Sector input breakdown During 2010, the North American upstream market experienced a significant rebound in activity.
A substantial increase in on-shore Oil & Gas 99% horizontal drilling was supported by a move to oil and liquid rich Power Generation 1% shale formations and significant additional investment into the development of existing and new shale fields utilising more intensive fracturing techniques.
The average horizontal rig count, a key driver for the upstream pressure pumping market, increased over 80% on 2009 with a growing proportion of onshore oil and gas production sourced from shale formations.
A notable feature has been a 113% increase in oil and liquids rich shale drilling now representing Geographic input breakdown around 34% of the horizontal rig count - a 15 year high - reflecting the markets adaptation of fracturing to enable cost effective oil and North America 74% natural gas liquids production from shale formations across North Middle East Africa 12% America.
In contrast, rigs targeted at gas production increased by Europe FSU only 18% reflecting generally weak gas prices with a flattening off in 12% Asia Pacific growth in the second half.
1% South America 1% The globalisation of shale opportunities started to gain momentum in 2010 with China, Europe and Australia all signalling interest in developing shale opportunities in the next five years.
As expected, customer activity in downstream markets remained at low levels while key Middle East services markets showed a rebound off 2009 lows in the second half of the year, with Iraq in particular presenting a number of good opportunities as significant investment is made in refurbishing existing oilfields to improve overall production levels.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation 21 Achievements & contract wins The medium term outlook for upstream remains positive as Weir SPM significantly increased its already leading market share position through its operational leverage, extensive service footprint and continued investment in growth in the North American its facilities.
onshore oil and gas sector Market share gains with a major well service operator saw input increase almost fourcontinues, as operating intensity fold in 2010 over 2009. increases and as interest in Several multi million dollar contracts awarded to Wesco Dubai in Iraq, through Worley shale fracturing beyond North Parsons, BP, and ENI.
Contracts include the refurbishment of gas turbines, oil field America develops.
pumps and water injection plants in Iraqs southern oilfields.
Aberdeen services business expanded its customer base with several multi-million US horizontal rig count pound contract wins with Chevron and TAQA.
1,000 Joint venture formed to target Chinas accelerating unconventional shale gas market.
Destiny triplex frac pump developed and launched for new harsher shale applications.
800 Regional expansion continues in newer oil and gas producing areas of Australia and 600 Series 1 South East Asia with the acquisition of Petroleum Certification Services PCS.
400 First service centre opened by Weir SPM in Brasil positioning the business for the expected rapid expansion of the oil and gas industry.
200 Operational performance On the back of an excellent performance in the upstream business units, the division has been able to achieve a record financial performance.
Further manufacturing and service capacity is being added to support current and future needs of upstream operations, while the restructuring of the downstream operations to reflect current market conditions is now underway.
Order input increased by 97% to 626m 2009: 318m.
Upstream business units, Weir SPM and Weir Mesa, achieved input growth of 215% to a record 476m US$736m, benefiting from improved market conditions, a move to harsher shale environments and market share gains.
Growth accelerated in the second half driven by a surge in demand for original equipment as utilisation levels increased and customers expanded fleet capacity, placing forward orders for 2011 and 2012.
The replacement cycle has also been shortened by the increasing operational intensity of longer cycle, Weir Oil & Gas Services in Dubai higher pressure applications.
Good progress was also made by the Middle East service operations with higher input principally due to opportunities arising in Iraq.
These increases were partly offset by the downstream business, Weir Gabbioneta, which experienced a soft market and increased competition, causing input to fall 15% to 82m in 2010 2009: 97m.
Dec 08 Mar 09 June 09 Sept 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 June 10 Sept 10 Dec 10 22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Oil & Gas Division Operational review continued Revenue increased 50% to 462m 2009: 308m.
Upstream businesses achieved revenues of 303m US$469m, up 116% on 2009.
In particular, they benefited from an ability to respond quickly to changing market conditions, investments in increased capacity and an expansion of their service centre footprint.
Operating profit including joint ventures increased by 122% to 117.4m 2009: 53.0m.
The positive market environment in upstream, along with strong operational leverage were the primary drivers of this record performance.
Operating margin was 25.4% in 2010 compared to 17.2% in 2009, reflecting the operating leverage effect of higher volumes at the upstream business units and continued strong aftermarket revenues across the division.
Pump assembly at Weir SPM, Fort Worth, Texas 23 Investment Weir in action Weir Oil & Gas continued to invest in support of future growth ambitions with capital Customer expenditure of 17.2m 2009: 7.1m.
During the year, Weir SPM added to its machining In late 2008 Weir SPM conducted a stratecapacity at the Fort Worth facility and expanded its service network, including a new gic voice of customer frac pump survey and received feedback with a strong demand for a service centre in Macae, Brasil.
Further investment was also made in the Houston and more durable and reliable frac pump for use in Mesa operations.
In March 2010, the Australian business PCS was acquired for 3.9m the harsh unconventional gas shale formations providing a platform for growth in that market.
Commitment has also been made to during multistage hydraulic fracturing processes.
significantly increase manufacturing and service capacity at Weir SPMs Fort Worth plant with a planned investment of US$40m 26m over 18 months.
In November 2010, a joint venture was formed with Shengli Oilfield Highland Petroleum Equipment Co. Ltd. to provide high-pressure well service pumps and related flow control equipment to the developing shale gas industry in China.
The joint venture is expected to commence operations in the first half of 2011.
Owned 60% by Weir and 40% by Highland and based in Dongying, Shandong Province, the joint venture will build on the success achieved by Weir SPM in providing specialised products for use in the development of shale oil and gas production in North America.
With Weir SPMs expertise in well service pumps and flow control equipment and Highlands extensive customer relationships and market knowledge, the joint venture is seen as a key Destiny triplex frac pump enabler to securing business from Chinas accelerating unconventional shale gas market.
Brief A substantial investment has been also been made in product research and development.
Original frac pump technologies were developed Engineering resources were doubled and overall spending on research and development decades ago for applications vastly less intensive increased by 65% to 4.8m.
Towards the end of the year the Destiny triplex frac pump than those of today.
Pumps were modified in was launched providing a product with improved reliability, higher output and pressure the mid-2000s to support the Barnett shale loads to provide a longer uninterrupted service operation as required by these new shale gas development in North Texas, but these applications.
Further new product launches are planned for 2011.
This pump has gained only met the market needs for a short time.
immediate acceptance, especially in Canada and will be a core product for Weir SPM in Multistage fracturing technologies continued to 2011.
Work also commenced in reviewing the downstream product portfolio to improve evolve through late 2008 into 2009 with higher horsepowers and pressures and caused frac its cost competitiveness in the challenging market conditions.
pumps and related components to wear at rates Reflecting the growth of the business, over 500 employees joined the division with effective faster than ever.
integration a key priority over the year.
Management training and development initiatives Solution continue to be developed across each operation in support of Group-wide plans.
Weir SPM developed a new functional frac pump specification and after verification by customers embarked on the Destiny product research and Outlook development project to design and deliver a new state-of-the-art frac pump range using the most The upstream businesses enter 2011 with a record order book providing much greater modern analytical tools and materials to meet forward visibility than in previous years.
Current forecasts indicate that the average North market demands.
American horizontal rig count will continue to grow in 2011 with a further shift towards Result oil drilling.
As a result it is anticipated that 2011 upstream revenues and operating profits In 2010, the first of the new range, the Destiny will grow ahead of previous expectations.
However, given the surge in original equipment triplex frac pump, completed both shop and orders achieved in the last five months of 2010 for delivery in 2011 and 2012, a more field testing to verify the original voice of the normalised level of input is anticipated in 2011.
Moderate growth is forecast in the customer requirements outlined in late 2008.
Middle East in 2011 underpinned by improved operating conditions in Iraq.
The divisions As customers began field testing, the Weir SPM downstream operations will be impacted by a weaker opening order book, restructuring Destiny frac pump demonstrated its superior actions and an anticipated continued challenging environment for new orders.
Customer response to date has term outlook for upstream remains positive as growth in the North American onshore oil been tremendous.
Deliveries started in the last and gas sector continues, operating intensity increases and interest in shale fracturing quarter of 2010 and a significant order book beyond North America develops.
Research and trials continue to be conducted for improved life pump expendables with further launches of new technologies planned for 2011.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Power & industrial Division Operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Power & Industrial designs, manufactures and provides aftermarket support for specialist and critical-service rotating and Order Input flow control equipment for the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.
The division includes the Groups critical 268m Up 6% service valve operations, a specialist pump business, hydro and steam turbine businesses and substantial service and aftermarket Revenue operations with locations in Europe, Middle East, North America, India, China, Asia Pacific and South Africa.
246m Up 6% The valve portfolio was expanded during 2010 with the acquisition of BDK in India, while the acquisitions of American Hydro and Ynfiniti Operating profit Engineering Services YES strengthen the divisions position in the 26.3m renewables market.
Three facilities have nuclear certification and the Up 11% business is one of only a few companies globally with the capability to provide specialist safety critical valves into the nuclear islands Sector input breakdown of the 3rd and 4th generation of nuclear power stations.
Power 61% Market review General Industry 11% Oil & Gas Demand for original equipment for the conventional power market 11% Water & remained strong in Asia but was weak in Europe and North America, Wastewater 8% with most new coal power station projects postponed or cancelled Other 9% due to funding issues and environmental legislation uncertainties.
The nuclear market remained active with China continuing to represent the majority of nuclear new build activity worldwide, although, Geographic input breakdown in the US, procurement started for the first two new nuclear plants in 25 years with emerging opportunities elsewhere.
The hydro and North America 42% wind markets also continued to grow as the demand for power Europe FSU from renewable energy sources continued to increase worldwide.
32% Asia Pacific Customers postponed most non-essential maintenance of existing 18% Middle East Africa fossil and nuclear plants, although continuing new build delays 8% will result in increased potential for refurbishment and life extension projects.
Weak market conditions continued across the industrial and downstream oil and gas markets, with reduced activity in the UK and Canada.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation 25 Achievements & contract wins Achieved a record year for nuclear valves orders, with an input of 37m, including: significant orders from Westinghouse for the supply of TRICENTRIC butterfly valves for the first nuclear stations to be built in the US in 25 years a major order for the supply of Blakeborough control valves for Taishan, the first nuclear power plant project in China to construct the Areva EPR reactor design the supply of Hopkinsons gate valves as part of the rehabilitation programme at Bruce Power nuclear power plant in Canada an order for nuclear safety valves with Chinergy in China for the prototype of the worlds first 4th generation nuclear reactor.
First safety valves from new production line in Hubli, India Signed an agreement with MHI to collaborate on projects in the UK nuclear new build market.
Awarded multi-million pound contracts for the supply of two industrial steam turbines with a total capacity of 40MW by Royal Swaziland Sugar Company and Dutch waste-toenergy provider A. R. N. BV.
First order for windfarm maintenance secured from Alstom, covering nine 1.7MW turbines at Clachan Flats windfarm in Scotland.
Multi-million pound contract for innovative subsea rotary gate valves for the Greater Gorgon gas field, off the coast of Western Australia.
Weir American Hydro secured US$18m of orders from major North American power companies including Ameren, Kentucky Utilities, Nova Scotia Power and PPL Generation for rehabilitation and turbine runner replacement at four hydro power plants.
Enhanced range of specialist pumps launched for the municipal and industrial markets with improved efficiency.
Operational performance Weir Specialty Pumps launch enhanced range for municipal and industrial markets The division has continued to focus on product innovation and development, expanding the supply chain and extending its product offering and sales route to market with a clear focus on the global power market and on growing oil and gas opportunities.
A positive first contribution was made by the recent acquisitions of BDK and American Hydro and restructuring of the Canadian service operations was completed to improve market position and profitability.
Order input grew by 6% to 268m 2009: 254m, but fell 1% before the impact of current year acquisitions which contributed 18m of input in their part-year of ownership.
Nuclear input at 83m 2009: 83m, benefited from new orders weighted to the second half from China, the US and Europe.
However, this has been more than offset by the postponement of outages at a number of power stations in Europe and North America.
In addition, poor market conditions in the industrial sector have particularly affected product and 26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Weir Power & industrial Division Operational review continued The global push for low carbon service businesses in Canada and the UK.
Positive input trends power generation will drive were evident at both Weir BDK and Weir American Hydro.
Overall, growth in renewable energy the proportion of orders from the power sector increased to 61% markets and this sector will 2009: 55%.
become increasingly important Revenue increased by 6% to 246m 2009: 231m, growing 3% on for the division.
This reflects a strong opening order book, weak aftermarket and increased deliveries of original equipment products to the Chinese nuclear market.
Weir American Hydro and Weir BDK contributed revenues of 8m in the part-year of ownership.
Nuclear order input Operating profit increased by 2.6m to 26.3m including a 1.0m 100 contribution from the current year acquisitions and costs of 2.6m 83m 83m 80 70m relating to the restructuring of the Canadian service operations and other integration and acquisition related costs.
This increase reflects positive manufacturing efficiencies, benefits from the low 20 cost supply chain and the positive impact of higher margin acquisi- 2008 2009 2010 tions offset by one-off costs.
Weir strengthened its presence in the growing renewables market Weir strengthened its presence in the growing renewables market 27 Investment Weir in action Capital investment of 3.4m 2009: 3.7m was made in the divisions facilities to further Customer improve operating efficiency and capability.
During 2011, further investment is planned Much of the global nuclear new build activity is in Canada and China.
A new Montreal service centre will complement the American focused on the so-called 3rd generation reactor technology.
Although no commercial 3rd Hydro acquisition and enhances its offering to the Canadian hydro power market generation reactors are currently operational, while an extended Suzhou facility will enable control valves to be manufactured for the the development of 4th generation reactors Chinese market.
One project is the High In October 2010, the acquisition of BDK, an Indian valve manufacturer, was completed Temperature Gas-Cooled Reactor Pebble-Bed Module HTR-PM in China, being led by a conextending the emerging market footprint and product portfolio and providing a substantial sortium of Chinese organisations to build the low cost manufacturing capability.
The divisions exposure to the fast growing renewables first HTR plant in Shidaowan, Rongcheng City in market was also increased with the acquisitions of American Hydro in the US and YES Shandong Province.
Weir American Hydro manufactures turbine components which improve the efficiency of existing hydro-electric power generation plants and together with the existing service skills will accelerate development in established hydro markets.
Weir YES provides operating and maintenance services to the growing installed base of wind turbines operating principally in Spain and Portugal.
Further investment through the YES acquisition will strengthen the divisions presence in the fast-growing wind and solar markets by broadening its renewables offering and creating a global capability.
Overall spending on research and development increased by 79% to 1.8m due to new product development initiatives aligned to target growth markets of nuclear power and renewable energy.
The specialist pumps business in the US also invested in the development of a range of pumps to improve its position in the municipal and industrial markets.
A number of other projects are also underway to expand routes to market and product offering across both the power and oil and gas markets.
Sales and application engineering Latest safety valve for 4th generation nuclear resources were increased to extend market coverage for control and safety valves reactors while a new Singapore trading hub has been opened to access the wider South East Asia market.
Brief Weirs facility in , France, specialises in the design and manufacture Outlook of safety valves for nuclear applications.
The facility was tasked with developing specifications An improved financial performance is expected in 2011 as the division benefits from a for overpressure protection for the primary and substantial nuclear workload, the now completed Canadian restructuring and a full year secondary circuits of the Chinese HTR-PM contribution from the 2010 acquisitions.
Input trends will be impacted by the timing of reactor and was commissioned by main nuclear new nuclear orders, with fewer prospects expected to come to market in 2011 before island contractor Chinergy to supply both primary a pickup in 2012.
Whilst the outlook for the global power markets remains positive, the safety valves and main steam safety valves.
division remains cautious as to recovery of general industrial markets.
An active new build Solution nuclear programme continues in China with a growing number of opportunities emergA team of eight from Weir have been working ing elsewhere in the world.
In addition, the lack of new build coal plants in Europe and closely with engineers at Chinergy for over two North America will add impetus to other power sources, such as biomass conversions years and designed a solution to ensure no leakand new gas-fired plant.
As the global push for low carbon power generation drives age given the complexities of the smaller size of growth in renewable energy markets, this sector will become increasingly important for helium gas molecules and also material stress the division.
due to the higher temperatures and pressures of supercritical steam.
Result An initial order for ten safety valves was received.
A further 19 HTR-PM reactors - based on this initial design - have been approved in China, putting Weir in a favourable position for additional contracts.
