16 operating review 2009 10 was another strong year for Morrisons.
trading operating highlightS 2009 10 Whilst we have continued to maintain focus on With the economic environment continuing to weigh heavily on consumers, our focus on value the quality and provenance of our food, we have Strong turnover growth responded to the challenges our customers face allowed our customers to stretch their household Total turnover increased 6% budgets further.
through the provision of consistently innovative value.
In all, we initiated over 30,000 price cuts Store sales grew ahead of the market turnover growth through the year and delivered a promotional Like-for-like sales increased 6% programme that enabled our customers to save Total turnover was 15.4bn, an increase of Customer numbers increased 7% 0.9bn 6.0% and we were pleased that our money whilst eating good fresh food.
Treats too were in evidence, and after months of store sales excluding fuel again grew ahead See s ection on Turnover growth of the market.
Like-for-like sales excluding fuel, belt-tightening we saw customers trading up to enjoy Christmas.
Building on its success which reflect performance in existing stores, Optimisation Plan increased by 6.0% with good growth in all last year, we relaunched and expanded our Completed, with all key targets exceeded Collector Card scheme over the Christmas regions.
Total average basket size increased 1 Total Plan EBITDA improvements by 2.4% and customer numbers were up 6.7%.
period, rewarding our loyal customers with a 25 shopping voucher.
526m per annum On average, 10.5m customers are now visiting our stores each week.
New regional distribution centre opened Market Street performed particularly well, in the South East, ahead of schedule There is now much greater awareness of our not only because of our very sharp everyday pricing but because we are able to offer brand throughout the country and as a result Corporate Social Responsibility progress we grew sales well in all regions.
Our market deeper, more attractive promotions on fresh Great progress in meeting our CSR targets products, supported by our own preparation research showed that we continued to attract Great Taste Less Waste launched new customers from competitors, including facilities, than our competitors who do not both the premium grocery segment and have this capability.
L ets Grow scheme had 22,500 the discounters.
participating schools and won an award Sales of our own label Value range grew Carrier bag consumption reduced by 126m new retail space by 34% as consumers tightened their belts The Group has made good progress in its plans in a challenging economic environment.
co. uk today to become a truly nationwide retailer.
During of these products were relaunched in the year, the year we opened 43 new stores and now and they are routinely blind-tasted to ensure 1 have a total of 425 trading.
Of these, 34 were their quality is as good as the best in the EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
acquired from the Co-operative Group and market, whilst being significantly better value.
we also opened 11 other stores.
Of these, Sales of organic and fair-trade products two were replacements of existing stores.
continued to decline, with consumers unable We now operate 11.9m square feet of selling or unwilling to bear the premium prices that space, an increase of 7%.
We did however see a resurgence in sales of the healthy eating In November 2008, we announced the Eat Smart range following a relaunch, acquisition of 38 stores from the Co-operative up 7%, reflecting consumers continuing Group and we opened 34 of these during the demand for a healthier diet and their concern year.
In the original package were four stores over the nutritional value of the food they eat.
which do not naturally fit the Morrisons operating model.
As planned, they will remain Our broadening appeal and involvement in closed until we are in a position to evaluate the community is reflected in the expansion the results of other stores.
Excluding these, of our award winning Lets Grow initiative in the acquisition has enabled us to add 480,000 which we provide free gardening equipment square feet of net new store space with final and materials to schools to teach children how acquisition and development costs of 325m to grow food.
The scheme has been a huge as projected.
success with over 22,500 schools, throughout the country, including 60% of UK primary Although early days, we are pleased with the schools registering to take part.
During the customer response to the new stores, many year we dispatched thousands of pieces of of which were community stores operating free gardening equipment to participating with a limited range and high prices under the schools and the initiative was a grand prix Somerfield fascia.
As Morrisons, these stores winner at the Institute of Practitioners in offer a full weekly shop, with a strong fresh Advertising Effectiveness Awards 2009. offer, at the normal nationwide prices charged Weekly average customer numbers throughout our estate.
Whilst these stores are the uK grocery retail market Millions m smaller than our average, being below 20,000 The consumer continued to face a square feet, we are confident that we can difficult economic environment last year.
2010 10.5 operate this size of store very successfully.
Unemployment and the fear of unemployment, There are now 96 such stores in our estate, and limited credit availability, the impact of tax 2009 9.8 we expect that smaller store formats will form increases and, with an election due in 2010, an important element of our ongoing new space uncertainty about future government tax and 2008 9.3 acquisition strategy.
fiscal policy, all affected consumer confidence and behaviour.
Although commodity prices 2007 9.0 The combination of our organic store opening continued to ease, the cost of an average Weekly average customer numbers have programme and the Co-operative Somerfield shopping basket rose year-on-year, partly due continued to grow, rising by 7% in the acquisition has given us a great next step to the weakness of Sterling.
in our move from National to Nationwide.
that in the year to January 2010 grocery market growth was 4.7%.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review 2010 17 The grocery sector continues to be under a Optimisation Plan In the year ahead, we plan to roll-out the new EPOS system to all stores, to implement new close focus from the Office of Fair Trading Our Optimisation Plan, first launched in 2006, OFT, despite the findings of the Competition concluded in January 2010, with all major manufacturing systems into our packing houses and to begin the roll-out of the warehouse Commission that the sector is highly competitive.
In total, 1 We always cooperate fully with such inquiries.
sustainable annual EBITDA improvements management system.
Additionally, we will begin to populate the new product master file which In the case of the OFT investigation into milk, of 526m have been delivered through the which began in 2004, we continue to believe various initiatives contained in the Plan.
will, in due course, replace our legacy system.
strongly that Morrisons has no case to answer and have made representations in detail to During the year, our continuing work on store The next phase of the programme is expected to involve further investment of 200m over this effect.
Our view is unchanged by the ranging and segmentation delivered good Supplementary Statement of Objections issued benefits, with all our major categories showing the three years to 2013.
The Board recognises the strategic importance of this activity, and by the OFT in July 2009.
In the case of the solid growth.
We believe our management of the tobacco inquiry which started in early 2003, economics of promotions to be industry leading.
has established a separate committee to provide appropriate oversight.
Independent project there is a complex legal question as to whether As part of our commitment to continuous quality well-established industry practices represented improvement and innovation we introduced assurance is provided by KPMG.
It is likely that this some 3,000 new fresh and core grocery can only be settled clearly through a formal products.
Additionally, our in-store efficiency Corporate Social Responsibility CSR We continued to work hard on our CSR judicial process, although the OFT have indicated benefited from the industry leading queue an intention to reach their own conclusion in management self-scan checkout systems which programme which is a key focus of our the first quarter of 2010. management agenda.
We have made great we began rolling out in 2008. progress in meeting the challenging targets Operating results we set out when the programme was launched The Optimisation Plan included significant Total turnover grew by 6% in the year with investment in infrastructure, and a key milestone three years ago.
in-store sales increasing by 9%, reflecting was the opening, three months early, of our strong like-for-like growth and the benefit new Regional Distribution Centre RDC at Our commitment to helping cut food waste of our investment in new space.
Oil prices saw the launch during the year of a major new Sittingbourne in Kent.
The 900,000 square foot were lower than in the previous year and we site services 65 stores in the South East, eases initiative called Great Taste Less Waste, which maintained our competitive position.
As oil capacity issues created by our rapid growth in gives practical tips on how to store food more prices began to fall so too did prices at the pump recent years and reduces the distance travelled effectively.
Key elements of the programme and this was reflected in a fall of 6% in fuel sales.
in servicing these stores by around 22 million include Best Kept stickers on packs giving kilometres annually.
We have now submitted a storage advice and recipe ideas on how to Our gross profit grew ahead of turnover growth, planning application for a new RDC in the South make the most of leftovers.
in part reflecting a reduction of low margin fuel West, at Bridgwater, which will provide further sales in the mix.
We have continued to make capacity when needed in 2011 12 to support We completed the conversion of our filling good progress in delivering further supply chain our National to Nationwide expansion.
station pumps to highly efficient vapour recovery benefits as our business expands as well as pumps which emit much reduced levels of fuel driving further outperformance from our gross The roll-out of voice-picking technology across vapour into the atmosphere, a 16m investment margin Optimisation Plan initiatives.
all our grocery warehouses has been completed in improved environmental performance.
and has proved particularly successful in After cost of goods sold, the Groups two increasing depot productivity and pick accuracy, biggest costs are store wages and distribution and hence improving in-store availability.
The significant increase in new store space opened during the year and the higher Replacement of our systems proportion of smaller stores in that mix impacted The Optimisation Plan included the first phase our store labour costs performance.
However, 110m of a major programme of systems we continued to deliver further in-store labour renewal, which will continue for a number of efficiencies through Optimisation Plan initiatives, years.
The programme will see the replacement such as self-scan checkouts and queue of all the Groups core systems, including store management and these helped to deliver an based point of sale, warehousing, manufacturing, overall year-on-year improvement in store labour supply chain, product management, HR, payroll costs relative to sales.
Our distribution costs, and financial systems.
measured on a cost per case basis, fell by 2% as we benefited from our investment in improved Much of the work in 2009 related to systems systems such as voice-picking in our warehouses design and development activity, but we also and from a network rebalance following the began implementation in a number of areas.
opening of our new South East Regional We successfully delivered the first phase of our Distribution Centre.
new financial systems, continued the roll-out of new HR and payroll processes now covering 2 Our administration expenses were up 12%, 82% of our employees and implemented voice-picking into our distribution centres well below the level of profit growth.
Increased investment in marketing in support of our as mentioned above.
This is already having a positive impact on the efficiency of our order significant sales momentum was largely offset by the negotiation of lower advertising rates.
We have also installed self-scan checkout units in around 75% of We incurred additional costs as the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan programme was our estate, implemented sophisticated queue management software into the majority of our extended for a third year.
stores and begun a pilot of our new Electronic Point of Sale EPOS system in store, which will provide a common platform replacing the five 2 separate systems we currently operate.
