18 Operating review 2009 10 was another strong year for Morrisons.
OPeRating HigHligHts 2009 10 With the economic environment continuing to weigh Strong turnover growth Total turnover increased 6% heavily on consumers, our focus on value allowed our Store sales grew ahead of the market customers to stretch their household budgets further.
Like-for-like sales increased 6% Customer numbers increased 7% turnover growth new retail space Total turnover was 15.4bn, an increase of The Group has made good progress in its plans See b elow for Turnover analysis 0.9bn 6.0% and we were pleased that our to become a truly nationwide retailer.
During store sales excluding fuel again grew ahead the year we opened 43 stores and now have a Optimisation Plan of the market.
Like-for-like sales excluding fuel, total of 425 trading.
Of these, 34 were acquired Completed, with all key targets exceeded which reflect performance in existing stores, from the Co-operative Group and we also 1 Total Plan EBITDA improvements increased by 6.0% with good growth in all opened 11 other stores.
Of these, two were 526m per annum regions.
Total average basket size increased by replacements for existing stores.
All of our new 2.4% and customer numbers were up 6.7%.
stores are listed on our website.
With a total New regional distribution centre opened On average 10.5m customers are now visiting of 667,000 square feet of new store space in the South East, ahead of schedule our stores each week.
and a further 69,000 square feet from the 13 extensions completed during the year, we now Corporate Social Responsibility progress Based on market research data from Kantar operate 11.9m square feet of selling space, Great progress in meeting our CSR targets formerly Taylor Nelson Sofres, we believe an increase of 7%.
Great Taste Less Waste launched our grocery market share grew from 12.3% Lets Grow scheme had 22,500 to 12.6% in the year, building on similar In November 2008, we announced the participating schools and won an award growth the year before.
acquisition of 38 stores from the Co-operative Group and we opened 34 of these during the Carrier bag consumption reduced by 126m There is now much greater awareness of our year.
In the original package were four stores brand throughout the country and as a result which do not naturally fit the Morrisons See p age 14 for more on our we grew sales well in all regions, particularly operating model.
As planned, they will remain CSR initiatives in the South and Scotland.
Our market research closed until we are in a position to evaluate the showed that we continued to attract new results of other stores.
Excluding these, the 1 customers from competitors, including both the acquisition has enabled us to add 480,000 EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation premium grocery segment and the Discounters.
square feet of net new store space with final acquisition and development costs of 325m The easing of the worldwide spike in oil prices as projected.
In addition, we incurred 32m of in 2008 resulted in a welcome reduction in fuel one-off costs relating to pre-opening activities prices at the pumps, although prices again began which has been included within Operating Profit.
to rise during the second half.
Fuel sales were This was below our initial projection of 40m down by 6% in line with the average reduction due to tight cost control and the timely manner in pump prices seen through the year.
in which the OFT approvals were granted.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 19 Although early days, we are pleased with the Market Street performed particularly well, not weekly average customer numbers only because of our very sharp everyday pricing customer response to the new stores, many Millions m of which were community stores operating but because we are able to offer deeper, more attractive promotions on fresh products, with a limited range and high prices under the 2010 10.5 Somerfield fascia.
As Morrisons, these stores supported by our own preparation facilities, than others who do not have this capability.
offer a full weekly shop, with a strong fresh 2009 9.8 offer, at the normal nationwide prices charged We continue to lead the market, not just on fresh value, but also on quality and provenance, throughout our estate.
Whilst these stores are 2008 9.3 smaller than our average, being below 20,000 and we remain the only major British retailer to offer 100% British fresh pork, beef, lamb and square feet, we are confident that we can operate 2007 9.0 this size of store very successfully.
Our customers strongly endorse this Weekly average customer numbers have continued policy, which supports British farming, reduces now 96 such stores in our estate, and we to grow, rising by 7% in the current year.
expect that smaller store formats will form food miles and means that we sell only fresh meat raised to British standards of animal welfare.
an important element of our ongoing new space acquisition strategy.
Sales of our own label Value range grew by The combination of our organic store opening 34% as consumers tightened their belts in a challenging economic environment.
Many of programme and the Co-operative Somerfield New jobs created acquisition has given us a great next step in these products were relaunched in the year, and they are routinely blind-tasted to ensure their our move from National to Nationwide.
quality is as good as the best in the market, whilst Our continued growth resulted in 10,000 new being significantly better value.
Sales of organic trading jobs created over the period.
We welcomed Whilst we have continued to maintain focus on and fair-trade products continued to decline, 2,300 colleagues formerly employed by the the quality and provenance of our food, we have with consumers unable or unwilling to bear the Co-operative Group or Somerfield.
As part responded to the challenges our customers face premium prices that these products command.
of the conversion of these stores to the through the provision of consistently innovative We did however see a resurgence in sales of Morrisons format, all of these colleagues value.
In all we initiated over 30,000 price cuts the healthy eating Eat Smart range following a have undergone training to introduce our through the year and delivered a promotional relaunch, up 7% reflecting consumers continuing great customer service and fresh food offer.
programme that enabled our customers to save demand for a healthier diet and their concern money whilst eating good, fresh food.
Our over the nutritional value of the food they eat.
Big Price Crunch weeks and Essentials For Less were popular with customers.
Treats too were in We are unique amongst major UK food retailers evidence, and after months of belt-tightening in owning our own factories and fruit and we saw customers trading up to enjoy Christmas.
vegetable packhouses and in the proportion of Our party food ranges and champagnes on fresh food preparation that takes place in our offer at less than half price sold extremely well.
We also employ more qualified Building on its success last year we relaunched bakers, butchers and fishmongers than any other and expanded our Collector Card scheme over supermarket.
All these factors mean that we can the Christmas period, rewarding our loyal talk with authority to our customers about the customers with a 25 shopping voucher.
provenance and freshness of our food offer, a quality which is becoming more important in a more health conscious environment.
new space supermarkets number sales area 000 square feet As at 1 February 2009 382 11,131 New stores net of replacements 43 667 2 Extensions 69 As at 31 January 2010 425 11,867 2 Represented by 13 store extensions completed in the year Made fresh in-store 33,000 sandwiches are made fresh in-store every day.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Performance review 18 25 20 Operating review continued Our broadening appeal and involvement in the The grocery sector continues to be under a enViROnMentally community is reflected in the expansion of our close focus from the Office of Fair Trading fRienDly stORes... award winning Lets Grow initiative in which we OFT, despite the findings of the Competition provide free gardening equipment and materials Today Commission that the sector is highly competitive.
to schools to teach children how to grow food.
We always cooperate fully with such inquiries.
The scheme has been a huge success with over Our Halifax store followed In the case of the OFT investigation into milk, 22,500 schools throughout the country, which began in 2004, we continue to believe Kidderminsters success to receive including 60% of UK primary schools registering one of the greenest awards for a strongly that Morrisons has no case to answer to take part.
During the year we dispatched and have made representations in detail supermarket, achieving an Excellent thousands of pieces of free gardening equipment rating from the Building Research to this effect.
Our view is unchanged by the to participating schools, ranging from watering Supplementary Statement of Objections issued Establishment Environmental cans to wormeries, wellington boots to weather Assessment Method BREEAM.
In the case of the stations and packets of seeds to bags of compost.
tobacco inquiry which started in early 2003, This initiative was a grand prix winner at the Our ongoing design and build there is a complex legal question as to whether Institute of Practitioners in Advertising well established industry practices represented programme incorporates lessons Effectiveness Awards 2009. learnt from stores like Kidderminster a breach of competition law.
It is likely that this can only be settled clearly through a formal and Halifax.
It enables us to Our like-for-like sales momentum, which has make practical applications judicial process, although the OFT have been industry leading for a sustained period, has indicated an intention to reach their own across our estate to reduce allowed us to invest strongly in the value that our conclusion in the first quarter of 2010. environmental impact.
customers seek, ensuring that we maintain a very competitive position in the market.
We continue Operating results to target annual sales growth ahead of market Total turnover grew by 6% in the year with growth.
Over and above our investment in in-store sales increasing by 9%, reflecting strong customer value, our volume growth delivered like-for-like growth and the benefit of our supply chain benefits allowing us to continue the investment in new space.
Oil prices were lower process of recovering our margins which began than in the previous year and we maintained our with the launch of the Optimisation Plan in 2006. competitive position.
As oil prices began to fall so too did prices at the pump and this was the uK grocery retail market reflected in a fall of 6% in fuel sales.
The consumer continued to face a difficult economic environment last year.
Unemployment Our gross profit grew ahead of turnover growth, and the fear of unemployment, limited credit in part reflecting a reduction of low margin availability, the impact of tax increases and, with fuel sales in the mix.
The gross profit margin of an election due in 2010, uncertainty about future 6.9% increased by 60 basis points bps which government tax and fiscal policy, all affected we estimate was 30bps higher than it would have consumer confidence and behaviour.
Although been had the proportion of fuel sales in the mix commodity prices continued to ease, the cost of remained at the same level as the previous year.
an average shopping basket rose year-on-year, partly due to the weakness of Sterling.
Kantar We have continued to make good progress reported that in the year to January 2010 grocery in delivering further supply chain benefits market growth was 4.7%.
as our business expands as well as driving further outperformance from our gross margin Optimisation Plan initiatives.
% 2.4increase Basket size total average has increased 2.4% in the year.
Operating results 2009 Change 2010 summary income statement m m % Turnover 15,410 14,528 6 Gross profit 1,062 913 16 Other operating income 65 37 76 3 Administrative expenses 315 281 12 Underlying Operating profit 812 669 21 Pensions credit 91 Property transactions 4 2 100 Operating profit 907 671 35 Net finance charges 49 16 205 Taxation 260 195 33 Profit for the period 598 460 30 3 Excluding pensions credit Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 21 After cost of goods sold the Groups two biggest economics of promotions to be industry leading.
costs are store wages and distribution costs.
The As part of our commitment to continuous quality Great Taste Less Waste significant increase in new store space opened improvement and innovation we introduced some 3,000 new fresh and core grocery during the year and the higher proportion of smaller stores in that mix, impacted our store products.
Additionally, our in-store efficiency benefited from the industry leading queue labour costs performance.
However, we continued to deliver further in store labour management self-scan checkout systems, which we began rolling out in 2008. efficiencies through Optimisation Plan initiatives, such as self-scan checkouts and queue The Optimisation Plan included significant management and these helped to deliver an 50% of British households say they throw overall year-on-year improvement in store labour investment in infrastructure, and a key milestone away food because theyve cooked too much.
was the opening, three months early, of our costs relative to sales.
Our distribution costs, measured on a cost per case basis, fell by 2% as new Regional Distribution Centre RDC at Great Taste Less Waste aims to help Sittingbourne in Kent.
The 900,000 square foot we benefited from our investment in improved customers get more meals for their money systems such as voice-picking in our warehouses site services 65 stores in the South East, eases by reducing waste and making the most capacity issues created by our rapid growth in and from a network rebalance following the of fresh food.
opening of our new South East Regional recent years and reduces the distance travelled in servicing these stores by around 22m kilometres Distribution Centre.
We have now submitted a planning and store cupboard essentials.
application for a new RDC in the South West, Other Operating income increased by 76% reflecting improved income from our investment at Bridgwater, which will provide further capacity properties and miscellaneous sales.
when needed in 2011 12 to support our National In-store advice on meat to Nationwide expansion.
a nd fish, and on portion size.
3 Our Administration expenses were up 12%, well below the level of profit growth in the The roll-out of voice-picking technology across Great recipe ideas.
all our grocery warehouses has been completed past.
This was in part due to increased investment in marketing in support of our and has proved particularly successful in increasing depot productivity and pick accuracy, significant sales growth albeit that we were Storing food at home so it stays able to take advantage of lower advertising and hence improving in-store availability.
f resher for longer: Best Kept rates available.
We incurred additional costs labelling on fruit and vegetables.
as the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan Replacement of our systems The Optimisation Plan included the first phase programme was extended for a third year.
110m of a major programme of systems How to turn leftovers into tasty renewal, which will continue for a number of Optimisation Plan n ew meals.
Our Optimisation Plan, first launched in 2006, years.
The programme will see the replacement of all the Groups core systems, including store concluded in January 2010, with all major milestones achieved or exceeded.
In total, based point of sale, warehousing, manufacturing, supply chain, product management, HR, payroll sustainable annual EBITDA improvements of 526m have been delivered through the various and financial systems.
The primary technology is being provided by Oracle, the store based initiatives contained in the Plan.
systems by Retailix and systems integration is being undertaken by Wipro.
During the year, our continuing work on store ranging and segmentation delivered good benefits, with all our major categories showing solid growth.
We believe our management of the New technology New voice-picking technology has been rolled out across our grocery warehouses, increasing depot productivity and pick accuracy, and hence improving in-store availability.
3, 000 new fresh and core grocery products in 2009. www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Performance review 18 25 22 Operating review continued Much of the work in 2009 related to systems we set out when the programme was launched three years ago.
Carbon emissions have been design and development activity, but we also Our farmers mean began implementation in a number of areas.
cumulatively reduced by more than 830,000 a great deal tonnes since 2006, 56% better than we planned.
We successfully delivered the first phase of our new financial systems, continued the roll-out We have also reduced the amount of waste sent to landfill by 34% over the period.
Over 17,000 of new HR and payroll processes now covering 82% of our employees and implemented tonnes of packaging has been saved.
We launched a Farm Programme focused voice-picking into our distribution centres on research to help improve the efficiency as mentioned above.
This is already having a Our commitment to helping cut food waste and sustainability of British Farming.
saw the launch during the year of a major new positive impact on the efficiency of our order Our research farm is a ground-breaking fulfilment process.
We have also installed initiative called Great Taste Less Waste, which joint venture to establish a 700-acre farm gives practical tips on how to store food more self-scan checkout units in around 75% of on the Dumfries House Estate in East our estate, implemented sophisticated queue effectively.
Key elements of the programme Ayrshire.
Morrisons Farm at Dumfries include Best Kept stickers on packs giving management software into the majority of our House will work in a new partnership stores and begun a pilot of our new Electronic storage advice and recipe ideas on how to with the Scottish Agricultural College, make the most of leftovers.
Point of Sale EPOS system in-store, which will to become one of the leading centres of provide a common platform replacing the five excellence for applied farming research.
During the year, we again issued free reusable separate systems we currently operate.
bags to our customers, and as a result of this and other initiatives we reduced carrier bag The programme will continue at high levels of activity until 2013.
In the year ahead, consumption by 126m bags.
We also completed we plan to roll-out the new EPOS system to all the conversion of our filling station pumps to stores, to implement new manufacturing systems highly efficient vapour recovery pumps which into our packing houses and to begin the emit much reduced levels of fuel vapour into the roll-out of the warehouse management system.
atmosphere: a 16m investment in improved Additionally, we will begin to populate the new environmental performance.
product master file which will, in due course, replace our legacy system.
As the food specialist for everyone, Morrisons understands where food comes from.
To build The next phase of the programme is expected further on our food specialist credentials, we to involve further investment of 200m over the have launched a ground-breaking joint venture three years to 2013.
The Board recognises the to farm 700 acres on the Dumfries House Estate strategic importance of this activity, and has in East Ayrshire.
The Morrisons Farm aims to established a separate committee to provide become a leading centre of excellence for farming appropriate oversight.
Additionally, independent research, working in a new partnership with the programme assurance is provided by KPMG.
Scottish Agricultural College to drive research into sustainable and commercial farming models Corporate social Responsibility and share best practice throughout the industry.
We continued to work hard on our CSR programme which is a key focus of our management agenda.
We have made great progress in meeting the challenging targets lets gROw... Retail industry Award Today Following the success of Lets Grow in 2008, the scheme was repeated in 2009.
Vouchers earned in-store are Retailer of the year 2009 redeemed by participating schools For the second consecutive year.
Lets Grow ties into the National Curriculum and also supports the Governments Growing Schools initiative.
co. uk today Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010
