Business review Babcock International Group PLC 35 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued We are now starting to see some increase in demand for our Engineering and Plant Powerlines business which has just been awarded a new line construction contract beginning in April 2010 with a further Market overview six projects currently progressing through evaluation along During the year the world market for mining and construction with other expansion work throughout Southern Africa.
equipment has seen dramatic changes.
The sudden drop in To strengthen our position we have begun to apply the line commodity prices, the reduction in available finance and the maintenance and upgrade programme CARE from the UK turmoil from the global recession has led to a much longer Networks division to South Africa.
than expected slowdown of the South African economy.
The Equipment market is beginning to show some early signs The cost of the two new coal fired power stations has been of growth with enquiries starting to pick up.
With commodity greater than anticipated and this has resulted in some prices recovering, and mining stock piles being sold, we expect reduced spending on maintenance, reduced plant outages the demand for equipment will increase.
Parts and service sales and postponement of new projects.
Infrastructure spend have doubled over the prior year and we expect this trend to has stood up well in the run up to the World Cup.
continue as operators keep machines for longer.
A continuing focus on tight overhead control will ensure the division is well Operational review placed to capitalise on market recovery.
As anticipated the economic climate has impacted revenue for the division which has reduced by 19% on last year to In addition the Plant hire business has continued to perform 174.2 million 2009: 215.6 million despite a 55% reduction well, benefiting from infrastructure spend, and we expect this in the equipment sales market.
Operating profit has reduced trend to continue.
Our recent success in winning a military by 45% to 10.9 million 2009: 19.7 million and operating elementary flying training project is opening doors for further margins were 6.3% compared with 9.1% last year, when military outsourcing possibilities.
margins for the division benefited from a very strong performance in the Eagleton pipelines business in the US Outlook and improved profitability on power generation support work The demand for electricity throughout Southern Africa, in South Africa.
although slowed by the world economic crisis, continues to be strong.
Eskom is progressing with the new power stations and Due to cash constraints, the expansions announced by Eskom, generation projects throughout the region are returning to the South African power utility, have been limited to the previous levels.
We anticipate that this expansion will continue construction of the new power stations and this has meant to provide opportunities within our power generation and that some transmission line extension projects have been transmission line businesses.
The cautious approach taken in postponed.
The return to service programme for moth-balled our equipment operation has led to a much more streamlined power stations was completed during the year and our business, well able to exploit growth opportunities as the power generation support and maintenance business has market recovers.
Despite the impact of the current economic been limited to essential maintenance and a limited outage crisis, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects programme.
Although this has led to some reduction for the division.
in revenue, profit has been held at levels similar to last year through a combination of operational efficiencies and an overhead reduction programme.
Revenue growth Engineering and Plant Operating return on revenue Engineering and Plant % % 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 28 15 31 1 19 6.79 8.0 7.9.
