30 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued The major site management contract at Dounreay is Nuclear performing well and continues to deliver a steady stream of revenue as expected.
The competition for the rebid of the Market overview management and operation of the Dounreay site has now The power generation sector has maintained good been announced by the NDA.
Through our acquisition of momentum throughout the year.
However, as previously UKAEA Ltd and our broader nuclear capabilities, we have been highlighted, the decommissioning sector remains somewhat able to put together a strong alliance team with CH2M Hill subdued resulting in delays to several major waste and URS Corporation to compete for this contract.
We continue to strengthen our position in the power generation market where our expertise and high calibre Operational review resource are key to the continuing operation of our customers The division has achieved a 9% increase in revenue to nuclear power stations.
We are looking at a number of 115.9 million 2009: 106.7 million, benefiting from five opportunities which will help us further expand the level of months contribution from UKAEA Ltd. Operating profits were business in this sector.
We are consolidating and upgrading stable on last year at 13.0 million 2009: 13.0 million after our spares and service centre for our power generation approximately 4 million of restructuring costs were incurred support operations onto one site at Whetstone.
This will following completion of the acquisition of UKAEA Ltd. As a enable us to deliver improved efficiencies for our customers result operating return on revenue has remained strong at and also allow for further expansion of the spares operation.
In the nuclear defence sector we have made progress both The acquisition of UKAEA Ltd greatly enhances our nuclear in terms of site decommissioning and also in the provision of credentials and provides us with our first Tier 1 civil nuclear site engineering consultancy services for existing facility upgrades management positions at Dounreay, Harwell and Winfrith, and new facilities.
There are a number of significant replicating similar positions already held in the defence nuclear opportunities in this area that, if successful, will increase sector.
It also expands our existing capabilities in nuclear momentum going forward.
engineering and scientific consultancy, establishing us as one of the UK leaders in this field.
The name of UKAEA is recognised The decommissioning market generally remains difficult around the world and as part of the combined nuclear division as a result of delays in spending and budgetary pressures we believe will provide us with strong credentials from which on the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA.
However, to establish and develop an international civil nuclear business.
the division has been successful in winning a framework contract to provide engineering support services for plant enhancement and other operational facilities on the Sellafield site, which is expected to deliver around 18.0 million over the next three years.
