Business review Babcock International Group PLC 25 Operational review Operational review Submarines The division has performed well, exceeding all internal The division is the leading submarine support partner financial and operational targets.
Revenue increased by 7% to the Royal Navy.
Routine maintenance and support of the to 958.3 million 2009: 892.9 million with operating submarine flotilla has continued at our Devonport facilities profits increasing 26% to 112.9 million 2009: 89.3 million and at HMNB Clyde Faslane and we have continued to and operating margins increasing to 11.8% 2009: 10.0%.
benefit from the ongoing programme of scheduled refuelling These results reflect the considerable scale the division has and refit work.
within the naval support market and the level of synergy The refuelling and refit of HMS Triumph was completed just and efficiency savings that have resulted as our organisational after the end of the financial year.
This is the last of the seven structure has developed and been streamlined.
We have Trafalgar class submarines to undergo a refit and we have now continued to maintain our high level of service as confirmed completed a cost reduction programme to reduce workforce in performance feedback from our customer.
capacity as Devonports submarine refit programme moves Negotiations with the MoD on the Terms of Business to a single refit stream.
Refuelling and refitting work on HMS Agreement ToBA, designed to support the Maritime Change Vigilant made progress during the year and all major Programme, were concluded successfully towards the end milestones have been met.
The submarine began its refuelling of the financial year.
This confirms Babcock as the MoDs key cycle at the end of March, with the refit scheduled to support partner in the maritime sector and underpins the complete in 2012. delivery of key aspects of the Change Programme.
Devonports nuclear facilities are currently undergoing The ToBA covers the 15 year period between 2010 and 2025 a 150 million project to upgrade the equipment used to during which the Marine division has committed to the remove used fuel from submarines at the end of their progressive delivery of guaranteed cost savings to the MoD.
Our design and procurement activities In return the division is nominated to undertake specific roles associated with this project continued to plan during the year, and to perform particular types of engineering work in support with the facilities due to become available for use in 2012. of the Royal Navys major warships and nuclear-powered The first Astute class submarine has now arrived at Faslane submarines.
The ToBA also extends Babcocks management and we are completing the planning activities associated roles at the Clyde and Devonport Naval Bases from 2013 with the support of this new class of submarines.
Overall, the ToBA provides an unprecedented level class will have a 30 year operational life and their support of visibility of the divisions forward work programme will involve teams from Clyde, Devonport and Bristol.
and is an excellent foundation on which to continue the divisions development.
Revenue growth Marine Operating return on revenue Marine % % 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 124 6 191 17 6.9 10.3 10.8 10.0 11.8 26 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued Surface Ships Integrated Technology In our core warship support activities we have supported Integrated Technology has delivered strong growth across the Royal Navy with its continuous programme of refit and all its business streams and areas of operation during the year.
upgrade projects at both Devonport and Rosyth.
A major Our long-term UK Submarine Engineering Support Contract docking period for the amphibious assault ship HMS Albion SESC has had a successful first year, with a joint MoD-industry involved an especially large programme of upgrades and team under Babcock leadership delivering an effective upkeep alterations and these were successfully completed during the planning and engineering support service.
SESC will be a reporting period, as were maintenance periods on a number cornerstone of Flotilla Output Management, an over-arching of frigates and mine hunters at both Devonport and Rosyth.
submarine support arrangement that Babcock is developing Under an alliance formed with MoD and one other industrial as the first Astute-class submarine enters service.
partner we generated a pilot project focused on providing Our team is heavily involved in concept development of the support for Type 22 frigates.
The arrangement involves future nuclear deterrent submarine platform, the planned industry taking responsibility for delivering a specified level Vanguard class replacement.
Integrated Technology is of warship availability at reduced cost compared to previous providing a broad range of capabilities into this programme, levels.
We have the opportunity to share in the savings that from overall submarine naval architecture, through specialist are generated under this arrangement, which is expected systems to designing for high availability and cost effective to extend to other classes of warship in due course.
These inputs are being delivered both through the Babcock is a key member of the Aircraft Carrier Alliance that collaborative industry project team and independently as an is designing, building, assembling and supporting the two new expert consultancy service to the MoD.
Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carriers.
This year we received As the Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carrier programme moves the first structural modules for HMS Queen Elizabeth at Rosyth, into the build phase, delivery of key systems developed inincluding the bow section from our Appledore facility.
house has commenced, balanced by a consistent output from The assembly programme at Rosyth required a number our designers plus increased build engineering responsibilities of modifications and upgrades to civil structures and other and additional specialist equipment packages.
The main aspects of work to the dock where the ships will be assembled are complete and we are now completing changes to the basin.
Manufacture of the large 1,000 tonne capacity crane is underway and delivery is expected late in 2010 after which the crane will be erected and commissioned.
