28 Operational r Operational review continued eview continued In addition to training and training support services, a key part Defence of the RSME contract is the provision of estates maintenance at four major locations.
This contract is now being cited by the Market overview MoD Partnership Steering Group as a best practice example The Ministry of Defence MoD continues to be the divisions of partnership working.
Current budgetary pressures have resulted in the MoD focusing their resources on supporting frontline Infrastructure operations whilst seeking to achieve cost efficiencies in UK The division has made good progress during the year based support activities.
We continue to work collaboratively consolidating its position as the leading Prime Contractor with our customers to provide value for money whilst to Defence Estates.
Through more integrated and efficient delivering high quality operational performance.
contract delivery arrangements we have been able to deliver increased cost savings for the customer.
Building on the Operational review operational success of these contracts we believe there The division has increased revenue by 13% to 383.8 million are a number of opportunities for us to take our business 2009: 338.4 million mainly as a result of a full years model overseas.
contribution from the Royal School of Military Engineering The South West Regional Prime Contract has maintained RSME contract as well as continued growth in the Regional a high order book of additional works and projects during Prime contracts.
The divisions operating margin remained the year.
Sites added to the contract scope include the MoDs stable on last year at 8.5% 2009: 8.5% with operating profit training college at Southwick Park.
Training After its first full year of operation, the RSME contract has exceeded our customers initial expectations as we deliver financial and operational benefits through improved training.
The quality of our training output has been extremely high with all courses meeting or exceeding target pass rates.
The outsourcing process itself allowed the Army to redeploy 300 soldiers from training to operational duties.
