Chief Executives Operating Review Introduction homes and shared equity schemes.
The last of these incentives was needed for first-time By the beginning of the financial year our buyers in particular who struggled to raise strategy of cash generation had reduced the the necessary deposits.
Governments Groups indebtedness by 181 million and actions during the year through its this was supplemented in August 2009 with continuance of HomeBuy Direct in England a share placing which raised 43.7 million are to be applauded and 640 first-time putting the Company on a sound financial buyers were qualified to buy homes from footing.
Regular meetings were taking place Bellway in the year where the average at this time with lenders valuers and deposit required was only 5%.
Part-exchange gradually the number of down valuations has been used by our customers on 493 for mortgage purposes began to fall occasions and has been helpful in maintaining compared to the previous year.
This process confidence in local markets.
At 31 July was reflected in the number of mortgage thestock of second-hand properties approvals which increased throughout 2009 heldbythe Group stood at 15.0 million to around 60,000 by December helping 2009 8.0 million comprising customer confidence which began tofirm 115homes 2009 69 homes.
Weekly sales rates from August to Market Place December 2009 were broadly consistent Against this backdrop of a more stable but 2010 has seen the market return housing market, Bellway increased legal toitsmore normal pattern of increased completions of its new homes by 215 to activityinspring followed by a decline 4,595.
Private sales increased by 7% to 3,652 assummer arrived.
For the 12 months from 3,400, whilst there was a slight decline ended 31July2010 the Group averaged 89 in the sales of social housing from 980 to reservations per week, achieving a high of 943 homes.
Cancellation rates during the 169 reservations during one week in March.
year have remained consistent at around The confidence that consumers had built 13% compared to a 26% peak in 2008 09. up in late 2009 and early 2010 appeared, Incentives were regularly employed however, to stall at or around the time throughout the year to maintain sales rates of the General Election as customers and these ranged from simple cash discounts waited for the emergence of the new through to the part-exchange of owned Governments proposed policies.
The Board believes that with cash in hand, a strong order book, well located and desirable developments, Bellway is well positioned whichever way the market moves in the coming months.
6 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Completed sales 4,595 homes 2009 4,380 Bishops Keep, Farnham, Sandpipers, Congleton, Barcham Green, 1 1 1 Surrey.
Divisional Performance The Thames Gateway division alone accounted for almost 25% of the 943 social The six divisions located in the northern sales.
We have continued to buy land for part of the UK sold 1,985 homes, an apartments in certain areas of the south, increase of 152 compared to the previous particularly within the M25 and with several year.
Throughout the year this market small schemes coming to fruition, the South hasbeen challenging but prices gradually East division was able to almost double stabilised as the year progressed and most itsoutput of private sales from 148 to divisions were able to increase volumes, 273homes.
resulting in an 8% increase when compared with the previous year.
The North East Margin Improvement division performed well, increasing the During the downturn the Board made number of legal completions in the year by aconscious decision to, where possible, 19% to 500 homes, and the West Midlands re-plan sites and move away from apartments division, with the aid of 113 housing and town houses to two storey family association sales, generated through housing.
As a consequence, output of theNorth Solihull Partnership, increased apartments has declined from 48% to 39% output by 15% to 328 homes.
The average of home sales and is set to reduce further.
selling price in these northern divisions These changes have also had a marked was140,690 2009 134,179 and this effect on the price and mix the Group is increase of 4.9% is almost entirely due to achieving.
In the year, homes sold under a change in the mix of properties legally 150,000 fell from 59% to 53% of legal completed in the period.
completions and homes sold over 250,000 The seven remaining divisions in the south have, for the first time, accounted for more benefited from a market that had recovered than 10% of output.
earlier and faster and contributed 57% of Whilst operating margins remained flat year total completions.
Average sales prices in on year, they have started to move in an this region increased by 7% to 180,277 upward direction, helped by stability of 2009 168,273 as the Groups focus revenues with continuing tight controls moved towards higher value homes and on costs and overheads supporting the this region saw a general improvement improvement from 6.1% in the first half inconsumer confidence.
The size of a of the year to 7.2% in the second half.
first-time buyers deposit in this part of Should stability in pricing remain, this thecountry can be particularly daunting.
increasing margin trend is expected to Housing associations, however, remain active continue in the current financial year in providing housing for this segment of the and beyond as a greater proportion market and almost two-thirds of our social of recently acquired land is traded.
home sales are inthe south of the country.
For more information on our business, please go to www.
co. uk Bellway p. l. c. 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Enhancing... a wide range of bespoke options gives customers the freedom to personalise their new homes before they even move in see www.
co. uk bespoke-additions for more information.
8 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Springhill Meadows, 1 Kilmarnock, Ayrshire.
Paul Edwards, Site Manager at 1 Watermill Rise, Bridgnorth, Shropshire, with his NHBC Pride in the Job Award.
Further reductions in build costs are still At the beginning of the financial year, Bellway should any dispute require resolution.
being achieved especially in relation to decided to engage in opportunistic land Divisions closely monitor their own quality plastering, foundation and road and sewer buying and indeed, our cash outlay on land and customer satisfaction levels and the works.
Some materials, mainly timber and has increased to 208 million in the year Group employs an independent company steel, have increased in price, although they ended 31 July 2010.
Whilst the land bank to report on its findings.
The latest quarterly represent a very small percentage of the ofplots with planning permission has been survey shows 87% of customers said they overall cost.
The Group does benefit from slimmed down further from 19,260 to would recommend a Bellway home to national agreements with material suppliers 17,602 plots at 31 July 2010, the Group has afriend.
whereby fixed prices quite often straddle increased its land bank awaiting planning The Groups performance has also been more than one financial year, eliminating permission from 14,000 to 15,000 plots.
recognised independently by the recent short-term cost fluctuations.
These cost This pipeline has a high percentage of plots achievement of 4 builder status in the movements do not affect every site but with outline planning permission and now, Home Builders Federations fifth Customer arehighlighted when existing schemes have based on current volumes, our total land Satisfaction Survey.
On these bank equates to a seven year supply.
sites, cost savings of around 2,400 per unit Excluded from this are our long-term Every year the National House Building have been identified and the divisions will holdings which amount to over 3,000 acres Council NHBC undertakes an audit of now need to work hard to deliver these where presently some 2,800 plots have our sites and evaluates the skills of our Site savings as labour rates respond quickly to apositive planning status granted by the Managers and I am pleased to report that workload increases.
The cost implications various planning departments, who are this year Bellway received 18 NHBC Pride flowing from new technology, especially in currently assessing the effect of the new in the Job Awards.
Following on from our relation to CO emissions, are difficult to Governments localism agenda.
As a result Major House Builder 2009 Award, our 2 predict and will remain a focus for future of acquiring more land in the south of Scottish divisions efforts were recognised cost control.
England, the average plot cost of our land this summer when they received the award bank should increase but, more importantly, for the Large House Builder of the Year Planning for Recovery and Land Bank has been acquired on higher margins.
2010 at the Scottish Homes Awards.
The Group has increased the number of Quality and Service Health and Safety show homes since the year end and has revamped its website to enhance our sales The Group is committed to offering the The health and safety of the Groups staff, effort, and we are hoping to increase the highest standard of quality and customer sub-contractors and those visiting our sites number of sales outlets to 200 by spring service and, by listening to our customers isof the utmost importance to the Board.
Divisions have released more and monitoring our performance, standards During the course of the year the NHBC homes to build and we therefore anticipate can be raised.
In April 2010 a new audited our site-based systems to ensure that work in progress levels will increase Consumer Code for House Builders compliance with latest legislation.
We are asthe year progresses.
wasintroduced and we believe the Code pleased to report that the rate of incidents, will help to drive quality.
The Code will also despite the increasing levels of activity on provide the customer with an Ombudsman site, has fallen to its lowest level since 2006.
Lounge at Buckingham 7 Chase, Great Blakenham, Suffolk.
Bellway p. l. c. 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Chief Executives Operating Review continued Respecting... our houses are designed and built by local people, reflecting local environments and demands.
10 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information The Group has its own health and safety under the Considerate Constructors teams who ensure best practice and they Scheme, an audit process undertaken by inturn are supported by external Health third parties, assessing good practice and and Safety Inspectors who inspect our work ensuring that the disruption to the local practices on a monthly basis.
During the last neighbourhood is minimised.
In addition, as 12 months the teams have focused their site new planning agreements are implemented, campaigns on manual handling and falls from we calculate that the financial contribution height in an effort tocreate more awareness made to the local community has been in amongst all siteoperatives.
the region of 13 million resulting in new facilities such as community centres, play The Environment facilities and highway improvements.
Over 80% of the years legal completions Outlook were built on brownfield land.
The number of homes built to Code Level 3, or higher, Throughout the summer consumer of the Code for Sustainable Homes has confidence appeared to recede as substantially increased to 1,186 from focus moved to the much talked about the previous years 428 homes.
The first consequence, many more homes now two months of the financial year have shown have access to helpful everyday facilities an increase in the number of reservations such as car clubs and cycle stores and some taken compared to the summer period 87% of sites are built within 500 metres andwhilst encouraging, this level has been of a transport node.
Building homes to these belowthe same period last year.
Bellway new sustainable levels results in an estimated iscurrently well positioned nevertheless 25% reduction in CO emissions compared having, by early October, already completed, 2 with homes built under previous contracted orreserved 2,999 homes for building regulations.
Virtually all of our developments now The Board believes that with cash in hand, segregate waste on site thereby reducing a strong order book, well located and the need for surplus material to be desirable developments, Bellway is well transported to landfill sites.
Approximately positioned whichever way the market 80,000 tonnes of demolition material has moves in the coming months.
been re-used under roads and footpaths, therefore avoiding the payment of an ever increasing landfill tax which is presently levied at 48 per tonne.
John K Watson The Group aims to ensure that the developments it builds have minimal Chief Executive negative effect on the local community.
18 October 2010 We now have some 89 sites registered The Grange, 5 Westhampnett, West Sussex.
Waterside, Leicester, Kings Wood Park, 1 1 Leicestershire.
Chapel Walk, Solihull, 7 West Midlands.
Bellway p. l. c. 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
