06 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Group Chief Executives review Review of operations Operating highlights Strong revenue performance driven by recovery ofreal estate transaction markets Record performance from Asia Pacific region Continued strength in Prime London Residential andCommercial markets Significantly improved performance from ContinentalEurope Continued investment through recruitment and bolt onacquisitions We have made good progress in implementing our strategy, investing In 2010, Savills benefited from the strength of the recovery in manyofthe worlds real estate markets to register record revenue in both our transactional and of677.0m 2009: 560.7m, 21% ahead of the previous year.
nontransactional businesses through OurAsiaPacific business delivered an outstanding performance andelsewherethe London prime residential and commercial targeted recruitment and selective marketsremained strong for most of the year.
We are well placed, ContinentalEuropean businesses performed as planned, with thanks to our core strengths in both thelatter halving its losses year on year in line with our expectations.
Thecombination of these performances enabled us to increase the Commercial and Prime Residential ourunderlying profit before tax underlying profit by 88% to sectors, to meet the developing needs 47.3m 2009: 25.2m.
On a statutory basis, profit before taxincreased 173% to 36.8m 2009: 13.5m.
of our worldwide client base.
Savills geographic and business diversity were key to achieving this strong result.
Building on the performance of the previous year over 41% of Group revenue 2009: 37% derived from the dynamic markets of the Asia Pacific region.
For the first time in our history, the UK market represented less than half of Savills Group revenues at 49% 2009: 51%.
Globally, our residential estate agency business represented 15.3% of revenue 2009: 14.7%.
Our revenue was significantly enhanced by the strength of our Prime Commercial and Residential Transaction Advisory businesses which, taken together, represented just under 40% of Group revenues 2009: 35%.
Property and Facilities Management represented 36% of revenues 2009: 38% and Consultancy 20% 2009: 21%.
This result reflects Savills strategy of having the financial strength to retain the majority of our capability in both the Prime Residential and Commercial Transaction Advisory markets through the downturn, in order to capitalise on the eventual recovery.
Allied to this we continue tofocus on and build our more stable business streams such as consultancy, property and facilities management and fund management.
People During the year, we have continued to focus on growth through the recruitment of teams and individuals around the world.
Significant additions to our teams have been made across our business streams in New York, throughout Asia, in the UK and Continental Europe.
Itisboth exciting and refreshing to bring in new talent, however Iamequally proud of the fact that across the world many of our businessesare led by senior professionals who have built their careersin this industry with Savills.
For those at the beginning of theircareers, Iamdelighted that Savills UK business was awarded theTimes Graduate Recruitment Award for Property, for the fourth consecutiveyear.
