12 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review operating and Financial review OPERATINg REVIEW During the past year, we have not undertaken any speculative Business Model and Strategy development, but have continued to advance sites for development on Our established business strategy is to add maximum value to the land the back of pre-let or pre-sold opportunities.
and property assets we own through remediation, marshalling, asset Our strategy of constantly seeking to add value to the properties we management and development and subsequently to recycle the capital own whether through asset management, remediation or driving them released on sale into the acquisition of new opportunities.
through the planning process has also continued to deliver tangible We operate predominantly in locations where we are able to offer progress.
During the year, we achieved a number of important planning value for money to occupiers and undertake substantial planning or consents and advanced the status of several of our key schemes, remediation activities to transform asset values.
It is in these locations, generating added value gains of 18m 2009: 27m.
via our regeneration activities, where we can make a positive and lasting We have also continued to dispose of mature assets and those developed difference by providing the right physical and economic infrastructure for specifically for sale.
We have completed over 50 disposals in the year businesses and communities to evolve and develop.
Regardless of recent realising 125m which includes our share of JVs and 22m of disposal generic market commentary, we continue to experience improving market profits, enabling us to reinvest in new long-term opportunities.
conditions for the type of secondary properties in our portfolio which are proving remarkably robust in terms of rental and occupation levels.
Employees St. Modwens business model is based on a hands-on approach in all Obtaining control of opportunities through self-financing transactions areas: asset management: marshalling: remediation: construction and has always been part of our hopper strategy.
This year, our total development.
As a result, the skill of our people is fundamental to our expenditure on new acquisitions was only 31m which added 375 acres success.
Therefore, as we emerge from  times, of developable land to our portfolio, of which 318 acres were via options we will continue to retain and incentivise and to grow the abilities of and development agreements.
As a result, our hopper now stands at the the talented people who will be the drivers of the Companys future record level of 5,736 developable acres.
This landholding is very broadly expansion.
based, comprising over 180 separate schemes, across all sectors of the property market.
ft. waste treatment and recycling facility for New Earth Solutions at Access 18, Avonmouth.
co. uk 13 Financial Objectives St. Modwens financial objectives over the past year have been to deliver positive NAV growth and resume dividend payments: to grow the Case Study recurring income: to optimise the Companys cashflow and financing position: and to be in the best possible shape to capture new acquisition Income Producing or development opportunities.
ETP Portfolio With the stabilisation of property valuations, we are pleased to have returned to profitability, reporting a profit before tax of 37.5m 2009: 119.4m loss.
Our NAV per share has grown 9% to 218p per share and the EPRA equivalent 7% to 234p 2009: 219p.
Our recurring gross rent roll has grown to 45.7m 2009: 43.0m with voids reduced to 12% 2009: 17%.
This, and our confidence in the robustness of our net asset value and our prospects for the coming year, enabled us to resume the payment of dividends during the year.
An interim dividend of 1p per share was paid in September, and the Board is recommending a final dividend of 2p.
In the current more cautious market, our business model is - perhaps counter-intuitively - particularly appropriate.
Our prudent approach to financing, excellent relationships with our key banks and strengthened balance sheet following the Placing and Placing and Open Offer in 2009 has given us a stable financial footing and ensured we have significant capacity for growth as market conditions improve.
The Company is trading within all its banking covenants and our forward projections show a continuation of that position.
A further key objective for the year was to renew and extend the maturity of our banking facilities to ensure that sufficient funding remained in place for the Companys medium-term requirements.
We have realised this aim and renewal dates for the majority of our existing facilities have been extended to 2014 15 with no changes to the existing terms and We have purchased an eleven-site portfolio of industrial estates conditions.
The earliest significant maturity date is now September 2012 for 21.4m from Citi Property Investors.
With a rental income of and the weighted average maturity of the Groups facilities at the date of 2.2m, this represents a net initial yield of 10.3%.
this report is now 3.7 years November 2009: 3.0 years.
ft. of multi-let industrial Income Producing Investments Hands-on asset management is a very significant part of our business assets located throughout the Midlands and North of England, model.
Our regional teams have been very active during the period, including Birmingham, Sheffield and Stoke-on-Trent.
It includes working closely with tenants to mitigate the impact on our rent roll of the 75 occupational leases, let to 60 tenants, with a void level of 3%.
The effect of asset disposals, tenant In line with our business strategy, it is our intention to retain these failures and vacations was more than offset by our successes in letting sites for income until we maximise their value.
Income raised from void space and newly-completed developments giving us an overall increase in net rental income.
their disposal will be invested into other development projects, land acquisition or the purchase of other income producing assets.
The benefit of this pragmatic and hands-on approach is shown by the fact that our like-for-like gross rent roll has increased by 1.9m to 45.7m since 30th November 2009.
This reflects our success in achieving 7.8m of new lettings to offset rent lost of 5.7m due to vacations and 0.2m due to tenant failures in the period.
This activity has enabled us to reduce our overall portfolio void to 11.8% and reduce the level of unsold stock to 66.3m.
Rental income by sector Industrial 55% 2009: 52% Offices 10% 2009: 9% Retail 35% 2009: 39% While we may see continued pressure on our net rents in 2011, as the macro-economic conditions continue to give rise to increased unemployment and a reduction in consumer spending, our rents are at the affordable end of the scale.
We believe this will provide some insulation from the effect of further tenant failures.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 14 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review operating and Financial review continued Income producing investments key highlights during the year: During the year we acquired the ETP portfolio, an eleven-site portfolio of industrial estates see page 13 for case study.
Case Study Testament to the fact that well located and well managed secondary Residential Land retail property can prove to be a reliable investment is the Elephant and Castle Shopping Centre in London.
The Centre now comprises 82 Persimmon JV tenants and occupancy has increased from 93% to 98% during 2010.
Innovation As a result of 15 new lettings and lease renewals, the net rent receivable has increased by 3.2% during the year to 3.8m per annum.
Centre Outlook We continue to seek opportunities to add to our income producing portfolio.
Our regional presence, flexible funding and appetite for assets that generate income but have the potential for future development is enabling us to move quickly which provides us with an advantage in the current marketplace.
We anticipate acquiring further income producing assets at attractive yields, and believe that our active asset management will continue to add value.
Residential Land The gradual recovery of the residential market, and the consequent erosion of housebuilders landbanks and housing stock levels has seen a re-emergence of demand for residential land, particularly for our type of oven-ready consented sites that can be brought quickly into production.
This is demonstrated by our disposal of 40 acres during the year and the signing of the strategic joint venture with Persimmon to develop an initial seven sites.
This JV will unlock considerable value and cash from our residential land bank as well as delivering development profit from house sales.
As an example of our acquisition activity in the year, we have concluded an agreement with Branston Properties Ltd to acquire, subject to planning, a 280 acre site near Burton-upon-Trent.
We anticipate the site being brought forward for a mixed use development of 500 new homes and 650,000 sq.
Marshalling In August 2010, we entered into a joint venture with Persimmon The planning position on our residential land bank is now: PLC initially to develop 2,000 homes on seven of our sites across the country: Planning status Nov 10 Nov 09 goodyear, Wolverhampton Acres Units Acres Units glan Llyn, Newport, South Wales pictured Allocated in local plan Pallion New Road, Sunderland or similar 309 6,550 231 6,134 Whessoe Road, Darlington Resolution to grant Longbridge East, Birmingham permission 39 806 323 5,230 Long Marston, Warwickshire Outline permission granted 794 12,239 517 7,887 Detailed permission granted 68 1,129 32 833 Coed Darcy, Neath, South Wales Sub-total 1,210 20,724 1,103 20,084 It is expected that the development across 120 acres of land will No planning recognition 340 4,081 440 4,956 take up to five years to complete and will have an end value of TOTAL 1,550 24,805 1,543 25,040 over 300m.
Further schemes may be added to the joint venture as planning permission is obtained by St. Modwen.
We are already making good progress with the joint venture and have recently submitted detailed planning applications at the former goodyear site in Wolverhampton and at glan Llyn in Newport, South Wales.
We will shortly submit applications at Darlington, Sunderland and Longbridge East.
co. uk 15 Planning progress key highlights during the year: Delivery and disposal key examples: Two sites at Longbridge and Weston-Super-Mare have received detailed One of the key transactions during the year was the signing of a joint planning consent for residential development totalling 215 new venture agreement with Persimmon PLC to develop 2,000 homes on homes.
With the benefit of HCA funding, demonstrating our ability seven of our sites.
The structure of the JV accelerates the realisation of to actively manage development without major use of our own funds, value from our hopper, and also enables us to share in the future value these sites are being developed directly by the Company under its of the houses built.
We anticipate that the transaction will be cash house-building brand, St. Modwen Homes.
positive for us in 2011, and will remain so throughout the duration of the JV see page 14 for case study.
South Ockendon, Essex we received outline planning permission for 650 homes on a 31 acre former car factory which we acquired from We have sold 29 acres of residential land for a total consideration of Ford in 2006.
This scheme will form a key part of the delivery of new 40.5m at values equal to, or ahead of book value: 20 acres at the housing in the Thames Gateway region.
former MoD site at Bentley Priory, Stanmore to Barratt Developments: four acres at Haywards Heath to Crest Nicholson and five acres at In addition, the following major planning applications are being Newton le Willows to Jones Homes.
progressed in 2011: Outlook Mill Hill as part of a consortium with neighbouring landowners, Our ability to be flexible and innovative gives us confidence that we will we have submitted plans for a comprehensive development of our continue to unlock the value from our substantial and diverse landbank.
83 acre former MoD site comprising 2,174 new homes, 11,800 sq.
ft. Our developments in progress should generate increases in NAV over the of new retail, 37,000 sq.
ft. of commercial space, a GP surgery, an coming years while our landbank should prove a valuable long-term asset energy centre and two primary schools.
as the housing market recovery accelerates.
Uxbridge plans for the extensive development of this 108 acre Commercial Land Development former MoD site includes 1,373 new homes, 31,000 sq.
ft. of new In line with the rest of the market, we are not currently undertaking any retail and 145,000 sq.
ft. of new office space, together with a 77 bed speculative development.
However, our regional structure enables us to retirement home, a 1,200 seat theatre, a 6,300 sq.
ft. community continue to drive our land holdings through the planning process and museum use, an energy centre, a GP surgery, a 90 bed hotel and three offer occupiers oven ready sites for development means that we are well primary schools, for which outline planning was granted in January placed to take advantage of the resulting and growing demand for pre-let 2011. and design and build opportunities.
Our brownfield remediation expertise makes us an attractive proposition to landowners who trust us implicitly to remove the risk from their sites.
The first phase of housing at Coed Darcy, South Wales where planning is shortly to be submitted for a further 300 houses as part of our Persimmon JV.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 16 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Business review operating and Financial review continued Acquisitions key examples during the year: The 300,000 sq.
ft. waste treatment and recycling facility at Avonmouth Hednesford a vehicle component factory from ATP Industries Group, in for New Earth Solutions is on target for completion in Spring 2011. a deal which unlocks the development potential of the 50m Hednesford Works have also commenced on the construction of the pre-sold 48,000 Gateway scheme in Cannock Chase, Staffordshire see page 19 for case sq.
ft. office complex for Manchester City Council in Wythenshawe.
We have also made significant progress on a number of important town Crawley - an option to acquire, subject to planning, a 100 acre site at centre, retail and public sector schemes: Copthorn adjacent to the M23 near Crawley and Gatwick for employmentled development.
Wembley Our Wembley Central scheme will provide 135,000 sq.
ft. of retail and leisure space, together with 117 private apartments and Planning progress key highlights: 85 affordable homes already completed on site.
During 2010, 23,000 Exeter outline planning consent has been obtained for our 120m sq.
ft. of office space in Ramsey House was refurbished: the fitting out Skypark development near Exeter Airport, together with detailed of the first phase of 117 apartments was completed, of which 50 have consent for the first phase.
Funded by the Low Carbon Infrastructure been sold or let: Co-Op have completed a lease on 10,000 sq.
ft. and Fund of HCA, the innovative first phase is set to comprise a 20m will commence trading in March 2011: and terms have been agreed Energy Centre the first of its kind on this scale in the UK - which with Travelodge for a new 86 bed hotel.
will be run by E. ON, and which will provide sustainable energy for the entire scheme and the neighbouring community of Cranbrook.
ft. retail scheme at Connahs Quay, Flintshire including a new 52,000 sq.
ft. Morrisons food store which Longbridge Town Centre Proposals have been submitted for the commenced trading in November 2010.
Over 300 new jobs have been 70m next phase of the town centre which include 80,000 sq.
ft. of created at the Ffordd Llanarth site, which has attracted lettings from a retail space, a major 85,000 sq.
ft. foodstore, an hotel and 40 twowide range of national retailers including Greggs, Bargain Booze, Just bedroom apartments, together with community space access roads and Go Travel, and Home Bargains.
continued local road improvements to join the town centre with the newly-built 66m Bournville College.
We completed and handed over the 150,000 sq.
ft. Warwickshire College at our Rugby site in time for the first intake of students in Delivery and disposal key examples: September 2010.
Work is also progressing on schedule and budget Some of the principal disposals, which were all made at or above book towards completion of the flagship six storey 250,000 sq.
ft. 66m value, in the period were: Bournville College at Longbridge to be opened to over 10,000 students Catford Shopping Centre and parade of shops - sold to Lewisham in September 2012.
Outlook The Malls, Basingstoke our joint venture, KPI, sold its 65% share in Our developments in progress should continue to generate value.
ft. shopping centre to Basingstoke & Deane Borough do not foresee returning to speculative development in the near future, our Council who owned the remaining 35% for 15.3m.
regional presence is enabling us to find development opportunities that can be satisfied by our existing landbank.
We are currently in negotiations Key employment schemes include: to secure a number of opportunities that should enable us to continue to create value and generate good profits over the next few years.
ft. Morrisons foodstore at Connahs Quay, Flintshire.
This is part of our Quay Shopping Centre development.
