d n a s m t c r u o d o f r t P a l P m g e r l p n o i t f l i t u t a M e l P k r g a n i M t | Operational review Who we are Operational review We operate on a single platform which gives us the ability to provide a flexible range of investment products across a variety of distribution channels at limited incremental cost.
Our operating model To deliver on our strategy, we allocate our resources across three interlinked layers which form our overall model.
Unit Trusts Fund management: responsible for investing client funds and delivering 1 the investment performance which is crucial to our clients and our business.
Private SICAV Clients Distribution and marketing: Single responsible for marketing and selling our full range Investment 2 of products to clients and Platform ensuring our brand and performance message is understood by intermediaries, Investment Absolute advisers and clients.
Trusts Return Infrastructure operations: via a single unified Segregated platform, this supports 3 Mandates both fund management and distribution and marketing.
It ensures they have the tools to do their jobs, providing executive management with the information required The above is a graphical representation of our operating platform where our investment to manage the business capabilities, marketing platform and infrastructure integrate together to support the overall appropriately, as well business model.
It demonstrates both the inter-dependence of the operational architecture as monitoring risks and and the scalability of our operations whereby none of our investment products or distribution performance within the channels is disaggregated from the rest of the model.
It also supports the requirements of external stakeholders such as clients, investors and regulators.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 12 Jupiter Fund Management plc a r d e p n O a e l d g n n i a S r B s e l l e n g n n a i h S C n o i t u b i r t s i D | Operational review Who we are them to invest personally in the funds they and their colleagues Fund management manage in order to align their interests with those of our clients.
A number of fund managers have substantial personal investments We have a single investment platform comprising 39 fund managers in our funds.
based in London, who are responsible for managing our range of funds across different client segments and products.
Fund managers A considerable proportion of our fund managers have worked may manage a number of portfolios across our various product lines together at Jupiter for a number of years, with 17 individuals having including mutual funds, segregated mandates, investment trusts and been with us for 10 years or more.
A significant number of our fund hedge funds.
Private client assets are managed separately by 11 managers have achieved recognition in the industry, reflecting their private client fund managers.
investment expertise and performance records.
Although we are predominantly an equities-focused investment manager, our investment capabilities span a broad range of themes.
Distribution and marketing These cover different aspects of investing in UK equities, including growth and income styles, European and emerging markets equities We operate across a number of different geographies and and specialist areas, such as financial sector equities.
As well as markets, each of which has its own characteristics.
While we these long-only equity styles, we also have capabilities in fund of look to maintain a consistent brand and distribution approach across funds, absolute return and fixed income.
these markets, for example, structuring our distribution on a product neutral basis, we also recognise their differences and tailor our Philosophy and culture approach accordingly.
Our investment philosophy is to seek to generate investment outperformance against relevant benchmarks over the medium Our core market is the UK, due both to the history of the Groups to long term without exposing our clients to unnecessary risk.
We believe that the sale of mutual We believe that talented fund managers perform best if they are funds within the UK long-term savings market contains attractive given the freedom to invest as they see fit, subject to the constraints growth opportunities for asset managers.
As a market, the UK mutual set by each funds investment objectives.
While our fund managers fund market looks different to the rest of Europe.
While it relies on a work as a closely knit team, sharing stock ideas and debating market combination of client awareness and intermediary advice to end prospects, each manager has individual responsibility for their own clients, the intermediary segment is largely populated by independent portfolios and is held accountable for the investment performance financial advisers rather than the retail and private banks that of the funds they manage.
Our investment process is not run dominate the rest of Europe.
by a committee and there is no house view on markets, asset allocation or core lists of stocks.
We believe that such committeeOur brand message has been built through a sustained long-term based approaches can result in investment decisions that move investment in marketing which includes national, trade press and towards consensus and result in weak compromises and mediocre digital advertisements and outdoor media.
Instead, our fund managers take an active approach on emphasising our performance, supported by specific messages to managing their investments and have considerable scope to for key products.
This contributes, in our view, to the ongoing adopt investment positions against prevailing consensus in the enhancement of our brand.
The success of this approach is, in part, market and the portfolios benchmark in order to achieve investment demonstrated by the results of industry surveys.
We consistently outperformance for our clients.
Our fund managers tend to emphasise rank in the top five UK asset managers for overall brand awareness stock selection, rather than specifically targeting relative sector and advertising recall among intermediaries source: Consensus or geographic weightings.
In addition to making fund managers Research, Investment Funds Survey 2010.
We are also consistently clearly accountable for investment performance, we encourage ranked in the top five fund managers in the UK unit trust OEIC category in the Press Watch survey for positive press mentions in national newspapers, having ranked 2nd in 2008, 3rd in 2009 and 3rd in 2010.
We have also been expanding our presence in the European mutual Figure 1 fund market.
As mentioned above, the European market not only has This chart shows the breakdown of Jupiters AUM as at different characteristics to the UK, but also has distinct national 31 December 2010 by investment franchise, demonstrating characteristics, although the EUs drive for product portability through a broad spread across strategies, thus providing a positive the UCITS regime has made Europe a more open market across level of diversification within our business model.
We are positioned as a high performance, independent asset 1.4% 2.7% manager, selling our London based asset management skills to 25.4% 4.8% European wealth management buyers, primarily through our SICAV 5.7% product range.
This range is designed to largely mirror our UK unit trust range, for ease of fund management input, simplification of the assessment of performance for clients and to maintain our 7.3% philosophy of scalability.
Fund of funds UK Income In the last four years we have been building our international team European and we have established a local presence in Germany, Holland, 17.6% UK Growth 8.5% Jersey and France.
This involves either employing local salespeople International to sell into specific countries, such as our Munich office which targets Discretionary sales into Germany, Austria and Switzerland, or by establishing Emerging markets Financials relationships with local third party distribution partners, such as in ESG SRI Climate Change 11.6% France, where we feel they have greater expertise than we can Fixed Income 15.1% provide in-house.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Operational review Who we are We are also expanding our distribution in Asia and opened our Infrastructure Operations Singapore office in late 2009 to improve the servicing of our existing Asian clients and to develop new relationships in the region.
Our operational environment covers a number of different We expect these efforts to result in greater fund flows over time.
departments, ranging from those that directly support the fund management activity, such as back office operations and central While maintaining a common fund management approach, and single client services, to those that also have a wider, corporate level brief unified infrastructure approach, our sales are categorised across five alongside their front office support roles such as finance, IT, human product types: resources and compliance.
Mutual funds The strategy for our operating platform is to support the scalable This comprises our UK domiciled unit trusts and Luxembourg growth of the business and its governance requirements while domiciled SICAV.
In the UK, our funds are primarily sold through IFAs continually looking for operational efficiencies, including outsourcing while internationally, our funds are sold mainly through wealth or improved technologies.
This helps contribute to our objective of management buyers.
of our total generating attractive economic returns and value for shareholders.
AUM 18.4bn was invested into mutual funds.
While the majority of our infrastructure operates in-house, Segregated mandates we have also outsourced a number of processes.
During 2010, We manage segregated mandates on behalf of pension funds, we outsourced our unit trust administration function to IFDS, banks, insurance companies, multi-managers and endowment funds.
resulting in 75 people leaving our West Malling office.
This decision At 31 December 2010, 14 per cent.
of our total AUM 3.3bn was was based on the greater efficiency offered by the outsourced invested into these products.
solution, both on a client service basis and the future cost savings available.
Furthermore, we took a decision to give notice on our Private clients office in West Malling and, in February 2011, relocated the remaining employees to London.
This will generate further savings in future We offer a discretionary investment management service to high years through reduced accommodation costs.
net worth individuals, family offices, trusts and charities, managing individual portfolios of securities and mutual funds both Jupiter funds and external products.
At 31 December 2010, this product line comprised 7 per cent.
The private client market in the UK is highly fragmented with personal relationships being seen as key to success.
As a result, we focus on providing the level of personal service that our clients expect.
Investment trusts Investment trusts are closed-ended, listed investment structures.
We currently manage five investment trusts with an aggregate AUM of 0.5bn.
All the companies incorporate the Jupiter name so as to assist with brand promotion.
We do not have any plans to increase our range in the near term: instead our efforts are focused on generating demand for the trusts shares from retail investors and intermediaries in the secondary market.
Hedge funds As at 31 December 2010, we managed four single hedge fund strategies with a total AUM of 0.2bn.
Our hedge fund sales effort is part of the international sales team who are able to include this range within the suite of products offered to professional fund buyers.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 14 Jupiter Fund Management plc
