10 Operating review With one of the largest networks of offices of any Investment performance assetmanagement company, and over 300 portfolio All investment activities are managed with the clear managers and analysts covering all the major aimof delivering performance which meets or exceeds investment markets, we offer our clients a client objectives within their specific risk parameters.
comprehensive range of products and services We measure investment performance relative to tomeet their investment objectives.
benchmark and peer group over a three-year period.
We employ over 2,700 people across Europe, the Over the past three years 81 per cent.
of our funds Americas, Asia and the Middle East, operating from have outperformed their benchmark or peer group.
We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail Investment performance over three years investors, financial institutions and high net worth individuals in a diverse range of products covering Above benchmark equities, fixed income, alternatives and multi-assets.
or peer group 81% 2009: 79% We seek to build long-term relationships with our clients by providing investment solutions which meettheir investment requirements.
Our strategy Long-term thinking governs our approach to investing, developing client relationships and growing our business.
Our goal is to build a first-class asset Below benchmark management business, diversified by region, product or peer group 19% 2009: 21% and channel, and to deliver for our shareholders a growing return over the long term.
Funds under management by client To achieve this goal we focus on: 196.7 billion Institutional 54% Delivering competitive and sustainable investment 2009: 52% performance through clear investment processes: Building close relationships with our clients: Operational effectiveness: Intermediary 38% Being an employer of choice: and 2009: 40% Investing in long-term growth opportunities.
Private Banking 8% Our strategy encompasses a highly diverse business 2009: 8% model across products, channels and regions that enables us to perform well throughout financial marketcycles.
Long-term thinking governs our approach toinvesting, developing client relationships and growing our business.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp09 15. indd 10 15 03 2011 03:59 11 Building close relationships with our clients Being an employer of choice We aim to excel in client service and develop Our people are our most important asset and we partnerships of real value to clients.
We have an havetalented employees throughout Schroders.
It is effective global distribution capability that offers a apriority for us to develop our people so that they can widerange of products which represent solutions to deliver their full potential.
We strive to be an employer most investment requirements.
We also innovate in ofchoice wherever we operate.
developing new products that will meet our clients We employ more than 40 nationalities across our future needs, whether retail, institutional or high net business.
Our culture values diversity, harnessing worth individuals.
individual strengths and differences to surface the In recent years we have repositioned our Institutional bestideas and insights.
offering to include new strategies focused on the needs of pension funds, endowments, insurance Investing in long-term growth opportunities companies and sovereign wealth funds.
Maintaining a strong financial position is a key part ofour strategy, ensuring that we can invest through Operational effectiveness market downturns.
This allows us to take a long-term Our investment and client service professionals view, which is a fundamental differentiator for benefitfrom modern and function-rich systems.
continually look to improve operating efficiencies by Our strategic focus is on organic growth.
We see leveraging our expenditure on information technology.
significant potential for our business on the back of We meet our infrastructure support requirements strong investment performance, a broad product through a combination of in-house, co-sourced and range, a proven distribution capability and a highly outsourced solutions.
Our broad product range and diversified business internationally.
We will continue geographic footprint require ongoing development of tobe selective about any acquisitions that we make client servicing, investment management and business toensure that they complement our organic support systems, and over the last few years we have growthplans.
invested significantly in upgrading our IT infrastructure.
The modern technology at the heart of Schroders ITarchitecture allows us to respond to client, market, business and regulatory demands efficiently.
We continue to invest in technology to develop our reporting to clients, support the launch of new products and the use of new financial instruments, andto enhance our risk controls.
Delivering sustainable, competitive investment performance is at the heart of what we do.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp09 15. indd 11 15 03 2011 03:59 12 Operating review continued Our business model Equities funds under management Schroders has two main business segments: Asset 90.3 billion Management and Private Banking.
Emerging Markets 20% Asset Management Global Our Asset Management business is organised 14% intothree Divisions: Investment, Distribution and Asia Pacic Infrastructure.
19% Investment This division comprises all our portfolio management, UK research and dealing functions, across the broad 15% product range that we offer, covering most asset Europe ex UK 8% classes including equities, fixed income, multi-asset Australia and alternatives.
As a result, we are able to offer 7% products that are in demand at different phases Americas oftheeconomic and market cycle.
6% QEP We have 21 investment centres globally, offering 11% international as well as local, specialist and scaleable investment products and solutions to meet the investment needs of our clients.
Fixed Income funds under management 33.8 billion Equities Asia Pacic In addition to our equity portfolio managers and 15% analysts in London, we have equity professionals Australia 6% located in Europe, the US, Latin America, eight officesacross Asia Pacific, and in the Middle East.
Europe ex UK Our equity products range from single country to 24% multi-regional funds, small and mid-cap funds, funds designed to deliver high excess returns over the market and defensive strategies which reduce market risk.
Fixed Income Global Our global fixed income capability is based on 26% aresearch-intensive, globally integrated, credit andmacro capability that supports local portfolio Americas management teams in Europe, North America 17% andAsia.
We employ fundamental and quantitative UK 12% approaches to manage aggregate, global, government, credit, high yield, tax-exempt and cashportfolios.
We have equity professionals located in Europe, the US, Latin America, in eight offices across Asia Pacific, and in the Middle East.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp09 15. indd 12 15 03 2011 04:00 13 Multi-asset The ability to generate sustainable investment We have over 60 professionals dedicated to delivering performance and a well defined investment process multi-asset solutions for clients, with a broad range of are key drivers behind client retention and new skills and capabilities across different asset classes.
We offer a comprehensive range of customised We monitor the capacity of our products closely so that solutions, pooled products and advisory services.
We we do not take on more assets than can be managed specialise in providing a consultative, solutions-based without negatively impacting performance.
approach for clients, which efficiently diversifies risk.
Our diversified growth strategies address clients Distribution specific multi-asset investment requirements.
We also We have over 500 employees in Distribution across the offer structured investments, liability-driven investment UK, continental Europe, the US, Latin America, Asia and multi-manager products.
Pacific and the Middle East, specialising in sales, client service, marketing, product development and product Alternatives management, and serving both Institutional and Our Alternatives business includes property, emerging Intermediary sales channels.
market debt, commodities and agriculture funds, funds Distribution, working closely with Investment, is of hedge funds and private equity funds of funds.
responsible for the development of our investment products, focusing particularly on the risk reward Alternative funds under management features and ensuring that we produce investment products that deliver the intended results.
We monitor 24.9 billion gaps in our product range and launch new products, Funds of Hedge Funds as well as retiring products that are no longer in 9% Private Equity demand.
Funds of Funds 4% Property 34% Commodities 29% Emerging Market Debt 24% We offer products that are in demand at different phases of the economic and market cycle.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp009 015. indd 13 15 03 2011 13:11 14 Operating review continued Distribution works with two client groups: Infrastructure Over 1,000 employees worldwide are dedicated to Institutional ensuring operational effectiveness and integrity in We have a diverse range of clients, including corporate various functions including technology, legal, finance, and local authority pension plans, government funds, risk, compliance, internal audit, human resources and sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies, operations.
Demands from clients, intermediaries, charities and endowments.
Over 200 employees investors and regulators continue to develop and areinvolved in Institutional sales and client service.
require significant investment in resources and IT infrastructure.
We have repositioned our Institutional offering towards new products and solutions as well as building on Private Banking traditional strengths.
of our In Private Banking we offer the full range of our Institutional clients are now outside the UK.
We have investment skills and provide specialist banking won major new clients in the insurance sector and services to high net worth individuals, family offices official institutions, diversifying further our funds under and charities.
We are also leveraging our multi-asset iscore to our proposition, so that we can tailor our capabilities for defined contribution pension schemes.
service to the individual needs of each client.
We are Further information on longer-term market trends is able to offer an integrated investment and banking explained in the market review section of this report.
Our Private Banking business operates fromLondon, Geneva, Guernsey, Milan, Singapore Intermediary and Zurich.
In our Intermediary sales channel we work with financial institutions and independent financial advisors who use our mutual fund ranges to meet their clients investment requirements.
There are over 300 employees involved in Intermediary sales and service and clients include discretionary clients, such as private wealth managers, private banks and multimanagers: as well as wholesale clients, such as life companies, platforms that sell mutual fund products and banks.
We work closely with both global and local distributors across Europe, Asia and the Americas to develop products for different stages of the market cycle.
Reflecting the increasing importance of the individual inthe savings market, our wide product range, strong investment performance and broad relationships with distributors, we have seen significant growth in our Intermediary sales channel over the last decade.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT New pp014.
indd 14 15 03 2011 12:22 15 Asset Management distribution model Broad product capability Product development Equities, Fixed income, Multi-asset, Alternatives Product specialist sales resources Institutional Intermediary Consultant UK, continental Europe, Asia, the US, relationship team Latin America and the Middle East Channel sales specialists, client servicing, marketing & communications Discretionary Platforms Wholesale Bank branches Tied agents Independent advisers Defined Insurance Official Defined End client benefit companies Institutions contribution pension pension schemes schemes Our Institutional model is focused on: Our Intermediary model is focused on: product development: product innovation to deliver products for the preand post-retirement markets, including multi-asset and international sales to defined benefit and defined contribution pension structured solutions: schemes, insurance companies and official institutions: improving longevity of client relationships: and increasing gross sales and improving the longevity of institutional mandates: and increasing the proportion of Schroders branded products.
the development of strategic relationships with key institutional clients.
