Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued Operating pro t of 152.4m was 11% lower than for 2009 with Operating review the operating margin at 16.8% compared to 18.0% for 2009.
There is some operational leverage in the business and the reduction in The tables on pages 09 and 10 analyse revenue and operating operating margin primarily re ects the effect of the reduction in pro t for 2010 compared with 2009.
A signi cant proportion of revenue in North America.
In addition broker compensation as a the Groups activity is conducted outside the UK and the reported percentage of broking revenue increased by 0.5% points to 58.5% results are therefore impacted by the movement in the foreign due to the increased costs of employment in North America as a exchange rates used to translate the results of non-UK operations.
result of the unlawful poaching raid on the business by BGC, and In order to give a more meaningful analysis of performance, the initial inef ciencies experienced as the affected desks were revenue and operating pro t growth rates for 2010 shown on re-established.
The 5% reduction in broking support headcount pages 09 and 10 are presented both as reported, and calculated re ects cost reduction action taken in North America.
using translation exchange rates for 2009 consistent with those used for 2010.
The following commentary refers to growth rates Litigation at constant exchange rates.
On 18 March 2010 Judgment was handed down in the legal action that the Company had taken in London against BGC, two of BGCs Revenue in most product areas was higher in 2010 than 2009 senior directors and 10 former Company brokers, in response to a re ecting the strength of the business in the traditional ow raid by BGC in early 2009 on the London business.
The Judge held products of foreign exchange and interest rate swaps, and the that there was an unlawful conspiracy between BGC and its two continuing development of the Energy business.
senior directors to poach the Companys employees and that the Company was and is entitled to a 12 month injunction against all Within Treasury Products, good growth in forward FX in all three but one of the former brokers, and also against BGC, as well as regions, particularly in emerging market forward FX including financial remedies.
The Judge dismissed BGCs counter-claim non-deliverable forwards, offset a decline in revenue from cash against the Company.
BGCs appeal against some of the grounds in and deposits broking.
FX options revenue was little changed.
the Judgment was heard in December 2010.
On 22 February 2011 the Court of Appeal handed down its Judgment which rejected all Similarly, within Interest Rate Derivatives, revenue growth was the appeals lodged by BGC.
The Company is seeking substantial driven by the strong performance in emerging market interest rate damages from BGC.
The damages trial has been xed for four derivatives across all three regions.
Revenue from G7 interest rate weeks commencing in March 2011. swaps and interest rate options was also higher than last year.
Legal action continues to be pursued against BGC and former The decline in revenue in Fixed Income re ects the impact of the employees in the United States.
The subsidiary companies in the broker defections in North America, together with the decline in United States directly affected by the raid have brought a claim activity in credit derivatives in both Europe and North America, and against BGC in arbitration pursuant to the rules of the Financial in agency bonds in North America.
The traditional ow European Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA.
The outcome of this case government bond business continued to perform well, boosted is unlikely to be determined before 2012. by the volatility in those markets in periods during the year, and the business increased market share in exchange traded futures A separate action brought by Tullett Prebon plc issued in the United and options.
States Court for the District of New Jersey against BGC alleging, among other causes of action, violations of the New Jersey RICO In Equities, the decline in revenue was primarily driven by statute has been dismissed, and is under appeal.
This case was reductions in activity in cash equities, including the equities dismissed by the Judge on technical grounds, in part based on the business acquired with Chapdelaine that was exited as part of the pendency of the FINRA arbitration, and which did not consider the satellite of ce closures.
Revenue from equity derivatives was also merits of the claim.
This appeal is likely to be heard in 2012. slightly lower than last year.
Legal action also continues to be pursued against former employees Energy markets were relatively buoyant during the year and the in Hong Kong and Singapore who have unlawfully terminated their Energy business in Europe which covers power, gas and oil products employment with the Company in order to join BGC.
performed strongly, and offset a decline in revenue from the Energy business in North America which is mainly focused on power products.
08 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The Information Sales business continued to bene t from North America increasing customer demand for both real time and end of day In North America, revenue fell by 19%.
Almost all this decline was data and from an expansion of the customer base.
In addition, the due to lower revenue from those desks affected by the broker post trade Risk Management Services business has established a defections following the raid on the business by BGC in the second signi cant market share in electronic LIBOR reset matching through half of 2009, and to the reduction in revenue from desks in the six the tpMATCH platform that was launched at the end of 2009, and satellite of ces that were closed during the year.
made a substantial contribution to revenue.
Underlying revenue in North America, excluding the affected desks Europe and the impact of the of ce closures, was 3% lower than last year, Revenue in Europe was 1% lower than in 2009.
Broker headcount in re ecting slightly lower average revenue per broker with broker Europe at 807 was 2% higher than a year ago but average revenue headcount little changed.
Good revenue growth in Treasury per broker declined slightly re ecting the more subdued market.
Products and Interest Rate Derivatives, particularly from Latin The business continued to perform well in the traditional ow American emerging markets products, was offset by weaker products of foreign exchange, interest rate swaps and government markets in agency bonds and credit derivatives in Fixed Income.
bonds, with revenue held back by slower market activity in the volatility products of FX and interest rate options, and credit and Year end broker headcount in North America at 437 was 7% lower equity derivatives.
than at the end of 2009, re ecting the 52 brokers who left the business as a result of the closure of the six satellite of ces.
In Fixed Income the business maintained its leading position in Adjusting for this, year end broker headcount was 5% higher government bonds and increased market share in exchange traded than last year re ecting the rebuilding of the desks affected futures and options, but did experience lower activity in the credit by the raid in 2009.
Including the 26-strong credit broking markets for corporate bonds and particularly credit derivatives.
team who joined the business at the beginning of 2011, broker Despite the loss of revenue from the cash, forward FX and interest headcount on the affected desks is now largely back to the levels rate swap desks affected by the BGC raid in the first half of 2009, before the defections.
revenue in Treasury Products and Interest Rate Derivatives was little changed with strong growth in emerging markets products Revenue from the desks in the of ces that were closed during Eastern Europe, Russia, Turkey and South Africa.
The Equities the year accounted for around 7% of the total revenue in North business, the smallest product group in Europe, suffered from America in 2010, mainly in Equities and Energy.
lower activity in equity derivatives which offset growth in revenue from the development of the alternative investments desk.
The Energy business continued to bene t from active markets and delivered strong revenue growth in all three main product areas of oil, power and gas.
Change Constant 2010 2009 Exchange Revenue by product group m m Reported Rates Treasury Products 248.4 238.9 4% 2% Interest Rate Derivatives 205.0 192.0 7% 5% Fixed Income 249.3 317.1 -21% -21% Equities 67.2 74.0 -9% -9% Energy 105.8 100.6 5% 5% Information Sales and Risk Management Services 32.8 25.1 31% 31% 908.5 947.7 -4% -5% Change Constant 2010 2009 Exchange Revenue by region m m Reported Rates Europe 536.1 542.6 -1% -1% North America 259.0 318.0 -19% -19% Asia Paci c 113.4 87.1 30% 22% 908.5 947.7 -4% -5% 09 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued Asia Operating pro t Revenue increased by 22% in Asia.
Year end broker headcount Operating pro t and operating margin in Europe were both of 357 was little changed on last year, with average revenue per slightly lower than last year, primarily re ecting the small decline broker up by 13% re ecting the strong recovery of market activity in revenue.
Broker employment costs as a percentage of revenue in the region due to the return of risk appetite and capital deployed were little changed compared with 2009, and support costs were by clients.
The increased revenue in 2010 also re ects the also in line with last year.
development of the Risk Management Services business, much of which is operated from Singapore.
Operating pro t in North America nearly halved and the operating margin reduced to 8.7%.
The reduction in pro tability re ects Much of the business in Asia is focused on Treasury Products and the reduction in the scale of the business following the broker Interest Rate Derivatives and revenue grew strongly in these areas defections, as although support costs in the region reduced, they re ecting the return of liquidity in regionally based products and still represented a higher percentage of revenue in 2010 than in market share gains.
The business also bene ted from investment 2009.
Broker employment costs as a percentage of revenue were in the development of other products, including the oil products also higher than a year ago re ecting the increased costs of desks in Singapore and the equity derivatives activity in Tokyo.
employment in the light of competitor action and the initial inef ciencies experienced as new hires build up to their full run Although the three largest centres in the region, Singapore, Hong rate of revenue.
Kong and Tokyo, represented over 80% of the regions revenue, the business is pro tably developing scale in other Asia Paci c financial The business in Asia Paci c has a relatively high level of operational centres, including the joint venture in Shanghai.
gearing, and the operating margin in the region more than doubled with operating pro t increased to 9.2m, primarily due to the bene t of increased revenue.
Broker employment costs as a percentage of revenue were also lower than last year as the inef ciencies arising from the lower levels of revenue in 2009 were reduced, and support costs were little changed year on year.
