Operating review Computacenter has again delivered a strong profit performance in 2010.
This leaves us confident that Computacenter continues to meet the IT investment needs of our customers and is evidence that our customers rely on Computacenter to help them in reducing their operating costs, over the longer term.
Computacenter has again delivered Group services revenue, as reported, a strong profit performance in 2010. increased by 6.5 per cent and 8.7 per cent Group adjusted profit before tax grew in constant currency.
Different to the product by 21.8 per cent to 66.1 million 2009: revenue growth, the services revenue 54.2 million.
The Groups adjusted growth was achieved, as expected, largely diluted earnings per share EPS during the second half of 2010.
Particularly grew by 19.1 per cent to 33.0 pence pleasing, as this is fundamental to the long- 2009: 27.7 pence, primarily due to term success of Computacenter, is that the this increase in profitability.
We have annual services contract base at December delivered in excess of 20 per cent 2010, has increased by 7.1 per cent on the compound annual EPS growth over services contract base level at December the last four years.
2009 and 9.3 per cent in constant currency.
This leaves us confident that Computacenter On a statutory basis, taking into account continues to meet the IT investment needs amortisation of acquired intangibles and of our customers and is evidence that our exceptional items, Group profit before tax customers rely on Computacenter to help increased by 35.1 per cent to 65.4 million them in reducing their operating costs, over 2009: 48.4 million and diluted EPS the longer term.
The Group annual services increased by 30.9 per cent to 32.6 pence contract base stood at 539.4 million at the 2009: 24.9 pence.
Group revenue, as reported, increased In 2009, we reduced operating expenses in 2010 by 6.9 per cent to 2.68 billion SG&A by over 30 million in constant 2009: 2.50 billion.
After the significant currency and the increase gained in product revenue decline experienced in operational leverage has in no small way 2009, during 2010 customers embarked on contributed to these encouraging results.
refreshing, upgrading and improving their Furthermore, the early indication of improving IT infrastructures.
This resulted in strong corporate capital expenditure, first detected Group product revenue growth of 12.5 per some 12 months ago, has persisted, to cent or 14.7 per cent in constant currency, the extent that we have now gained a high excluding the effect of the CCD disposal level of confidence that Computacenters towards the end of 2009, but including the progress is sustainable and not of a acquisitions made late in 2009.
The Group incurred no was achieved steadily over the year as exceptional costs during 2010 and this a whole and we also believe that, subject to should, in all likelihood, continue until the performance of the overall macroeconomic ERP benefits start being realised.
conditions, growth should continue during 2011.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued Our balance sheet has further strengthened Over the last two years, we have done much considerably.
At the end of the year, net to identify those Computacenter offerings, cash prior to Customer Specific Financing where we have competitive advantage CSF was 139.4 million 2009: net cash of and for which there is market appetite.
Including CSF, net funds were believe that this is where our future success 111.0 million 2009: 37.3 million.
This lies and our focus is on repeating delivery of material improvement in our cash position these offerings, in an efficient and high quality was primarily due to increased profitability manner.
We are investing into tools and and prudent working capital management, processes, which support repetitive delivery which we believe is largely sustainable.
of these services, whilst ensuring efficiency However, the figures are flattered by and quality.
approximately 38 million 2009: 30 million As the infrastructure demands of our with the continuation of extended credit customers grow, so their appetite for terms from one of our major vendors, which increased efficiency solutions has also have been made available to all of their grown.
This has been the driving force business partners.
These terms could return behind the notable interest in cloud related to normal in the second half of 2011. services.
Computacenter has responded 3 The Board has decided to recommend a with the recent launch of C Mail, the first in final dividend of 9.7 pence, bringing the a suite of cloud-based offerings.
total dividend paid for 2010 to 13.2 pence, We maintained good progress in preparing representing a 20 per cent increase on the for our Group ERP implementation.
During 2009 total dividend paid of 11.0 pence.
The the first week of February 2011, the Release increase in dividend is broadly consistent 1 migration onto the new platform in with our stated policy of maintaining Germany was delivered, without material dividend cover within our target range of disruption.
However, the remainder of 2011 2 to 2.5 times.
Subject to the approval by will be important, as migration of the UK shareholders at the Annual General Meeting system is scheduled to follow during the AGM on 13 May 2011, the proposed third quarter.
The Release 1 migration has dividend will be paid on 10 June 2011 significantly reduced implementation risk, to shareholders on the register as at as the lessons we have learnt will assist 13 May 2011. during the subsequent migrations.
As our Our offerings continue to gain momentum people become familiar with the system, in the market, as customers choose the benefits related to a single Group-wide to outsource IT infrastructure support system will start to materialise.
Due to the selectively, rather than opting for a commencement of the ERP depreciation, comprehensive IT outsourcing contract or we will incur an incremental charge of undertaking the work in-house.
Service desk 3 million in 2011. offshoring remains an attractive offering and We did not make any acquisitions during we continue to invest in the expansion of this 2010, but on 15 February 2011, we resource.
We currently employ in excess of announced that our French business had 750 staff, outside of the UK, Germany and agreed to acquire Top Info, subject to the France, primarily within our multi-language approval of the French Competition Board.
service desk in Barcelona and for an English Top Info will be acquired for an initial debt speaking desk in Cape Town.
These facilities free cash consideration of 21 million, with are making significant contributions towards a further 1 million payable, subject to fuelling the growth in contractual services, the financial performance of the Top Info through addressing the increased demand business in the period to end December from customers for global and multi-lingual 2011.
A further circa 15 million will be paid service delivery.
on the closing date, for the cash on Top Infos balance sheet at that time.
We believe that Top Infos attractive customer portfolio in France will provide our French business with new opportunities to deploy its services and infrastructure solutions further, whilst at the same time, strengthening its presence within the IT infrastructure supply market to large French corporations and the Government.
6 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Increase competitive advantage Provisioning in days rather Better than weeks communication Computacenter helps Morrisons increase competitive advantage with optimised IT Customer challenge Computacenter helps us To retain its position as the UKs fourth largest retailer, Morrisons optimise our IT systems must ensure its 439 stores, 15 distribution sites and 16 and services so we can warehouses are supported by highly available IT systems.
In respond more effectively particular, the retailers 131,000 employees need continuous to demand from our access to the Internet, email and other desktop-based services.
With its The retailer also needs to ensure store shelves remain well industrialised processes stocked by enabling rapid product picking at its warehouses.
and broad skills base, it has also helped us make Computacenter solution financial savings.
We have helped Morrisons transform its IT infrastructure, Gary Barr, resulting in reduced cost and complexity.
From designing IT Director, a new email platform and implementing a virtual desktop Morrisons Plc environment to deploying mini datacenters to support a new warehouse solution, Computacenter has assisted with a wide range of IT projects.
We also provide cradle to grave desktop services, including procurement, configuration, maintenance and disposal.
Results Morrisons staff now have faster and more reliable access to the technologies they need.
For example, new desktops can now be provisioned in five days instead of four weeks.
This, along with improved email availability, has increased staff productivity resulting in greater competitive advantage.
The retailer has also been able to reduce desktop support costs and power consumption.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 7 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued Helping Severn Trent Water to cut costs and boost efficiency with flexible working initiative Customer challenge The IT transformation Severn Trent Water has embarked on a ground-breaking IT has enabled a step project that will enable it to adopt flexible working practices change in our working increasing staff productivity and reducing costs.
By embracing part of the companys business transformation programme, new technologies we can which is designed to turn it into the best water company in also improve the quality the UK, with the lowest charges, highest standards and and delivery of customer great people.
services, which supports the companys goal of Computacenter solution highest standards, lowest The IT transformation extends from the datacenter to the charges and great people desktop and includes new solutions for back-up, security, in other words being storage, networking and IT management, as well as Microsoft the best.
The new operating system will support a Citrix Myron Hrycyk, virtual desktop infrastructure that will enable Severn Trent Chief Information Officer, Water to support home working and desk-sharing this is Severn Trent Water crucial as the companys new office and wider accommodation programme is designed around a mobile workforce.
Results By standardising, consolidating and virtualising its infrastructure, Severn Trent will be able to reduce the total cost of ownership of IT and create a more predictable expenditure profile.
It will also be able to provide a better user experience by equipping staff with the latest productivity tools and ensuring reliable access to critical applications, such as the companys recently implemented SAP Enterprise Resource Planning system.
Enable mobility Predictable expenditure 8 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Together with growing the contract base, UK our focus on retaining and ideally, expanding our activities with existing customers, is Revenue also delivering success.
For example, we extended our desktop managed services agreement with AEGON to whom weve 1,265.4m been providing IT support for over 10 years, Adjusted operating profit with a continued end-to-end infrastructure outsource worth over 12 million for a further five years until October 2015.
We have also 43.3m renewed our relationship with OB10, the global e-Invoicing company, for a further Excluding the effect of the exit of trade five years.
The scope of this contract, distribution in 2009, UK revenues improved worth 6 million, has been expanded to by 10.8 per cent in 2010, to 1.27 billion incorporate our multi-site datacenter offering.
This increase was delivered by healthy revenue growth in both We were also successful in winning a number the product and services businesses and of new services contracts.
We signed a was largely attributable to the continuing new five-year, 10 million infrastructure and increasing capital expenditure of our management outsourcing contract with customers.
The rate of this increase in Gatwick Airport.
The scope of work includes revenue was broadly consistent over the managing two datacenters at the airport, year, without a significant revenue spike in along with 26 critical IT node rooms.
the fourth quarter and no obvious increased The infrastructure will be monitored and demand driven by the VAT rate change, but managed initially, from our facility in Hatfield certainty in this regard is impossible.
and in the future, from Cape Town, with an onsite support presence at the airport.
The airport operator will have access to scalable Computacenter UKs services revenue grew by and agile support models, as well as our 13.9 per cent to 380.5 million 2009: 334.0 million.
offshore capability and in the future, access to utility based computer provisioning.
Waitrose, the leading high street retailer, Adjusted operating profit in the UK awarded us a five-year support contract.
increased by 14.5 per cent to 43.3 Under the agreement, Computacenter will million 2009: 37.8 million.
This profit provide hardware support to 269 stores, growth flowed from the strong increase in covering electronic point of sale equipment, revenues, as well as some services margin as well as back office IT and network improvement.
We also continue to enjoy devices.
The service will ensure availability leverage from the cost savings made of critical devices and also deliver increased in 2009. efficiency for Waitrose.
SG&A in 2010 increased by 3.0 million, RDC, our subsidiary which provides its from the significantly reduced base in 2009. customers with secure and environmentally This increase was largely due to investment appropriate solutions to their end-of-life into our Services capability, aimed at IT equipment, once again delivered improving our delivery and as would be exceptional performance, with overall expected, higher commissions were also revenue up by 30.3 per cent to nearly earned by our sales teams during the year.
38.2 million 2009: 29.3 million, while Computacenter UKs services revenue grew profits grew by 30.9 per cent.
by 13.9 per cent to 380.5 million 2009: Better user To an increasing extent, IT infrastructure 334.0 million, whereas services revenues experience refreshes require physical cabling solutions, for the total UK market declined by 0.1 prior and during projects.
This is evidenced per cent in 2010, according to Gartner by the 73 per cent increase in contribution figures.
Revenue performance in contractual of our cabling business on the previous services was encouraging, as anticipated, year.
A large global financial institution is accelerating towards the end of the year due to relocate a large number of its current as new contract wins became active.
premises across Europe, the Middle East Particularly pleasing was the increase in the and Africa EMEA and Computacenters contractual services base, as it serves as an cabling team has been selected as the sole encouraging lead indicator for this business supplier of cabling installation services to all revenue into 2011 and beyond.
A clear the new EMEA locations.
indication of the return of capital expenditure into the market can, in part, be seen in Throughout 2010, Computacenter UK has the strong revenue growth achieved in the continued to win and deliver more critical Professional Services Business.
contracts, enabling our customers to operate a resilient infrastructure and to reduce their operating costs.
These contracts increase the opportunity of retaining such customers over the longer term.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued Union IT Services GmbH, as the IT services Germany provider to the financial service company Revenue Union Investment, a leading real estate investment manager in Europe for private and institutional investors, renewed the 1,005.8m outsourcing contract with Computacenter Germany, until 2017.
This end-to-end Adjusted operating profit outsourcing contract has been expanded to include the implementation and operation of a new and flexible IP telecommunication 20.5m centre, as part of its unified communication and collaboration solution.
In Germany, overall adjusted operating profit for the year, grew by 8.8 per cent to 23.9 million 2009: 22.0 million.
This result Market confidence improved substantially in the represents a strong recovery from the slow second half of the year, with IT infrastructure start to the year, when adjusted operating profit declined by 46.7 per cent, compared investment into both services and products, to the 2009 first half result.
accelerating towards the end of the year, with 2010 can be viewed as a year of two halves.
a particularly strong revenue performance in The expiry of some larger contracts at the end of 2009, as well as general hesitancy December 2010. in the market for capital expenditure, resulted in reduced services revenue in The integrated becom business has started the first half of 2010, although there were to deliver real value to Computacenter early signs of recovery towards the end of Germanys overall business, especially within this period.
Market confidence improved the datacenter product business, which substantially in the second half of the year, has seen much healthier activity than last with IT infrastructure investment into both year.
Additionally, a close relationship with services and products accelerating towards Microsoft has contributed to Computacenter the end of the year, with a particularly strong Germanys recent certification as a Microsoft revenue performance in December 2010.
Voice Specialist, in addition to the existing For the year as a whole, in local currency certification as a Cisco Master Unified and including the acquired becom business, Communication Specialist.
revenue increased by 12.2 per cent to 1,173.1 million 2009: 1,045.1 million It is the first time in Germany that and by 6.2 per cent, excluding the becom any provider has been awarded both business which was acquired in 2009. certifications and our response to current market requirements for multi-vendor Our services contract base grew by 8.7 per communication solutions has been materially cent to 290.0 million 2009: 266.8 million.
Our overall relationship with Both new and existing customers invested Cisco continues to grow, culminating in the in high-end products combined with our award of Cisco Enterprise Partner of the service offerings.
We signed a three-year framework Revenue growth in the second half of 2010 agreement, valued at circa 9 million with was, in part, derived from our reorganisation Dataport, for the supply and deployment activities in the first six months.
The of Cisco datacenter hardware and related managed services delivery structures were services, including consultation work and integrated into a new Managed Service maintenance provision.
Factory and the product and services portfolios were merged.
These changes Intelligent workplace and communication enabled Computacenter Germany to solutions also combine our product and maximise its opportunities on the economic service offerings.
Volkswagen commissioned rebound and even grow in excess of the Computacenter Germany to implement German market in 2010. the car manufacturers Windows 7 Office 2010 strategy.
The overall project lays the We are pleased with our overall performance foundation for the future workplaces at the for the year, especially as many of our senior Volkswagen Group, worldwide.
staff members were focused on the design and implementation work for a smooth ERP system migration.
This was achieved in early January 2011, an event which will provide lessons for the rest of the Groups future migrations.
10 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Greater staff productivity Supporting future growth Computacenter cabling solution boosts productivity and agility for IKEA Customer challenge The cabling project had to To provide an exceptional retail experience at its 301 stores, be carried out on a busy IKEA needs to ensure its 123,000 employees have continuous building site that was not access to business-critical systems and information.
To yet wind or rainproof, where safeguard connectivity, IKEA needed to equip their new head dozens of other contractors office with a robust cabling environment and also equip their were working at the same 20,000 m flagship store with wireless access points covering time.
Computacenter still the complete surface.
managed to ensure that our infrastructure was ready in Computacenter solution time and to specification.
We deployed a flexible and cost-effective structured cabling Ken Struelens, environment at IKEAs new Belgian store and office.
Thanks IT Manager, to our extensive cabling experience, we were able to mitigate IKEA Belgium implementation risks and work alongside other contractors to ensure that the installation was completed on time for the store opening.
Results IKEA is able to maximise data throughput at its head office and new store, contributing to greater staff productivity and higher customer service levels.
The cabling infrastructure has been scaled to support future growth in users, IT devices and access points, which increases business agility and facilitates change.
A future-proofed and flexible cabling environment will also help IKEA avoid capital expenditure.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued Reduce carbon emissions by 1,239 tonnes Minimise risk 1.8 million Cost savings BAA makes cost savings of more than 1.8 million with agile virtualised datacenter Customer challenge By virtualising our As part of its efforts to reduce operational expenditure, BAA production systems we is currently undergoing an IT simplification programme.
The have been able to make a sale of Gatwick Airport highlighted the need for a more flexible significant contribution to IT infrastructure, BAA decided to virtualise its production the companys strategic datacenters to meet both its agility and cost reduction goals for IT simplification goals.
With all the airport operators key services reliant upon and cost reduction while datacenter availability, it was crucial that BAA could minimise achieving greater business agility and IT performance, the risks associated with the project.
which is critical to the Computacenter solution running of BAAs airports.
BAA partnered with Computacenter to design, plan and Terry Fusco, implement a new virtual datacenter VDC based on HP and Head of IT, VMware technologies.
Computacenter assisted at every stage Heathrow, BAA of the project from evaluating BAAs existing datacenter environment and the best workloads to migrate to the virtual devices to testing and integration.
The VDC includes in-built disaster recovery capabilities as well as network virtualisation to maximise uptime and flexibility.
Results The VDC has enabled BAA to reduce its production environment by 246 servers, with spare capacity to support future growth.
This has contributed to cost savings of 1.8 million.
The new infrastructure will also reduce carbon emissions by 1,239 tonnes a year, minimise risk and enable greater business agility.
12 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Towards the end of 2010, we won a fourFrance year product supply contract with SAE, the Government Purchasing Agency led Revenue by the Minister of Finance.
EDF, a major energy utilities company, has also awarded Computacenter France a three-year 359.6m global software licensing contract with Operating profit two extension options of one year each.
Our services business in 2010 grew at a slower rate than in 2009.
However, 1.0m while no significant existing contracts Computacenter France delivered an were lost during 2010, we experienced operating profit of 1.2 million 2009: a natural erosion of revenue from older operating loss 3.1 million, flattered to the maintenance contracts and new wins had extent of 1.0 million, when compared to not yet started contributing revenue.
This 2009, by a change in classification of certain resulted in a margin decline of 0.1 per cent French tax expenses, from administration in local currency, in contractual services.
expenses in 2009, to income tax expense Encouraging though was the 15.3 per cent in 2010. growth in professional services revenue, which should be a natural consequence of We achieved strong revenue growth, strong product revenue growth, but which materially outperforming the French market, has not previously been realised in France, with reported revenue increasing by 16.9 per to this extent.
Although both services and product revenue SG&A expenses were held flat through growth outperformed their respective effective controls and external costs were markets, product revenue grew by an reduced sufficiently, to allow for investment in impressive 19.7 per cent, whilst services enhancing and up-skilling our salesforce.
We revenue growth was lower, at 4.6 per cent.
rolled out an opportunity management tool Services now represent 16.5 per cent 2009: to enhance potential customer engagement 18.4 per cent of the total business.
across the Company and we created a sales specialist team to provide technical support to the salesforce.
We achieved strong revenue growth, materially Additionally, we comprehensively reviewed outperforming the French market, with reported the salesforce incentivisation mechanisms, resulting in changes to individual targets revenue increasing by 16.9 per cent to 419.4 million and other incentive structures.
investment was aimed at sales acceleration into 2011 and beyond, there have been Product growth resulted mainly from clear signs of early successes, making us increased higher-end enterprise and confident of further organic growth and software sales.
Enterprise revenue growth profitability in 2011.
In addition, the proposed in the year, by 53 per cent, was partly due acquisition of Top Info, subject to approval to the success in up-scaling our enterprise by the French Competition Authority, service offerings.
The French Army, an is anticipated to deliver further revenue existing customer, additionally awarded us enhancement in 2011. a comprehensive hardware supply contract to support their storage consolidation and virtualisation project, from conception to roll-out and training, which supply is due to continue through 2011.
There was further evidence of encouraging growth in enterprise sales in the product supply contract win for the virtualised workplace environment of Europ Assistance, a major international provider of insurance and assurance services.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Operating review continued In recognising the business needs of Benelux our local customers, we integrated our Revenue Luxembourg team structure into the German organisation, effective from 1 January 2011.
Going forward, performance of the Belgium 45.6m and Netherlands based businesses will be reported separately from the Luxembourg Operating loss business, the latter which will be reported as part of the German business performance.
-0.4m Outlook statement The Benelux operation showed an adjusted We believe that 2011, as a whole, will operating loss of 0.46 million in 2010 be a year of continuing improvement 2009: loss of 0.85 million, resulting from for Computacenters performance.
As we an operating profit for Belgium and the state every year, it is always a challenge Netherlands of 0.49 million 2009: loss drawing any meaningful conclusions of 0.45 million and an operating loss for about the new financial year until we have Luxembourg of 0.95 million 2009: loss completed at least the first quarter.
drawing conclusions from comparisons with prior first quarter results, will be particularly The business in Belgium and the difficult.
In the first quarter of 2010 in the Netherlands delivered significantly increased UK, we had very buoyant market conditions revenue, up by 90.8 per cent to 49.6 and a large one-off contract, which flattered million 2009: 26.0 million, largely derived revenue to a greater extent, than profit.
However, a material is a marked contrast to Germany, where the proportion of this revenue was derived from comparison is materially easier, due to their a single, one-off sale.
Services revenues challenging start to 2010. increased by 3.3 per cent to 9.6 million 2009: 9.3 million and our managed We believe that 2011, as a whole, will be services business maintained a stable longterm contract base.
a year of continuing improvement for This business has strengthened its Computacenters performance.
competitive position by combining its local presence with international shared services Looking further ahead, we believe there facilities for licensing, service desk and are a number of growth drivers which datacenter activities.
This has allowed the Computacenter will be able to take business to compete for and win, major advantage of.
End user demand for new product and licensing contracts, as is technology is driving the requirement for evidenced by a 10.2 million datacenter investment in corporate IT infrastructure, project to a high profile wireless technology helped by economic improvement within provider, as well as a licensing contract with our customers markets.
Our services a market leader in the field of local search marketplace continues to grow, albeit at and advertising, valued at circa 1.2 million.
a modest pace, but we feel increasingly Continued investment into our Professional confident about our ability to continue to Services offering enabled some project outperform the market.
This reflects our contract wins in the fields of unified customers desire not to outsource to a IP communications: for example, a single supplier, but to smart source best of 0.14 million VOIP project for the Red breed suppliers, playing to Computacenters Cross Flanders, as well as in Microsoft strengths.
We believe that these growth technologies, as evidenced by a 0.12 drivers, coupled with the opportunity to million MS System Center project for fide further reduce our operating cost over time Lijn, a regional public transport provider.
due to our investment in systems, will enable Additionally, a datacenter technology related Computacenter to continue our earnings contract, for storage implementation, with momentum.
a value of 0.23 million was awarded by Pentair Europe, a leading provider of water solutions and related technical products.
In Luxembourg, a restructuring project, at a cost to the profit and loss account of circa 0.48 million, was undertaken to reduce the future cost base significantly and to Mike Norris enhance focus on growing the long-term Chief Executive managed services contract base.
An early success, in this context, is evident from Adjusted profit before tax and EPS is stated prior to having been awarded a two-year contract, amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after valued at 0.47 million, by Enovos, a gas charging finance costs on CSF.
14 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Computacenter helps Best Buy UK open new stores on time with repeatable IT solution Customer challenge By creating a repeatable Best Buy Europe is a joint venture between The Carphone and reliable yet Warehouse and the US-based electronics retailer Best Buy customisable approach Co. Inc, and is designed to make it easier for consumers to for implementing IT at our purchase technology.
To meet its growth aspirations, Best new stores, we are able Buy UK needed to launch its first big-box stores in a short to respond more quickly timeframe.
Technology is fundamental to successful day-to-day to customer demand retail operations and must be provisioned to a high standard and market changes.
with transparent costs from the outset.
Trevor Lynch, Head of IT, Computacenter solution Best Buy UK We developed a robust new store in a box solution for Best Buy UK, which will ensure a consistent level of IT quality and governance across its retail estate.
Computacenter is responsible for provisioning, staging, configuring and installing the store infrastructure, which includes point of sale devices, desktops, printers, cabling, network connections and servers.
We are also providing ongoing support under a three-year contract.
Results By partnering with Computacenter, Best Buy UK has removed both unnecessary cost and complexity from the launch of new stores.
As a result, it was able to guarantee the on-time opening of its first six UK stores in 2010.
As well as delivering guaranteed costs, the Computacenter solution also supports continuous improvement.
Store in a box Remove unnecessary cost and complexity Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
