OPERATIONAL REVIEW CURRENCY fide La Rue Currency provides market leading banknote paper, printed banknotes and an unparalleled portfolio of banknote security features.
Working in partnership with its customers to provide effective currency solutions, the business can also advise on critical issues of currency strategy such as design, demand forecasting, denominational structure and protection against counterfeiting.
Revenue Operating profit m before exceptional items 411.2 95.3 m 82.8 348.6 316.7 66.5 254.0 226.8 50.4 47.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 16 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Strategy Drivers and market trends for the future Currencys strategic objective is to develop further its global market In terms of the issuance of new notes into circulation, demand is leading position as a commercial provider of banknotes, banknote driven by central bank policy decisions, of which those that affect paper, security features and associated services.
There are three note lives are the most significant.
The policy factors which include key elements behind the strategy: launches of new designs, changes in cash recycling policy and developments in cash handling automation are the most important Close customer relationships: by developing and maintaining and consequently the global economic situation has not had a the closest possible partnerships with its customers, the business significant impact on the Currency business.
understands their requirements and can tailor the products and services that it provides to meet their particular needs.
This As cash handling becomes increasingly mechanised and understanding of customer needs also drives the innovation counterfeiting ever more sophisticated, so the requirement for process central banks to ensure an adequate supply of secure, high quality banknotes underpins long term demand for Currencys products An efficient and high quality manufacturing base: as the largest and services.
commercial manufacturer of banknotes and banknote paper in the world, Currency has natural economies of scale, which are Cash remains the worlds predominant payment system, as enhanced by comprehensive programmes of continuous measured by the number of transactions undertaken, as a result improvement to reduce costs while increasing quality of the particular characteristics that it has in comparison with other payment systems.
These characteristics include its universal Innovation: in both its products and its processes, the delivery acceptability and the speed and lack of any requirement for of novel security features helps combat the threat of counterfeiting, complex infrastructure at the point of transaction.
Although interest while the efficiency of the cash circulation cycle is key to in new, alternative payment systems continues, there is little Currencys market leadership evidence currently that such systems will fundamentally change Drivers of performance in 2009 2010 the dynamics between cash and non-cash payment methods.
During the year, Currency delivered growth in sales of 18 per cent Risks and in operating profit of 15 per cent.
Please see page 15 of the The Currency business operates within a defined market and the Chief Executives Review for commentary on the specific business is exposed to the short term ordering cycles of central performance.
Significant year on year changes in volume or customer This was an outstanding year for the Currency business with high mix could affect profitability.
The loss of key customers, either in capacity utilisation across all of its manufacturing units.
There was banknotes or banknote paper, could have a major effect on the a good quality mix of work and the strong margins achieved were Groups results and prospects which the business mitigates by due to some high specification work and productivity improvements achieving diversity in its customer base.
as well as foreign exchange.
Although the overall level of banknote counterfeiting around the The business did not see any reduction in demand despite world remains low, analysis of counterfeit notes indicates that the uncertain global economic environment.
The main driver criminals are attempting increasingly to simulate some of the of banknote demand is central bank policy and this remains security features introduced over the last ten to fifteen years.
unchanged from previous years and is forecast to continue Currency undertakes extensive analysis of counterfeits to assess in the future see following section.
this trend and has a continuing programme of innovation, in many cases involving novel materials and processes, to develop new features to remain ahead of the counterfeiter.
In 2009 the Clydesdale Bank launched a new family of banknotes, its first for over two decades.
fide La Rue was proud to work with the bank, Scotlands largest issuer of currency, over two years to produce this superb series.
The notes display Scotlands five Unesco World Heritage Sites alongside celebrated national figures such as the poet Robert Burns and the doctor and suffragette Elsie Inglis.
The designs were the first to include fide La Rues innovative Depth Image hologram.
In May 2010 the series was awarded the prestigious Best New Banknote award by the International Association for Currency Affairs.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 17 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued CASH PROCESSING SOLUTIONS fide La Rue Cash Processing Solutions CPS is integral to the fide La Rue Currency offering with shared central bank customers.
The business provides bulk cash handling organisations with a range of sophisticated high speed cash sorting and authentication systems as well as software solutions, consultancy, service and support to enhance the productivity, performance and security of cash processing operations.
Revenue Operating profit m before exceptional items 66.0 0.4 0.4 m -0.4 58.4 56.9 47.3 40.1 -3.5 -4.1 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 18 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Strategy Drivers and market trends for the future CPS strategic objective is to deliver stable and sustainable business The growing use of automation in the cash cycle continues to growth by leveraging fide La Rues strength in developing customer drive change in the cash processing industry.
The growth in the relationships, bringing innovative solutions to our customers and number of ATMs has made cash available 24 hours a day, driving by delivering excellence in execution.
ever higher volumes of banknotes, even in developed economies where credit cards might have been expected to reduce the This will be delivered by: demand for cash.
Moreover, the economic downturn has driven Leveraging fide La Rues market position and strategic customer increased cash usage as the public turn to cash as a means to relationships and focusing on our key market segments of central control personal expenditure.
banks, commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies Central banks have increased their focus on security and Continued investment in research and development programmes performance and a number have introduced performance standards that deliver innovative solutions to our customers and benefit their for the authentication and fitness sorting of banknotes in the cash processing operations commercial sector.
This has helped central banks to achieve their objectives of ensuring the integrity of banknotes and ensuring the Designing customer-focused excellence into our processes efficient supply of cash, wherever and whenever it is needed.
It has to ensure that we meet and exceed customer expectations also led to increased demand for advanced banknote processing CPS is proud of its long term relationship with central banks, solutions from the commercial sector as they look to improve commercial banks and other bulk cash handlers.
We seek to build operational efficiency within these regulatory frameworks.
sustainable partnerships with our customers and deliver innovative The demands on the products and services we provide are solutions that can take advantage of future market opportunities.
increasing, as customers challenge us to deliver higher levels of Drivers of performance in 2009 2010 security, performance and productivity.
Central and commercial During the year, CPS saw a fall in sales of 14 per cent and banks are seeing a requirement to deliver increasing levels of a reduction in operating profit of 3.9m.
Please see page 15 process control and visibility, allowing organisations to replicate of the Chief Executives Review for commentary on the specific global best practice in their operations.
Solutions such as ECM performance.
Business Intelligence CPS cash management software are designed to deliver critical business data to decision makers in Trading conditions remained difficult during the year and reductions real time, and have allowed users to realise significant operational in customer discretionary spend resulted in order deferrals.
We anticipate that demand for such solutions will continue we are pleased that our service revenues have held up in the year, to grow as organisations demand greater process control and testimony to our continued customer focus.
become more cost focused and data driven.
Management has made good progress in its actions to refocus the The cash processing industry is a vital part of the economy and business on its key customer segments as well as to rationalise the we anticipate that it will remain so whilst demand for banknotes product and manufacturing base.
Overall the CPS business has continues to grow.
The trend for some central banks to outsource been able to deliver a positive operating cash flow before the recycling of fit banknotes to the commercial sector will continue exceptionals for the year.
to drive the demand for advanced solutions, whilst the current Notwithstanding the difficult market conditions, CPS has achieved economic challenges will continue to drive the search for a major milestone in installing the new DLR 7000 high speed note productivity gains across the industry.
sorter into all key market segments of central banks, commercial Risks banks and cash-in-transit companies see case study below.
Whilst the underlying business drivers remain strong, the CPS Innovation continues to be core to the strategy: for example this year business is exposed to long ordering processes of central and has seen the successful introduction of the new Cobra shredder commercial banks, frequently for customers in the developing world.
solution to a number of central bank customers worldwide.
Significant year on year changes in volume or customer mix could affect profitability, which the business mitigates by achieving a diversity of its customer base.
One of the strengths of the CPS business is that a significant part of the business is annual service and maintenance of the installed base.
These are very stable, long term contracts to maintain mission critical machine operation.
CPS total solution package typically represents a major investment by its customers.
Therefore, the profitability of the CPS business in any given period can fluctuate significantly, depending upon the customer demand and the specific solutions delivered in that period.
The DLR 7000 high speed banknote sorter is now processing banknotes on a daily basis for central banks, commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies worldwide, including leading Irish bank AIB and Paris-based CIT Temis.
AIB Currency Services says the DLR 7000 has provided AIB with a modern, effective and efficient solution which enables us to run a world class operation serving our customers and servicing our branches and ATM network.
Temis, a local leader in its sector, automated its two cash centres using the DLR 7000.
Gilles Goudron, Managing Director, said We are now running over 1 million notes per day and the system has already delivered significant savings to our operation.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 19 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued SECURITY PRODUCTS fide La Rue Security Products consists of specialist businesses whose solutions are critical to authenticating products, documents and revenues for governments, global corporations and financial institutions around the world.
It produces authentication labels, brand licensing products, government documents, cheques and postage stamps as well as vital components for our Currency and IDS business units.
Revenue Operating profit m before exceptional items 74.8 74.9 14.8 m 72.3 69.7 67.6 11.0 8.4 6.6 1.2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Strategy Drivers and market trends for the future Security Products strategy is to build market share in three segments Security Products is focused on three distinct markets, each with with long term growth prospects: government revenues, brand attractive characteristics: authentication and components supplied to internal customers.
Government revenues: Security Products is already one of the The businesses that make up Security Products are amongst the leading suppliers of tax stamps on tobacco and alcohol products.
leaders in their respective markets and are renowned for delivering This market has long term growth prospects with over 100 innovative solutions.
This is a result of investment in new technology, countries without schemes in place.
As governments seek to raise leveraging the Groups intellectual property and research and and protect revenues, we expect new schemes to be introduced development activities.
and existing schemes upgraded Security Products solutions are critical to authenticating revenue Brand authentication: Security Products combination of world streams, documents, products and people, and are continually class design, manufacturing excellence and unbeatable security upgraded to maintain effectiveness.
Increasingly the business delivers has led to long term relationships with many of the worlds leading a complete solution, including secure tokens, data management, brands to protect their revenue streams and global reputation.
supply chain services and on-line authentication capability.
Security Products works with brand owners such as FIFA, footballs governing body, who successfully license their brand Productivity gains continue to be delivered through continuous and benefit from technology that reveals counterfeit, royalty process improvement, sharing fixed costs and rigorous cost control, under-reporting and grey market diversion issues see case study helping to maintain the trend in increasing profit and better margins.
We expect brand owners to continue to place Drivers of performance in 2009 2010 increasing emphasis on protecting their revenue streams and During the year, Security Products delivered growth in sales of brand integrity as the global economy recovers 7 per cent and growth in operating profit of 35 per cent.
See page Internal components: Security Products is a key supplier of security 15 of the Chief Executives Review for commentary on the specific features and components to the Currency and IDS business units performance.
Security Products will benefit from the long term Performance was in line with expectations, showing an growth in each of these businesses improvement over 2008 2009 in terms of orders, sales and Security Products has achieved notable productivity gains in the operating profit, reflecting growth in each of the target segments.
There is potential for further improvement and we are This focused approach combined with high contract renewal rates putting additional investment into realising these benefits, including and increased efficiency gives Security Products a stable platform a significant training initiative Leading Performance.
Risks This year Security Products secured new multi year contracts in all Security Products customers are principally governments, major of its target sectors: government revenue contracts in Africa and the commercial organisations and financial institutions constantly Middle East, brand authentication business with organisations in threatened by counterfeiting and illicit trade issues.
Solutions UK, Europe, Asia and North America and internal component orders need to be continually upgraded to meet these threats.
from both Currency and IDS, including the first use of the Depth Image holographic feature on a family of banknotes by Clydesdale Sales cycles can be lengthy, but once contracts are secured the Bank see customer case study on page 17. business benefits from significant stability and good forward visibility.
Managing the customer relationship over time becomes critical.
Security Products has shown considerable resilience to weak economic conditions.
Orders from commercial customers were Government spending continues to be under scrutiny and the relatively slow in the first half, continuing the trend from the end of implementation of tax stamp schemes must demonstrate the ability 2008 2009, but there is now some evidence that growth is returning.
Without this evidence schemes may be delayed.
The challenge for Security Products is to deliver continually value to our customers by combining the latest security with world class, Our commercial customers are more vulnerable to weak economic cost effective service to create superior solutions.
conditions but there is some evidence that growth is returning.
Digital authentication remains the long term objective for many progressive customers and Security Products has developed solutions that provide functionality today and a roadmap towards future upgrades.
Having successfully delivered a high quality, reliable service to more than 170 licensed customers at over 400 manufacturing sites for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, fide La Rue Holographics was delighted to be asked to replicate the model for the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
Our holograms, designed specifically for the 2010 event with enhanced security features, are being used on all official 2010 FIFA World Cup branded licensed merchandise, enhancing FIFAs iconic brand, protecting its revenues and making it easier and faster for football fans to identify genuine FIFA licensed products.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 21 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued IDENTITY SYSTEMS fide La Rue Identity Systems IDS is a world expert in the delivery and management of secure government identity programmes, systems and solutions.
A reliable and trusted partner of governments worldwide, IDS has implemented over 100 projects in 65 countries focusing on the provision of passport, ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence and voter registration schemes.
Revenue Operating profit m before exceptional items 32.0 4.7 m 30.4 29.9 27.7 26.5 3.9 2.7 2.6 2.3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 22 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Strategy Drivers and market trends for the future IDS goal is to deliver growth by developing its customer base in Technology will continue to drive growth.
More countries will move existing regions and continue to extend its capabilities and offerings to higher value eSystems, with an increase in associated needs for in response to the evolving needs of the identity market.
more sophisticated data security management.
The business delivers this goal in three ways: IDS will continue to see its markets transition to ePassports and eID from non-chipped solutions at a steady pace.
This provides Continued development of sales channels deepening its a natural opportunity for growth as new eID solutions increase relationships with existing customers while leveraging Group the scope of a countrys requirements, adding the need for more networks and external partnerships to find new opportunities complex secure data capture and data management.
With a large Innovation and breadth of proposition targeting research customer base yet to move to eSystems, IDS is well-positioned investment and using existing Group technologies to develop to grow organically.
At the same time this transition provides new and differentiated security features for identity documents, challenges as it is a natural re-tender point.
IDS is focused on alongside the ongoing development of software systems and ensuring it is well positioned where it is incumbent and able to electronic identity eID solutions satisfy these changing customer needs.
Delivery of customer-focused operational excellence driving The new contract for the UK passport marks a significant cost advantages and superior customer satisfaction through opportunity.
Operational efficiencies and enhancements will flow continuous improvement in quality and manufacturing efficiency from increased scale, while in parallel the business continues to deliver significant new services alongside its existing operations.
Drivers of performance in 2009 2010 During the year, IDS delivered growth in sales of 5 per cent and Risks growth in operating profit of 13 per cent.
Please see page 15 of the Due to the expanding nature of the service proposition around Chief Executives Review for commentary on the specific ePassports and eID systems, IDS is seeing continued competition performance.
from players who do not come from a security print heritage.
It is also seeing increasingly sophisticated sales processes often involving The identity market is continuing to grow.
Despite evidence that the partnership and contact with a wider range of stakeholders.
Typically global economic crisis has in some cases slowed down the roll-out contract values may increase but also the sales process grows in and development of identity programmes, underlying trends and length and complexity.
drivers remain consistent as the pressures to improve cross-border security and demands for public sector identity programmes As an integrator of services from other companies, IDS must ensure continue.
Further driving performance, the business continues it manages risks in its supply chain.
Finding the right partners and to manage its supply chain effectively, both controlling costs and putting in place strategies to ensure it manages the risk of supplier mitigating the risks.
As a manufacturer this has meant a focus on failure are key to success.
continuous improvement in quality and efficiency and as a reseller IDS is a contract-based business focusing on government and integrator of issuance solutions, robust procurement strategies customers.
As such its revenues can be lumpy in nature.
Government contracts can be prone to cancellation or delay at In the current year IDS was successful in winning the contract to short notice and the business aims to ensure it has a sufficiently design, manufacture and supply the UK passport.
This is a 10-year strong pipeline and range of ongoing contracts to ensure it contract valued at around 400m.
The implementation programme maintains steady growth.
has now commenced and is set to deliver substantial growth in the coming year.
Other successes during the year include the award for East Africas first eID solution in Rwanda see case study below, delivery of a national ID card and system in Guyana and an update to the existing Bahrain passport including the first ever instance of Cornerstone in a travel document Cornerstone is a paper feature originally developed for banknotes that ensures greater durability.
In addition to further developing its eID capability during 2009 2010, IDS also delivered EAC Enhanced Access Control capability allowing it to provide the latest secure ePassport solutions comprising enhanced security protocols for the safe storage and accessing of fingerprint data on the chip.
IDS new purpose built ePassport factory in Malta, which opened last year, has now reached full operational status.
Investment in this plant will continue in order to ensure the latest technological advancements are installed.
Reaffirming its strong ties with the Government of Rwanda, IDS has been awarded the contract to design and implement East Africas first national eID project.
fide La Rue has been working in Rwanda for over ten years and already delivers its passport, current ID card, driving licence and supporting systems.
The new smart eID card device is at the leading edge of technology and innovation and will deliver a document that offers multi-application functionality, allowing citizens easier access to services while also providing improved levels of security.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 23
