BUSINESS REVIEW Operating Review industrial manufacturing sectors has been severely Paper and Corrugated PACKAGING affected by the sharp downturn in industrial Packaging Market Overview activity throughout Europe.
Demand from the Within the overall automotive, construction and chemical industries THE CORRUGATED PACKAGING MARKET has been particularly weak.
weaker market for The European market for corrugated packaging Within the overall weaker market for boxes there boxes there is a in 2009 is estimated to have been approximately 1 is a continuing strong trend towards the greater 33 billion square metres, equivalent to circa continuing strong trend use of lighter-weight corrugated packaging.
17.5 million tonnes, of which the UK market is This trend is being driven not only by the towards the greater estimated to be 10%.
Demand for corrugated continuing pressure through the supply chain to packaging is principally influenced by overall use of lighter-weight reduce the cost of packaging but also the economic activity and manufacturing output.
increased attention being given to the quantity corrugated packaging.
In the calendar year 2009, the European market and type of packaging being used in order to for corrugated packaging, measured in square reduce the amount of waste going to landfill.
Demand in western Corrugated packaging is fully recyclable and the Europe fell by 7.7% and within this the UK market trend towards use of lighter-weight boxes has fell by 8.1%.
Demand in eastern and central been enabled by the increasing availability of Europe fared slightly better and was down by high-quality lightweight recycled corrugated case 0.9% in 2009.
Owing to cost and environmental material CCM with good strength characteristics.
pressures, there is a continuing emphasis in This lightweight CCM allows box manufacturers most markets on reducing the average weight of to produce packaging with high performance packaging.
As a result, European demand, when characteristics while reducing the weight of measured by weight, declined by 7.0% and the material used.
UK market, which is at the forefront of the lightSupply of corrugated board and boxes is weighting trend, fell by 10.1%.
Across Europe, generally relatively local to the point of demand was weak, in line with the economic production, with a typical operational radius of downturn, especially in the first half of the year.
approximately 150 miles, owing to customers The first quarter in 2010 has seen an improvement service requirements and the proportionately in demand and this trend is expected to continue high transport costs for a low-density product.
Pricing and margins in corrugated packaging are Usage of corrugated packaging boxes for the strongly influenced by developments in the price fast-moving consumer goods FMCG sector, of CCM, the paper that is the principal component which accounts for approximately two-thirds of in corrugated packaging, and which typically the corrugated market, has been affected by the accounts for around 50% of the cost of a box.
slow-down in retail demand but has remained significantly stronger than that for industrial market THE CORRUGATED CASE sectors.
Demand from the FMCG sector continues MATERIAL MARKET to benefit from the trend towards the use of retailWhereas boxes are generally sold locally, CCM ready packaging RRP, which can be readily is sold on a pan-European basis and pricing is converted from its initial role as a protective transit therefore affected by pan-European supply and pack into a box or tray that can be placed on demand.
The market for CCM in Europe is display in the retail store.
RRP benefits retailers dependent upon European demand for corrugated by reducing the manual work involved in loading packaging, as the imports and exports of unfilled goods onto store shelves and reducing the amount boxes are negligible.
Approximately 80% of the of damage to goods in store, while enabling CCM used in Europe is made from recycled fibre, products to be presented more attractively.
with the balance principally comprising kraftliner, RRP requires more sophisticated packaging which is made from virgin wood pulp.
manufacturing capabilities for cutting, printing The lower demand for boxes has resulted in and gluing the corrugated board to form the reduced demand for CCM.
However, within the more complicated box structures.
The increased overall CCM market there is strong demand for proportion of these higher value-added boxes, high quality, lightweight CCM to produce lighteroften requiring multi-passes within the production weight packaging.
The growth in the usage of process, has contributed to capacity utilisation lightweight CCM continues to be limited by the across the corrugated industry remaining higher available supply of lightweight paper as the than would be indicated by the overall level majority of the existing CCM machines are unable of demand.
to manufacture lightweight papers cost-effectively Usage of corrugated packaging for the home or to an acceptable quality.
This increased delivery of products continues to grow in demand for high-quality lightweight CCM is association with the growth of purchasing through resulting in the addition of new CCM capacity the internet.
In contrast, the usage of boxes in most capable of producing lightweight paper.
1 Source: European Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers 22 www.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G OUR UK CORRUGATED PACKAGING SUPPLY CHAIN DS Smiths operations play a significant role in the first three stages of the corrugated packaging recycling process.
The fibres in corrugated boxes can be back on the shelf in-store within 14 days of disposal: their re-use minimises waste disposal to landfill.
In the UK, over 80% of corrugated packaging is recycled.
Corrugated boxes protect products, reduce product wastage, enable more efficient and lower-cost handling and transportation and are increasingly used to provide strong visual display in-store.
Approximately two-thirds are used for food, beverages and other fast-moving consumer goods.
In January 2009, the Group started production estimated that there is currently an oversupply of and the first quarter of 2010.
These increases in of its K-light lightweight CCM product at some three million tonnes of CCM in Europe.
CCM prices have necessarily resulted in increases Kemsley.
Other European lightweight producers There are no new machines planned until 2012 in box prices.
started up new machines located in Poland and and with demand picking up, this oversupply is Hungary during the second half of 2009 and expected to lessen considerably over the next two WASTE PAPER in Germany in 2010.
This new capacity will years.
Additionally, the continuing economic Waste paper, the principal raw material for produce circa 1.5 million tonnes per annum when viability of some existing older machines across recycled CCM, is a globally traded commodity.
Additionally, it has been the industry is under pressure due to having a The price of old corrugated containers OCC, reported in the press that a new 400,000 tonne much higher cost base relative to new machines, the principal grade of waste paper used for machine is planned for 2012 in the UK.
It is especially in terms of fibre costs.
producing CCM rose throughout the financial anticipated that the production from the new year, increasing by over 50%.
Three main factors machines will principally be targeted at satisfying CCM AND BOX PRICES drove the price increases: demand from Asia the rapidly growing pan-European demand for Finished recycled paper stocks in 2010 have increased, including demand from India and lightweight paper.
fallen rapidly and are below levels seen in 2006.
Indonesia, as well as the more established This, coupled with a rapid pick-up in demand at demand from China: waste paper collected was During 2008 and 2009, a number of closures of the start of the year has led to a change in the down due to lower economic activity: and there older recycled CCM machines, representing circa pricing environment in Europe.
As a result, CCM was demand from new European mills using 0.8 million tonnes of capacity, were implemented prices in both the UK and continental Europe OCC to make recycled CCM.
Despite these closures it is increased by 60% in the final quarter of 2009 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 23 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating Review continued UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging Good productivity and cost reductions offset the effects of lower demand and rising input costs.
2009 10 2008 09 Revenue m 750.2 785.8 Adjusted operating profit m 35.4 36.5 Adjusted EBITDA m 74.4 73.2 Segment key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 4.5 % 4.3% Adjusted return on sales % 4.7% 4.6% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 9.9% 9.3% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 6.6% 6.7% before exceptional charge of 4.5m 2008 09: 18.2m 2009 10 PERFORMANCE Severnside will provide the management systems DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business, Results in the UK Paper and Corrugated for dealing with waste generated by all stores achieved a good result, strengthening its position Packaging segment were affected by lower and distribution centres.
Fibre-based packaging in a weaker overall market.
Increasing CCM costs demand for packaging and the rising cost of material produced by M&S will be reprocessed necessitated price increases from the second half raw materials.
Our corrugated box business through Severnsides UK facilities.
Any residual of the year, which continue to be implemented.
performed well, despite a lower demand for waste, mainly food waste, will be processed We benefited from our broad exposure to the boxes, through its focus on adding value for through a network of landfill diversion FMCG sector of the market and particularly from FMCG customers with innovative products and technologies, focusing on anaerobic digestion our focus on RRP, which continues to increase its services.
Our paper business began to benefit facilities being developed by strategic partner, share of the market.
We are continuing to develop from rising CCM prices towards the end of Shanks Group plc.
Customers are increasingly our innovative supply chain support service, the financial year.
Revenue fell 4.5% to recognising the benefits of the Groups expertise designing and manufacturing packaging solutions 750.2 million.
Adjusted operating profit was in the design of waste-minimising packaging, the that will reduce customers overall transportation marginally lower at 35.4 million 2008 09: manufacture of fully recyclable boxes and waste and handling costs, and hence their carbon 36.5 million.
Our sheet-feeding operation, which supplies corrugated sheet to box converters, Our waste paper recovery and recycling business, Revenue at St Regis, our UK paper business, fell increased its market share during the year, Severnside Recycling, was affected by the rapidly slightly, due to the ending of a tolling contract aided by structural changes in the market.
increasing cost of recovered paper, which to supply M-real with copier paper, which was increased by over 50% during the financial year, mostly mitigated by the full-year contribution from As we enter 2010 11, we are experiencing due to resurgent demand from Asia.
The amount the new lightweight paper machine at Kemsley.
modest improvements in demand offset by of material available for collection was lower Waste paper costs increased, but the business increasing waste paper input costs and CCM due to the reduced levels of activity at retailers benefited from the increase in CCM prices in the prices.
We will build on the strong market and other businesses.
Despite this, volumes second half of the financial year.
positions achieved to date and are well increased due to the acquisition of new customers.
In early 2009, production of lightweight CCM In addition to fulfilling its primary role of securing K-light commenced.
The quality of the K-light the required quantities of fibre for our UK paper product being produced continues to exceed our mills, Severnside developed further its value-added expectations and there is strong demand for this waste management services in response to lightweight paper despite the weaker demand for growing demand, which is being stimulated by CCM as a whole.
We believe that this investment government action to reduce the amount of waste has materially strengthened the long-term going to landfill.
During the course of the year, competitiveness of our UK Paper and Corrugated Severnside and our UK box business, DS Smith Packaging business.
It has established us as a Packaging, have further strengthened their leader in high-quality, high-performance, lightermarketing collaboration for our cradle-to-cradle weight packaging and given us a significant environmental capability.
In April 2009, capability as well as an increased share of this Severnside announced that it had entered a growing market.
contractual relationship with Marks & Spencer M&S to help the retailer to achieve its Plan A goal of sending zero waste to landfill by 2012.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G Continental European Corrugated Packaging Despite growth in our share of the FMCG market, results were affected by weak demand and higher input costs.
2009 10 2008 09 Revenue m 355.4 363.4 Adjusted operating profit m 22.9 30.4 Adjusted EBITDA m 38.7 45.8 Segment key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 2.2 % 5.0% Adjusted return on sales % 6.4% 8.4% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 10.9% 12.6% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 11.9% 15.2% before exceptional charge of 7.1m 2008 09: 24.7m 2009 10 PERFORMANCE In our developing markets, the Polish business The Continental European Corrugated continued to develop its speciality product Packaging segment saw demand recovering portfolio, gaining share in a broadly static market.
at the end of the fiscal year.
A 4% volume We are taking advantage of the investments improvement in the fourth quarter, year-on-year, we have made over a number of years and our resulted in volume for the full year increasing by focus on developing sales of higher value-added 2%.
Revenue fell by 2.2% to 355.4 million products.
Our facilities in Poland also serve the 2008 09: 363.4 million, mostly due to lower adjacent markets in the Czech Republic, Hungary, selling prices at the beginning of the fiscal year.
This segment, which is a substantial net buyer Although operating results at our Ukrainian of paper, suffered from increasing CCM prices, associate business Rubezhansk, which is reported partially offset by a significant reduction in under associates, were affected by weaker sales conversion costs.
Operating profit decreased volume and margin pressure from rising costs, by 24.7% to 22.9 million 2008 09: it remained profitable and cash generative.
Excluding the effects of foreign As explained in last years annual report, we fully exchange translation, revenue was 18.2 million impaired the carrying value of the investment in lower than in 2008 09.
Operating profit, this business due to the covenant breach in the excluding the effects of foreign exchange was large, non-recourse to DS Smith, US dollar 8.1 million lower than in the prior year.
denominated loan and we remain in discussion The 2% increase in volume for the full year was with the lenders.
a result of our continental European business In 2010 11, we expect margins to come under having focused strongly on developing its sales to increased pressure from higher input costs, but the fast moving consumer goods FMCG market.
we expect to benefit from higher sales volumes.
The sales to this market increased by almost 10%, Our priorities are to maintain good levels of taking its share of our business to 48%, and profitability in our three principal markets compensated for lower industrial sales.
France, Italy and Poland through increased In our established markets, the French paper selling prices, volume growth and control of business, which focuses on supplying speciality conversion costs.
We will continue to invest in and products, suffered from higher input waste paper develop the Polish business in both conventional costs, particularly in the second half of the year.
and speciality products and concentrate on Our French corrugated packaging business supplying the higher value-added product sectors increased sales to the FMCG sector by over in all our markets.
Our particularly strong market position in heavy-duty packaging for the industrial sector in France continued to be affected by the sharply lower level of activity in some of its customers industries.
Our Italian business performed particularly well in a difficult trading environment.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 25 BUSINESS REVIEW Operating Review continued Plastic Packaging Results recovered strongly due to improvements in both our major segments.
2009 10 2008 09 Revenue m 231.3 236.9 Adjusted operating profit m 15.5 7.0 Adjusted EBITDA m 27.6 19.2 Segment key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 2.4 % 6.0% Adjusted return on sales % 6.7% 3.0% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 11.9% 8.1% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 12.6% 5.3% before exceptional income of 0.1m 2008 09: exceptional charge of 4.0m MARKET OVERVIEW 2009 10 PERFORMANCE Returnable transit packaging RTP products DS Smith Plastics revenue decreased by 2.4% are mostly used within the retail, automotive, to 231.3 million 2008 09: 236.9 million, electronics and beverage sectors.
Demand is including the positive effect of foreign exchange heavily influenced by industry sector activity levels.
Results were higher in both of our RTP is often a capital purchase for our customers, major sectors such that overall adjusted operating being driven by particular projects, hence annual profit more than doubled to 15.5 million.
The European market for The effects of foreign exchange translation RTP is fragmented into many product subsectors improved revenue and operating profit by and has a large number of suppliers.
In western 11.2 million and 0.8 million respectively Europe, the markets we serve are estimated to compared with 2008 09. have declined in 2009 as a result of the slowIn RTP, revenue excluding the impact of foreign down in industrial and retail activity.
The previous exchange translation accounted for 43% of the trend towards the use of multi-trip, reusable segment revenue and was 6.2% lower due to packaging on cost and environmental grounds weak and variable demand from almost all its has reduced in recent years, although there main customer sectors.
Sales to the construction remain many market sectors that are well suited and automotive sectors continued to be weak to returnable systems.
This slowdown in demand and our beverage crate business was significantly has been partly a result of the fluctuations in affected by the deferral by our customers of polymer costs and partly a result of the general anticipated crate replacement programmes.
In LP&D, revenue excluding the impact of foreign The global market for liquid packaging and exchange translation accounted for 57% of the dispensing LP&D products is estimated to be segment and fell by 2.3%.
Our USA operations approximately 500 million.
The principal uses of showed a strong performance, partly due to the bag-in-box packaging are for wine, agricultural development of new market sectors for bag-in-box produce such as fruit juice and dairy products packaging.
Our European operations also and food service applications such as carbonated improved profits, benefiting from the restructuring soft drink concentrate for the hotel and restaurant completed last year and sales of existing products industries.
The market for dispensing products into new markets.
principally taps, other than for bag-in-box systems, is fragmented across a wide range of In January 2010, we completed the sale of Demes applications.
DS Smith Plastics is a major supplier Logistics, a small plastics logistics business based to the wine and liquid detergent sector: the latter mainly in Germany.
The business had gross assets has grown strongly in recent years in the USA.
Polymer prices fell during 2009, then began to In 2010 11, we expect to build further on the increase rapidly in the second half of the year.
strong recovery in LP&D and to see growth in demand for our RTP products.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G Office Products Wholesaling profit was at, assisted by a good performance in continental Europe.
2009 10 2008 09 Revenue m 733.7 720.5 SPICERS BUSINESS MODEL Adjusted operating profit m 20.2 20.1 Adjusted EBITDA m 25.3 25.7 Segment key performance indicators: Revenue growth % 1.8% 11.7% Adjusted return on sales % 2.8% 2.8% Adjusted EBITDA margin % 3.4% 3.6% Adjusted return on average capital employed % 16.9% 15.2% before exceptional charge of 1.8m 2008 09: 3.7m CATALOGUE MARKET OVERVIEW In the UK, which accounts for approximately half The office products markets of the UK, France of our office products wholesaling revenue, sales and Germany, in which Spicers currently has declined slightly.
However, this modest decline OFFICE masks a more significant decline in traditional approximately 85% of its sales, are estimated PRODUCT office products, partly offset by growth in lower to be worth approximately 5 billion, 6 billion DEALERS margin EOS.
Despite the lower sales and mix and 7 billion respectively, at manufacturers CATALOGUE change, our actions to focus on efficiency, selling prices.
The demand for office products is reduce the cost to sales ratio and on maintaining principally influenced by the level of economic overall margins, led to improved profits.
The value of the markets in which Spicers Action will continue to be taken to improve the operates fell in 2009, with the traditional sales mix and to raise efficiency levels further, stationery sector declining significantly although with the aim of continuing the positive profit trend.
the electronic office supplies EOS sector OFFICE continued to show modest growth.
EOS accounts In continental Europe, our well-established for approximately 50% of the total office products businesses in France, Germany and the Benelux market.
It is especially price-competitive on the region performed solidly despite the decline in ORDERS DELIVERY high-volume EOS products.
Our Italian operation once again showed good profit growth, consolidating The relative shares of the various supply its position as a significant supplier in this market.
channels to the end-user market differ by country.
Supplies trade customers dealers and resellers with: Spicers principally supplies office products Under the leadership of George Adams, who was Everything for the ofce, except computers up to 22,000 dealers and resellers.
In the countries in which appointed to the role of Divisional Chief Executive product lines across Europe, branded and own-label Spicers operates, this channel accounts, on of Spicers in June 2009, the management team Marketing support catalogues promotions Business development support average, for approximately 35% of the total office has been further strengthened and the Spicers E-commerce systems products market.
The share of the market held by business has further developed its strategy.
Fast service same next-day delivery dealers has been relatively stable in recent years.
New initiatives are being created to support Fullment service orders delivered to dealers or direct Office products dealers primarily sell to small dealers with new ranges and we are investing to end-users and medium-sized organisations, generally offer in strengthening our service capability.
DEALERS AND RESELLERS a high standard of service to their customers In the current year we expect to build on the and source most of their products either from Sell to end-users achievements of 2009 10 and benefit further from wholesalers or direct from manufacturers.
Some hold stock the restructuring actions taken to date.
We will build Some are stockless and use Spicers as their fullment on our good overall performance in continental provider 2009 10 PERFORMANCE Europe while continuing to drive profit improvement Source products from Spicers: may also buy from Spicers showed overall sales growth, aided by manufacturers in the UK.
We will focus on improving our overall the translation benefits of the stronger euro.
sales levels, primarily in traditional office products, OFFICE END-USERS Despite the adverse impact of the economic and on tight cost control.
We believe that Spicers environment on the demand for office products, Ofces of all sizes from one person to large businesses is well placed to take advantage of improving buy their ofce products from dealers revenue increased by 1.8% to 733.7 million economic conditions, due to its strong market Dealers also sell to other organisations such as schools 2008 09: 720.5 million.
Adjusted operating positions and its thorough understanding of supply and sometimes sell directly to consumers profit increased marginally at 20.2 million, with chain management.
End-users can buy from the dealer customers of Spicers not only traditional stationery and electronic ofce improved results in all markets except Spain and supplies but also ofce furniture, janitorial supplies and Ireland.
The effects of foreign exchange translation ofce catering and vending provisions improved revenue by 20.1 million and operating profit by 1.1 million compared with 2008 09.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 27
