14 Operational Review Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The economic and political backdrops throughout the year Operational Review have contributed to a challenging trading environment for the Group.
The fact that, despite these external factors, the Group I am pleased to present this has continued to deliver growth in both revenues and profits review of the financial year.
whilst maintaining our commitment to delivering high quality services to our customers shows the resilience of our business model.
Alongside strong operational delivery we have also made significant progress in the development of key strategic projects for the Group.
During the first half of the year we completed an internal reorganisation to align our operating units more closely to the core markets in which we operate.
As such we now report our results in three segments: Carbon Services focuses on the developing carbon economy including delivery into the CERT and CESP markets along with the opportunities arising in the international carbon markets: Heating and Renewables Services provides domestic central heating and renewable energy solutions to Social Landlords, fuel poverty programmes and private householders: and Managed Services provision of outsourced end-to-end solutions to local and central Government and other commercial organisations.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operational Review 15 Alongside strong operational delivery we have also made significant progress in the development of key strategic projects for the Group.
Carbon Services We welcomed the confirmation on 30 June 2010 that the CERT CERT and CESP are the UK Governments mechanisms to programme would be extended to December 2012.
The form obligate energy suppliers and generators to reduce carbon of the extension was broadly in line with our expectations with emissions from residential housing in the UK by making them the overall CERT targets being increased on a pro rata basis.
Together these programmes are worth There were two important changes introduced to the structure in excess of 1bn per annum and Eaga is a leading provider of of CERT for the extension period.
First, the CERT extension has carbon emissions savings in these markets.
Eaga has worked in set out a requirement to deliver a higher proportion of savings this marketplace for over 15 years, during which time we have through professionally installed traditional insulation measures developed good relationships with our customers, the leading providing opportunities for our insulation business, and second, UK energy suppliers.
As I set out below, there have been the extension increased the focus on the most vulnerable a number of challenges in this market during the financial householders, through the creation of the Super Priority year, and it is our experience, expertise and strong customer Group Eaga has particular expertise in working with this relationships which have enabled us to deliver solid growth.
We had expected that whilst the extension would be a catalyst to increased demand, it was likely to The key performance indicators KPIs for the Carbon Services be the second half of the current financial year before this business for the year to 31 May 2010 are as follows: resulted in materially increased activity levels.
However, the response to the extension announcement has been Year to Year to more immediate and we now expect activity to increase KPI 31 May 10 31 May 09 Change during the second quarter.
Revenue m 245.5 216.2 13.5% The increase in segmental EBITA margin primarily reflects the EBITA m 23.9 17.7 change in measure mix towards innovative measures in the EBITA % 9.8% 8.2% 1.6% second half of the financial year.
Total CO savings delivered 2 000 tonnes 11,900 9,100 30.8% We have made good progress in securing work under the recently introduced CESP initiative.
Through CESP we work The business performed well during the first half of the year on behalf of the UK power generators to develop and support despite wider market pressures stemming from lower levels community-based programmes which target energy efficiency of demand for traditional insulation measures.
This dynamic improvements in key geographic areas across the UK.
The continued into the third quarter of the financial year, where structure of CESP promotes matched-funding with Social our ability to deliver innovative energy efficiency solutions Landlords and therefore we will seek to deliver programmes at scale was a key factor in maintaining our performance.
with a value materially higher than the CESP contribution.
At a time when public sector budgets are under strain we Overall however, underlying demand from the energy suppliers believe the opportunity to offer funding to Social Landlords during the second half of the year, especially during the fourth will become increasingly attractive and will also provide quarter, was weak, driven primarily by the continued delay significant opportunities for our external insulation business.
in the finalisation of the extension to the CERT programme.
16 Operational Review continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 During January we were pleased to announce that we had The most significant opportunity reached agreement with Drax Group plc for the outsourced delivery of their entire CESP commitment.
In June we were we have pursued in the year able to announce further progress, having secured contracts has been the development of with three additional power generators for the delivery of their CESP commitments.
In total this brings the value of a project to facilitate the large CESP contracts secured for delivery by December 2012 to approximately 50m.
We are continuing discussions with scale installation of solar PV a number of other power generators and are hopeful systems on the roofs of Social of securing additional contracts in this area.
Whilst the contribution from CESP during the year to 31 May 2010 Landlords across the UK.
has been modest there is a significant opportunity for the Group over the next two years.
The CERT extension has provided a real stimulus to demand and with CESP provides visibility through to 2012.
The Governments recently announced Green Deal initiative points to potential changes in the mechanisms to deliver residential energy efficiency improvements from 2013.
Whilst this may mean some changes to the existing policy instruments, it reinforces the continued importance of improving the energy efficiency of UK housing stock.
Working in this marketplace has been at the heart of Eagas activities for 20 years, and we have a track record of successful delivery on behalf of Government, Social Landlords and utility customers.
As such the Green Deal presents real opportunity for Eaga to play an increasingly important role in the delivery of these improvements.
What is clear, however is that the delivery mechanisms are likely to change from those currently in place and we recognise that we will need to maintain flexibility in our delivery models if we are to fully capitalise on the opportunity which Green Deal presents.
Heating and Renewables Services The KPIs for the Heating and Renewables Services business for the year to 31 May 2010 are as follows: Year to Year to KPI 31 May 10 31 May 09 Change Revenue m 198.8 202.2 -1.7% EBITA m 17.5 19.8 EBITA m 19.1 19.8 EBITA % 9.6% 9.8% -0.2% Heating installations 37,200 44,800 -17.0% Properties under cover 393,000 443,000 -11.3% Number of breakdown visits 525,000 486,000 8.2% Excludes 1.6m development costs in relation to our solar PV project Across the last 12 months, we have faced a number of challenges in our Heating business, driven primarily by excess supply issues in the wider marketplace.
Alongside this however we have undertaken significant development on a number of new long-term opportunities, particularly in domestic renewables.
Revenue in this segment includes 15.1m in respect of the contribution from the acquisition of the remaining 50% of WarmSure Limited.
Underlying revenues were 9.1% lower compared to the prior year reflecting the impact of both lower delivery into the fuel poverty programmes and our active management of the effects of increased competition.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operational Review continued 17 Funding into the fuel poverty programmes was lower in Our emergency breakdown services came under significant the period compared to the prior year, resulting in reduced pressure at the beginning of the new calendar year, as a installation volumes.
I indicated in our interim results, that price result of the severe weather conditions.
Whilst this presented competition had increased significantly during the first half of operational pressure I am indebted to our Partners for the financial year, resulting primarily from excess capacity in their commitment and dedication which ensured that the market as a whole.
Given wider market conditions, we we minimised service delivery issues during this period.
decided that we would not bid for new work unless it could be secured on acceptable commercial terms.
Whilst this strategy Following the introduction of FiTs in April 2010 an area of has meant that we have lost a small number of contracts, and particular focus for the Group has been the opportunities has restricted the amount of new work we have been able to arising from the growing domestic renewable energy win, it is pleasing that we have continued to be successful on market.
Through the Governments Clean Energy Cashback other tenders where quality and service have been more of a programme, FiTs provide a mechanism to promote the priority for the customer.
Overall across the financial year the generation of electricity in the home.
We expect that the number of properties for which we provide breakdown and focus on domestic renewable energy solutions will further maintenance cover has declined by 11.3% reflecting a reduction benefit from the anticipated introduction of the Renewable of the number of fuel poverty households under cover in line Heat Incentive during 2011.
There is an increasing range with the reduction in grant funding and a decrease in the of opportunities in the growing renewable energy market number of social houses under cover.
which build upon our expertise in delivering residential improvements at scale across the UK.
Competitively driven price pressure intensified during the second half of the financial year, particularly during the The most significant opportunity we have pursued in the year fourth quarter, impacting both fuel poverty programmes and has been the development of a project to facilitate the large the social housing market.
We have worked hard to minimise scale installation of solar PV systems on the roofs of Social the impact on margins through a close focus on cost control Landlords across the UK.
The model, which has been under and productivity.
Underlying margins, excluding the costs development since late 2009, will utilise third party investment incurred in the development of our solar PV project, have to fund the installation of the equipment with a return being softened.
Given current market conditions we expect these derived from the FiT revenue arising from the electricity short-term challenges to continue through the current generated.
We have invested significant time into the early financial year, however we expect to maintain an acceptable stage development of the project to ensure that we have a level of margin.
To this end we have in place a robust end-to-end operational platform.
We have secured key supply We have continued to focus on the development of opportunities chain contracts with European manufacturers covering both in the private consumer market.
The agreement with Ideal PV panels and inverters which importantly provide protection Boilers Limited on 31 August 2009 to acquire their share of against current component shortages in this market.
the WarmSure joint venture, our nationwide central heating emergency breakdown and servicing business, provided During the second half of the financial year, we commenced a a platform from which we could broaden our delivery to pilot installation programme of 1,200 systems funded initially a range of commercial customers.
We announced in our by Eaga.
We have now installed 664 systems as part of this interim statement that we had secured a contract to deliver pilot.
In developing the model across the 2010 financial year emergency response services to the customers of Barclays we incurred costs totalling 1.6m, which have been charged Bank and Marsh Insurance.
This contract is now operating at against profit and absorbed 6.8m into working capital.
scale and we are responding to around 4,000 emergencies per month.
We are working on a small number of similar pilot programmes with other organisations and are hopeful that this will be an area which will develop further during the coming year.
Revenue Adjusted diluted earnings per share 2010 762.2m 2010 14.37p 2009 738.9m 2009 13.38p 2008 639.0m 2008 10.62p 2007 482.6m 2007 9.58p EBITA Total dividend 2010 52.0m 2010 3.85p 2009 2009 47.2m 3.50p 2008 38.0m 2008 3.00p 2007 31.3m 18 Operational Review continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Since the year end, discussions with Social Landlords have progressed well and we have now signed the first delivery contracts.
These contracts, with South Wight Housing and London Borough of Ealing, together provide access to survey over 16,000 properties.
Whilst relatively modest in size, these agreements represent an important milestone in the development of the project and provide a platform upon which the Group can continue to develop its installation capacity.
Discussions with other Social Landlords are progressing well and we expect further contracts to be signed in the near future.
The Groups funding negotiations in relation to providing third party funding for this project are progressing well and we currently anticipate the completion of these negotiations during the first half of our financial year.
In parallel, we are progressing a range of other potential renewable energy installation projects spanning both the residential and commercial markets.
One of the first of these to reach the implementation stage is an agreement reached in July 2010 with HomeSun Limited.
HomeSun is a consumer retail offering for the installation of solar PV systems, and Eaga has been appointed sole installation and aftercare partner.
We have taken just under a 10% equity stake in the business for consideration of 1m.
Following an initial publicity campaign in August it has a significant number of leads to help it to deliver its first year target of 2,000 installations.
Managed Services The KPIs for the Managed Services business for the year to 31 May 2010 are as follows: Year to Year to KPI 31 May 10 31 May 09 Change Revenue m 429.5 439.6 -2.3% EBITA m 10.6 9.7 EBITA % 2.5% 2.2% 0.3% Fuel poverty households assisted 218,000 259,000 -15.8% DSHS households assisted 343,000 69,000 397.1% Our Managed Services business performed well during the year.
Revenues declined marginally reflecting lower funding and delivery into the Governments fuel poverty programmes, partially offset by higher levels of activity in the Digital Switchover Help Scheme.
Funding for the Warm Front scheme for the year to March 2010 was 350m, an 11% reduction on the comparable period in the prior year.
Revenue from the contract was impacted by a slower rate of delivery than had been anticipated towards the end of the financial year.
Funding for the year to March 2011 is broadly consistent with prior year at 345m.
The Warm Front contract runs to 31 March 2011 with the opportunity for a two year extension dependent on future funding levels.
We expect to get visibility of future funding levels beyond March 2011 when the Governments Comprehensive Spending Review is completed in October.
As part of our continuing focus on efficiency across the year we successfully implemented a number of delivery improvements to the Warm Front scheme.
These changes were focused on improving the customer experience, were I believe that the Group is phased across the year and concluded in May 2010. well placed to capitalise on The first half of the financial year saw a significant increase in the opportunities in both the delivery activity for the Digital Switchover Help Scheme as this short and medium-term.
programme reached the Granada television region.
In total Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Operational Review continued 19 across the year we provided on the ground assistance to approach to tendering and focus on costs will mean we over 343,000 eligible households and handled over 1.75m maintain an acceptable level of margin albeit on slightly telephone calls.
We were encouraged with our performance reduced volumes, and looking ahead we are very much across this period and are well positioned for delivery during encouraged by the opportunities represented by the domestic 2011 as the programme moves to switchovers in the Central renewables markets.
Given the current political processes our and Southern regions.
Managed Services business has yet to see the award of the next phase of outsourcing contracts or contract extensions, but we The increase in segmental EBITA margin primarily reflects remain confident that we are well placed in this market.
the benefit of the ongoing focus on efficiencies and process improvements as well as contract mix.
Subsequent to the year end we have completed a voluntary redundancy programme whereby we have agreed that 223 At the start of the financial year we set out our clear objective Partners will leave the business.
This programme is part of to broaden our portfolio of outsourcing contracts.
We made our ongoing efficiency programme to ensure that the Group significant progress against this objective during the first half is structured appropriately to capitalise on the opportunities of the financial year, being short-listed for a number of large ahead of us.
I would like to personally thank all of the Partners central Government contracts.
However, as a result of the that have left the business under this programme for their impact of the lead-up to the General Election and the contribution to the Group and wish them all the best for subsequent change in Government, the procurement processes the future.
for the majority of these contracts have either been suspended or delayed.
As a result of these delays we have reviewed our Given the market and timing factors set out above we believe short-term targets for growth in this segment and recognise that the second half of the current financial year will represent that it will be more challenging to win material new revenues a greater proportion of the full year performance than has during the year to 31 May 2011.
The experience we have gained been the case in the previous years and we remain confident during the last 12 months of bidding will be important as we of delivering a good performance for our shareholders in the develop our offering over the coming months.
For example, current financial year.
In order to do so we need to ensure that we made good progress in bidding for the Flexible New Deal the Group continues to keep our customers at the heart of what programme until the tender process was suspended in early we do and both provide innovative solutions to customers summer pending a wider review of the Welfare to Work agenda needs as well as delivering efficiencies and improvements and we will use this experience during the tender process for to the way we do business.
the enlarged Work Programme in the coming year.
I am confident that the Group remains well placed to deliver We are of the view that the economic pressures on Government against our strategic objectives.
will increase the drive for efficiency and are likely to result in an increasing number of outsourcing opportunities in the medium to long-term.
We expect further clarity on the shape of a Drew Johnson, Chief Executive Officer number of Government programmes during the autumn.
2 September 2010 Summary and Outlook The fundamental drivers underpinning each of our core markets, as set out above, remain strong and indeed in certain markets including renewables are significantly strengthening.
I believe that the Group is well placed to capitalise on the associated opportunities in both the short and medium-term.
Looking across our businesses I am encouraged by the increased volumes being experienced in our Carbon business and this will pick up further momentum in the second half.
Our Heating and Renewable business is experiencing strong competitive pressures in the heating market, but our selective
