Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 26 operating review power Generation and Transmission on track to have 11,470 MW of operating will increase the cash flow and perationally, all plants performed O well with availability between power capacity by the end of 2014. profitability of the business and also 94% and 99%.
Overall generation take Essar Energy closer to its target was 8.5% higher than 2009, but In India, we are still awaiting forest of 11,470 MW by the end of 2014. clearance for our Mahan, Chakla and lower than planned due to heavy rains during the monsoon season in Ashok Karkata coal blocks which coal India, which affected domestic and will provide fuel for the Mahan I and Essar Energy has 450 mmt of coal agricultural power demand, as well Tori power stations.
This clearance is reserves in coal mines across India as delaying the development of a number well as Indonesia and Mozambique.
In as the impact of higher gas prices.
of coal blocks in India and as a result, India, Essar Energy has four domestic In October 2010, the first unit of the an Empowered Group of Ministers coal blocks with coal reserves of 380 MW Vadinar P1 gas fired power was formed by the Prime Ministers 350 mmt: the Mahan coal block Office to resolve all cases where in Madhya Pradesh, the Chakla station was synchronised with the grid.
The second units synchronisation was significant progress has been made and Ashok Karkata coal blocks in delayed to January 2011 due to a faulty on construction of the power plant.
Jharkhand and the Rampia coal starter motor that had to be sent back block in Orissa.
Essar Energy also has Despite a visit to our sites in July 2010 coal reserves of 64 mmt in Indonesia to the manufacturers for repair.
Dispatch from this plant is expected to remain and a favourable recommendation, we and 35 mmt in Mozambique.
low until the Vadinar phase 1 refinery have not yet received forest clearance.
expansion is complete, when demand While we are optimistic of a favourable The acquisition of the Aries coal mine outcome, we will not be in a position in Indonesia, comprising 64 mmt of for power and steam should increase.
to supply coal from our own mines mineable reserves, was completed In addition to completing the Vadinar ahead of the commissioning of the in April 2010.
The mine will provide P1 power station, the Company 1,200 MW Mahan I coal fired power fuel for the Salaya I power station project.
The first unit of this power and is currently progressing through continued to make significant progress with its other power projects and in plant will commence commissioning its approval process ahead of the November 2010 moved four power in September 2011.
We have therefore commencement of mining.
First plants with a combined capacity applied to Coal India Limited for production is expected in the fourth of 3,570 MW into the construction tapering coal linkage until our own quarter of 2011.
We now have 8,070 MW of mines are operating at full capacity.
We Salaya I power project will have the capacity under construction with expect to receive this clearance shortly.
benefit of its contract with Essar 2,910 MW due to enter commercial Shipping to source coal at a landed operations during 2011.
In July 2010, Essar Power Limited price of US$55 tonne.
Commissioning entered into an agreement for the of the first unit of the Salaya I plant Whilst there are some delays to the acquisition of a 100% interest in is due to commence in May 2011. projects scheduled to come in to Navabharat Power Pvt.
Limited operation in 2011, primarily due to heavy Navabharat Power for a consideration During the period Essar Power rains during the monsoon season in of US$50.2 million.
Navabharat Power also purchased a coal resource India, subject to securing fuel for the is a 2,250 MW coal-fuelled power of approximately 35 mmt in projects under development, we remain plant being set up in Orissa, India and Mozambique from an Essar affiliated is being implemented in two phases: company.
Total consideration for phase one of 1,050 MW and phase both mines was US$148 million.
The total estimated capital cost is US$2 billion.
The project Currently, Essar Energy does not includes the allocation of the Rampia have any operating coal mines as it coal block of 112 mmt and a 4.7 mmtpa is awaiting the final forest clearance coal linkage with Coal India Limited.
allowing mining to proceed but is optimistic of a favourable outcome.
In Phase I of the project progressed to the construction phase in November 2010. the meantime Essar Energy has applied for temporary coal supplies to ensure 2011 is a critical year as we expect coal availability for the plants and is hopeful of receiving these in time.
2,910 MW of installed capacity to enter commercial operations from our Salaya I, Mahan I and Vadinar P2 power stations.
This new capacity High power availability company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 27 case study limited domestic supply of power generation equipment is a key reason for delays in indian power projects.
Essar Energy has addressed this problem by modularising the design, engineering and construction of its power projects using a sister company, Essar Projects, as the engineering, procurement and construction contractor and building strong relationships with major overseas equipment suppliers.
This approach has allowed Essar Energy to reduce design and construction costs, optimise delivery timelines and lower operating and maintenance costs against peers.
Essar Energy recently received an appreciation letter from one of its major equipment suppliers, Harbin Power Equipment Company, the largest manufacturer of power plant equipment in China, for the erection quality of the steel structure of the boiler at the Mahan power plant.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 28 operating review oil and Gas Exploration and Production the 2C, contingent resource category ssar Energy has one producing E oil field, the CB-ON 3, Mehsana during the second half of 2011. field in Gujarat.
Total production for the year was 9,616 barrels, up from In December 2010, the Company signed an agreement to farm out 2,974 barrels in the prior year.
a 37% participating interest in the During 2010, the Company was OPL 226 oil and gas block offshore awarded four exploration blocks under Nigeria to Agamore Energy Limited, a local Nigerian Company.
This the Government of Indias CBM-IV bid round.
The four blocks comprise block was awarded to Essar in 2,233 sq.
km of exploration acreage the 2007 Nigerian bid round and a with in-place prospective resources of Production Sharing Contract was subsequently signed in March 2010. over 7.6 tcf of CBM gas, according to documents issued by the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons at the time of bidding.
These blocks, together with existing CBM block at Raniganj, West Bengal, make Essar Energy the Company with the largest CBM acreage in India and over 10 tcf of reserves and resources.
The Company has signed the CBM contracts for these blocks and is in the process of obtaining appropriate licences, including the Petroleum Exploration Licences.
The Company is also planning the initial work programme for these blocks.
Raniganj in West Bengal, our first CBM block under development, has made significant progress during the year.
Currently 19 wells are producing about 30,000 scm d of gas and an additional 30 production wells have been drilled.
To accelerate our work programme we have ten drilling rigs of various capacities operating at site and one hydrofracturing unit.
To date, 201 bcf of gas has been classified in the 2C, contingent resource category with another 792 bcf classified as a best estimate prospective resource.
14 wells are currently being drilled with a view to migrate more resources to Largest CBM acreage in India company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 29 case study Drilling wells at a low cost while maintaining well integrity is a challenge for cbm developments.
Essar Energy has come up with an innovative solution where two types of rigs are used to drill wells.
Conventional water drilling rigs are used initially to depths down to the coal formations and then subsequently the target depth is reached using air drilling rigs.
This practice has various benefits such as reduced formation damage, faster penetration rates and reduced drilling costs.
Further, Essar Energy has deployed an innovative technique for extracting gas from the coal seams by using a coil tubing unit for hydrofracturing.
This technology allows for multiple coal seams to be hydrofractured at a time, compared to just one coal seam for conventional hydrofracturing, thereby reducing the time required for well completion.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 30 Operating review Oil and Gas Refining and Marketing perationally, the Vadinar refinery across India selling gasoline and gasoil maintenance.
Ramp up of the new O in Gujarat continues to operate under the Essar brand with a further units will commence in Q3 2011, well above its nameplate capacity 250 under construction.
In June 2010, with the majority of the increased of 10.5 mmtpa, processing a record the Government of India announced production expected from mid Q4 2011. plans to fully deregulate retail prices of 14.7 mmt of crude oil 107.2 mmbbl Completion of the phase 1 refinery during 2010, 11.3% higher than the gasoline and to gradually deregulate expansion will increase production to 13.2 mmt of crude oil 96.3 mmbbl gasoil prices over time.
This decision 375,000 barrels per stream day from processed during 2009.
This produced supported our plans to increase our 300,000 barrels per stream day and 1 retail fuel outlets to 1,700 by April 2011, a CP GRM, inclusive of sales tax more importantly, increase complexity benefit, of US$6.6 per barrel for the which remains on track.
The increased period, which was a 57% improvement increasing oil price has put pressure complexity means that the refinery can compared with a CP GRM in 2009 on the market price of gasoil, which increase the proportion of heavy and in turn has caused the uncertainty of US$4.2 per barrel.
In June 2010, ultra-heavy crude that it processes the refinery received its first Mangala regarding Government of Indias plans through the refinery and produce a crude through a dedicated heated and to deregulate retail prices of gasoil.
higher proportion of middle and light insulated pipeline from the oil fields in As a result, Essar Energy intends to distillates.
We expect this to result in a slow down its plans to increase retail Rajasthan.
This low sulphur, heavy and positive improvement in GRMs.
While high pour crude is an important new outlets beyond this number until there the construction costs of the Phase 1 source of crude for Essar Energy as is further clarity on gasoil deregulation.
refinery project are within the overall it improves crude oil supply security Additionally, the Company is increasing budget including the contingency non-fuel retailing activities in its current and benefits from lower logistics costs utilisation relating to change of scope, and taxes.
Exports from the Vadinar portfolio of retail outlets to provide costs are estimated to increase by refinery increased to 31% in 2010 an additional source of revenue.
approximately US$111.6 million, 6.6% of compared to 23% in 2009.
This was the original project cost.
This increase The phase 1 refinery expansion is mainly due to expected delay in primarily due to an increase in export sales of fuel oil caused by increasing is scheduled to reach mechanical commissioning and related interest displacement of fuel oil in India with gas.
This will be costs and pre-operative expenditures.
preceded by a 35 day shut down during May June 2011 to allow for the In November 2010, the Company Essar Energy operates, through a franchise model, 1,385 retail fuel outlets tie-in of the new units and for routine announced plans to further increase the capacity of the refinery to 20 mmtpa, or 405,000 barrels per stream day.
This will be achieved through optimisation of some of the refinery units at an estimated cost of Rs.
17 billion c. US$379 million : the project will be completed by September 2012.
The move follows a detailed project review that identified several opportunities to fide-bottleneck the refinery and revamp some of the units at an extremely competitive capital cost.
1 See Appendix 1 for an explanation of CP GRM Record refinery throughput company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 31 case study post commissioning of the vadinar refinery, process studies were carried out to enhance the capacities and throughput of a number of refinery units.
The team conducted test runs, simulation studies and hydraulic studies to remove bottlenecks in the operating refinery.
With the addition of four crude blending facilities, the refinery has been able to effectively blend various varieties of crude in small quantities to saturate all sections of the mother units.
This has resulted in an increased throughput from the refinery in every quarter since commissioning.
The refinery is currently operating at 14.7 mmtpa, up from 10.5 mmtpa in 2008 while fully complying with international standards of safety and security.
This increase in throughput has supported improved profitability for Essar Energy.
