02 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Divisional Overview Protection & Finishing Products How weve performed The Protection and Finishing Products PFP division is a global market leading provider of Revenue million product protection and finishing products, 10 129.1 manufacturing and distributing plastic injection 09 95.3 moulded, dip moulded, adhesive-coated foam and metal products.
08 114.6 07 96.6 What we do % The division has 41 operating units in 14 countries serving a very 129.1m 35.5 broad base of over 85,000 customers with a rapid supply of products for protection and finishing applications in industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, oil and gas, electrical controls, point of Operating profit million purchase and tubular metal products.
10 28.8 PFP operates a group of five high quality businesses that follow a 09 15.9 central theme of supplying low value but essential products to an ever growing range of industries and customers across a wide 08 26.7 geographical spread.
With the exception of MSI, which operates on a discrete basis to the rest of the division with its specialist oil and gas 07 22.7 industry products and service requirements, the PFP businesses % share a common business model that centres on superior levels of 28.8m 81.1 service and low transaction costs for the high volumes of daily sales activity with multiple customers.
before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs Porous Technologies How weve performed The Porous Technologies division is the leading global technology developer and Revenue million manufacturer of custom bonded fibre and 10 74.7 hydrophilic foam components.
09 66.0 What we do 08 49.7 The divisions components handle fluid and vapour and deliver high 07 46.6 value and precision performance to many of the most well-known healthcare, consumer and industrial brand owners in the world.
% These components are used in a wide range of product applications 74.7m 13.2 including medical diagnostics and wound care, inkjet printer cartridges, writing instruments and air fresheners.
Operating profit million The divisions aim is to be the world leading technology developer 10 17.7 and supplier of porous media custom technical components.
The division operates from manufacturing locations in the US, Germany 09 14.5 and China together with additional sales and customer service functions located globally, including Japan.
08 9.0 07 9.9 % 17.7m 22.1 before intangible amortisation BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Coated & Security Products How weve performed The Coated & Security Products division CSP is a global market leading producer of high quality Revenue million self-adhesive tear tape and a growing supplier 10 91.9 of labels, products and technologies for brand 09 87.3 protection, document authentication, personal identification and track and trace.
08 86.1 07 79.2 What we do % Customers in over 100 countries are served from facilities operating 91.9m 5.3 in six countries.
The division also includes plastic profile extrusion activities in The Netherlands.
Operating profit million The two key markets for the CSP division are the packaging of consumer products, most notably for the tobacco industry, and 10 14.7 document and identity solutions.
The divisions traditional expertise 09 12.2 lies in the development and manufacture of printed, functional products designed to serve these markets, including self-adhesive 08 10.0 tear tape for the easy opening of filmic overwrapped products, self-adhesive labels, films for the protection of valuable documents 07 9.7 and plastic identity cards.
The division is demonstrating a growing % ability to develop technologies and services that can help its 14.7m 20.5 customers authenticate brands, identities and data in a highly secure manner.
before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs Filter Products How weve performed The Filter Products division is the only global independent cigarette filter supplier.
The 10 Revenue million worldwide locations, including a UK-based research 10 200.7 facility and three regional development centres 09 202.9 provide a flexible infrastructure strategically positioned to serve the tobacco industry.
08 187.5 07 187.0 What we do % The division supplies a wide range of value adding high quality 200.7m 1.1 innovative filters from monoacetate to multi-segment speciality filters with sophisticated adsorbent materials.
Operating profit million The manufacturing focus is complemented and supported by a continued focus on technological development, and innovation in 10 23.7 products and services, to provide solutions to the tobacco industry.
09 22.1 08 19.8 07 21.8 % 23.7m 7.2 before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs 04 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Chairmans Statement A high quality and financially strong business Overview I am delighted to report that Filtrona has delivered a record set of results, with operating profit up 33.5% to 75.0m and adjusted earnings per share rising to 21.0p, up 41.9%.
The quick and positive response of the Company to the challenges of the recessionary conditions experienced during 2009 combined with sustained investment in research and development and marketing left the Group well placed to return to growth as trading conditions have improved.
Having demonstrated its resilience in 2009, Filtrona has shown in 2010 its ability to benefit from its leading marketing positions, operational capabilities and responsiveness to customer demands.
All the divisions performed well during 2010.
The Protection & Finishing Products division had an excellent year, with all of the catalogue-based businesses doing well and MSI seeing a strong recovery in the oil and gas sector.
The investment in a new expanded facility for MSI, combined with the acquisition of Stera Tape, reflected the Boards commitment to the strategy of seeking growth in the Companys higher margin businesses.
Porous Technologies continued to make strong progress, driven by printer system and writing instrument sales, and a number of new product developments are moving towards commercialisation.
During the course of the year the Board had the opportunity to visit the divisions operations at Reinbek in Germany where we saw that the extensive refurbishment has established a world class facility capable of delivering future growth.
Coated & Security Products delivered increased operating profit driven by improved margins.
The Payne authentication system generated good growth and the acquisition of BP Labels provides new opportunities for the divisions security applications.
Filter Products achieved a highly creditable result given market Filtrona has shown conditions, once again demonstrating its manufacturing flexibility and product development abilities.
in 2010 its ability to benefit from its leading Dividend Having regard to the excellent performance of the Group, including market positions, the reduction in year end borrowings, the Board is recommending operational capabilities a final dividend of 6.0p per share, which, if approved by shareholders on 14 April 2011, will make a total dividend of 9.0p per share 2009: 7.78p and responsiveness to for the full year which represents an increase of 15.7%.
The final dividend will be paid on 28 April 2011 to shareholders on the register customer demands at 15 April 2011.
Funding Following the refinancing of the Groups main banking facilities in 2009, we successfully issued US Private Placement notes totalling US$160m in April 2010, comprising two series of notes, with seven year and ten year terms US$80m each, with fixed annual coupon rates of 5.37% and 5.91% respectively.
The notes diversify Filtronas sources of funding and secure extended maturities and additional flexibility to support the future development of the Company.
The positive response from investors reflected the strength of Filtronas cash flows and international market positions.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 05 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Governance The Filtrona Board is accountable to all the Companys stakeholders The Filtrona Board believes that the for the standards of governance which are maintained across Filtronas pursuit of and adherence to best wide range of international businesses.
The Board has consistently practice standards demonstrated its commitment to high standards of governance and no major changes to our approach are expected as a result of the new - establishes the culture and core Filtrona UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year the Company has Values throughout the Group implemented a new compliance programme and a comprehensive review of its internal audit and risk management processes in conjunction - provides competitive advantage across with an external service provider.
A number of recommendations will the Group, improving the efficiency be implemented during 2011 as the Board seeks to drive continuous and effectiveness of the Board and all improvement in governance matters.
The Board is adopting the employees, strengthening controls and annual re-election of all directors with effect from this years processes, and enhancing the quality Annual General Meeting.
and objectivity of decision-making and risk management The Board Mark Harper will be handing over his responsibilities as Chief Executive - underpins the shareholder value to Colin Day with effect from 1 April 2011.
Colin has an outstanding proposition of the Company in reputation for delivering international growth and the Board believes pursuing its strategic objectives and that his extensive experience, combined with his commitment and the management of its corporate enthusiasm for new opportunities will provide further impetus to responsibilities Filtronas strong financial performance.
Mark will stand down from the Board at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 14 April 2011.
With 25 years service, and having led Filtrona for eight years, the last five as Chief Executive since the Companys public listing in June 2005, Mark has chosen to take early retirement and he will leave the Company in May 2011.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Mark for the huge commitment and contribution that he has made to Filtrona over many years, culminating in the record performance of 2010.
He is working closely with Colin and the Board to ensure a smooth transition and he leaves Filtrona with the best wishes of all those who have worked with him.
Employees The delivery of Filtronas excellent results in 2010 would not have been possible without the dedication and support of all the Groups employees.
The Board is always impressed by the levels of enthusiasm, commitment and skill demonstrated across Filtronas international businesses, irrespective of the nature of the challenges which are presented by economic conditions or customer demands.
I was particularly impressed by the progress which I saw on my recent visit to our operations in China.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of my colleagues who work for Filtrona for their great contribution to our success in 2010.
Jeff Harris Chairman 24 February 2011 06 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives Review Strong profitable growth Overview Filtrona is a leading international supplier of speciality plastic and fibre products with four operating divisions: Protection & Finishing Products, Porous Technologies, Coated & Security Products and Filter Products.
Filtrona is engaged in the light manufacture and distribution of high volume, small but essential value-added products to a wide range of customers across diverse geographies within a broad but targeted range of international markets.
These markets are served from a global network of 28 principal manufacturing facilities, 41 sales & distribution operations and six research & development centres.
The general improvement in economic activity during 2010, combined with the benefits of investments made during 2009 to develop new revenue streams and to win market share, enabled the Company to deliver strong financial results.
The rapid recovery in organic growth rates vindicated both the Companys investment strategy and the proactive measures taken during 2009 to reduce costs and further enhance the Companys competitive position.
The strength and quality of the businesses within Filtrona was again demonstrated by the profit growth and margin enhancements achieved in each of the divisions.
During the year, the Company successfully completed two small, yet strategically important acquisitions.
BP Labels provides a new carrier medium for the technologies being developed within the Coated & Security Products division.
The acquisition of Stera Tape broadens the range of speciality tapes supplied by the Protection & Finishing Products division and is highly complementary to the Duraco business which was acquired in 2007.
The Company successfully completed an issue of Private Placement notes totalling US$160m in April, with seven and ten year terms US$80m each and fixed annual coupon rates of 5.37% and 5.91% respectively.
These notes provide a stable, long-term funding platform for the Company.
The 2010 out-turn The Companys focus on costs and productivity improvement continued throughout the year.
Company headcount at the year end was 3,198 demonstrated the return 2009: 3,160 and, combined with the significant revenue growth, generated an 11% increase in revenue per employee from 137k to to a positive growth path.
Trading in the early part The positive momentum from 2010 has continued into the early part of the current year gives of the current year giving the Board confidence that the Company continues to be well positioned to grow in 2011. the Board confidence that Strategy further growth will be a Filtronas strategic approach is to build on its core competencies and strong international positions through the investment in, and acquisition feature of the Companys of, businesses which are engaged in the development, manufacture, performance in 2011 sourcing and distribution of high volume, low unit cost, small but essential products for use in consumer, medical and industrial markets.
The Company will seek to acquire in known markets which fall within the existing scope of, or are complementary to, the operations of existing businesses within the Group.
The identification and successful exploitation of markets which offer significant value addition and growth opportunities through product innovation, distribution, service and cost improvements are integral to the future development of Filtrona as the Company seeks to enhance the competitive position of its global businesses.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 07 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Financial Summary Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies % % 34.6m 22.3 21.0m 23.7 1,2 4 1,2 4 EBITDA Operating margin EBITDA Operating margin % % % % 81.1 48.2 22.1 34.9 3 5 3 5 Profit growth Return on assets Profit growth Return on assets Strong profitable growth Coated & Security Products % Filter Products 21.6 6 Group ROIC % % 19.7m 16.0 32.1m 11.8 1,2 4 1,2 4 EBITDA Operating margin EBITDA Operating margin % % % % 20.5 29.6 1.7 29.5 3 5 3 5 Profit growth Return on assets Profit growth Return on assets 1 Excludes central services 2 Adjusted operating profit before depreciation and share option expense 3 Adjusted operating profit 2010 versus 2009 at constant exchange rates 4 Adjusted operating profit divided by revenue 5 Adjusted operating profit for last 12 months divided by the average invested capital excluding intangibles for last 12 months 6 Operating profit divided by average invested capital including intangibles for last 12 months Filtronas key served markets represent important industrial and consumer product segments with a bias towards more defensive markets which provide resilience against the exposure to more cyclical sectors such as the oil and gas industry.
Performance Trading performance in 2010 was strong across the Company, with adjusted operating profit growth and margin improvement delivered in all four divisions.
Revenue of 489.6m was up 10.3% against the prior year 2009: 444.0m and up 8.3% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit of 75.0m was up 33.5% 2009: 56.2m and up 28.9% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating margin increased by 260 basis points to 15.3% 2009: 12.7% due to the operational leverage benefits from the increased revenue, the benefit from ongoing effective cost management and the mix impact of higher growth rates being achieved in the higher margin divisions.
The principal drivers of the increase in adjusted operating profit were the Protection & Finishing Products division, which delivered an 81.1% uplift in profit, the Porous Technologies and the Coated & Security Products divisions, where profit grew by 22.1% and 20.5% respectively.
Filter Products generated a 7.2% increase in profits, although this was slightly down by 1.7% on prior year at constant exchange rates.
08 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Chief Executives Review The increase in Company profit, combined with the ongoing focus on working capital management with net capital expenditure below depreciation, generated operating cash flow of 74.9m 2009: 72.5m, representing a 100% conversion of adjusted operating profit to operating cash flow.
This performance once again demonstrated the strength of the Companys cash generative business model and its ability to generate significant positive operating cash flows at all stages of the economic cycle.
Working capital as a percentage of revenue increased marginally to 14.0% from 13.9% in 2009 and net capital expenditure of 18.8m represented 92% of the depreciation charge of 20.4m.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 41.9% to 21.0p 2009: 14.8p, primarily as a result of the strong improvement in adjusted operating profit.
Basic earnings per share for continuing operations increased by 119.8% to 20.0p 2009: 9.1p, driven by the absence of any negative impacts from exceptional items.
Net debt reduced by 16.3m to 90.8m 2009: 107.1m, primarily driven by the strong operating cash flow.
Additionally the Company received 8.2m, relating to the early settlement of the earn-out from the sale of Filtronas North American Plastic Profile and Sheet business in 2009, and a further deferred payment of 2.7m relating to the sale of the Globalpack Brazilian consumer packing business in 2007, which were more than off-set by the consideration paid for the two acquisitions referred to earlier.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA adjusted operating profit before depreciation, share option expenses and other non-cash items at the year end reduced to 0.9 from 1.4 at 31 December 2009.
Interest cover was 7.1x compared with 7.2x at the end of 2009.
The delivery of Filtronas strategic priorities is underpinned by focusing on key performance indicators which measure the Companys progress in the delivery of shareholder value.
The key financial performance indicators for the Group are set out on pages 10 to 11.
As well as being used to measure the performance at Group level, a number of them are also used as principal qualitative elements in assessing the short-term and long-term performance of the operating businesses.
Given the diversity of Filtronas range of businesses operating across international boundaries, a number of other performance measures, both financial and non-financial, and tailored to the individual requirements and characteristics of each business, are monitored and assessed on a regular basis to evaluate how individual divisions are performing in response to their key objectives and challenges.
Details of key measures for their businesses are detailed in the respective business reviews.
Our responsibility Filtrona continues to operate within a strong corporate responsibility framework where activities are managed to ensure that the Company maintains the high standards which reflect the expectations of the Companys internal and external stakeholders.
The success of this framework is demonstrated by the various initiatives introduced within Filtronas global businesses.
Filtronas development of a responsible, progressive and winning culture recognises the role of the Companys relationship with its employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
That relationship together with the Companys interaction with the environment and local communities helps secure competitive advantage and business performance across its divisions.
The strengthening of the international reputation of the Filtrona businesses and the quality of their respective brands are regarded as real benefits to be derived from the Companys commitment to corporate responsibility in addition to the cost savings stemming from initiatives focused on environmental benefits and sustainable practices.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 09 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com The Company has the ISO14001 environmental accreditation at all its Accident Trend 12 monthly moving average principal manufacturing facilities and remains a member of both the Jan 10 22.2 FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust.
Feb 10 23.0 An overview of this year is provided in the Corporate Responsibility Mar 10 24.0 Report on pages 35 to 41.
Apr 10 25.1 May 10 24.5 Our People 25.5 Jun 10 Key for delivering long-term value to shareholders is the continued Jul 10 23.8 development, skills and commitment of Filtrona employees across the Aug 10 24.1 world.
This is fundamental to ensuring the quality and competitiveness of the Companys portfolio of products and services.
The Companys 24.1 Sep 10 commitment to its employees is reflected in the quality and safety of 24.0 Oct 10 the working environment and the personal development opportunities Nov 10 23.4 which it seeks to provide at each of its locations, without discrimination Dec 10 22.7 between site or people.
There is a recognition across the Group of the Injury illness potential impact of any business restructuring on affected employees Near misses and communities and Filtrona handles all headcount reduction Record only programmes with due responsibility.
The Company manages occupational health by identifying key risk activities, undertaking health assessments and, where appropriate, implementing health surveillance programmes.
The Company has achieved the Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems OHSAS 18001 for all of its principal manufacturing sites, excluding the recently acquired site of BP Labels and Stera Tape, which have been Lost Time Accident Trend 12 monthly given, in accordance with Filtrona policy, a period of 24 months to reach moving average the required standard.
The site at Jarrow has not achieved the standard during 2010 and this remains a key priority for the first half of 2011.
Jan 10 3.3 3.2 Feb 10 Total accidents and lost time accidents remain two key performance 3.3 Mar 10 indicators within the Company in recognition of the primary importance Apr 10 3.4 of good health & safety in securing optimal operational efficiency.
It was May 10 3.7 particularly pleasing that, for the first time, the Filtrona gold standard for Jun 10 4.0 health & safety was achieved by no less than 15 operations.
Filtronas health & safety performance and awareness of potential hazards is Jul 10 3.8 detailed opposite.
Aug 10 3.6 Sep 10 3.2 Filtronas reputation as an employer is important to ensure the Oct 10 3.3 attraction and retention of suitably motivated, experienced and skilled Nov 10 3.0 personnel.
The customer and supplier perception of Filtronas values and 2.6 Dec 10 standards of conduct across a variety of regions and cultures can impact on the development of the long-standing business relationships which the Company has maintained and continues to foster.
Filtrona strives to maintain the highest ethical standards at all times in the conduct of its international operations, and the new compliance programmes implemented across the Group in 2010 reflect the Companys commitment to those standards.
Mark Harper Chief Executive 24 February 2011 10 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Key Performance Indicators Measuring up against our strategy Grow profitably Delivering success 2010 Progress - The growth in underlying operating % profit provides the key measure of the 33.5 performance of the Company over time Growth in underlying operating profit - The analysis of annual revenue demonstrates the Companys ability % to grow sales by operating in selected 10.3 markets and offering differentiated, Growth in revenue cost-competitive products and services - Operating margin monitors operating efficiency and added value 260bps - Underlying cash inflow from operating Growth in operating margin activities reflects the Companys ability to turn profit into cash through the effective % management of working capital and 3.3 capital expenditure Growth in underlying cash flow Acquire in selected markets Delivering success 2010 Progress - Identification of corporate transactions Corporate transactions to enable further focus on higher margin, - Duraco and Lendell performing well higher growth potential businesses - Stera Tape acquisition adds to Duracos capabilities - BP Labels provides new carrier medium for security technologies Build on core competencies Delivering success 2010 Progress - Product innovation Product innovation - Success with the launch of new products and services continues - Further investment in research and development with new capability established within Porous Technologies - Intellectual property portfolio expands - Customer service Customer service - Quality standards and delivery performance show further improvements - Operational efficiency Operational efficiency - Benefits derived from cost reduction and productivity improvements within Filter Products - Porous Technologies securing benefits from the modernisation of Reinbek facility - International capability International capability - Further strategic development of flexible infrastructure to strengthen capability to respond to customers demands BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Invest organically Delivering success 2010 Progress Investments in: Sales & marketing - Sales & marketing to increase demand - Increased catalogue and sample requests and new accounts and attract new customers within Protection & Finishing Products - Protection & Finishing Products: Generation of positive lead indicators for 2011 - Successful launch of ecofriendly products in Porous Technologies - Coated & Security Products: success of Payne Authentication - Filter Products: progress with scientific services and launch of smooth core filter Research & development - Research & development to secure new - Continued generation of healthy pipeline of innovative and innovative products and services new products and services in several key markets - Continued project development with strategic partners - Successful launch of new products and services in all divisions Infrastructure - Infrastructure to provide the cost - Enhanced distribution capabilities for Protection & competitive delivery of high quality Finishing Products in Poland, China, Brazil and UK products and services - Approval of new MSI facility in Houston, Texas - Completion of renovation of Porous Technologies Reinbek, Germany facility - Move to high quality Brazilian tear tape facility - Redevelopment of technology centre for Coated & Security Products in Nottingham - Investment in new factory for Filter Products in Thailand Deliver long-term value Delivering success 2010 Progress - Return on average invested capital reflects the success of the Company in achieving 470bps superior returns on its invested capital Increase in return on average invested capital - Adjusted earnings per share measures the % benefits generated for shareholders from 41.9 the Companys overall performance.
Increase in adjusted earnings per share % - Dividend payment for year 15.7 Increase in total dividend for the year % - Share price 28.5 Increase in share price during the year 12 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Management of Principal Risks Disruption to Protecting our operational sites loss of critical assets achievement of Risk sustainable A catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of any of Filtronas manufacturing or distribution shareholder value facilities due to accident, labour issues, fire, weather conditions, terrorist attack, natural disaster or otherwise and whether short or long-term could adversely affect the Companys ability to meet Effective management of risk and opportunity is the demands of its customers.
Some of the assets maintained essential to the protection of Filtronas reputation and by the Company, such as tooling the achievement of sustainable shareholder value.
and IT systems, are critical to the manufacture and delivery The management of risk underpins the Companys strategy, focusing on the challenges which arise in the international environment in which of particular products.
Filtrona conducts business and reflecting the Companys appetite for risk in the delivery of its business objectives.
The underlying principles are that risks are continuously monitored, associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies are provisioned and information is reported through established management control procedures.
Impact Filtrona recognises that the ability to monitor, assess and respond to business risks can often provide competitive advantage.
Reporting A material disruption to within the Group is structured so that key issues are escalated through operational facilities or the loss the management team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
Each area of critical assets may negatively of the business is required to formally and regularly review its principal affect the Companys: areas of risk and uncertainty so that major risks are reviewed at all levels - production capability and across the Group.
This is an ongoing process, ensuring that there are clear consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing asset base appropriate controls to manage identified risks.
- supply chain management - customer relationships The performance, both long-term and short-term, of the Group can be - reputation impacted by any number of risks and uncertainties not all of which are - revenue within the Companys control.
- profit - financial condition The Company is subject to the general risks and uncertainties which impact on any other international business, including political instability in the countries in which the Company operates and sources raw materials, the impact of natural disasters and changes in general Mitigation economic conditions, including currency and interest rate fluctuations, tax regimes and raw material costs.
Filtrona seeks to manage the risk of potential disruption of the Detailed on pages 12 to 15 are the principal risks and uncertainties which supply of its customers by: the Board believes are specific to Filtrona together with the Company - operating within a flexible risk management response thereto.
The details provided are not global infrastructure exhaustive and do not purport to be a complete explanation of all - installing fire and other risk potentially relevant issues.
There may be other risks and uncertainties prevention systems which are unknown to the Board or which may not be deemed by the Board to be material now but which could turn out to be material in - implementing disaster recovery the future.
and business continuity plans - assessing operational risks - maintaining insurance BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Competitive Relationship with Customer pressures tobacco industry concentration Risk Risk Risk Filtrona faces pressures from A significant part of Filtronas In some of Filtronas businesses, direct competitors as well as business relates to the supply of particularly filter products and competition from alternative filter products and tear tape to tear tape, the customer base is technologies.
Some of the manufacturers in the tobacco relatively concentrated.
Trends Companys competitors may industry.
Future performance in certain markets, particularly derive competitive advantage may be affected by changes in the within the oil and gas industry from the benefits of greater conditions within those sections may reduce the demands for the financial resources, economies of the tobacco industry which Companys products.
Should of scale, additional purchasing the Company supplies, such as Filtronas customers decide power or lower cost bases and changes in the consumption of to satisfy their requirements Filtrona may face aggressive filter products, self manufacture internally or from other suppliers pricing practices.
and increasingly restrictive and if Filtrona was unable regulations affecting the industry.
to secure new business this Tobacco related litigation could could result in a significant loss also adversely affect Filtrona, of business.
although there is no history of the Company being involved in such claims.
Impact Impact Impact Demand for competitors Filtronas relationship with the The loss of certain of Filtronas products and the development tobacco industry may lead to: key customers exposes the of competing technologies may - reduced revenue Company to: result in: - restructuring costs - reduced revenue - loss of market positions - profit decline - restructuring costs - erosion of margins - reputational damage - profit decline - intellectual property challenges - deterioration in financial - deterioration in financial - decline in revenue condition condition - decline in profitability - reputational damage - reduction in financial condition Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Filtrona seeks to drive its strong In seeking to minimise the To counteract the Companys competitive market positions by: impact of the challenges arising exposure to a number of key - sustained investment in out of its exposure to the customers, Filtrona: research & development tobacco industry, Filtrona: - invests in innovative, high to develop the quality and - focuses on low cost filter quality, value-added products breadth of its product and production and services service offering - invests in the research and - develops long-term - exploiting its innovative and development of innovative relationships with customers manufacturing capabilities in value-added products and at a senior level new technologies, products services - seeks new markets and growth and services - targets growth opportunities opportunities to expand the - protecting its intellectual outside the manufacture of customer base property rights filter products - expanding its international - takes internal and external legal distribution, sales and advice to manage litigation risk marketing expertise - investing in both organic and acquisition growth opportunities 14 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Management of Principal Risks Raw material Intellectual property Challenges of business supply development and development protection Risk Risk Risk The Company uses significant A key component to Filtronas Filtrona has achieved the quantities of plastic resins which future success is the ability to development of its business and are subject to price fluctuations develop new and innovative growth through the benefit of from supply shortages and changes products and services.
In acquisitions and the success of in the prices of natural gas, crude addition to seeking patent and start-up operations.
The rate of oil and other petrochemical trademark rights applied around any future business development intermediaries from which resins the world, the Company relies may in part be dependent on the are produced.
Some of Filtronas on unpatented proprietary success of additional acquisitions businesses are dependent on know-how and trade secrets.
In and new start-up operations.
the availability of specialist raw the event that Filtrona is unable There can be no assurance that materials or components which are to respond to competitive the Company will be able to incorporated into the Companys technological advances or to successfully identify, complete products.
If there are rapid increases protect its intellectual property and integrate suitable acquisitions in resin or other raw materials prices, portfolio, the future performance and successfully develop and including energy costs, or supply of the Company may be expand further start-up operations.
shortages, the Companys revenue adversely affected.
and profitability may be materially and adversely affected.
Impact Impact Impact If Filtrona fails to meet Failure to develop and protect If Filtrona is exposed to raw material the challenges of business intellectual property rights price increases or supply shortages, development arising from exposes the Company to: the Company may suffer: acquisitions and start-up - reduced revenue - reduced revenue operations, the Company - profit decline - increased costs may experience: - litigation - profit decline - increased costs - reputational damage - disruption to supply - reduced profitability - lower growth rates - delay in the achievement of strategic objectives Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation To counteract the Companys Filtrona addresses the challenges To counteract the Companys exposure to increases in raw presented by the development of exposure to the erosion of its material costs or supply its businesses on an international intellectual property portfolio, shortages, Filtrona seeks to: basis with: Filtrona: - adopt appropriate - experienced and skilled - invests in R&D procurement practices management - secures formal registrations of - secure longer-term - detailed due diligence patent and trademark rights supply agreements and planning - adopts appropriate - implement cost recovery - project risk reviews confidentiality and programmes - external expert advice licensing practices - ensure the availability of - monitors potential alternative supply options infringements BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Loss of key executives Pension funding and certain employees Risk Risk Filtronas international operations Filtrona is exposed to funding are dependent on existing key risks in relation to the defined executives and certain other benefits pension schemes employees in order to sustain, and other post retirement develop and grow its businesses benefit plans which it operates.
and there can be no assurances that The funding of the liabilities these employees will remain with associated with those pension the Company.
The success of the arrangements is dependent to a Company will reflect its ability to large extent on the performance attract, motivate and retain, highly of stock markets which are qualified executives and other subject to volatility.
Certain personnel equipped to deliver on of the pension arrangements Filtronas strategic objectives.
are currently under-funded as determined by the latest actuarial valuations.
Impact Impact If Filtrona fails to attract, motivate Subject to the accuracy of actuarial or retain the required calibre assumptions and the performance of employees, its operational of stock markets, Filtrona could be performance and financial exposed to: condition may be materially - additional liabilities impacted by the loss of: - additional contributions - experience to eliminate any pension - expertise funding deficits - commercial relationships - deterioration in financial condition - reputational damage Mitigation Mitigation Filtrona seeks to manage its In order to manage the risk of pension funding risk by: personnel change, the Company - maintaining regular - provides long-term share-based communication with the trustees incentive plans of the various pension schemes - conducts management to ensure they are aware of the development schemes and Companys financial position other training programmes - reviews personal development - reviewing the benefits payable under the pension arrangements and proposing changes designed to manage future liabilities - securing the active management of pension scheme assets and liabilities with external expert advice 16 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Protection & Finishing Products How we do it The key components of the PFP business model are active business to business marketing, an extensive product range and geographic distribution capability, supported by efficient sourcing and manufacturing operations and a sophisticated IT platform.
The quality and nature of the production equipment, based around specialised tooling, and the benefits derived from increasingly sophisticated and integrated IT and distribution systems combine to provide significant commercial advantage and the ability to respond to the demands of a diverse international customer base.
The majority of the divisions businesses are driven by marketing expertise and a strong service ethic supported by comprehensive product catalogues available in many different languages.
The PFP businesses target organic growth opportunities through increasing the range and availability of their products, and by network expansion into new international territories.
Driving an increased We continue to pursue our number of transactions from a growing customer base, whilst focusing on the further reduction of transaction costs, is a key objective for the strategic goal of gaining success of the division.
The division also seeks out acquisitions which market share through can move the division into complementary product categories and add further distribution capability.
marketing investment, product range expansion How weve performed Revenue recovered strongly during 2010 with an increase of 35.5% to and infrastructure 129.1m 2009: 95.3m and, at constant exchange rates, increased by 35.0% with each of the businesses in the division trading well.
Adjusted development operating profit increased by 81.1% to 28.8m 2009: 15.9m due to the operational gearing impact of the strong revenue growth and the lower Rob Purcell cost base resulting from the cost reduction measures taken during late Managing Director, 2008 and throughout 2009.
At constant exchange rates, the increase in Protection & Finishing Products adjusted operating profit was also 81.1%.
Operating cash flow was again strong at 29.0m, representing a conversion ratio of 101% of adjusted operating profit into operating cash flow.
Adjusted operating margin increased by 560 basis points to 22.3% 2009: 16.7% as a result of the recovery in each of the businesses, the reduced cost base, and the operational gearing benefit of the revenue increases.
Headcount in the division increased by 157 from 722 to 879 at the year end due to the significant increase in activity levels and the Stera Tape acquisition.
Revenue per employee at constant exchange rates increased substantially from 132k at the end of 2009 to 161k at the end of 2010.
The division continued to pursue its strategic goal of gaining market share through marketing investment, product range expansion and the further development of its infrastructure.
The marketing investment not only drove market share gains during the year, but also continued to deliver strong lead indicators which underpin confidence in the divisions future performance.
In 2010, the division generated 10% more catalogue and sample requests than in 2009 and, with an 8% increase in new accounts opened, the number of live accounts increased by 12% during the year to almost 87,000 accounts.
The continued strategic focus on the development of the higher margin revenue from proprietary parts, as opposed to custom parts, saw this segment increase to 71% in 2010, from 69% in 2009, as a percentage of total divisional revenue.
Lean-lifting tooling carousel BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
