Chief executives operating review Overview This performance is underpinned by the Groups diverse portfolio of operations together with the decisive and pre-emptive action we took to mitigate the effects of the weaker economy on trading and the increased fuel costs.
SIR mOIR lOCkhead SaFety ReSultS Within the Group safety is a core value.
Ensuring that our customers I am pleased to report a robust performance against a backdrop of and employees remain safe and secure while travelling on our economic weakness creating a difficult trading environment and services or working in our businesses lies at the heart of our strategy higher hedged fuel costs which increased by approximately 90m in and underpins everything we do.
The industry-leading initiatives that the year.
we have established support our zero tolerance approach to unsafe acts and practices.
I am pleased to report that during the year Lost Group revenue was 6,319.3m 2009: 6,187.3m an increase of 2.1% Time Injuries reduced by 18%.
During the year we continued to engage and includes 176.3m of favourable foreign exchange movements.
with our staff to ensure that support is provided through ongoing Operating profit reduced to 453.9m 2009: 497.5m as a result of training and education.
We continually monitor and review safety the impact of the recession on trading and increased fuel costs, performance trends to inform the ongoing development of our safety however, the effect was significantly mitigated by the positive impact programmes.
Further details of our safety initiatives and achievements of our cost reduction programme.
The unusually severe weather during the year can be found on our website www.
com which significantly disrupted our networks in the UK and North America during the fourth quarter of our financial year Q4 also had an adverse impact on operating profit of 16m.
Statutory profit before taxation was 179.6m 2009: 200.0m reflecting the lower operating profit and higher net finance costs as a result of the issue of bonds in REDUCTION IN September 2008, April 2009 and September 2009.
Adjusted basic LOST TIME INJURIES EPS was 39.5p 2009: 48.6p.
18% We have set out our clear priorities of continuing to deliver strong cash generation and reducing the Groups net debt.
I am delighted to report a strong performance with net cash generation of 136.3m Safety is our highest priority.
Ensuring our customers and employees are safe which exceeded our targets and was used to reduce net debt.
and secure is at the heart of our business and underpins everything we do.
This year we achieved an 18% reduction in Lost Time Injuries across the Group.
This performance is underpinned by the Groups diverse portfolio of operations together with the decisive and pre-emptive action we took to mitigate the effects of the weaker economy on trading and the increased fuel costs.
During the year we successfully delivered a cost reduction programme which produced annual savings of over 200m.
Reductions in overheads and increased operating efficiencies have been key to achieving our plans.
Headcount across the Group was reduced by more than 5,000.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OpeRatInG and FInanCIal RevIew north america contract businesses Our North American contract businesses provide diversity alongside the passenger revenue businesses within the Group.
ReSultS FIRSt Student Revenue from our contract businesses was $3,704.8m or US Dollar revenue reduced by 3.2% to $2,544.7m 2009: $2,629.5m 2,333.7m 2009: $3,739.0m or 2,224.1m.
Operating profit reduced and the operating margin reduced to 11.0% 2009: 12.6%.
Our focus to $365.5m or 233.9m 2009: $391.8m or 246.1m reflecting the on customer service and operational performance, together with the impact of reduced ancillary revenues as a result of budgetary value-added services and sustainable economies that we can pass pressure at school board level and increased hedged fuel costs.
on to customers, has delivered another period of strong contract During Q4 the unusually severe weather which affected the vast retention of over 90%.
majority of US States led to a higher than normal amount of lost operating days in our contract businesses.
EBITDA was $608.7m The core provision of contracted services remained largely resilient or 386.4m 2009: $609.2m or 374.2m.
However, we have seen the effects of economic weakness in North America as lower State and local tax receipts have resulted in unprecedented levels of pressure on school board budgets, particularly during the second half of the year.
As a result, First Student continues to invest in ancillary revenues from charter and additional routes to existing industry-leading safety and customer contracts were reduced and pricing pressure has been a feature of service technology.
We are rolling out the recent bid season.
In this environment our focus is on managing FOCUS, a new system that combines GPS and other on board data with our cost base and maintaining our industry-leading margins.
As the back office systems, to further economy strengthens we expect revenues to recover although it is improve our operating performance our view that the pressure on school board budgets will continue and deliver increased efficiencies.
We continued to win new business including contract awards to operate more than 600 buses in Wichita, Kansas and 300 buses in Detroit, Michigan where the school district chose to outsource transportation.
With only 30% of the school bus market currently outsourced significant growth opportunities remain.
We continue to progress a pipeline of potential conversion contracts that are currently operated within the public sector.
While the levels of interest around outsourcing are very high, particularly during this challenging economic cycle, the quantity of conversions remains small in absolute terms and is often slow to materialise.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 13 ChIeF exeCutIveS OpeRatInG RevIew COntInued As the market leader First Student is uniquely placed to pass on its FIRSt tRanSIt significant scale benefits to new and existing customers through cost First Transit now generates over $1.1bn of annual revenues and and operating efficiencies and procurement savings.
The scope and provides prospects to deliver further profitable growth with minimal breadth of our operations provides an overview of the marketplace capital investment.
During the year we delivered a strong performance and enables us to respond to changing trends and to the needs of with US Dollar revenue increased by 4.6%.
The operating margin our customers.
While we have seen the effects of the recession also impacting Transit Authorities as they come under pressure to reduce their budgets, we First Student was awarded a contract have responded by implementing actions that have reduced our cost to provide transportation for Detroit base and increased operating efficiencies, while retaining a strong Public Schools, the largest school district in Michigan.
The contract to focus on customer service and operational performance.
operate approximately 300 school buses is a conversion from the I am pleased to report that contract retention remained high at over public sector as a result of the school 90% and we were pleased to be awarded new business during the district choosing to outsource its provision of student transportation.
year including a significant conversion from the public sector in San Diego, California.
We have also increased our share of the paratransit market with new contracts in New Jersey and Oregon.
We are particularly pleased that First Transit is now the sole operator in both contracts where previously there were multiple providers of the We continue to develop and implement a number of initiatives to paratransit services.
enhance operating performance and increase efficiencies.
As part of our drive to create value-added services for customers and to First Vehicle Services continued to build on its market share during increase efficiencies across our 650 locations we have developed the year with the award of new business including two conversion a GPS-based technology system called FOCUS which will be contracts that were previously operated within the public sector in rolled out to our entire yellow school bus fleet.
FOCUS provides Michigan and Florida.
enhanced operational data that enables us to closely monitor key performance indicators as well as deliver improved real time information to customers.
During the year First Transit revenue increased to over $1.1bn as we continued to expand in $1.1bn Notwithstanding the current economic environment, the North the higher margin paratransit and shuttle bus American school bus market provides significant opportunities for markets with the award of new paratransit future growth.
However, against the backdrop of public spending contracts in New Jersey and Oregon.
We are pleased that we are now the sole operator in pressure, rigorous cost management to protect operating margin both contracts where previously there were remains a key priority.
The actions we are taking to reduce costs will multiple providers.
build on the cost synergies already achieved across the business.
We believe that there is further scope to develop a more efficient operation and to provide an enhanced platform for growth as the economy strengthens.
14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OpeRatInG and FInanCIal RevIew Greyhound During the year we took prompt action to utilise the highly flexible operating model at Greyhound and match service provision to any changing demand.
ReSultS BoltBus, our low cost, high quality coach service operating between Greyhound performed in line with our expectations despite the city pair destinations in the North East continues to perform well.
significant impact of the weaker North America economy on trading.
We added 38 new coaches to support growth during the year.
Revenue was $963.4m or 603.3m 2009: $1,114.0m or 642.4m, The customer response to BoltBus remains extremely positive with a reduction of 13.9% at constant US Dollar:Canadian Dollar exchange consistently good average loadings and we are actively developing rates.
Passenger revenue, on a like-for-like basis, increased during plans to expand BoltBus to new destinations.
Q4 and we are encouraged by trends which show continuing progress.
Despite the significant reduction in revenues a creditable The adjustments we made to the network enabled us to retire operating profit was achieved of $39.6m or 23.9m 2009: $91.7m or a number of the oldest buses in the fleet.
In addition, we recently 48.5m supported by the cost reduction and network management implemented a programme of refurbishment for 250 coaches over actions taken.
the next year which will improve operational performance and greatly enhance the customer experience.
During the year we took prompt action to utilise the highly flexible operating model at Greyhound and match service provision to any changing demand.
As a result, bus miles were reduced by 11.4% in Greyhound launched its newly the US and 10.7% in Canada, while retaining capability to restore branded Lucky Streak casino service levels when demand returns.
Through rigorous management service a low cost, high quality of the network and targeted mileage reductions we maintained transportation alternative to Atlantic revenue per mile which is now ahead of prior year despite the difficult City from New York, Philadelphia and Washington.
Lucky Streak includes trading environment.
exclusive casino deals and on board free WiFi and power outlets.
In Canada, where the market is more regulated, we made good progress during the year with some important agreements reached with the Canadian Provinces that enabled us to reduce mileage or receive a subsidy to operate certain routes that were not financially viable.
As a result, the Canadian business model has been significantly strengthened and is now more robust for the future.
The actions we have taken during the year have ensured the sustained cash generation and profitability of the business.
As a result, we have We also implemented a number of actions across the business which established a considerably stronger and lower cost base.
Greyhound have considerably reduced our operating costs including overhead is on a firmer footing with improved operating leverage and is well reductions and increased operating efficiencies.
In addition, we made placed to realise the benefits of future economic recovery.
further progress in lowering the cost of sale through agency commission rates.
Whilst mitigating the impact of the weak economy and transforming Greyhounds operating model, we retained a strong focus on customer service and reliability.
I am pleased to report that On Time Performance has continued to improve across Greyhounds US and Canadian operations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 ChIeF exeCutIveS OpeRatInG RevIew COntInued uk Bus Our UK Bus division delivered a steady and resilient performance despite the challenging trading environment as we focused on cost control and mileage reduction to protect margin.
ReSultS results which showed overall bus passenger satisfaction at 90% for Like-for-like passenger revenue increased by 1.9%.
Total revenue was all local bus services in the first six areas surveyed.
The results of the reduced slightly to 1,170.6m 2009: 1,182.0m and operating profit research into both customer satisfaction and customers priorities was 124.6m 2009: 134.0m.
However, despite the impact of the for improvement accord with feedback from our customers and the recession on revenues and increased hedged fuel costs, the actions results of our own research carried out over a number of years.
we took to reduce costs and mileage delivered a strong operating margin performance of 10.6% 2009: 11.3%.
Despite the recessionary environment and increased hedged fuel costs, we are trialling fares initiatives to stimulate passenger revenue The impact of lower economic activity in the towns and cities where growth in many parts of the country.
For example, in Bristol we are we operate, together with increased hedged fuel costs, was mitigated focusing on popular multi-journey tickets and are pleased with the by our management actions to reduce our cost base and increase encouraging results since the trial began in February.
We are also operational efficiencies.
Initiatives such as new DriveGreen technology, working with the West of England Joint Transport Committee to which we rolled out across our entire bus fleet, is delivering greater develop plans for the introduction of a Travel smartcard for Bath fuel efficiency as well as improving driving styles and reducing the & North East Somerset, Bristol, North Somerset and South carbon footprint of our buses.
During the year driver turnover Gloucestershire.
The Committee received 2.2m of funding from continued to reduce from 19% to below 17% as a result of our the Department for Transport DfT to set up the necessary back initiatives to improve recruitment and retention as well as the current office systems.
In March we launched the First SuperBus ticket in Bristol, a During the year we made use of the flexible operating model to carry groundbreaking integrated transport initiative.
First SuperBus offers out targeted mileage reductions.
This action to match service provision train passengers spending 25 or more on a ticket to Bristol from any to changes in demand on a route by route basis led to an overall station within the First Great Western network inclusive onward bus reduction in mileage of 5% across the business and protected revenue travel in the Bristol area at no extra cost.
The scheme will operate for per mile.
We will be able to increase the frequency of our services and an initial three month trial period.
grow our networks as the economic recovery continues and passenger journeys increase.
We also launched a new ticket for young people aged 16-18 in Greater Glasgow offering discounted travel to the standard adult equivalent OuR CuStOmeRS tickets.
We are pleased with sales of this new product which is We continue to focus on operational performance and delivering our increasing loyalty in this key demographic group.
In February we welcomed Passenger Focus as the new statutory watchdog for bus, coach and tram customers In partnership with the other major public transport groups we outside of London.
The first research published by Passenger Focus launched Greener Journeys, a campaign encouraging people to into passengers priorities for improvement highlighted more punctual get out of their cars and on to buses and coaches.
The campaign buses as the top priority with more frequent services to a wider range aims to reduce carbon emissions by changing travel behaviour of destinations and better value for money fares as important.
We and by switching one in 25 journeys from car to bus or coach.
look forward to working with Passenger Focus as its bus passenger This would mean one billion fewer car journeys on our roads over satisfaction survey is developed and we were pleased with the initial the next three years.
16 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OpeRatInG and FInanCIal RevIew InteRuRBan SeRvICeS paRtneRShIpS We are pleased with the performance of Greyhound UK, our high We believe that voluntary quality partnerships are the quickest and quality, low cost services operating between London and Portsmouth most effective route to increase bus patronage and address the twin and London and Southampton.
The first services were launched in challenges of climate change and congestion in our towns and cities.
September 2009 and we have built on the success of this new initiative Some of our partnerships with local authorities have been tested this with the introduction of a new service between London and year as we had to reduce our mileage to match services to changing Bournemouth in May 2010. demand.
During the year we continued to work with our partners in local government to deliver more bus priority measures to improve We continue to develop opportunities for further interurban services the punctuality and reliability of our services.
Our experience and in April 2009 we introduced a new limited stop service between demonstrates that bus priority improves customer satisfaction and also Leeds and York.
During the year we also improved links between attracts car users to bus services by providing an attractive alternative Liverpool and Chester and developed our successful interurban to travelling by car.
services in the East of England by extending the Stansted Aircoach route from Colchester to Clacton and by doubling the frequency of We have had constructive discussions with Metro, the West services between Norwich and Lowestoft on Sundays.
Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive PTE, on our Growth and Co-Investment proposal and look forward to working with our partners in the region to take this initiative forward.
We are also supporting the DfTs 19.8m of funding for a Quality Bus Corridor in Leeds which will All of our UK Bus fleet has now provide a real alternative to car travel and help tackle traffic congestion been fitted with DriveGreen, a new by reducing bus journey times at peak periods.
technology that provides real time feedback to bus drivers.
DriveGreen We are also supporting Greater Manchester PTEs plans to facilitate will help to reduce fuel use and CO 2 emissions and improve the journey cross-city bus journeys through investment in three of the busiest experience of our customers.
corridors in the region to improve reliability and end to end journey times.
In Glasgow we continued to develop our network and are participating in a Bus Working Group chaired by Glasgow City Council with support from Strathclyde Partnership for Transport to progress bus travel and lOndOn and OtheR majOR COntRaCtS modal shift in the city.
We were delighted to win Public Transport In London our priority remains to deliver excellent operational Operator of the Year in the Scottish Transport Awards.
performance and improve operating and cost efficiencies.
We retained a number of key contracts during the year and reached agreement Our long term partnership with the City and County of Swansea has with Transport for London to construct a new maintenance and delivered a number of initiatives this year.
In September we officially refuelling facility at Lea Interchange depot and to operate five hydrogen launched our ftrmetro project in Swansea.
Together with the Council fuel cell powered buses on a central London route.
and the Welsh Assembly Government we delivered a 14m package to improve public transport in Swansea including dedicated infrastructure Following a competitive tender process, the Olympic Delivery Authority and new vehicles as well as upgrading the engineering and parking confirmed that the Group will transport spectators during the London facilities at our depot.
We are delighted that the ftrmetro is delivering 2012 Games.
We will provide around 500 buses and coaches for increased passenger journeys and believe that the successful initiative venue shuttle services and venue Park & Ride, around 90 buses demonstrates the benefits of working in partnership.
and coaches for Park & Ride services aimed to connect parking sites on the periphery of the M25 with the Olympic Park and Ebbsfleet wORkInG wIth GOveRnment and around 300 coaches, sub-contracted from fleets up and down In early December the DfT announced the winners of the 30m the country, to operate a network of express coach services to the Green Bus Fund.
We are pleased that two of our submissions were Olympic Park and Weymouth and Portland.
In addition, we will successful and we will receive funding towards the cost of new low provide management of Direct Coach operations, a bus and coach carbon buses in Leeds and Manchester.
reservations and ticketing system and operational support staff at all bus and coach locations to manage the fleet.
In January the Office of Fair Trading referred the local bus service market to the Competition Commission.
We believe that there is InveStment intense competition both between bus operators and for the road We continued to make selected capital investment to support future between bus operators and other modes of transport, particularly the growth.
Investment has been focused on the major towns and cities private car.
We also believe that the Competition Commission should where our partnerships with local authorities can deliver sustained take into account the considerable effect of the Local Transport Act real passenger growth.
During the period we invested in new 2008 on deregulated services including, for example, the greater use environmentally friendly vehicles for our operating companies in of voluntary quality partnerships.
West and North Yorkshire, Bristol, Somerset and Avon, Glasgow and Hampshire and Dorset.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 ChIeF exeCutIveS OpeRatInG RevIew COntInued uk Rail The strong performance of our UK Rail division was supported by the successful delivery of our programme to reduce costs which substantially offset the impact of lower volume growth during the year.
ReSultS We were delighted with our success at the Rail Business Awards Our UK Rail division delivered a strong performance ahead of our in February with finalists in every category and a number of awards.
expectations with a 2.3% increase in like-for-like passenger revenue First Capital Connect won Internal Communication Excellence for for the year, despite the reduction in regulated fares in January.
its innovative one-stop employee information shop and extranet and First TransPennine Express received the Environmental Innovation Revenue was 2,188.4m 2009: 2,121.5m and operating profit was award for a unique Eco Drive and Driving Fuel Efficiency programme 92.6m 2009: 94.2m.
This strong performance was supported by to save fuel and money and to reduce carbon emissions on our Class the successful delivery of our programme to reduce addressable 185 trains.
First Great Western won Train Operator of the Year and costs which substantially offset the impact of lower volume growth FirstGroup won the Rail Business of the Year award, which recognised during the year.
We were also delighted that First ScotRail won Passenger Operator of the Year at the National Rail During the year, as our customers faced recessionary pressures, Awards in September, the only Train Operating Company to receive we experienced strong demand for advance purchase and other the award for two consecutive years.
First ScotRail was also named discounted tickets and a reduced take up of First Class fares.
Our Public Transport Operator of the Year at the National Transport portfolio of rail franchises, which includes London commuter, intercity Awards in July.
and regional train services, provides a balanced mix of operations and mitigates reliance on any one specific market.
All of our franchises are We are the UKs largest rail operator and have established a track delivering growth, particularly First ScotRail and First TransPennine record of prudent bidding and delivering profitable growth.
In addition, the revenue support arrangements within our long term player in the rail market we are well positioned to franchise agreements with the DfT continue to ensure significant continue to benefit from the exciting opportunities from future insulation from passenger revenues that are lower than the target franchise competitions.
revenues in our franchise bids.
First Capital Connect and First Great Western are receiving revenue support at the 80% level.
FIRSt SCOtRaIl Like-for-like passenger revenue growth was 3.2% during the year.
Overall, our operational performance has improved during the year We celebrated the fifth anniversary of the First ScotRail franchise in and the Public Performance Measure PPM on a moving annual October and, working with Transport Scotland and our other partners, average basis is over 90% at First Great Western, First ScotRail and we continue to invest in the future of Scotlands railways.
We were First TransPennine Express.
First Capital Connects PPM is recovering delighted to record an overall customer satisfaction score of 90% after a period of significant disruption, caused by unofficial industrial in the National Passenger Survey.
action and damage to rolling stock as a result of severe weather, which impacted performance.
18 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OpeRatInG and FInanCIal RevIew In May 2009 we delivered a new summer timetable with extra East We were pleased to achieve an overall customer satisfaction score of Coast commuter services and improvements for our customers in 89% in the National Passenger Survey, the best autumn result in the Fife, the Highlands and on the West Coast.
In December we added history of First TransPennine Express and a six point improvement anew hourly service between Glasgow and Edinburgh via Shotts as year on year.
Our areas of significant improvement included the part of an ambitious package of improvements between Glasgow and frequency of trains, punctuality and reliability, connections and value Edinburgh, identified in the Scottish Governments Strategic Transport for money.
The new timetable also included a much improved service between Glasgow and Kilmarnock and better connections Strong passenger revenue growth at First TransPennine Express has from Ayr and Gourock into Glasgow and between Dumfries and been driven by the continued development of our services between Carlisle and North Berwick and Edinburgh for early morning services Manchester Airport and Scotland and by achieving volume growth to London.
through modal shift on journeys to and from the airport, despite a fall in the number of air passengers.
In December we increased the number of weekday services on this route which improved our competitive position and allowed us to stimulate further the high First ScotRail was named passenger demand that exists on this corridor.
Passenger Operator of the 2009 2009 Year for an unprecedented First TransPennine Express has stimulated passenger revenue growth second consecutive year at 2010 2010 through a range of successful marketing campaigns.
With the Lake the 2009 National Rail Awards.
The judges recognised its District and many seaside resorts on our network we continue to record highs for both target our marketing efforts on leisure promotions and special offers customer satisfaction and including Kids Go Free and Club 55.
In January we offered punctuality and reliability.
passengers a 25% discount on advance purchase tickets.
FIRSt GReat weSteRn Like-for-like passenger revenue increased by 1.3% and operational During the year we completed a series of investments across the performance has consistently improved over the year.
PPM on a business including improvements to our rolling stock, new engineering moving annual average basis is over 92% and our National Passenger equipment at our depots and upgrading stations and car parks to Survey results are also improving.
The autumn 2009 survey enhance reliability and customer service.
We continue to work on highlighted that 82% of First Great Western customers are satisfied arange of projects to deliver further improvements.
We are trialling with our service, an increase of two percentage points on last year smartcard technology on the Edinburgh-Glasgow route and will issue and an improvement of eight percentage points on 2007.
Transport Scotland is also funding the development of our Shields depot in preparation for the delivery of a new fleet of 38 Class 380 electric trains to run between Glasgow First Great Western continued to Central, Ayrshire, Inverclyde and Renfrewshire.
The 200m investment improve its operational performance by Transport Scotland will add some 7,500 seats to Scotlands rail with 92.43% of services arriving network from September 2010.
The new trains will allow other rolling on time in 2009 10, its best year ever.
stock to be released to the 300m Airdrie-Bathgate line, which will The National Passenger Survey showed that customer satisfaction has open in December 2010.
FIRSt tRanSpennIne expReSS Like-for-like passenger revenues increased by 5.6% and operational performance has continued to improve at First TransPennine Express throughout the year.
We delivered our best ever levels of train punctuality and reliability improving PPM on a moving annual average basis to over 92%, despite the poor winter weather this year.
We continue to invest in the franchise and have started an 8m programme to improve our Class 16x fleet, which carry more than 36 million passengers a year in the London and Thames Valley area.
We are upgrading on board facilities and refreshing the interior which First TransPennine Express received will improve the environment for our customers.
The first two vehicles the Environmental Innovation award were launched in April 2010 and the entire fleet will be upgraded by at the Rail Business Awards for March 2012. saving over 5m litres of fuel through Eco Drive a ground breaking new E 5m technology and its Driving Fuel Efficiency programme.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 ChIeF exeCutIveS OpeRatInG RevIew COntInued We introduced WebCIS, our Customer Information System, to a In March First Capital Connect announced a programme of number of smaller stations on our network including Hanborough, investment and customer benefits which, in total, are worth over Ivybridge and Radley and ten stations on the Severn Beach Line in 10m.
The investment will be spread between improvements to the Bristol.
Feedback from our customers has been very positive and Customer Information Systems, a modification and renewal package we are developing plans to roll out the system further.
for Class 319 trains on the Thameslink route to resolve reliability issues and introduction of ticket barriers at stations on our network.
Following the success of Volo TV on our Sleeper services, we First Capital Connect also enhanced the discount scheme for introduced the on demand entertainment service to the back of Thameslink customers.
seats in some Standard Class carriages on our High Speed Trains in November and the roll out will be completed by December 2010.
We have introduced a comprehensive driver recruitment and training We are also nearing completion of our programme to improve on programme and are working with Network Rail through our Joint board catering on High Speed Trains by introducing 19 Express Performance Improvement Plan to return the Thameslink route to Cafs and refreshing ten First Class buffets.
more stable levels of performance.
The delivery of the final Class 377 5 Electrostar in January allowed First Capital Connect to fully In March we signed an agreement with the DfT to secure the long resource the Key Output 0 timetable on the Thameslink network and term future of 30 vehicles in our West fleet.
These will replace the provide almost 5,000 additional seats at the busiest times of the day.
trains currently on short term lease from other Train Operating Companies which have allowed us to deliver extra capacity on Operational performance on the Great Northern route has been the Cardiff-Portsmouth route and travel to work services in the consistently strong, however peak time capacity remains a key issue Exeter area.
In May 2009 we introduced Seats for You, a major timetable change on the route, to reduce overcrowding.
The new FIRSt CapItal COnneCt timetable, together with additional carriages and upgraded Like-for-like passenger revenue growth was 2.6% during the year.
infrastructure, allowed First Capital Connect to strengthen trains to As a result of unofficial industrial action by our train drivers and eight or 12 car formations and introduce additional services with an damage to rolling stock and infrastructure caused by extreme winter overall 15% increase in peak seats.
weather, First Capital Connects customers on the Thameslink route experienced an unacceptable level of service from October to In March we reached an agreement with the DfT to implement further January.
During this period we operated a reduced timetable with capacity enhancement schemes on the Great Northern route.
The a high level of cancellations and a significant decline in PPM.
This DfT has provided 27m of funding to secure 41 additional carriages was reflected in an overall satisfaction score of 75% in the most which will create around 6,500 extra seats on peak time services into recent National Passenger Survey.
Operational performance has London Kings Cross and London Moorgate.
The improvements will now improved with PPM on the Thameslink route at 92% in March be implemented in stages from December 2010 to December 2013. and April 2010 and we will continue to work hard to restore customer confidence.
FIRSt hull tRaInS The number of passenger journeys on First Hull Trains continued to grow although the demand for First Class fares was weaker as passengers sought value from discounted fares.
We were pleased to conclude negotiations with the Office of Rail Regulation and Network Rail to extend our Track Access Contract to 2016.
We have now started a project to refresh our Class 180 trains and are currently at the tendering stage of this important investment programme.
First Capital Connect secured agreement with the Department for Transport FIRSt GBRF to enhance capacity on the Great Northern route.
More than 27m of Government We are pleased with the continued development of our rail freight funding will create around 6,500 extra seats on peak time services.
During the year First GBRf signed new contracts with Network Rail, MSC, EDF and Lafarge.
We also signed a ten year contract with Drax Power Limited to operate four trains a day moving renewable biomass material by rail from the Port of Tyne to Drax Power Station in North Yorkshire.
First GBRf is providing locomotives, carriages and train crew for passenger services between Taunton and Cardiff for First Great Western.
The contract is expected to continue until the end of July 2010.
20 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OpeRatInG and FInanCIal RevIew Corporate Social Responsibility We are committed to providing safe, reliable, innovative and sustainable transport services.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is central to the Group and informs how we achieve our commitments and how we do business.
Safety is our key priority and our industry-leading Injury Prevention initiative continues to underpin our approach to targeted safety improvements.
During the year we reduced our Lost Time Injury rate by 18% and our passenger injury rate by 9%.
Over the last four years our Lost Time Injury rate has halved and we continue our efforts to eliminate workplace accidents and injuries.
key stakeholders We work with a range of bodies in each of our markets.
Understanding and managing our stakeholders expectations is pivotal to our success and therefore continual engagement is vital.
Some of our key stakeholder groups are: Employees Government and local authorities Customers Supply chain Investors Community CSR guides the non-financial key performance indicators we use to manage our business our efforts to meet the needs of our customers and communities, the management of our people and our environmental impact and our strategy for future growth.
We know from our customer research and our partnerships with Passenger Focus and other passenger groups that the punctuality The challenging economic environment has continued during the year.
and reliability of our services drive overall customer satisfaction levels.
We have achieved our target to reduce our cost base by more than Our UK Bus division continues to be the only major bus operator to 200m as we matched service provision to lower customer demand publish data on the punctuality and reliability of local bus services on our and repositioned our businesses to be more competitive and ready websites.
This information is also shared with our local authority partners for the economic recovery.
Inevitably, some of the difficult decisions we to identify measures for improving performance.
Despite adverse winter have taken, particularly reducing our service frequencies or changing weather conditions, particularly in Q4, we have continued to improve our our routes in response to the recession, have impacted our customers, punctuality.
However, overall reliability reduced slightly as a result of the our communities and our stakeholders.
However, we are committed poor road conditions.
Our UK Rail division has improved overall.
First to working with our partners to reintroduce services as the economy Great Western and First TransPennine Express demonstrated strong grows and passenger demand increases.
performance despite heavy snowfall this winter, however First Capital Connects PPM suffered as a result of unofficial industrial action by train Safety and customer service are our core values and we continue to drivers and substantial damage to our train fleet from the severe winter make progress against our non-financial key performance indicators.
During the year we achieved many of the challenging objectives and targets we set out in our 2008 09 CSR Report.
A detailed review In North America, On Time Performance at Greyhound continues of our performance is available in the full report on our website at to improve and in our contracted businesses we have continued www.
com and we also publish a summary of our to improve against our performance targets and contract retention objectives, activities and how we have performed against our targets.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 ChIeF exeCutIveS OpeRatInG RevIew COntInued We recognise that our people are the key to delivering improved customer satisfaction.
We want to be the employer of choice in our Group outlook industry and we continue to engage with our employees on improving our learning and development, recognition and communication programmes.
However, we also appreciate that this has been a difficult Looking ahead we anticipate the new financial year will remain year for our staff as we managed our business through the recession challenging.
While we are encouraged by improving revenue trends in and implemented a cost reduction programme, which led to a reduction parts of our business, consistent with economic recovery, the global in our employee numbers, particularly in back office functions.
economic outlook remains uncertain and we expect the pressure on public spending in North America to continue.
Against this backdrop Bus and rail services in the UK and North America play a key role we expect moderate earnings growth.
The Group will continue to in reducing the environmental impacts from travel by providing a low benefit from a diverse portfolio of businesses providing strength and carbon alternative to cars and aviation.
Our challenge is to maintain this resilience as they continue to trade robustly through the economic cycle.
carbon advantage and we are working to reduce our own emissions through our carbon reduction strategy.
Since 2006 we have improved We have set out our clear priorities to increase net cash generation and fuel efficiency in our UK Rail division by an average of 6% and reduce net debt.
We have increased the Groups net cash generation emissions per passenger journey from our diesel operated fleet have target to 150m for 2010 11.
The continued strong cash generation reduced by approximately 9% during the same period.
In our UK Bus supports our objectives of targeted capital investment, accelerating division we have improved fuel efficiency by 1.5% and achieved a our deleveraging plans and delivering sustained real dividend growth 5.8% reduction in our emissions per passenger kilometre in the last for investors.
Next year we will also have data for North America.
Looking ahead the Board is confident that the inherent strength and The transport services we provide are vital to communities, keeping the resilience of the Group, an expected return to earnings growth and economy moving and bringing people together.
We are therefore critical our strong net cash generation supports the Boards commitment to to the economic competitiveness of communities, transporting millions dividend growth of at least 7% per annum over the next three years.
of people to work, school and other destinations every day.
As well as providing transport connections we support the communities where we We have established leading positions and critical mass in all our operate through broader community and charity partnerships.
During core markets and believe that each of our businesses has significant the year we renewed our partnership with Save the Children for a potential for long term growth.
The actions we have taken have created further two years and continued our partnership with the Childrens a stronger, more efficient base and will ensure that the Group is well Miracle Network in North America.
We measure our contributions using placed to continue to deliver long term value for shareholders.
the London Benchmarking Group model and this year our community contributions total an estimated 1,847,807.
7 1 8 4 7 8 0 Sir moir lockhead, , Chief executive 12 May 2010 8 As well as providing vital transport links we also support the communities we serve through broader social and charitable partnerships.
During the year we contributed an estimated 1,847,807 to a range of education, health and environmental projects.
We measure our total community contributions using the London Benchmarking Group model.
Next year we will continue to work towards our goal of eliminating injuries and we plan to survey Group-wide employee engagement to inform our employee development programmes.
We are working to improve further our service performance and customer satisfaction and we will continue to develop our services to encourage greater use of public transport.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010
