Operating review Operating review Justin King, Chief Executive Sainsburys has outperformed because we continue to lead on providing healthy, fresh and tasty food with universal appeal.
Total sales, including VAT, excluding fuel, for the year were up 6.7 per cent and like-for-like sales were up 4.3 per cent.
Like-forlike sales have grown cumulatively over five years by nearly 25 per cent.
Customers recognise the progress we have made in Making Sainsburys Great Again and we now serve on average over 19 million customers each week.
Thats one million more than last year and nearly five million more than five years ago.
Colleagues have worked hard to deliver operational share a bonus of over 80 million.
Our success has excellence resulting in better service and further also meant that we have been able to invest over productivity savings which have contributed to 900 million in capital expenditure in the year.
This 17.5 per cent growth in underlying profit before tax, has added 1.1 million sq ft to our store estate, opening a good performance in difficult trading times.
I am or extending over 100 stores and creating over 6,500 delighted therefore that 127,000 colleagues will new jobs with Sainsburys.
Good sales and profit performance: accelerating our growth strategy Financial summary Total sales including VAT, including fuel up 5.1 per cent to 21,421 million 2008 09: 20,383 million Total sales including VAT, excluding fuel up 6.7 per cent Like-for-like sales including VAT, excluding fuel up 4.3 per cent Underlying operating profit up 8.9 per cent to 671 million 2008 09: 616 million Underlying profit before tax up 17.5 per cent to 610 million 2008 09: 519 million Underlying basic earnings per share up 12.7 per cent to 23.9 pence 2008 09: 21.2 pence Proposed full year dividend of 14.2 pence 2008 09: 13.2 pence, up 7.6 per cent Statutory Profit before tax up 57.3 per cent to 733 million 2008 09: 466 million Basic earnings per share up 93.4 per cent to 32.1 pence 2008 09: 16.6 pence Balance sheet and financing Property value of 9.8 billion up 2.3 billion, 0.7 billion due to investment and development activity IAS 19 pension deficit post-tax at March 2010 of 303 million March 2009: deficit post-tax of 222 million Triennial March 2009 pension funding agreed utilises property asset, post-tax cash flows unchanged Net debt of 1,549 million, ongoing funding secured on property, credit rating affirmed then withdrawn Making Sainsburys Great Again Now over 19 million weekly customer transactions, up one million year-on-year Supermarket of the Year in 2009 Retail Industry Awards Top marks in the Consumer Focus Green to the Core?
survey 127,000 colleagues share bonus of over 80 million Food: Worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade: UKs largest retailer of Freedom Food Non-food: Growing at three times the rate of food: Sainsburys Bank pre-tax operating profit of 19 million Channels: 51 new convenience stores: groceries online sales up just under 20 per cent Space: 1.1 million sq ft of gross new space added, including 38 new supermarkets On track for 2.5 million sq ft, or 15 per cent, of gross new space growth in two years to March 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 5 Operating review continued Operating review year in The Grocer Gold Awards 2009.
Cook and Save provides cooking ideas such as Feed Your Family for a Since launching the Making Sainsburys Great Again Fiver, one of our most successful campaigns to date.
plan we have continued to grow the business and build a strong foundation for growth.
In what has been a Building customer loyalty is an important feature of our challenging consumer environment over the past year, business and we have increased the range and depth of we have delivered good results and accelerated our our engagement with customers through our unique growth strategy.
loyalty offer combining the Nectar loyalty scheme with coupon at till technology.
Our Collect and Save Our business model has shown its resilience.
We listened campaign delivers a wide range of relevant and targeted to our customers and delivered an offer with genuine offers which our customers really value and over 100 universal appeal, enabling them to do their full weekly shop suppliers are now signed up to the scheme.
There are now with us, whatever their budget.
This was recognised by one million more Nectar users than last year and Nectar Sainsburys being awarded Supermarket of the Year in has become the UKs largest loyalty card scheme.
the 2009 Retail Industry Awards for the third time in four years, where the judges acknowledged our clear customer We also invest to deliver operational excellence.
We have understanding and innovation in providing value without again raised our performance in customer service and compromising brand and quality standards.
We upgraded our IT infrastructure to improve stock replenishment and Ever since John Sainsbury set up his first dairy shop in enhanced our ordering flexibility, thereby reducing 1869, our values have made us different.
They reflect our food waste.
customers priorities and the way we want to work.
Our customers are demanding and want top quality purchases Higher wages, energy prices and property costs pushed at a fair price and to them quality includes social, cost inflation to the higher end of our two to three per cent environmental and ethical concerns.
Cost-saving measures such as self-checkout and bioptic scanners, amongst many other initiatives, have offset over 75 per cent of this cost Trading summary inflation.
In addition we continue to invest for the long We have made strong progress on our strategic areas of term with the expansion of our non-food infrastructure focus over the past year.
We have grown store space and and depot capacity, the launch of our non-food online expanded our product ranges.
We are developing new operation and a significant step-up in new space growth.
lines of business and distribution channels.
We continue to actively manage our property estate for long-term value.
This years good sales performance was matched by good growth in underlying operating profit with growth Good sales performance has underpinned our success.
Increased sales and tight Total sales, including VAT, excluding fuel, increased by cost control has improved our underlying operating 6.7 per cent during the year and our like-for-like sales margin which rose by 10 basis points to 3.36 per cent.
were up 4.3 per cent, ahead of our three to four per cent medium-term objective.
We now serve over 19 million We continue to invest in developing our business for customers each week, a million more than last year.
We have invested over 900 million capital expenditure in the year, adding a gross 1.1 million sq ft of All areas of our business supported this sales growth.
new space in line with our accelerated growth plans.
This Our non-food product range performed extremely well, included opening 38 new supermarkets and has helped to with sales growing three times as quickly as food and our create over 6,500 new jobs with Sainsburys.
We expect to groceries online business grew by just under 20 per cent.
achieve a pre-tax internal rate of return in excess of 15 per Convenience stores experienced strong underlying growth cent on our current investment programme, with a further and we made good progress in growing supermarket 1.1 billion of capital expenditure earmarked for 2010 11. space, with net new space contributing two per cent to total sales growth.
Financial strength We invest both to stay competitive on price and to improve Sainsburys is a strongly cash-generative business and the quality of our offer.
Shop and Save communicates the delivered an operating cash flow of 1.2 billion in the year.
Companys competitive pricing policy and Net debt reduced by 122 million in the year to 1,549 strong promotions.
We have worked hard to million March 2009: 1,671 million.
ensure that retail price inflation for our customers remained lower than cost of goods We have strong asset backing from our freehold property inflation through the year and have also estate which has significant development potential.
As at delivered great value promotions.
Switch and 20 March 2010, the estimated market value of our freehold Save helps customers to save at least 20 per property assets was 9.8 billion, an increase of 2.3 billion cent by choosing our equivalent own-label since last year.
standard products or more through choosing basics products over leading brands and was Our efficient capital structure comprises debt that is recognised as the consumer initiative of the secured on our property assets and is low-cost and 6 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operating review Operating review Operating review continued long-dated.
Since the major refinancing of the business in Our commitment to our values would not be possible 2006, Sainsburys has funded itself through the secured without the full support of our colleagues, making debt market, supplemented by shorter-term bank credit Sainsburys a great place to work.
lines and has no rated unsecured debt instruments outstanding.
Following a review of funding requirements Being best for food and health was the founding principle we do not anticipate issuing unsecured capital markets on which our business was built.
Sainsburys very first debt and as such the corporate rating is no longer needed.
store was established to improve the diet of poorer Londoners through good quality, healthy eating.
It is Accordingly, and consistent with the strategy followed common to all our food offerings and is fundamental in by a number of other property-rich companies using sub-brands like Freefrom, Be Good to Yourself and secured funding platforms, Sainsburys has withdrawn Taste the Difference.
We promote healthy eating by its corporate family rating from Moodys Investors Service inspiring customers to cook via successful campaigns and its corporate credit rating from Standard & Poors.
such as Feed your Family for a Fiver and simple recipe This concludes the transition to an asset-backed funding tip cards.
Over 25 per cent of these contain at least one strategy initiated in 2006 and no material impact on the portion of fruit or vegetables towards the recommended cost or availability of debt is anticipated.
The Group has five a day and half of the ideas on tip cards are rated over 3 billion of available debt and facilities, which gives as healthier.
us significant funding capacity both to support our current activities and to realise our future ambitions.
Sainsburys goes to great lengths to source with integrity.
We are committed to offering British products at their As at 20 March 2010, the IAS 19 pension deficit post-tax best, when in season and when quality meets customers was 303 million March 2009: deficit of 222 million.
We are the worlds largest Fairtrade retailer This reflects the fact that asset values have increased by by value, providing financial and logistical support to 900 million since March 2009, offset by a lower real farmers to help them achieve Fairtrade status.
One in discount rate and revised mortality assumptions.
every four pounds spent on Fairtrade in the UK is spent at a Sainsburys store.
Our leadership in this area was In May 2010, Sainsburys reached agreement with the recognised by the South African president Jacob Zuma Companys Pension Scheme Trustees on the terms of the when he toured our Greenwich supermarket during his triennial actuarial valuation, which was struck at 21 March UK state visit in March 2010.
The actuarial deficit is 1,227 million, with the increase from the last actuarial Our respect for the environment aligns with our deficit of 443 million in March 2006 reflecting that customers concerns.
We recognise that in order to asset values were taken at a low point in the cycle.
seriously tackle climate change, we must work upstream alongside our supply chain, as well as downstream with The funding plan represents a comprehensive package our customers.
Making it easier for our customers to of measures to address the deficit whilst ensuring efficient reduce, re-use and recycle goes a long way to making cash management for Sainsburys.
Our Make the Difference Day initiatives are property assets to address half of the deficit through the designed to have a big impact with a simple, easy-to-use establishment of a property-backed partnership, which idea like our Love Your Leftovers food container avoids locking in higher annual cash payments based on giveaway.
We gave away two million re-usable food depressed March 2009 asset values, and enables the containers to help customers use their food leftovers contributions agreed to be cash-neutral on a post-tax and thereby reduce food waste.
basis over the next five years.
The actuarial valuation and related funding plan will be finalised in June 2010 Initiatives to reduce waste, packaging and energy usage and submitted to the Pensions Regulator.
have also been implemented which are environmentally responsible as well as cost efficient.
During 2009 10 we reduced energy usage by two and a half per cent despite Our Values Make Us Different over six per cent space growth, through our energy reset programme.
We are also the first supermarket to commit Underpinning our business are five key values, which we to CO refrigeration, which is up to 3,000 times less 2 believe set us apart from other retailers.
They determine damaging than other refrigerants in global warming terms.
our priorities to ensure that we conduct ourselves in an This is a pledge which will help us achieve our commitment honest, ethical, and therefore sustainable fashion.
Our to cut our carbon footprint by a third by 2030. commitment to values was recognised in November 2009 when Sainsburys was awarded top marks in the Our stores are at the heart of the communities Consumer Focus Green to the Core?
survey of leading they serve and through economic and social UK supermarkets for our customer engagement on impacts we aim to make a positive difference green issues.
We actively get involved in local organisations to promote a healthier As a leading food retailer, we seek to be the best for food and more active lifestyle for people of all ages, and health which is why we are committed to sourcing and each store is encouraged to select a local our products with integrity.
As we source from all over charity and work together to make a real the world to sell in the UK, we promote respect for our difference for people in that community.
environment and the communities in which we operate.
Nationally, our Active Kids programme helps Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 7 Operating review continued to give schools and nurseries access to sports equipment 1 Great food at fair prices and promote healthier lifestyles.
Active Kids has now We continually invest in the quality of our raised 86 million towards sports and cooking equipment in food and no other food retailer does more local schools, nurseries and clubs.
We are also proud to to provide its customers with fresh and have raised over 5 million for Sport Relief during the year.
in-season British produce at fair prices.
Under our Local First for Fresh scheme, Earlier this month Sainsburys became the official sponsor around 50 stores now take delivery from of London 2012 Paralympic Games which complements local suppliers of new potatoes and strawberries our commitment to promote healthy, fitter lifestyles across on the day they are harvested.
all ages and abilities and will offer great opportunities for our customers and colleagues to get involved.
We continue to develop closer relations with over 17,000 farmers and growers both at Ensuring that Sainsburys is a great place to work builds home and overseas to help improve the on our commitment to help improve the quality of life for quality and value of the food they provide.
We were the first UK employer to offer our Field to Fork initiative we have been encouraging flexible qualifications to our colleagues and since launching suppliers to work together to share knowledge and You Can in 2008, over 9,000 colleagues have benefited expertise and have extended our existing development from our job-related qualification schemes.
This year group for dairy farmers to beef, lamb, pork, cheese, we trained an additional 300 apprentices on our bakery, poultry and egg farmers.
meat and fish counters and we plan to continue to develop our apprenticeships in many new stores.
We are Own-brand products are rigorously and independently the first supermarket to have launched a bakery college tested through quality sampling, benchmark testing and which will take over 200 apprentices towards a level 2 customer panels.
Products dont reach our shelves unless NVQ qualification on the successful completion of the they are judged to be better than existing products.
As a result of these and many more launched 1,300 new own-brand products this year and initiatives in developing our people, our colleague improved a further 3,500.
These efforts have not gone retention has improved significantly year-on-year.
Sainsburys won more Quality Food Awards As a result of their success, 127,000 colleagues have than any other retailer this year, including seven wins shared in a record bonus this year of over 80 million.
from 15 categories for Value products.
Ethical issues remain high on our customers minds and Accelerating our Growth Five Areas of Focus Sainsburys is proud to offer the largest range of Freedom In 2007, we identified five areas of focus for developing Food that meets the RSPCA standards for higher welfare our business and significant progress in each area has in the UK.
For the healthier-minded, we strive for greatcontributed to our good performance.
During 2009 10 tasting food with a high nutritional value.
We relaunched we have accelerated our growth in these areas by our Freefrom and Be Good to Yourself ranges this year.
allocating additional capital and resources.
Our Freefrom range for customers with wheat, gluten and dairy intolerances now has over 100 new or improved Great food at fair prices: To build on and stretch the lead products and a market share of nearly 29 per cent, up in food.
By sharing our customers passion for healthy, seven per cent on last year.
Be Good to Yourself was safe, fresh and tasty food, Sainsburys will continue to relaunched in January 2010 with 60 new lines, with a focus innovate and provide leadership in delivering quality on taste and new product innovation.
We now have around products at fair prices, sourced with integrity.
250 lines in the range and have grown our market share since launch to nearly 27 per cent.
Accelerating the growth of complementary non-food and services: To accelerate the development of non-food In a year in which household budgets were under pressure, ranges and services, such as Sainsburys Bank, following several initiatives promoted value for money.
We expanded the same principles of quality, value and innovation and our entry-level basics range with 140 new products last to provide a broader shopping experience for customers.
year and now have over 700 products in the range which meet our quality standards whilst saving customers Reaching more customers through additional channels: money.
The range continues to deliver strong growth To extend the reach of Sainsburys brand by opening new and sales were up 25 per cent this year.
convenience stores and developing our online businesses.
Our Cook and Save campaign offers money-saving Growing supermarket space: To expand the Companys tips to encourage scratch cooking.
In the last 12 months store estate, actively developing a pipeline of new stores we have created over 100 different tip cards which are and extending the largely under-developed store portfolio a firm favourite with customers who collected over to provide an even better food offer while also growing 40 million cards from stores during the year.
Our space for complementary non-food ranges.
successful Feed Your Family for a Fiver campaign featured Jamie Oliver giving nutritious, tasty recipe Active property management: The ownership of ideas using Sainsburys ingredients.
property assets provides operational flexibility and the exploitation of potential development opportunities will maximise value.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operating review Operating review Operating review continued the closer integration with our core business.
Sainsburys 2 Accelerating the growth of complementary Bank customers spend more in our stores and customer non-food and services numbers have increased to 1.4 million active customer Supermarket operators currently account for less than accounts.
We continue to win awards for our products 15 per cent of the 166 billion UK non-food market and including two key industry awards for Best Online Credit the scale of the opportunity is therefore considerable.
Card Provider and Best Direct Home Insurance Provider We compete with non-food retailers and our focus on and are extending the range of financial services we offer high street style at supermarket prices resonates with, for example, travel money bureaux now becoming with customers.
a core in-store service with our one hundredth bureau now open.
Today, only around 20 per cent of the UK population live within a 15-minute drive of one of our stores with a wider 15,000 sq ft plus non-food offer.
Consequently, we are 3 Reaching more customers through stepping up plans for extensions and completed 13 larger, additional channels more cost-effective extensions in the year.
We have a Convenience is the fastest-growing sector in the grocery strong pipeline and expect to add 15 to 20 extensions store market and a key growth area for Sainsburys.
per year ongoing with 70 planning consents already The market is still not consolidated the four largest held.
This will result in the proportion of the population players have a combined share of less than 15 per cent within a 15-minute drive time doubling to around 40 per representing a significant growth opportunity.
When we extend a store it generates uplifts 51 convenience stores during 2009 10, adding 122,000 sq ft in both food and non-food sales, becoming a destination of additional space, and now have a total estate of 335 store for both product ranges, that customers will travel stores with plans to open 75 to 100 more in 2010 11, and longer to visit.
then over 100 per year thereafter.
We are developing compelling non-food Our food on the move and neighbourhood formats ranges which are relevant and easy to are working well, meeting customer needs for food shop with clothing, home dcor, for now, later and top-up shopping.
We continue to be cookshop and papershop key areas of creative in the way we use all available space to provide focus.
During the year our complementary as comprehensive an offer as possible with our non-food business grew at three times convenience stores delivering good underlying growth.
the rate of food and our TU clothing range continued to be a star performer.
Our groceries online business is also growing rapidly with Ladieswear grew well with major annual sales now over 500 million and the business is highlights on footwear, accessories and delivering a positive contribution to profitability.
Childrenswear grew strongly reach nearly 90 per cent of UK households and through and we are now the seventh largest childrenswear continued improvements in IT, supply chain and storeretailer in the UK market by volume.
picking processes we have achieved record service and product availability metrics.
General merchandise also enjoyed strong growth.
The January Sale drove significant sales increases in our In July 2009, we successfully launched our non-food homeware ranges, with home accessories, cookshop and online business with over 8,000 non-food products bedding showing significant uplift.
In Entertainment we available nationally.
We will be introducing our click continue to grow market share.
Launch events for Harry and collect service into ten trial stores from May 2010.
Potter and Call of Duty helped to demonstrate that we can take up to 25 per cent market share with targeted and coordinated marketing on key items that also has 4 Growing supermarket space the effect of increasing customer visits to our stores.
In addition to our strong pipeline of extensions and Operationally, we have increased the volume of goods we planned convenience store openings, we also have source directly from the Far East and we have opened a significant opportunity to grow supermarket space.
new sourcing office in Shanghai to complement our main Sainsburys currently has a 16.1 per cent market share operation in Hong Kong.
We have established a second in the UK as a whole, up by 0.2 per cent on last year.
clothing depot in Bedford to support our main depot in However, we are currently under-represented in many Coventry, doubling our clothing warehouse capacity and areas of the country and this provides a real opportunity helping manage the increasing demand for our clothing for growth.
Around 40 per cent of the UK population lines.
An upgraded IT system, which helps us to control does not live within a 10-minute drive of a Sainsburys our clothing stock more effectively, is now being extended supermarket and we have started to close this gap.
to handle all our non-food items.
During the year we opened 38 new supermarkets of which around three quarters are in the areas where Sainsburys Bank delivered strong growth despite we are currently under-represented.
The launch of the new reward stores 26 supermarkets and seven convenience stores campaign in September, offering customers double Nectar acquired from Co-op Somerfield of which 32 are currently points for two years on their Sainsburys shopping when trading, with one due to open in the summer.
they take out a financial services product, demonstrates Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 9 Operating review continued We operate a full range of store formats, from convenience Of the 294 supermarkets that we wholly own, 89 are on to larger destination stores which means we can be more the development plan, with a further 16 having potential flexible with the space that we open whilst still ensuring for mixed-use schemes.
Of the remaining balance, 141 have that all investments meet our strict investment hurdle longer-term potential subject to planning, economic and rate criteria.
The combination of the 38 new supermarkets, physical viability.
13 extensions and 51 new convenience stores has meant that we have added over 1.1 million sq ft of gross new space Sainsburys continues to monetise dry assets that have in the year, equivalent to a 6.8 per cent increase.
This new been fully developed and to use these proceeds to invest space is performing ahead of our expectations.
in stores with development potential.
During the year we generated proceeds from disposals of 153 million, In 2010 11, we plan for a full year gross space growth of including the sale and leaseback of six supermarkets, around 8 per cent, fulfilling our growth plan of 15 per cent realising a total profit on disposal of 27 million.
in the two years to March 2011 which equates to 2.5 million sq ft of additional selling area.
We expect to achieve an internal rate of return in excess of 15 per cent on our current investment programme on a pre-tax basis.
5 Active property management Ownership of our assets enables us to retain operational flexibility while exploiting development opportunities and maximising value for shareholders.
At 20 March 2010, the value of our freehold property estate was estimated at 9.8 billion.
This represents an increase of 2.3 billion in property value since last year of which 1.7 billion is due to a yield improvement but importantly 0.7 billion is due to investment and development activity we have undertaken, less 0.1 billion in relation to the disposal of dry assets.
In total we wholly own 294 supermarkets and have a 50 per cent share of the 43 stores in our property joint ventures JVs and taken together this is equivalent to 65 per cent of our total supermarket trading space.
Our estate comprises many well-located sites which are relatively under-developed and therefore have great potential for creating value through delivering trading uplifts and also an increase in the overall property value.
We are working with our JV partners to maximise the value of the 43 sites held in these JVs.
21 are on the development plan, with a further 16 having longer-term potential.
There are also four potential mixed-use schemes including Wandsworth, which is part of our JV with Land Securities and for which we received planning approval for a significant mixed-use scheme in March 2010.
There are two dry assets which may be candidates for disposal at appropriate yields.
10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operating review
