20 Operational review Operational review UKRAINE Our main Ukrainian interest is the Novo-Nikolaevskoye complex in the Poltava Oblast, eastern Ukraine.
The complex is shown graphically below, with a NW SE cross section of the fields in the licence complex.
Visean Carboniferous Clastics Novo-Nikolaevskoye complex Basement All measurements are in Kilometres.
Devonian Clastics Tournasian Salt Kiev Moscow JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 21 21 Kiev The year saw an extension of Continued to upgrade and Ukraine update our Ukrainian development fide-bottleneck the production programme, with the focus on facility.
Completed: appraisal drilling in the We carried out appraisal drilling Installed additional generating Rudenkovskoye licence together in the Rudenkovskoye licence and compression facilities.
with important progress on and completed the R-103 recompletions and stimulations.
A second rig Ukrainian Reserves was mobilised, albeit later than Poltava During 2010, we carried out a range No reserves reassessments took scheduled.
of activities to drive value from our place in 2010.
Drilling and workover production licences.
The key focus of activity will continue in 2011 and it is Planned: the work programme was appraisal envisaged that a reassessment of Drilling and workover activity drilling in the Rudenkovskoye the Ignatovskoye, Molchanovskoye will continue and we expect to licence with the completion of the and Novo-Nikolaevskoye fields will reassess the reserves in the R-103 horizontal well in the fourth be completed towards the end of the Ignatovskoye, Molchanovskoye quarter.
A second rig was contracted year, although it will be 2012 before and Novo-Nikolaevskoye fields to maintain the development this can be concluded in the towards the end of the year.
impetus in the second half of the Rudenkovskoye field areas.
Completion of the LPG plant period on the ongoing drilling at Poltava is on target for programmes in the Ignatovskoye, June 2011.
Ignatovskoye Molchanovskoye and NovoNikolaevskoye fields.
Delays in mobilisation resulted in the second rig completing only one additional well during the fourth quarter.
The programme of recompletions and stimulations continued throughout the period to maintain production levels in the Ignatovskoye and Molchanovskoye North.
Poltava Petroleum Company PPC, 2 LICENCE AREA 25.3 km a wholly owned subsidiary of JKX, holds four production licences Remaining reserves covering 127sq.
km in the Poltava as at 31st December 2010 region of Ukraine.
Each production Proved Probable Prov Prob Koshekhablskoye licence contains a number of fields Oil 1.0 0.0 1.0 which together form the NovoMMbbl Elizavetovskoye Nikolaevskoye Complex.
PPC also Gas 19.0 3.6 22.6 Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex holds the Zaplavskoye and Hernad Maikop Bcf Elizavetovskoye exploration licences Budapest Oil Gas 4.1 0.7 4.8 comprising a total exploration area Turkeve MMboe Veszto of 208sq.
In summary, PPC: THE THE The Ignatovskoye production BLACK SEA BLACK SEA Drilled, tested and or completed licence is located in the centre of a total of six appraisal and the Novo-Nikolaevskoye Complex development wells.
and contains the first field to be Carried out an acid frac and developed by the Company.
a propped acid frac on two Evaluation of two additional carbonate wells.
structural trends continues, one to the west, and one to the southwest Carried out 20 workover of the main field.
operations, including 12 recompletions, three well repairs, The main field is an uplifted fault three fishing operations and two block containing Devonian sandwell abandonments.
stone and overlying Carboniferous Tournasian sandstone and Commenced installation of the limestone.
On top of that is a Tbilisi LPG recovery plant.
22 Operational review Ukraine continued carbonate reef build up of Visean the Devonian sandstone and Molchanovskoye North & Main age.
There is also a series of thin recompletion as a Tournasian sandstone channels on the flank of sandstone producer.
Problems the structure, also of Visean age.
recovering the tubing resulted in work being suspended until 2011.
Black oil is found in the Devonian sandstone and the lower parts of the Well I-110 was recompleted from Tournasian and Visean reservoirs.
the depleted Tournasian The oil is overlain by a rich sandstone to the Tournasian condensate-bearing gas cap and the carbonate.
A similar reVisean channels can therefore be oil completion was performed on or gas bearing.
Reservoir quality in well I-158, but with only a small the Devonian sandstone and Visean amount of gas being produced.
2 LICENCE AREA 7.9 km reef is generally good whilst both The well is now a candidate for the Tournasian sandstone and abandonment.
Remaining reserves limestone are variable and often as at 31st December 2010 Wells I-131 and I-150 were dependent on local depositional and abandoned in the period and Proved Probable Prov Prob tectonic influences.
Stimulation in their completion and well-head Oil 2.9 1.4 4.3 these reservoirs is usually equipment recovered.
MMbbl necessary and, although this can Gas 32.0 18.4 50.4 give high initial flow rates, the rates In addition to re-drilling well I-137, Bcf often decline to more modest levels.
plans for 2011 include a well on the Oil Gas 8.2 4.5 12.7 western flank of the main structure No additional wells were drilled or MMboe to appraise the potential in the recompleted on the main structure down-dip fault blocks.
Success on of the field during the period.
The the flanks of the field would lead to a The Molchanovskoye production focus of activity in 2010 was in further re-appraisal of the field licence is located approximately recompleting and stimulating the reserves which otherwise have 8km to the south of the wells in the west of the structure: remained relatively stable.
Ignatovskoye Field and contains Development well I-137 was the southernmost producing field drilled as a Visean carbonate oil within the complex.
The licence producer in the southeast of the now comprises two distinct field field but was suspended in late areas: Molchanovskoye North and 2008 with a fish in the hole below Molchanovskoye Main.
A sidetrack was Molchanovskoye North is a black drilled in the period but oil reservoir with a gas cap in the encountered problems setting Devonian sandstone and an the casing.
A re-designed overlying Tournasian sandstone replacement well is planned for gas condensate reservoir.
There 2011 in preference to further are also newly appraised overlying sidetracking.
Tournasian carbonate and Well I-105 was successfully sandstone gas condensate worked-over with the recovery of reservoirs that extend over the broken downhole pump rods.
A surface pump will replace the Work in 2010 addressed both the existing unit at a convenient time Devonian sandstone and the in 2011.
Tournasian carbonate reservoirs and The workover rig successfully also confirmed the presence of recompleted well I-133 from the productive Visean sandstones within Tournasian sandstone to a Visean the licence area: sandstone oil producer.
Reservoir Development well M-167 was pressure was insufficient to drilled as a high angle Tournasian maintain flow and a beam pump carbonate infill well across the has been installed with the well main natural fracture system in now supporting intermittent, but the Molchanovskoye North field.
Drilling was suspended in 2009 Work began in well I-106 to carry due to a stuck drill pipe in the out a water shut-off operation in JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 23 23 overlying swelling shale.
The choked back to around 400 bopd Novo-Nikolaevskoye sidetrack was drilled successfully for reservoir management to a measured depth of 3,000m purposes.
with a 400m section of Tournasian Activity planned for 2011 will include carbonate.
Following a controlled further in-fill drilling in the Devonian acid squeeze on the low porosity reservoir and further mapping of the formation, the well settled to a Visean sands to seek analogies to stabilised flow rate of 2.3 MMcfd the M-161 discovery.
Reserves are of gas with 26 bpd of condensate not expected to change significantly.
"through a 36 64"" choke with a FWHP of 626 psi."
Other areas of Molchanovskoye Main produces gas the extensive low porosity condensate in the Devonian 2 carbonate in the area are being sandstone and is being evaluated for LICENCE AREA 7.8 km evaluated for potential application additional reserves in the overlying of this development technique.
Tournasian carbonate and Visean Remaining reserves as at 31st December 2010 sandstone reservoirs.
Two wells In mid-year, well M-166, a long were treated in 2010: Proved Probable Prov Prob horizontal well in the Devonian Oil 0.0 0.0 0.0 reservoir, showed a sharp Development well M-206 was MMbbl increase in water production and identified in 2009 as a suitable Gas 0.0 0.0 0.0 a commensurate decline in oil and candidate for a propped acid Bcf gas production.
The TW-100 rig frac of the Tournasian carbonate.
Oil Gas 0.0 0.0 0.0 was mobilised to the location and The 2010 frac operation was MMboe gas lift installed to restore successful but post-frac analysis production.
The re-drilling of a indicates lack of reservoir new horizontal section at a higher connectivity.
The Novo-Nikolaevskoye level is scheduled for 2011. production licence lies 3km to the Well M-205 was recompleted in west of the Ignatovskoye Field.
Devonian horizontal wells M-151 the Visean sandstone where it Following successful drilling in and M-152 watered out in the flowed at an initial rate of 2009, remapping and additional period and re-perforations higher 1.1 MMcfd of gas, despite drilling was carried out in 2010 in the well bores were more encouraging log results.
with plans for more wells in 2011. unsuccessful.
The wells are now Production enhancement by candidates for abandonment.
coiled tubing conveyed jet Development well N-73 was perforating was attempted but drilled as a Visean sandstone gas Well M-169 was spudded in 2010 there was no noticeable producer and flowed at a stabilised and was completed in March 2011 improvement in flow rate.
rate of 1.97 MMcfd of gas, 27 bcpd as a 600m long horizontal well in and 110 bwpd with a FWHP of the Devonian reservoir.
It is The results of both treatments were 189 psi.
A well intervention was designed to replace both wells disappointing and further work in subsequently carried out to isolate M-151 and M-152 and has been this area has been assigned a low the water producing zone.
set higher in the reservoir.
Initial priority: this may affect the reserves test production was 5.25 MMcfd recognised in this field area going Well N-74 was spudded in the with 634 bopd oil at a FWHP of forward.
"fourth quarter and encountered 594 psi through a 2"" choke."
Testing gas in two Visean sandstone A downthrown tilted fault block is ongoing at different choke sizes horizons: it is currently flowing referred to as the Wedge Zone to assess the most effective at 3.5 MMcfd with 114 bcpd.
separates the Molchanovskoye production rate.
North and Molchanovskoye Main The success of wells N-73, N-74 Well M-28, a long serving fields.
An exploration well M-170 is and M-161 will contribute to an Devonian oil producer, was currently drilling ahead towards its increase in reserves in both the recompleted to the T2 sandstone planned TD of 3,100m in the Novo-Nikolaevskoye and the and settled to a flow rate of Devonian sandstone to evaluate the Molchanovskoye licences when they 3.5 MMcfd with 90 bcpd.
Three A second well in the block is further wells are planned for 2011 The surprise of the year was the tentatively planned for later in 2011. with the first well N75 scheduled speculative perforation of the No reserves are currently attributed to spud in the third quarter.
unlogged V16 sandstone reservoir to this area of the field complex.
This had initial flow rates in excess of 1,000 bopd with a high gas cut, but has been 24 Operational review Ukraine continued declined, compounded by an Commencement of a review into Rudenkovskoye inability to lift the remaining the efficiency of the surface drilling and completion fluids, facilities to identify potential despite changing the tubing to a operating improvements.
Rates are currently Implementation of the around 650 Mcfd with 1-2 bcpd recommendations of an and intermittent water.
Geological independent specialist team to and engineering studies are debottleneck the plant and underway for a multi-stage frac enhance the process facilities.
in the long horizontal wellbore.
Initial steps included replacement Well R-102, was drilled in early or duplication of some flowlines to 2007 in the southern area of the reduce back pressure on the wells.
It found two main gasNotably, the results for well I-125 bearing zones in the Devonian were significant with gas Remaining reserves sandstone but the presence of production increasing from as at 31st December 2010 water precluded any fracture 1.9 MMcfd to 2.4 MMcfd and oil Proved Probable Prov Prob stimulation testing in the lower production from 31 bopd to Oil 1.2 1.2 interval.
The well was plugged 220 bopd.
Further work will be MMbbl back to a higher, and much undertaken during the annual field Gas 122.3 122.3 thinner, interval in the Devonian.
Bcf The propped frac operation was Improvements to the sewage Oil Gas 21.6 21.6 relatively successful and the well treatment facility at the production MMboe flow rate increased four-fold to site are planned for 2011 and there 0.5 MMcfd of gas.
In 2010, the will be minor improvements to the perforated zone was extended and The Rudenkovskoye production roads and walkways throughout the this resulted in an increase in licence is the most northern of the facility.
Reservoirs in the licence are the The sites for the R-104 well in the LPG Plant Tournasian and Devonian north of the Rudenkovskoye area Fabrication and construction of the sandstones at depths of between has been prepared and the LPG plant commenced during the 3,000m and 5,000m with further programme for this 4,300m year.
All the LPG process equipment potential in the overlying Visean horizontal well to the Visean is now onsite and installation has sandstones.
Productive areas have sandstone reservoir is ready, as is commenced.
Installation and been identified in the northern and the programme for well R-105, a construction of the storage and southern areas of the licence and, further well in the area of well loading equipment is also in after the modest success of the R-103.
Completion is now 2009 propped frac programme, an R-105 have been deferred until the expected in June 2011. initial three well horizontal drilling results and prospects for well programme was planned for R-103 have been fully evaluated.
2010-2012: Reserves reassessment in the Well R-103, in the southern part Rudenkovskoye field areas will await of the field, was drilled to a the results of the R-103 multi-frac measured depth TD of 4,641m and the subsequent drilling using the Skytop N-75 rig with programme.
1,026m of the well drilled horizontally in the Devonian Poltava production facilities reservoir.
"On test, the well flowed 2010 saw continued improvements at a stabilised rate of 8.1 MMcfd of to the Central Production Facility, gas and 18 bpd of condensate including: through a 85 64"" choke with a Commissioning of the flowing wellhead pressure of replacement compressor K220 930 psi over the final 8 hour period early in the year to provide greater of a multi-rate test."
The well has support for gas-lift and production been tied back to the main field optimisation an increasingly processing facility with an 8km important aspect of field flow line and placed on production.
Since then production has JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 25 25 Zaplavskoye Elizatovskoye The Zaplavskoye exploration licence The Elizavetovskoye exploration is adjacent to the Molchanovskoye licence is located in the central part production licence and now of the Dnieper-Donets basin and comprises an area of 137.6sq.
It is The permit has been extended for a approximately 45km from PPCs further five years until 2014.
addition, the area has been extended Three shut-in production wells by 41.9sq.
km and in-fills an area on the licence are owned by between the Novo-Nikolaevskoye Ukrgasvydobuvannya, a subsidiary and Ignatovskoye licences where of Naftogaz of Ukraine, the state oil existing seismic indicates potential and gas company, and are tied into drilling targets and extends the its production facility.
western flank of the Ignatovskoye Negotiations with field.
The extension also includes Ukrgasvydobuvannya were the Shagarivske area to the east of concluded in 2010 and enabled the Ignatovskoye field where a PPC to start preparations for 100km 2-D seismic programme was drilling its own production wells shot in late 2010 ahead of in the field.
The first well in the new block is Plans have been prepared for the likely to be in the area to the drilling of a single well and the northwest of the Novoinstallation of basic separator and Nikolaevskoye field and will target dehydration equipment tied to the Visean sandstone reservoirs already local branch gas line via a hot tap.
encountered in drilling undertaken The project is currently scheduled by the State in the 1980s.
The hot tap installation is scheduled to be carried out by Chervonoyarske East Ukrainian specialists in the second The Chervonoyarske East quarter of 2011 as an essential exploration licence was acquired in pre-requisite of the rest of the December 2005.
km and is located about 75km from the PPC production licences on the northern margin of the Dnieper-Donets basin.
km 3D seismic survey acquired in 2008 supports the interpretation of potential hydrocarbons trapped against the flanks of a major salt wall.
However, the cost of drilling to below the salt and the geological risks associated with the traps are high.
Attempts to farm-out the licence during 2010 were unsuccessful and the licence was relinquished in December 2010.
