BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Review Environmental Technologies Division Key Statistics Sales Excluding Precious Metals Return on sales excluding precious metals 9.7% Process Technologies Return on invested capital ROIC 9.4% Fuel Cells Capital expenditure 93.8m 22% Capex depreciation 1.4 Emission Control Average invested capital 1,281m Technologies 78% Employees 4,985 Year to 31st March % 2010 2009 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 2,056 2,226 -8 -11 Sales excluding precious metals 1,247 1,135 10 6 Underlying operating profit 120.9 124.3 -3 -6 Description of the Business Performance in 2009 10 Emission Control Technologies ECT In 2009 10  Division recovered from ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy a weak first half with good growth in the second half of the year.
duty diesel and stationary emissions control businesses.
We are ECT was significantly affected in the first half by the slowdown a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle exhaust in demand across all areas but saw a strong recovery for emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for the autocatalysts in the second half.
However, despite challenging reduction of emissions from industrial processes.
Manufacturing economic conditions, ProcessTechnologies continued to perform plants are located in the UK, Germany, Belgium, Macedonia, well supported by strong demand for its syngas products in Russia, USA, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, China.
For the year as a whole,  India, China and South Korea.
R&D facilities are in the USA, UK, Divisions revenue fell by 8% to 2,056 million: sales excluding Germany, Sweden, Japan, South Korea and Brazil.
precious metals were 10% ahead at 1,247 million: however underlying operating profit fell by 3% to 120.9 million.
Translated Process Technologies at constant exchange rates, sales excluding precious metals ProcessTechnologies manufactures process catalysts for the increased by 6% and underlying operating profit was 6% lower.
syngas, methanol, ammonia, hydrogen, gas coal to products, oil refineries and gas processing industries.
Davy ProcessTechnology Emission Control Technologies develops chemical process technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and petrochemical industries.
Our Emission ControlTechnologies sales excluding precious metals Tracerco business is an industrial leader in specialist technology grew by 12% to 974 million.
Sales in the first half of the year for the diagnostics, measurement and analysis of process plant were 440 million, but sales recovered strongly in the second conditions across the hydrocarbon chain.
At constant exchange rates, sales excluding serves customers around the world and has manufacturing sites precious metals were up 7%.
in the UK, India and China, supported by several UK based In Johnson Mattheys financial year to 31st March 2010, technology centres and technical offices in key centres worldwide.
global light duty vehicle sales grew by 7% to 66.7 million vehicles.
Global production grew by 6% with a further small decrease in Fuel Cells inventories.
The effect of various government scrappage schemes Johnson Matthey has a world leading position in the development around the world had a very positive effect on vehicle sales and manufacture of catalysts and catalysed components for fuel particularly in the second half.
Johnson Mattheys light duty catalyst cells.
sales excluding precious metals grew by 17% to 754 million and 12 - Johnson Matthey During the year we completed a significant, over 70 million, Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production investment in new capacity and opened two new facilities, one in western Pennsylvania, USA with capacity to manufacture one million catalysts a year required to meet the new US 2010 Year to 31st March HDD legislation in North America that came into effect from 2010 2009 change millions millions % 1st January 2010, and the other in Macedonia with initial capacity North America Sales 13.0 14.4 -9.7% to manufacture four million catalysts per annum for both light Production 9.7 10.8 -10.2% duty and heavy duty vehicles in Europe.
Both of these facilities Total Europe Sales 18.5 19.9 -7.0% are now fully operational.
We also completed a major expansion Production 18.1 18.8 -3.7% of our autocatalyst manufacturing capacity in Shanghai, China.
Asia Sales 24.2 17.2 40.7% This will enable us to meet the demands of the rapidly growing Production 30.7 25.5 20.4% market in China where we continue to increase our market Global Sales 66.7 62.1 7.4% share, from around 17% five years ago to approximately 30% Production 65.2 61.5 6.0% today.
Construction of a new research and development facility Source: IHS Global Insight in Shanghai is now underway and is expected to be operational in the autumn of 2010.
Our stationary emissions control SEC systems business for reducing emissions in a wide range of applications including sales volumes of autocatalysts grew by more than 9% in the year, power generation, industrial processes, coal fired power plants exceeding the growth in global car production as a result of and marine applications suffered from the deferral of major increased fitment of diesel particulate filters DPFs in Europe and energy projects due to the recession and uncertainty over our strong performance in the growth markets of China and India.
emissions standards in the USA and carbon dioxide CO 2 Around 6.5 million diesel cars were sold in western Europe Europe.
Despite this, sales were up by 6% to 47 million.
in the year representing some 46% of total car sales, down We have continued to build a new facility in Shanghai, from 51% last year of which about 70% were fitted with DPFs.
China to supply plate type selective catalytic reduction SCR Over the next seven months the DPF market is set to grow catalysts for controlling emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx further as all new diesel cars sold in the European Union will from coal fired power plants.
This will serve a growing market in require fitment from January 2011.
China where the State Environmental Protection Administration In response to the fall in demand for our products in the is expected to issue NOx control regulations that will come into second half of 2008 09 we took swift action to significantly reduce effect in 2011.
Our new facility is currently being commissioned costs and, during this period of lower production, also took the and will begin supplying product during the first half of our opportunity to improve the efficiency of our manufacturing 2010 11 financial year.
As a result, our ongoing production cost per unit reduced by approximately 7%.
We, however, retained our flexibility and were able to react rapidly to increased customer Process Technologies orders from mid 2009 10.
Since the low point in March 2009, our ProcessTechnologies continued to grow in 2009 10 despite the plant utilisation for light duty catalysts has almost doubled although downturn in the global economy.
Its sales excluding precious we still have sufficient capacity to meet future growth in demand.
metals grew by 3% in the year to 268 million, an increase of While the light duty catalyst business grew strongly in the 1% at constant exchange rates.
The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and year, sales excluding precious metals of our heavy duty diesel Gas AMOG business, which represents approximately 60% of HDD catalysts fell by 5% to 173 million, a reduction of 10% ProcessTechnologies sales, performed well with strong sales to on a constant currency basis.
Our HDD business, which both the ammonia and methanol markets, up 15% and 7% manufactures catalysts for trucks, buses and non-road vehicles, respectively.
Demand for its gas purification products, used to made a small loss in the year because, following our recent remove contaminants such as mercury and chlorides, held up investment in HDD catalyst manufacturing infrastructure ahead well throughout the year.
However, sales of catalysts to produce of new legislation, we had surplus capacity given the downturn hydrogen, which is used extensively in the  in truck production.
process to remove sulphur from crude oil and to improve the Sales of heavy duty trucks were depressed in the year in quality of gasoline and diesel, were adversely impacted by the both Europe and the USA, falling in our financial year by 45% effect of the economic slowdown on demand for transportation and 28% respectively, although in the year we enhanced our fuels and by tight refinery margins and were down by more than leading share of the HDD catalyst market.
Legislation requiring lower sulphur fuels continues to gain started to recover in the autumn and in March 2010 were nearly momentum around the world, particularly in South America, double those in the same month last year, albeit that the majority Asia and the Former Soviet Union, supporting continued of our US sales were for trucks that still utilised pre-US 2010 demand for our hydrogen catalysts and purification products.
Sales for the first quarter of 2010 11, the period ProcessTechnologies benefited from continued activity for which we have greatest visibility, are expected to remain at on projects to convert gas or coal into chemicals where some around this level.
Given current economic conditions it is difficult countries, particularly China, are seeking to enhance their energy to predict when truck sales in Europe and the USA will recover security by utilising coal reserves to reduce their reliance on fully.
With HDD legislation now in place in South Korea, the imported oil and gas.
China continues to develop coal based introduction of tighter on road HDD emissions legislation in China, technologies to manufacture methanol, ammonia and synthetic India and Brazil over the next few years and the phasing in of natural gas SNG.
Johnson Matthey has leading catalyst technology non-road legislation in the USA and European Union, the growth in these areas and is the number one supplier of catalysts for prospects for our HDD catalyst business remain very strong.
large scale methanol plants in China with a 40% market share.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Global Methanol Demand Market Size for Technologies Currently Million metric tonnes Licensed by Davy Process Technology million Demand excluding China China demand 80 100 90 70 Chemicals 80 natural detergent alcohols, 60 esters, ethyl acetate, amines 70 50 60 40 50 Gas conversion reforming, methanol, 40 30 synthetic natural gas 30 20 20 10 Petrochemicals 10 butanediol, oxo alcohols, tetrahydrofuran 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2005 2010 2015 Source: Johnson Matthey estimates Source: CMAI 2008 World Methanol Conference Demand for methanol has continued to grow strongly in China, Tracercos sales were slightly up on last year with growth with consumption up by 35% to 17 million tonnes per annum, in its specialist measurements and taggants segments offsetting where it is increasingly being used as a substitute for petroleum a poor year for its process diagnostics business, mainly due to based transportation fuels.
As a result, our sales of methanol reduced activity and investment by oil and gas companies.
Vertec, catalysts in China have increased by over 150% this year.
The which manufactures specialist organic titanates used in inks, paints country is also investing in projects to manufacture SNG from and polymers, made an operating loss in 2009 10.
The business coal that can be transported by existing pipelines and utilised for has been facing stiff price competition from Asian manufacturers heating and industrial applications.
At the end of May 2010 we entered into During the year ProcessTechnologies commissioned a new consultation with its employees to look at the future options for state of the art methanol synthesis catalyst manufacturing facility theVertec business.
This plant produces Apico, our new patented methanol synthesis catalyst, which delivers a number of substantial Fuel Cells performance benefits to customers, including the increase of The Fuel Cells business made further progress in 2009 10 despite methanol production from existing plants.
ProcessTechnologies the adverse economic conditions and as a result, the net expense remains a global leader in the licensing of methanol process fell by 0.3 million to 5.4 million.
Several of our customers were technology and the sale of associated catalysts.
The new Apico impacted by the downturn and scaled back their growth plans catalyst will further differentiate the business from its competitors.
but by year end they had recovered and had the confidence to Davy ProcessTechnology DPT had another good year, start expanding again.
with sales of 44 million, securing licence and engineering Direct methanol fuel cells are used in portable devices for contracts for a further eight plants.
The business was particularly leisure markets and sales of these were badly hit by the recession.
successful in China, winning contracts for three methanol plants, However, our products are technically very competitive and we an oxo alcohols plant and two speciality chemicals plants.
In gained market share, mitigating the impact of a smaller market.
addition DPT won the contract for the first world scale SNG Sales in this area have recovered, boosted by military applications plant at Datang in China, including the supply of Johnson starting to enter large scale trials.
There also continues to be Mattheys catalysts.
increasing interest in the use of natural gas fuelled systems to DPT continues to invest in developing its technology power buildings, an area where Johnson Matthey is a leading portfolio.
During the year it introduced the first world scale supplier of fuel cell components.
methylamine and dimethyl formamide process, dimethyl ether technology and a waste fat to diesel process.
It is also in a position to license a gas to liquids process based on fixed bed Fischer Chinese n-butanol Tropsch technology which has been jointly developed with BP.
plant based on ProcessTechnologies continues to pursue other technology DPTs chemical opportunities which have the potential to increase energy process technology.
efficiency and reduce CO emissions.
Progress continues to be 2 Reproduced with made in the development of technologies for high efficiency the kind permission reforming, technology for the more cost effective capture of CO 2 of PetroChina Jilin prior to sequestration and in the area of gas to liquids technology, Petrochemical achieving a number of new milestones in catalyst development Company.
and increasing its sales of pilot scale catalysts this year.
These are all areas that are coming into sharper focus as governments around the world strive to tackle CO emissions.
2 14 - Johnson Matthey Operations Review Precious Metal Products Division Key Statistics Sales Excluding Precious Metals Return on sales excluding precious metals 27.8% Catalysts and Return on invested capital ROIC 46.8% Chemicals Capital expenditure 15.9m 27% Platinum Marketing and Distribution, Capex depreciation 0.7 Noble Metals, Average invested capital 249m Colour Technologies 55% Employees 2,594 Refining 18% Year to 31st March % 2010 2009 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 5,562 5,402 3 Sales excluding precious metals 420 447 -6 -11 Underlying operating profit 116.7 143.0 -18 -22 Description of the Business Catalysts and chemicals manufacturing takes place in the UK, USA, Germany, India and China.
Pgm refining facilities are in the Precious Metal Products Divisions activities comprise the UK and USA and gold and silver refining operations are located marketing, distribution, refining and recycling of platinum group in the USA and Canada.
metals pgms, fabrication of products using precious metals and related materials, pgm and base metal catalysts and pgm Colour Technologies chemicals, and the refining of gold and silver.
The division is Headquartered in the Netherlands, our ColourTechnologies organised into four businesses: business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver conductive materials for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, Platinum Marketing and Distribution enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass The business consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for distribution activities.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK tableware and other ceramic applications.
Manufacturing takes with support facilities in Philadelphia, USA and Hong Kong.
We place in the Netherlands, USA and South Korea.
are the worlds leading distributor of pgms and the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest producer of platinum.
Performance in 2009 10 Noble Metals Precious Metal Products Divisions revenue increased by 3% to Noble Metals produces a wide range of precious metal and 5,562 million, boosted by higher platinum group metal prices in other fabricated products for industrial and medical applications.
the second half of the year.
Sales excluding the value of precious Johnson Matthey is the market leader in pgm fabricated products metals were 6% lower at 420 million with reductions across for industrial applications.
Manufacturing takes place in the UK most of the divisions businesses due to the effect of lower and USA.
metal prices in the first half and the impact of the economic Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining slowdown on its manufacturing businesses.
Operating profit was Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining manufactures precious and also lower, down 18% at 116.7 million, following a difficult first base metal catalysts, fine chemicals and electrochemical products.
Translated at constant exchange rates, sales excluding It also recovers pgms from spent catalysts and other secondary precious metals decreased by 11% and operating profit was materials and refines primary pgms from global mining 22% lower than last year.
The business also comprises our gold and silver refining and bullion manufacturing operations which serve the worlds mining industries and recycle secondary scrap material.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Supply of Platinum Gross Demand for Supply of Palladium Gross Demand for 2005-2009 Platinum 2005-2009 2005-2009 Palladium 2005-2009 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Electronics Jewellery Other 7 9 9 9 8 8 8 6 7 7 7 5 6 6 6 4 5 5 5 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Recycling of scrapped autocatalysts, Recycling of scrapped autocatalysts, electronics and jewellery contributed electronics and jewellery contributed 1.83 million oz of platinum in 2008 1.62 million oz of palladium in 2008 and 1.41 million oz in 2009. and 1.43 million oz in 2009.
Platinum Marketing and Distribution The price of rhodium recovered slowly after a precipitous decline in 2008 09.
Rhodium demand fell by around 20% in Profit in our Platinum Marketing and Distribution business fell in calendar year 2009 due to weak demand from the automotive 2009 10 with performance improving in the second half of the sector.
Although rhodium moved into a position of oversupply, financial year as precious metal prices increased.
the price more than doubled from $1,175 oz to $2,575 oz in Global demand for platinum fell by 11% in the calendar thin trading.
The average price of $1,936 oz was nonetheless year 2009.
Demand from the autocatalyst sector fell by 38% only 40% of the level seen in 2008 09. to a nine year low due to the global reduction in car production and a sharp decline in diesel market share in Europe.
Jewellery Noble Metals demand increased in response to lower platinum prices, with a significant increase in stock rebuilding and retail sales in the key Our Noble Metals business was affected by the general global Chinese market.
Buoyant jewellery demand was supported by downturn with sales excluding precious metals down by 5%.
an increase in physical investment through ExchangeTraded Demand for fabricated pgms was adversely impacted as the Funds ETFs.
Supplies of platinum fell slightly with the output world economy slowed but we began to see recovery during of new South African mines balanced by the closure of some the second half of the year.
The year ended strongly for its existing production in the face of weaker platinum group metal European operations and whilst demand for products from its prices in rand terms.
The production environment in South US business has been slower to pick up, industrial markets Africa continued to be challenging with production interruptions began to improve in the final quarter.
due to safety closures and industrial action.
The business has established a market leading position in The substantial fall in platinum demand outweighed the the supply of a nitrous oxide N O abatement catalyst to the 2 more modest decline in production, moving the market into an nitric acid industry and last year saw continued good growth in oversupply position.
The price of platinum nonetheless increased demand for these products driven by incentives provided for much of the financial year with increasing investor positions through the Kyoto agreement for plant operators to reduce having a more significant impact on the price than supply their greenhouse gas emissions.
N O is a powerful greenhouse 2 demand fundamentals.
After starting the year at $1,133 oz, gas with a global warming potential of 310 times that of CO. 2 platinum closed the financial year at a high point of $1,644 oz, As western countries begin to introduce legislation to limit the averaging $1,343 oz for the year.
emissions of greenhouse gases, we expect continued growth in Palladium demand fell by 6% in 2009.
Demand from the demand for N O abatement technologies.
2 autocatalyst sector was 9% down, much less than for platinum, Whilst demand for our components for medical devices was as car scrappage schemes in Europe favoured sales of small mixed, our sophisticated machining capability in San Diego, USA engined gasoline powered vehicles fitted with palladium catalysts.
has enabled us to become a leading supplier of high technology Although affected by the global fall in car production, palladium parts for several growing medical applications.
demand benefited from the rising production of cars in China which are mostly fitted with palladium catalysts.
Physical Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining investment in ETFs was also strong.
Supplies of palladium The Catalysts, Chemicals and Refining business was formed declined slightly but the market remained in fundamental following the transfer of our Catalysts and Chemicals operations oversupply due to continuing sales of Russian state stocks.
to Precious Metal Products Division on 1st April 2009.
It also Like platinum, the price of palladium increased for much of includes the divisions Gold and Silver and Pgm Refining and 2009 10.
It also reached its high point of $479 oz at the end of Recycling activities.
The business is organised into two businesses: the year, having averaged $325 oz which was 10% up on 2008 09.
Catalysts and Chemicals, and Refining.
16 - Johnson Matthey Platinum and Palladium Prices Rhodium Price US$ oz US$ oz Platinum Palladium Rhodium 2,400 12,000 2,000 10,000 1,600 8,000 1,200 6,000 800 4,000 400 2,000 0 0 March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 Colour Technologies Catalysts and Chemicals Catalysts and Chemicals had a difficult year with sales excluding ColourTechnologies performed well in difficult market precious metals falling by 14% to 114 million as a consequence conditions.
Sales in our traditional businesses were flat but the of the global recession which impacted a number of end use acquisition of a small order book in March 2009 and good cost markets, especially the automotive, construction and petrochemical control resulted in profit being slightly higher than last year.
The second half of the year saw some improvement, Demand for our automotive glass enamel products continued particularly in demand for precious metal salts for the automotive to grow strongly in Asia throughout 2009 10.
Sales in other parts sector as car sales picked up driven by the government stimulus of the world suffered in the first half in line with the downturn packages.
Demand in China steadily improved throughout the in vehicle production, however, we saw recovery in the second year as a result of various government actions to stimulate the half as the European and North American automotive markets economy and in the year represented some 9% of the business picked up.
ColourTechnologies increased its share of the global sales.
During the year we commissioned a new sponge automotive silver paste market, but demand for decorative nickel catalyst manufacturing facility in Shanghai, China to serve precious metal products was impacted during the year by the the local market.
Further expansion is planned on the Shanghai high gold price.
site during 2010 11 to manufacture pgm catalysts for the The business opened a new technology centre in Maastricht, growing pharmaceutical industry in China.
the Netherlands during the year to support the development of new products for its global markets.
Refining Our Refining business as a whole had a challenging year.
Sales excluding precious metals fell by 6% to 77 million.
The Pgm Refining and Recycling business was impacted, particularly in the first half, by reduced intakes as the result of lower pgm prices and a decline in the overall level of economic activity.
Results improved in the second half as the effects of higher pgm prices and various automotive scrappage schemes around the world began to boost intakes of secondary material.
During the year, the business continued to focus on capacity management and operational improvements at both its UK and US refineries to reduce the amount of metal in the refining circuit with improvements in the volume of residues processed through its arc furnaces.
In our Gold and Silver business, however, both our refineries had a very strong year with throughputs at record Automotive glass enamel products levels and improved margins.
The gold price climbed steadily manufactured by our ColourTechnologies throughout the year, averaging over $1,000 oz, which had the business.
effect of stimulating demand for the refining of secondary material, particularly jewellery scrap.
Demand for gold investment bars was also very high.
The business introduced a number of operational improvements in the year to reduce bottlenecks in the plant and improve metal throughput.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Operations Review Fine Chemicals Division Key Statistics Sales Excluding Precious Metals Return on sales excluding precious metals 25.5% Research Chemicals Return on invested capital ROIC 13.4% 27% Capital expenditure 22.0m Capex depreciation 1.4 Macfarlan Smith 37% Average invested capital 417m Employees 1,026 Pharmaceutical Materials and Services 36% Year to 31st March % 2010 2009 % at constant million million change rates Revenue 221 220 1 -4 Sales excluding precious metals 219 215 2 -2 Underlying operating profit 55.8 49.5 13 9 Description of the Business Performance in 2009 10 Fine Chemicals Division is a global supplier of active Fine Chemicals Division achieved modest growth in the year in pharmaceutical ingredients, fine chemicals and other speciality the face of challenging market conditions.
The divisions revenue chemical products and services to a wide range of chemical and increased by 1% to 221 million and sales excluding precious pharmaceutical industry customers and industrial and academic metals rose by 2% to 219 million.
Operating profit was 13% research organisations.
The division received a one-off benefit to sales and operating profit of US $12 million from the launch of Macfarlan Smith the generic version of ADDERALL XR in April 2009.
However Macfarlan Smith manufactures active pharmaceutical ingredients it also incurred 1.6 million in redundancy and other costs at its APIs and intermediate products for the pharmaceutical and Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business in the USA.
The business is the worlds leading Excluding these items, the divisions operating profit was 1% manufacturer of opiate alkaloids which are used for pain ahead at 49.9 million.
On a constant currency basis sales management and other pharmaceutical applications.
It is excluding precious metals were 2% below and operating profit, headquartered in Edinburgh, UK.
excluding these items, was also 2% down.
Pharmaceutical Materials and Services The Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business manufactures Macfarlan Smith APIs and provides services to the pharmaceutical industry.
The Macfarlan Smiths sales of specialist opiate products, particularly business specialises in the manufacture of APIs for controlled buprenorphine, naloxone and naltrexone, continued to grow drugs and for platinum based anticancer treatments.
However, its sales of bulk opiates, such as codeine a full range of commercial scale manufacturing services for APIs phosphate, were impacted by reduced availability of raw to both generic and branded pharmaceutical companies.
The material, and overall, sales of opiate based APIs were down on business has operations in the USA.
As a result, sales excluding precious metals declined Research Chemicals by 8% to 80 million.
While the business took swift action to The Research Chemicals business is a globally integrated catalogue control costs and sales of non-opiate products, such as fentanyl based supplier of speciality inorganic and organic chemicals.
It and methylphenidate, saw continued growth, Macfarlan Smiths operates under the Alfa Aesar brand name and is based in the profit was a little down on last year.
UK, USA, Germany, China and India.
18 - Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical Materials and Services Research Chemicals The divisions Pharmaceutical Materials and Services business The Research Chemicals business was impacted by a marked had a good year overall with sales excluding precious metals contraction in R&D spending in many parts of the world due to 14% ahead of 2008 09 at 79 million, benefiting from the the global economic slowdown.
Despite this, sales excluding income received as the result of the launch of the first generic precious metals were slightly up at 60 million.
However, good version of ADDERALL XR by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries.
cost control in North America and Europe offset, in part, Excluding this one-off benefit, sales excluding precious metals additional costs incurred through the geographic expansion of still grew and were up by 3% at 71 million.
Pharmaceutical the business in Asia, resulting in profits from the business being Materials and Services manufacturing business performed well only marginally down on last year.
Its European and North with sales of amphetamine salts and opiate products continuing American markets were particularly badly hit in the first half of to show good growth, more than offsetting a decline in sales of the year but saw some recovery in the second half, especially in platinum based anticancer APIs.
The business Asian operations, however, were Our contract research business, however, continued to be up on last year with good growth in sales in both China and adversely affected by a lack of venture capital funding for new Korea.
drug development which has impacted many of our smaller Research Chemicals continued to focus on geographic customers.
Sales excluding precious metals were down more expansion with new warehouse facilities opening in both India than 30% in 2009 10 and the business generated an operating and Germany during the course of the year.
Consequently a restructuring plan was implemented at its joint venture, Alfa Aesar Synmax inYantai, China, in which we facility in Massachusetts, USA resulting, to date, in a 31% reduction have a 51% shareholding, became operational with the in headcount compared to last year.
In addition to the 1.6 million commissioning of its pilot plant facility in March 2010.
As well in redundancy and other costs, this plan resulted in an 11.3 million as serving the research chemicals needs of the rapidly growing impairment charge in respect of redundant assets at the site.
It market in China, Alfa Aesar Synmax has large scale capacity will take some time for this business to recover, but we believe which allows Research Chemicals to bring the manufacturing of that its skills are necessary to assist our customers in the bulk and custom products in house and support the manufacturing development of new APIs and hence feed growth in our activities at its facility in Heysham, UK.
Research Chemicals is a catalogue based Manufacturing operations at our supplier of speciality inorganic and organic Pharmaceutical Materials and Services chemicals.
It operates under the Alfa Aesar business in the USA.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
