08 Keller Group plc Operating review US The Groups 2010 results reflect the sharpest decline in global In local currency, total revenue from our US operations as a whole construction in decades, which persisted throughout most of was down by 10% on 2009, although the second-half revenue last year.
Trading conditions in our mature markets remained was slightly ahead year-on-year.
The operating margin for the very tough, although good overall contract performance, firm full year decreased from 6.9% to 1.6%.
These results reflect a cost control and an increased contribution from our combination of the impact of the adverse weather conditions developing markets all helped to lessen the impact.
in the first quarter, severe pressure on margins across the US foundation businesses and, as anticipated, a loss at Suncoast.
Conditions in our major markets Excluding the loss at Suncoast, the operating margin was 3.3% Generally, across our mature markets we witnessed further 2009: 9.1%.
In sterling terms, overall revenue was 9% lower, weakness in privately-financed construction, compounded whilst operating profit was down by 79%.
by a decline in investment in public infrastructure, as many governments started to rein in their spending.
Hayward Baker Despite the severity of the market decline, it has been surprising In the US, non-residential construction expenditure was down that so little capacity has exited the US market.
For Hayward 1 by 14% on the previous year, with a marked slowdown in Baker, as for the Groups other US foundation contracting investment across most sectors.
As anticipated, there was further businesses, this has contributed to further downward pressure significant shrinkage in the office, commercial and leisure sector, on its historically strong margins.
However, the selective targeting where construction spend was more than 50% down on the 2008 of contracts and a tight control of costs resulted in a solid peak.
2010 also saw the first decline in US public infrastructure performance in 2010, albeit well below that of previous years.
spending in at least 20 years, with a year-on-year reduction of 3%, mainly reflecting reductions in spending at the state level.
Hayward Baker remains the largest and most geographically Residential construction benefited temporarily from tax credits diverse of our six US businesses.
Importantly, throughout this for first-time home buyers, but following their removal at the end challenging period, Hayward Bakers market leading position and of April, housing starts reverted to historic lows.
Overall, US its reputation for innovative and creative designs have not been construction expenditure reduced in the year by a further 10%.
These strengths are reflected in some of the technically challenging projects worked on during the year, including a large Within our principal European markets, Poland and Germany tunnelling project in New York City, where deep jet grouting is saw reasonable growth across most sectors, whereas the more being undertaken in preparation for the construction of four new modest growth in the UK was mainly civil engineering related.
France and Spain, construction expenditure continued to decline.
In the second half, work began on a soil mixing contract at the Elsewhere, demand in Australia and our Asian markets remained Louisiana Offshore Oil Port LOOP a deepwater port in the strong, whilst we saw no significant improvement in construction Gulf of Mexico, where Hayward Baker has worked several times activity in our markets in the Middle East.
over the past eight years.
The companys ability to design an alternative solution with a reduced programme time was key to winning this contract, in the face of strong competition.
Work also got underway at Thornton Quarry, a grouting project in the Chicago area associated with a package of reservoir and related tunnel upgrades, which involves installing a 3,000 metre double row grout curtain.
As with the LOOP project, work at Thornton Quarry is expected to continue throughout much of 2011.
Good progress was made in the second half in integrating the wick drain business of Nilex, which Hayward Baker bought in June 2010.
Prior to the acquisition, Nilex had worked on numerous Hayward Baker projects and this successful past relationship helped to ensure a smooth transition into the Group.
1 The US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce, 1 February 2011.
Keller Group plc 09 Case, McKinney, Anderson and HJ Suncoast Amongst our US piling businesses, McKinney and Case stood out A temporary uplift in the residential market in the early months for their very strong performance last year.
Anderson and HJ both of the year was not sustained, as housing starts fell off again struggled to counteract the very tough conditions prevailing in following the withdrawal of tax credits for first-time home buyers California and Florida, their respective home markets.
One of the at the end of April.
Furthermore, 2010 brought no improvement key contributors to McKinneys good result was its work on the in demand for Suncoasts high-rise products.
With volume and Hemlock Semiconductor project in Tennessee, where it was one prices already under pressure, the situation was exacerbated by of several foundation contractors who together installed over increases in the cost of steel strand.
The continuous process of 3,000 caissons for a large solar panel facility.
Whilst contracts adapting the business to its very tough trading environment such as this can make the difference between a good and an included a further 25% reduction in headcount in the year, excellent result for McKinney, the sound execution of many resulting in redundancy and other reorganisation costs of 1.2m smaller contracts which make up their base workload, together and an agreement with the remaining workforce to cut wages with careful management of their costs, is key to their success.
Case and McKinney worked together on a contract at the site for The 2011 results will benefit from these and other actions taken the new United States Homeland Security Headquarters complex to reduce costs in the second half of last year.
The business now in Washington DC, installing concrete shear pins to stabilise the has an extremely tight overhead structure, but has nevertheless hillside and protect the site from a potential future slide.
Through maintained the capability to take advantage of any market excellent project management, they succeeded in meeting the improvement.
With the current level of annual housing starts at customers challenging deadline, completing the job by the end less than 600,000 running so far below the long-term average of of the year.
around 1,500,000, some market improvement remains a realistic prospect in the short to medium term.
Results summary and KPIs Our growth compared with the Return on net operating assets Revenue growth of our markets 2010 3% 2009 14% 2010 425.2m 2010 2009 467.0m over 1 year 10% 10% Definition and method of calculation over 3 years 30% 29% Operating profit expressed as a percentage Operating profit 2 of average net operating assets including goodwill acquired through acquisitions.
2009 2010 6.9m over 1 year 26% 15% 2009 32.2m Staff turnover over 3 years 16% 22% Foundation contracting businesses Operating margin Definition and method of calculation 2010 7% Year-on-year sales growth including 2009 3% 2010 1.6% acquisitions in local currency compared with 2009 6.9% growth in the total US construction market 1 in brackets.
Suncoast 2010 results are stated before goodwill impairment.
2010 11% As our work occurs at the start of the construction cycle, our revenue is a leading 2009 12% indicator for the construction market, whereas market comparators are based on the lagging Definition and method of calculation indicator construction put in place.
The number of managerial, professional and technical staff leaving the division in the period, expressed as a percentage of employees in this category.
1 Data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce on 1 February 2011.
2 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension liabilities.
