Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 14 operating review Lamprell continues to focus on engineering procurement maintaining high standards of and construction project execution, with a particular Lamprell secured four major EPC emphasis on safety, high quality projects during 2010 and these standards and delivering projects projects are under construction at both on time and on budget.
Lamprells Jebel Ali and Hamriyah facilities.
This focus on project execution, as well as client satisfaction, ensures fred olsen liftboats that Lamprell maintains and The first EPC award in 2010, from strengthens relationships with Fred Olsen Windcarrier, for two existing customers, and enables GustoMSC NG-9000 design Lamprell to secure new customers self-elevating and self-propelled and expand its customer base.
offshore wind turbine installation vessels, was confirmed in February The strength of Lamprells 2010, for execution at the Jebel Ali operations is reflected in the order facility.
Subsequently the engineering book, which was at a record high and procurement phase of the Chris Hand Chief Operating Officer of USD 850 million at the year end project has proceeded according to and included USD 521 million from schedule and construction activities new customers and USD 329 relating to this USD 320.4 million million from repeat customers.
contract commenced in Q3 2010 for unit 1 and Q4 2010 for unit 2.
During the year Lamprell has Construction will continue continued to focus on the execution throughout 2011 prior to load out of Engineering, Procurement and and delivery in 2012.
Construction EPC new build The strength of projects, including the construction seajacks liftboat of jackup drilling rigs and liftboats, Following the successful delivery on Lamprell's operations whilst continuing our traditional rig time and on budget in 2009 of the is reflected in the refurbishment and fabrication wind turbine installation vessels, projects for the offshore oil and Seajacks Kraken and Seajacks order book, which gas sector.
Leviathan, Lamprell secured a USD was at a record high 129.0 million contract award in June The principal markets in which 2010 from Seajacks 3 LTD for the at the year end.
Lamprell operates, and the delivery of Seajacks Zaratan, a principal services provided are: GustoMSC NG-5500C design EPC new build construction of self-elevating and self-propelled jackup drilling rigs, liftboats and offshore wind turbine installation tender assist drilling units: vessel.
The engineering and upgrade and refurbishment of procurement activities associated offshore jackup rigs: with this project have proceeded new build construction for the according to schedule and offshore oil and gas sector: and construction activities commenced oilfield engineering services, at Lamprells Hamriyah facility in Q4 including the upgrade and 2010.
Construction will continue refurbishment of land rigs.
throughout 2011 prior to load out and delivery in 2012.
The operational aspects of these business activities are reviewed as follows: company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 15 our strategy in action maintaining a leading position in the epc market Our strategy is centred on sustainable, profitable growth.
In delivering this strategy our main aim is to secure value enhancement for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
We use financial and non-financial KPIs to measure our success in the delivery of our strategy and the management of our business.
For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 16 operating review Lamprell focuses on safety, high quality standards, and delivering projects both on time and on budget.
scorpion s116 e jackup drilling rig Following the delivery of the Offshore Freedom in 2009 Lamprell was very pleased to deliver the Scorpion Offshore Mischief on time and on budget in April 2010 at the Hamriyah facility.
nDc s116e jackup drilling rigs In July Lamprell signed a contract with the National Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi to construct two LeTourneau S116E jackup drilling rigs.
The engineering and procurement phases of this contract are now well advanced and construction at Lamprells Hamriyah facility is under way.
Both rigs are on schedule for delivery in 2012. eDc s116e jackup drilling rig Projects have been shared between conversion of slot rigs to In November Lamprell signed a USD our UAE facilities, with the Hamriyah cantilever mode: 210 million new contract award with facility working on 22 jackups and living quarters extension, Eurasia Drilling Company for the Sharjah working on 21 rigs.
upgrade and refurbishment: construction and delivery of a engine replacement and LeTourneau S116E.
The unit will be Refurbishment and upgrade repower works: constructed in modular form at projects such as these vary greatly mud process system upgrade Lamprells Hamriyah facility and then in scope from project to project and and or refurbishment: transported, via the Volga Don canal, depend on the existing condition of helideck replacement, upgrade to the Caspian Sea for final assembly each rig and the owners upgrade and or refurbishment: and, and delivery.
The construction of the requirements.
A minor project can condition-driven refurbishment, hull modules commenced in Q1 have a work schedule lasting a few including structural steel and 2011 and the transportation to the days, whereas a major upgrade piping replacement and painting.
Caspian Sea is scheduled in Q1 project with a significant engineering 2012 with delivery in 2013. requirement can last for 12 months new build construction for the or more.
Throughout 2010 average offshore oil and gas sector upgrade and refurbishment work volumes on individual rigs was Our Jebel Ali facility continues to of offshore jackup rigs reduced, whilst the higher rig count work on projects that require the In rig upgrade and refurbishment compensated for this trend.
Typical utilisation of the state-of-the-art Lamprell worked on a total of 43 upgrade and refurbishment projects facility, along with the high levels of jackup rigs throughout the year, and include some of the following project management control that these projects have included work work scopes: ensure safety and quality standards scopes covering the full range of our leg extensions and or are maintained whilst keeping a upgrade and refurbishment services.
strengthening: strong focus on delivery.
company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 17 our strategy in action investment in Hamriyah Throughout 2010 we continued to invest in the phased construction of our Hamriyah facility.
At the year end the facility was fully operational with the key components of the yard completed.
The construction process continues and completion of the facility including a new administration building, main stores and state-of-the-art structural fabrication and piping workshops is scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2011.
The structured capital investment programme at all facilities continued throughout 2010.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18 operating review We aim to provide a safe and supportive work environment to our employees, who are from diverse cultural backgrounds, and to do so in an environment that provides a competitive compensation programme that is affordable to the Company.
We believe this continues to be a market differentiator and will strengthen our position as an employer of choice into 2011 In Q4 2010 Lamprell was awarded and beyond.
a USD 39 million contract from a leading integrated energy provider The HR department continues to for the construction of an offshore work closely with senior business topside structure comprising of a leaders on strategy execution, in two level utility deck and five level particular designing HR systems accommodation module for 38 and processes that address personnel.
The project will be strategic business issues, constructed to North Sea organisational and people standards and is scheduled for capability-building, as well as delivery alongside the Jebel Ali longer term resource and quay in Q1 2012.
At the end of succession management planning.
2010 fabrication had commenced following initial engineering and operating facilities procurement activities.
In accordance with our organic growth model, the structured Human resources capital investment programme at Attracting, developing and all facilities continued throughout We aim to provide a retaining talented staff is of 2010.
The primary aims of this paramount importance to the investment include higher levels of safe and supportive success of Lamprell as a business.
safety and productivity, as well as work environment to At Lamprell we consider our improving the working environment employees to be our greatest for both operational and our employees.
asset and the continuous administrative personnel.
development and multi-skilling of our staff remains a focus for our The main area of investment success.
The Human Resources throughout 2010 remained the HR Department has developed phased construction of the new policies and best practices for Hamriyah facility.
At the year end effective employee management the facility was fully operational enabling managers to capitalise with the key components of the This focus on delivery ensured on the strengths of the employees yard completed.
The construction that work on the Livorno process and their ability to contribute to process continues and completion modules for Saipem S. p. A. was the accomplishment of work.
completed on time and on budget of the facility including a new It is recognised that successful with final delivery taking place in administration building, main stores employee management helps September 2010.
The Aquila process and state-of-the-art structural employee motivation, modules for Saipem Energy Services fabrication and piping workshops is development, and retention.
S. p. A. were similarly delivered on scheduled for Q4 2011. time and on budget with the final Lamprell continues to provide module delivered in Q1 2011.
After a review by management, the purpose-built accommodation and Board agreed to terminate the transportation for the labour force Throughout 2010 two offshore well Groups operation in Thailand with and this enhances our ability to head platforms with associated effect from 31 December 2010. attract and retain our workforce, jackets and piles were under and dramatically improves the construction for a leading oil and quality and work life balance gas operator.
These platforms will Chris Hand expectations of the employees.
Chief Operating Officer company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 19 our strategy in action continuing to expand our client base We continue actively to market our products and services on an international basis, with prominent new clients in 2010 including Eurasia Drilling Company Limited and, in 2011, Greatship Global Energy Services Pte.
Ltd. For more information visit: www.
