OPERATIONAL REVIEW LONGER TERM, THE IMPACT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION AS A DRIVER OF DEMAND CONTINUES UNABATED AND INDEED EXISTING LEGISLATION WILL DRIVE INCREASED DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS OUT THROUGH 2015.
Market Overview which do not use PGMs will continue to attract headlines, Last year we said 2010 would be a year of steady but from all the research seen they are highly unlikely to become a significant market segment in terms of vehicle recovery as automotive and industrial demand increased from the very low levels of 2009 and that demand would units in the next decade.
Supply side challenges remain for all producers with improve further from mid 2011 onwards.
While short term market visibility remains somewhat opaque, we still believe the lack of free cash flow significantly reducing mining capital investment over the last two years.
This allied to this to hold true.
The recovery of the global economy in 2010 was reflected in PGM pricing, with the prices of all deeper mines, lower grades, skill shortages and long term power and water supply challenges all mean the supply metals rising during our financial year as the fiscal and monetary stimulus injected into the global economy side response to increasing demand is likely to be muted.
The strength of the South African Rand, and the encouraged the replenishment of inventories which had been depleted during 2008 and 2009. inflationary pressures in the country, will also continue to squeeze operating margins and cash flows whilst they In the short to medium term platinum demand will be driven by a number of factors.
The continued recovery in persist.
All of these factors will provide an underpin to metal prices in the medium to long term, especially if the automotive sector in general as well as the introduction of legislation for off road vehicles, dominated demand picks up more strongly than anticipated.
Consequently we will continue to carefully balance the by diesel engines, will stimulate demand.
Jewellery sales continue to play a valuable role as the elastic demand need to invest in growth ahead of the continued, and maybe stronger, upturn in demand whilst at the same time element and this segment is helped by the increasing number of Chinese consumers being able to afford remaining focused on maintaining strong financial discipline.
platinum jewellery as well as the narrowing price Safety differential between platinum and gold.
ETF purchases It is with regret that we report the death of three of our have assisted platinum price recovery although more employees during 2010, however, continued focus on recently trading volumes appear to have stabilised.
safety has resulted in the LTIFR reducing to 5.87 per During the first half of the 2010 financial year, platinum million hours.
This is the sixth year in a row that we have prices rose 28% from $1,280 per ounce to $1,644 per achieved a year on year rate improvement.
Various ounce averaging $1,481 per ounce.
Platinum prices milestones were reached during the year.
Saffy shaft has averaged $1,596 per ounce in the second half of the from the outset, ten years ago, never reported a fatality financial year, a rise of 8% on the first half average.
which is an excellent achievement in the South African Palladium outperformed platinum on the back of firm mining industry.
Several of our other shafts six in total supply and demand fundamentals, with palladium have achieved in excess of 1.0 million fatality free shifts dominating the gasoline engine auto catalyst market with 4B and E1 shafts currently standing on 4.0 million recovery in North America and the unabated growth in and 3.4 million fatality free shifts respectively.
In addition ETFs have been another source of details of our Safety strategy can be found in the demand in the period whilst rumours persist that the Sustainable Development Review on page 43.
Russian stock piles are close to depletion.
Prices have We have focused our drive for improved safety on six risen 95% from $290 per ounce at the end of the 2009 areas: mindset, culture, safety leadership, governance, financial year to $565 per ounce at the end of the 2010 risk assessment management and compliance.
In each of financial year.
these areas tactical measures were rolled out across the Rhodium pricing has shown a steady recovery on the business and the individual elements were driven down back of the automotive industry restocking although it has through the organisation.
The road to zero harm is a been somewhat range bound lately largely as a journey and there is always more we can and will do.
consequence of rhodiums more limited product Our continuous focus on safety, and a more application.
Despite this it has maintained a price above pragmatic approach from the Department of Mineral the $2,000 per ounce level since early November 2009.
Resource DMR, is reflected in the fact that tonnes lost as Longer term, the impact of environmental legislation a result of Section 54 safety shut downs were 0.2 million as a driver of demand continues unabated and indeed lower than in 2009.
This was the result of fewer and less existing legislation will drive increased demand for our severe Section 54s issued.
In addition, there remain other Managing organisational risk exposure is paramount forms of transportation which we expect will eventually fall to Lonmin and an extensive review of all shaft baseline risk into the legislative net.
Other areas of potential growth assessments was completed this year, which has resulted such as fuel cells, both stationary and those used in in an improvement of all shaft based risk registers.
vehicles, continue to gather momentum.
Electric cars 12 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information PROACTIVE RECTIFICATION OF SAFETY HAZARDS IS A KEY FACTOR IN OUR ONGOING JOURNEY TOWARDS ZERO HARM.
LAWRENCE GCILITSHANA SAFETY OFFICER, K3 Lawrence joined Lonmin as a General Labourer in 1985.
He worked in various mining roles and in a number of our shafts before joining the K3 Shaft Safety team as a Safety Officer in 2006.
It employed around 6,000 people including contractors, as at 30 September 2010 and mines over 20% of our production.
The Safety team is an integral part of the K3 mining team and the shaft has seen a profound turnaround in safety statistics as evidenced by the 11.63% reduction in the LTIFR in the year to 30 September 2010.
A constant awareness of ones surroundings and the willingness to stop and make safe areas in underground work places is one of the reasons K3 has seen a significant improvement in safety, although there is always more to do.
Lawrence firmly believes that regular and effective two way communication with all members of staff at all levels is a critical factor to maintaining safe mining.
The K3 team embrace this ideology through daily verbal communication at the crush area, reinforced through visual aides and interactive information sessions.
In July 2010, Lawrence was awarded the SHERQ star of the Year in Lonmin, an award which reflects the deep rooted passion Lawrence has to an integrated approach to safe mining.
com 13 WE EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO ENHANCE OUR WORKING METHODS AND HENCE PRODUCTIVITY THROUGH TEAM WORK AND THE SHARING OF IDEAS.
GRANT WEBBER MINE MANAGER, HOSSY SHAFT When Grant joined Lonmin in 2008, he was enrolled in an extensive induction programme, where he gained comprehensive knowledge and an understanding of the various mining, processing and refining components which collectively form the mining process.
Today, Grant is part of the Mining management team, as the Mine Manager of Hossy Shaft.
Hossy is our fully mechanised shaft and significant progress has been made in ramping up and improving production.
Production has now reached an average of 67,000 tonnes per month compared to an average of 56,000 tonnes per month during 2009.
Grant notes that 2010 was a challenging yet exciting year for the entire Hossy team.
Long and short term strategic objectives were identified through the assessment of four key areas which needed addressing, namely: optimisation of mining layout, trackless support infrastructure, XLP equipment upgrades and people skills development.
In addition, two new quadrants have commenced with stoping operations.
The redesign of our development layout has cut out 22% of the development metres required to open up additional ground.
This has resulted in cost and grade improvements whilst the successful installation of the strike conveyor belts has led to an increase in our productivity.
We have also improved our overall safety record.
This is mainly due to the intensive trackless supervisor training given to the mining employees, the utilisation of a risk analysis and tracking system for each of the working areas as well as constant communication with all employees.
CASE STUDY: HOSSY SHAFT 14 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued Mining Division Marikana Mining In our 2010 financial year, the Mining Division demonstrated The total underground production at 10.8 million tonnes continuous improvement, culminating in very strong was the highest achieved since 2007.
This represented an production results for the last quarter.
Total tonnes mined increase of 6% from the 10.2 million tonnes produced in during the 2010 financial year were 11.3 million, a 0.5 million 2009.
It was encouraging to see momentum building over tonne increase from 2009.
This is largely attributable to the course of the year, with tonnes mined in quarter four the ramp up in production from our Middelkraal Hossy being 20% above the same period last year, and 19% and Saffy operation.
Marikana opencast operations above quarter three 2010. resumed production in March 2010 having been closed The Merensky opencast operations at Marikana during the first half of 2009.
However, the increase in started production towards the end of the second quarter Marikana opencast was more than offset by the decrease of the 2010 financial year and is well on track.
The current in Pandora opencast production as this was mined out production of around 80,000 tonnes per month from during 2009.
There was no production from the Baobab opencast operations should be maintained during 2011. shaft at Limpopo during the year and this shaft continues During the year we revised the management structure on care and maintenance while we evaluate potential into four discrete business units which will improve options to restart operations.
accountability and help drive performance.
We will report A primary area of focus for the Mining management against these units from now onwards.
team continued to be ore reserve development.
At the In 2010 we mined 4.1 million tonnes from our Karee end of September 2010, immediately available underground operations currently K3,1B 4B but will include K4 when it ore reserves at Marikana reached 2.7 million square metres.
comes into production, an increase of 0.2 million tonnes The year on year increase of 32% is a very positive from 2009.
This is a result of the improvement in ore indicator and it demonstrates that the health of the ore reserves and reduction in the year on year impact of tonnes body has been largely restored.
Our two deep shafts, K3 lost due to Section 54 shut downs.
Cost per tonne increased and Rowland, increased ore reserves by 59% and 49% year on year by 13% to R537 per tonne largely due to the respectively, although K3 UG2 is still not where we want it wage increase and a 24% increase in development costs.
The two shafts in ramp up, Hossy and Saffy, also The challenge here is to improve the performance of K3 increased ore reserves by 41% and 14% respectively.
Of and we are starting to see encouraging results.
course higher extraction rates will continue to require even Production from our Westerns operations Rowland greater levels of development to maintain a satisfactory and Newman at 3.7 million tonnes declined by 0.2 million ore reserve position and our plans in this regard are well tonnes on 2009.
This was all due to the closure of two in hand.
mined out shafts, W1 and B3 during 2009 which produced Our continued focus on delivering quality tonnes 0.4 million tonnes.
Unit costs were well contained with resulted in an improvement in the milled head grade for cost per tonne increasing by just 4% to R474 per tonne.
underground ore of 2.2%, which equates to around an The build up in production from our mechanised additional 29,000 PGM ounces.
and hybrid shafts at Middelkraal Saffy and Hossy is A number of the productivity programmes that were progressing well and increased by 0.5 million tonnes, or initiated by the Mining team are starting to show benefits 39% to 1.9 million.
Cost per tonne reduced by 1% to in 2010.
These include: R629 per tonne with the ramp up in production and New incentive programmes for our productive productivity measures improving efficiencies.
employees to increase the element of variable pay.
Saffy continued to perform extremely well, despite the These have delivered significant efficiency improvements multiple challenges faced by shaft management in most noticeably towards the end of the financial year.
converting from fully mechanised to hybrid mining during The removal of technical bottlenecks and the the year, with the shaft exceeding its September month implementation of improved operating systems at target, the highest in the year, by 14%.
The transition to each shaft have contributed somewhat to the full hybrid mining was completed on schedule.
Saffy also increased output, however, this still remains an area exceeded its ounce production target for 2010 through a of further opportunity.
combination of the quality tonnes delivered and a shaft The implementation of several initiatives to assist us head grade above the planned grade.
Saffys growth rate in better managing inspections by the DMR, including will be much lower in 2011 as development work to open a review of relevant procedures and the roll out of a up lower levels is completed.
Growth rates should union consultation and communication plan relating accelerate again in 2012. to Section 54 stoppages.
Hossy also recorded a good year, reflecting improved The implementation of a new working calendar for the productivity on centares per month per suite of year should improve productivity as well as providing our mechanised equipment during the 2010 financial year.
mining employees with a well earned Christmas break.
Over the course of the year, production at Hossy continued to ramp up with the average in 2010 of 67,000 Management attention is directed on achieving tonnes per month growing by almost 20%.
The biggest productivity improvements to mitigate the inflationary cost challenge being faced by the mechanised mining team pressures being experienced by the industry.
Issues such centres around machine reliability, the availability of as absenteeism remain problematic and will be receiving replacement parts and the supply of trained artisans and further attention during the course of 2011.
Further work we have ongoing programmes to address these issues.
will also be carried out on improving our mining operating The target of 2,200 square metres per suite of equipment and cost management reporting systems.
from fully developed quadrants is still expected to be achieved by the end of the 2011 financial year.
com 15 OPERATIONAL REVIEW continued Our Easterns operation E1, E2, and E3 also showed C1 unit costs for the year in the Process Division were an improvement due to the focus on development and R809 per saleable PGM ounce produced which represents productivity improvements.
Tonnes mined at 1.1 million an increase of 17% over 2009.
If toll treatment and were up 0.1 million or some 16% up on 2009.
Cost per smelter rebuild costs are removed from the calculation, tonne was up 7% to R544 per tonne.
but not the associated ounces, the unit cost for the division Costs for the 2010 financial year at our core would have actually decreased by 1%.
This was achieved underground conventional operations at Marikana Mining despite wage increases of 10%, increased expenditure on were R532 per tonne, up 8% from 2009.
It should be plant maintenance at the concentrators of 44% and a noted that this was achieved despite the continued cost 26% price rise for electricity.
pressures with wage increases of 10% and electricity rate Capital expenditure was $54 million with the main increases of 26%, both well in excess of the published areas of spend being the concentrator optimisation PPI data.
Development costs have also increased 13% project, upgrade of the PMR security system and tailings resulting in increased ore reserves.
Additionally extra and storm water upgrades.
costs were incurred during the year to increase the roof Concentrators support in some of the mines to improve safety, as well The concentrators produced a total of 694,376 saleable as to extract ore from previously abandoned areas.
ounces of Platinum in concentrate during the 2010 Therefore, whilst this performance demonstrated some financial year, a 4.7% year on year increase, mainly as a underlying productivity improvements, including the full result of more Marikana underground tonnes, higher year benefits of the March 2009 restructuring programme, concentrator recovery rates and improved head grade.
more needs to be done to continue to mitigate the Indeed the saleable ounces of Platinum in concentrate inflationary increases expected for 2011. from underground mining including Pandora rose by Despite the increase in cost per tonne, improvements 11.8% in the year.
This significant increase outweighed in grade and recoveries mean that the C1 cost per saleable the impact of the shafts and pits closed in 2009.
PGM ounce produced for Mining increased by just 2%.
Overall concentrator recoveries improved during the Capital expenditure during 2010 at our Marikana 2010 financial year to 84.7%, from 79.8% in 2009, and Mining division was $205 million, the majority of which the underground recoveries increased to 84.8% in 2010, was allocated to Hossy, Saffy, K3 and K4.
from 81.0% in 2009, mainly as a result of the extensive Pandora joint venture concentrator optimisation programme undertaken over Our share of production from the Pandora joint venture the last two years, which has focused on plant availability underground operation during the financial year was and reliability, milling the right ores at the right 166,000 tonnes mined, up 17% over 2009.
Opencast concentrator and excellent management disciplines.
production at the joint venture came to an end during Performance against our internal plant recovery models, 2009 giving a year on year decrease of 156,000 tonnes.
which take account of ore mix issues, also showed a Total production was, therefore, down 132,000 tonnes significant improvement during the year and we are now on 2009. operating close to the optimal level.
Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore from the Pandora Given this, we are now considering how to take our joint venture and this ore contributed 49,345 saleable performance to higher levels and our main focus is on ounces of PGMs in concentrate to our production.
extracting value from the treatment of our tailings.
Pandora joint venture activities made a profit of $5 million Contracts for the extraction of chrome have been signed after tax for our account in the financial year.
with Xstrata-Merafe Chrome Venture and ChromTech and The extension of the current Pandora underground construction on three new plants has commenced.
These operation which will give access to two additional levels, are to be commissioned in the second half of the 2011 extending the life of the shaft, has commenced and financial year.
This will result in around $10 million completion is planned for 2011.
The feasibility study on additional revenue in 2011 and there will be a further the 180,000 tonnes per month project was concluded increase in 2012 as the plants will be on line for a full year.
during 2010 and various components of the study Tailings treatment plants which re-treat tailings from the continue to be reviewed in order to extract the optimal chrome plants to recover additional PGMs are also to be value for the joint venture.
This includes an option to constructed and commissioned.
The first is currently extend the current decline project resulting in access to under construction, with commissioning scheduled four additional levels.
When all three treatment plants are operational the recoveries from our UG2 Process Division concentrators should increase by up to 2%.
The Process Divisions focus over the last two years on Underground milled head grade was 2.2% higher improving efficiencies was rewarded with overall recovery year on year at 4.67 grammes per tonne 5PGE Au increases.
The most significant increase was in mainly as a result of better mining grade control allied to underground recovery rates at the concentrators which reduced dilution at Saffy as the mining method changed increased year on year by 3.8% points to 84.8%.
This is assisted by increased production from the stoping the highest since 2005 and is a significant achievement.
horizon, and at Hossy as a result of a revised mine layout.
This, combined with the reduction of opencast ore in the Overall milled head grade increased significantly year on mix resulted in an improvement of 4.9% points in the year from 4.50 to 4.65 grammes per tonne 5PGE Au overall concentrator recovery rate.
due to less open cast ore being processed.
The bulk of the open cast ore mined this year has been stockpiled and will be milled during the Christmas break.
16 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information Smelter Unit costs The Smelter processed 136,818 tonnes of concentrate In line with our peers in the South African mining industry, during 2010, an 8% year on year decline, mainly as a Lonmin has experienced continued inflationary cost result of lower Number One furnace availability.
Gross costs rose from R8.8 billion in 2009 to November 2009 the Number One furnace was taken R9.7 billion in 2010, an increase of just under 10% driven down for a scheduled rebuild whilst on 30 March 2010 a by wage increases of 10%, 26% electricity price rise, toll matte run out occurred when matte came into contact refining costs, furnace rebuild costs, additional development with two lower waffle coolers after the heat up phase costs which resulted in improved ore reserves, increases following a mickey block repair.
During recommissioning in royalties and share based payment costs.
In addition, a leak occurred on the slag side which delayed the restart maintenance costs increased as we drove improved of the furnace.
recoveries and of course variable costs rose to support In total the availability of the Number One furnace in the 6% increase in refined PGM ounces produced.
As a consequence the back up It should be noted that toll costs will still impact on pyromet furnaces and external toll smelting refining profits in 2011.
There will be some toll refining carried out were also used to process the excess concentrate in quarter one as part of a risk mitigation plan, given the produced in the second half of the financial year.
planned down time at the Number One furnace.
In A risk mitigation programme at the Number One addition there are still ounces in stock which are being toll furnace was put in place which included reviewing the refined.
When sold their carrying cost will include a toll fee.
vessels original specification, with a view to making it Excluding the unexpected costs of R106 million for toll more robust.
As a result, the furnace was taken down refining concentrate and R52 million for rebuilding the at the end of October when modifications will be made Number One furnace, as well as excluding the new to reduce the risk of further matte run outs.
These state royalty of R40 million and the increase in share modifications include increasing the safety margin, in based payments of R30 million, the drivers of which are terms of matte levels and replacing the lower waffle not linked to South African inflation, gross costs increased coolers with refractory bricks and plate coolers.
This is slightly higher than the latest published PPI In order to mitigate the impact of future Number One figure of 6.8%.
furnace disruptions, the Lonmin Board approved capital Despite these gross cost increases, unit costs per expenditure for a new 10MW furnace and it is expected PGM ounce only increased by 2% to R6,773.
Excluding that this new vessel will be commissioned in May 2012. just the toll refining and smelter rebuild costs would mean that underlying unit costs would have increased by less Refineries than 1%.
Lonmin remains committed to move down the The continuous focus on recoveries is showing through cost curve with continuous focus on productivity and efficiencies and recoveries have improved year on improvements planned for 2011. year supported by robust plant maintenance programmes.
Further details of unit cost analysis can be found in The BMR and PMR produced a total of 607,794 the operating statistics table on page 148.
It should be saleable ounces of Platinum and a total of 1,205,443 noted that with the further restructuring of the business saleable ounces of PGMs during the 2010 financial year, that occurred in the year the cost allocation between down 7% and 3% respectively from the same period in business units has been changed to a degree and, 2009 due to the impact of the Number One furnace therefore, whilst the total is on a like for like basis downtime.
individual line items are not totally comparable.
Final metal sales for 2010, including the toll refining of 77,571 Platinum ounces and the sale of 24,850 Platinum ounces in concentrate in the fourth quarter of the year, was slightly ahead of our sales guidance at 706,274 ounces of Platinum and 1,325,390 of total PGMs.
