04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A solid track record of consistently good financial performance Despite weak civil aerospace markets, 2002 saw Meggitt deliver In 2003, the Board will be able to draw on the international military another set of robust results, extending its solid track record of experience of new non-executive board member, Sir Colin Terry.
Group turnover was Following a distinguished career in the Royal Air Force where he boosted by military sales and declined by just seven per cent.
reached the rank of Air Marshal and held the positions of Chief Following prompt action to contain costs, operating profit before Executive, Logistics and Chief Engineer, Sir Colin has held several goodwill also fell by just seven per cent.
Cash flow from operating positions in industry and currently chairs the Engineering Council.
activities again exceeded profit31.3 million generated after He replaces Sir Donald Spiers who announced his intention to leave the capital expenditure interest, tax and dividend payments.
As a result, Board following the next annual general meeting.
Joining the Board in the directors are proposing a 3.3 per cent increase in the final 1995and chairing it between May 1998 and May 2001his wise dividend to 4.75 pence.
2002s results show Meggitts business strategy continuing to deliver The outlook for 2003 is difficult to predict given general economic shareholder value across the economic cycle.
A key element of that uncertainty exacerbated by the situation in the Middle East.
strategy is the way Meggitt uses its intellectual property to sustain However, strong military markets, continued cost savings and the competitive advantage in the profitable niches of the aerospace, expected contribution from recent acquisitions underline the stability defence and electronics sensors markets and complementary fields.
The Group aims to grow organically and by acquisition, the business Our people, of course, are a vital component of our success.
The balanced across civil and military markets and between original performance of all our employees in a challenging year was especially equipment manufacturers and support services to operators.
May I take this opportunity to thank them for a Meggitt pursued this strategy in 2002, maintaining substantial tremendous effort.
investment in new product development at six per cent of turnover and extending markets and technical horizons through acquisitions.
The complementary radio frequency cable products of Kaman Aerospace Corporation were successfully integrated into existing facilities in the United States.
Products acquired from BAE SYSTEMS Avionics Group are being integrated into United Kingdom facilities on budget and to schedule, significantly increasing the military content of our avionics.
Mike Stacey Lodge aerospace sensors, transducers and industrial igniters from Chairman Smiths Group plc advanced our engine sensor capability.
In January 2003, Meggitt became a leading technology supplier of extreme environment valve applications when it acquired a turbine clearance control valve product line from General Electric.
In February 2003, Meggitt agreed to acquire Caswell International Corporation subject to satisfactory completion of closing conditions including US regulatory clearance.
As a leading supplier of ground-based target systems for US security forces, Caswell would provide a new outlet for Meggitts scoring systems.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2002
