chairmans statement Revenues above 1bn The strength and diversity of the Groups The Healthcare business in the US was largely for the first time three main businesses mitigated, to a unaffected by the general weakness in the economic climate and has performed well large extent, the adverse effects over Trading in line throughout the year with a particularly strong this financial year of the worst economic with expectations second half.
conditions that the Group has faced for Strong cash over a decade.
The Financial Services Division in the UK performance also performed well notwithstanding a Dividend increased Banking and Securities was the division most slowdown in the UK economy and general by 15% affected.
Towards the end of financial year investor caution.
IFA businesses to 2001, and continuing throughout this year, The operating profits in both the Healthcare be floated customers have been cautious over the timing and Financial Services divisions were ahead and placing of orders.
However, towards the of last year.
end of this year there was increasing evidence Despite the adverse economic conditions, that the market had stabilised.
Despite the cash performance of the Group was prompt action taken last summer to reduce again strong, with all divisions achieving costs in line with the worsening trading more than 100% cash conversion, resulting conditions, the high operational gearing of in a reduction in net debt of 99m since the Division and our desire to maintain a November, to 159m.
significant level of research and development expenditure resulted in profits in this Division, IFA BUSINESSES before goodwill amortisation and exceptional After a strategic review of the Groups Life restructuring costs, being 30% below last year.
and Pensions businesses, and because these businesses have a market-leading position and substantial scale, we have concluded that they should be prepared for a separate stock market listing within two years, when the regulatory regime is clearer and equity markets have stabilised.
We now believe that the business is of a size and at a stage in its development where it would benefit from having an independent future.
We also believe that the interests of Misys shareholders will be best served by separating the ownership of this business from that of the software products businesses which make up the majority of the Group.
BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Given the future focus of the Group on our core software businesses, we are making a number of senior management changes.
Ivan Martin, the CEO of the Financial Services Division who joined Misys in 1995 as part of the ACT acquisition, has built an outstanding business at the forefront of its market.
We now intend to harness his abilities to lead our largest division through its next stage of growth.
As a result, Ivan has been appointed as CEO of the Banking and Securities Division John Sussens, Managing Director Kevin Lomax, Chairman to succeed Rupert Soames.
10 Misys Annual Report 2002 Rupert, who has made an enormous In Misys Healthcare Systems, we expect the contribution to the development of the strong performance experienced within Banking and Securities Division since he Physician Systems during the second half Revenue joined in 1997, has decided to leave the of last year to continue.
He has given tremendous service and prospects for Misys Tiger and Misys Vision commitment and we wish him well in his practice management systems, and for our future career.
Both Misys Homecare and Misys EMR are experiencing Over the past few years, we have been accelerating demand in their respective developing and growing a strong senior developing markets, and should perform management team.
The time is now right to well during the year.
take the next step in this process and we have appointed Ivan Martin, Tom Skelton Given the strong order book and predictable CEO, Misys Healthcare Systems and Jasper revenue streams at Hospital Systems, we are McMahon Director of Business Development confident that the business should make to the Misys Board.
93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 George Gray will retire at the AGM in In the Financial Services Division, our October 2002 having served two terms as a underlying IFA networks business is currently non-executive Director.
Over the last six years experiencing adverse market conditions, Adjusted operating profit he has made an invaluable contribution to resulting partly from the poor investment m the development of the Group and the Board climate and from the prolonged consultation wishes him well in his retirement.
relating to the proposed changes in the OUTLOOK regulatory environment.
However, these As a result of the higher proportion of Initial changes, which will be detailed further by the Licence Fees in its revenue mix, the Banking Financial Services Authority in the autumn, and Securities Division is more affected by are likely to be beneficial to our business in changes in sentiment among its customers the medium term.
towards investment in major capital projects.
Overall, the effect of the inclusion of DBS for Over the last year, financial institutions have a full year, extra revenue streams derived delayed or deferred many of their projects.
from new and extended service offerings to However, the pace of regulatory initiatives 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 has been unaffected by the economic members and product providers and the level climate, consumers of financial services have of funding of the AssureWeb portal by not been deterred from demanding improved product providers, should ensure that the Life services at lower cost and transaction and Pensions businesses make good progress.
Adjusted earnings per share volumes in many segments of our markets pence In General Insurance, our business continues continue to rise.
Consequently, there are to generate strong, predictable revenues and indications that in some areas these longwe would expect progress this year.
term drivers of demand are re-asserting themselves in our customers priorities.
In summary, this year the Group should make good progress towards its objective of These signs of stabilisation in our market sustainable mid-teens growth.
have been reinforced by the signing in recent months of several large contracts, a pipeline that contains a satisfactory level of qualified prospects, and by an order book which is much higher than last year.
These, combined with the effects of the early action we have 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 taken to reduce costs, give us cause to Kevin Lomax believe that there will be a progressive Adjusted to exclude goodwill Chairman amortisation, exceptional improvement in the trading performance items and the investment of the Division.
