CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Introduction We are very fortunate to have so The ethos and business model of MITIE many people who are passionate Group PLC has proved to be as about their company to the extent resilient as ever in the uncertain that they work far beyond the call of conditions of the past 12 months.
commitment brought about by individuals investment of their own More particularly, I am very pleased to money has worked well for MITIE, for welcome Manish Chande as a Nonour customers and for our Executive Director of the Company Shareholders.
following his appointment to the Board on Friday, 12 July 2002.
He As you will recall, on 2 August last year brings with him a wealth of I handed over the role of Chief experience of the Property and Executive to lan Stewart and Support Services Industries and I am strengthened your Board by sure he will be of considerable benefit appointing four new Executive to MITIE.
I am pleased that the change has been seamless and am Accounting Policies gratified by the support that the new Chief Executive has received from all In the light of investors current his colleagues.
heightened interest, I would like to reassure our Shareholders that MITIE has always applied conservative Results accounting policies.
For example, we Turnover rose to 518.9m, an increase have always accounted for bidding of 25%, and pre-tax profit rose by 21% expenses in line with the recently to 30.4m.
Earnings per share rose by introduced UITF 34.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.9p per share, making a Outlook total of 1.6p for the year, an increase MITIE stands to benefit substantially of 28%.
from the Governments continuation of schemes for the improvement of the public services, particularly health Corporate Developments and education.
Such is the present In the year we started two new reputation of the Company that companies, MITIE Engineering Services almost every business in the MITIE Liverpool Ltd as well as a further Group reports record forward order Engineering Maintenance company books from a strong customer base.
Since the year end Indeed, the situation is tailor-made for we have started two further the highly motivated and Engineering companies and a entrepreneurial Managing Directors company within the Property Services that the MITIE business model attracts.
It is in these people, under lan Stewart, that I place my full confidence for As a deliberate strategy we reduced another successful year.
our exposure to capital intensive activities and sold our majority stake The recent turmoil in world financial in MITIE Powered Access Ltd to its markets makes it difficult to express management team in February 2002. optimism about economic prospects Since the year end, we have also sold in general.
However, trading has been the five companies making up the satisfactory in the first months of the Access contracting business to current year and I believe we will another management buy-out team.
continue to achieve profitable growth.
People I truly believe that the concept of MITIE has given many people the chance to fulfil their potential.
It is because of their professionalism that the growth of the Company has been sustained and I would like to thank David M. Telling most sincerely all the staff for their Chairman continued commitment.
