N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 2 Chairmans statement I am delighted to report another excellent set of results, with profit before tax up by 12.4% to 58.5m on turnover which was 14.2% higher at 449.0m.
Throughout this statement, all comparisons against last year are stated against the like with like 52 week period last year.
In the core home shopping division, operating profit increased by 13%, with clothing and footwear sales performing particularly well.
Our decision to broaden the range of household and electrical appliances has been fully justified by a 25% increase in turnover in the period and this range now accounts for 31% of home shopping sales, up from 24% two years ago.
Internet sales are now running at an annualised rate of 15m, with this years sales of 11.7m showing a four fold increase on last year.
# The figures for 2001 are based on the statutory 53 week period.
2 N Brown Group plc N BROWN FRONT END 2002 28 5 02 9:48 am Page 3 Chairmans statement I am also pleased to report that Customers are responding well to to customers who are carefully before tax has enjoyed a dramatic Zendor, our fulfilment services investments made in inbound and selected from the home shopping increase from 3.6m to 58.5m, company, has now made a small outbound telephone marketing and database.
The division, originally equivalent to an annual compound profit in the second half of the year the Internet.
These are rapidly established as a financial growth rate of 17%.
I am sure you and I look forward to this division becoming established selling intermediary with well-known will join me in congratulating and becoming a positive contributor channels which provide further insurance companies, has recently thanking him for his outstanding to the group in future years.
opportunities to contact those expanded its portfolio of services achievement and contribution.
customers we have identified, in to include personal loans, where it Earnings per share are ahead by our extensive database, as having acts as the principal lender.
We see I am delighted that we have been 12.4% at 14.50 pence.
A final a higher propensity to buy.
Our it becoming an increasing able to appoint Alan White to dividend of 4.10 pence has been sophisticated contact strategy also significant contributor to group succeed Jim as Chief Executive.
recommended by the Board, which includes the frequent use of smaller profit in the future.
Alan was a key member of our team increases the total for the year to catalogues and brochures, which as Finance Director for 14 years up 5.75 pence, up 10.6% on last year.
allow us the flexibility to react quickly Corporate governance to 1999, when he joined Littlewoods Net assets have increased by to changing retail buying patterns.
We recognise the value of positive plc as Group Finance Director.
13.0% to 220.5m and gearing risk management and this is The continuity of management has increased slightly from 40% This combination of wider product increasingly being embedded into provided by Alan, supported by last year to 42%.
ranges, additional channels to market management processes throughout Jim and an outstanding management and skills in identifying new the organisation.
The social, ethical, team, provides shareholders with Strategy catalogue propositions will help environmental and health and safety an excellent succession plan.
We continue to focus on direct to underwrite future growth.
responsibilities, the policies for which home shopping, whilst deploying are published on our web site and Lord Stone of Blackheath recently management skills and resources Fulfilment mentioned in our annual report, accepted our invitation to become a in the complementary businesses This division offers comprehensive are fully accepted across the non-executive director.
Until 1999 he of fulfilment and financial services.
This has now been was a Managing Director and, prior to Our strategy is to expand the range to companies in the distance formally recognised by our that, Merchandise Director, with of catalogues and products we offer shopping market.
After the inevitable admission to membership of the Marks & Spencer plc.
We look and to grow our market share early losses of any start up company, FTSE4Good Index.
forward to benefiting from his based on detailed research into Zendor moved into a small profit extensive retail knowledge and skills.
Eunite, the Prospects ability to anticipate and react to e-convergence company, Turnover for the first ten weeks Lawrence Ziman, who has been the changes in consumer behaviour encountered a slow-down in its of the new financial period is 6% senior non-executive director of the is reflected in highly targeted market sector, particularly in the first ahead of last year, with a similar mix board since 1994 and is currently marketing and the increasing use half, although early measures taken of customer and product groups as chairman of the Audit Committee, has of new channels, particularly to address the situation have resulted before.
I remain confident about the decided to retire at the forthcoming electronic shopping.
in a lower rate of loss in the second future of direct home shopping and AGM in July 2002.
We plan to merge Zendor and our ability to perform at the leading Lawrence for his valued contribution Home shopping Eunite to provide an even more edge of our marketplace.
I expect and achievements on our behalf The increase in turnover of 12% integrated solution to clients whilst to see continued growth in financial during this period, notably for his to 435m has again exceeded retail at the same time contributing to services and also believe that a close involvement in the groups market performance.
newly merged fulfilment group will implementation of corporate profit is 13% ahead at 63m, with begin contributing to overall profit governance principles and policies.
a slightly improved operating margin We have an excellent list of blue in the second half of this year.
Importantly, for chip clients and I am pleased with On behalf of shareholders, I would the future of our business, we the reaction to the service they have Management and staff also like to thank our staff and have increased our market share received from Zendor in what has Jim Martin, who has been with the management for their contribution in clothing and footwear whilst the been their first season working group for 29 years and Chief to another outstanding set of results.
continued expansion in sales with us.
Executive for the last 18 years, will of household and electrical be standing down later this year at appliances has been particularly Financial services the age of 60 to take up the new gratifying.
We believe there are First Financial has seen good position of Deputy Chairman.
It is further opportunities for expansion progress over the past year.
It a fitting tribute for me to record that, in both of these key sectors.
markets a range of financial products under his leadership, group profit Sir David Alliance CBE N Brown Group plc 3
