Chairmans statement Our coach business performed well during the period with Turnover up to 2.6bn 2001: 2.5bn passenger numbers increasing by 2%.
Internet sales increased Group operating profit before goodwill and exceptional by over 75% during the year.
Direct sales and internet bookings items of 130.9m 2001: 157.8m now account for nearly half of total sales.
Strong cash flow from operations of 175.5m 2001: 185.5m Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of 106.8m In North America, we acquired one of Canadas most respected 2001: 129.2m private student bus companies, Stock Transportation Stock.
Normalised fully diluted EPS of 60.3p 2001: 66.0p restated The student transportation business, excluding Stock, produced Increase in total dividend per share of 11% to 24.5p good year-on-year organic growth and we increased operating 2001: 22.0p margins during the year.
We believe there are still plenty of Net debt of 334.6m 2001: 315.0m opportunities to grow our North American business both Continuing EBITDA interest cover before exceptional items organically and through bolt-on acquisitions and we look of 9.5 times 2001: 7.5 times forward to further progress.
Our public transit division Heads of Terms agreed with the Strategic Rail Authority performance was disappointing because of insurance cost SRA for two-year extension for Central Trains pressures.
We are putting initiatives in place to address this.
Two-year extension for Silverlink under discussion with SRA Purchase of Stock Transportation in Canada Safety is a priority for our business.
We have made good progress Withdrawal from Australian train and tram operations in implementing the recommendations of the reports of Lord Limited share buy-back programme to be undertaken Cullen.
The train protection warning system fitment programme A detailed report on the financial results can be found in the continues on target with completion scheduled for the first half Finance Directors report on pages 36 to 39. of 2003.
Over 90% of our fleet is now fitted.
Achievements during the year Challenges in the year 2002 was a year of significant developments.
Despite the This year also included many challenges for the Group, challenges we faced in our UK trains division and Australia, particularly in our rail operations.
we generated a strong cash flow from operations of 175.5m 2001: 185.5m.
On 10 May 2002 the Potters Bar rail accident occurred.
This was an event that no management team wishes to face and In the UK, our bus division continued to perform well with the it took great strength from everyone involved to deal with the number of fare paying passengers increasing despite the disruption aftermath.
My deepest condolences go to those families and in Birmingham city centre.
We continued to invest in our operations friends whose loved ones died or were injured.
Once again, in the West Midlands and Travel Dundee and to work to increase thank you to our employees, the emergency services and our the number of bus priority measures through quality partnerships.
industry partners who worked so well together in handling a tragic situation.
We have broadened the base of our London bus operations through an opportunity to develop a bus facility in south London, Punctuality and reliability are key issues for our rail businesses.
in partnership with Transport for London, with a view to bidding We continue to work with Network Rail, however they do not for bus routes during the spring and summer of 2003.
We hope anticipate that infrastructure performance will improve in the to operate a fleet of approximately 200 buses in this market short term.
This will create additional challenges for our staff during 2004. as they strive to provide reliable services.
Following the acquisition of Prism in September 2000, we hold In December, we exited from our Australian tram and train a greater number of train operating companies TOCs than we operations.
After protracted discussions, we concluded that we planned due to the changes in the SRAs franchising programme.
had no option but to exit these operations.
On 16 December we In the coming year, we aim to rationalise the division to ensure notified the Victorian Government of our intentions to cease we have a viable portfolio of quality TOCs.
funding the franchises and started working with the Government to ensure a smooth handover of operations without any To help the SRA achieve its strategic plans, we will explore disruption to services.
We had invested over the period of a year franchise extensions where we can achieve a reasonable return a considerable amount of time to try and reach a revised financial with strong cash flow.
Heads of Terms have been agreed with agreement without incurring an unacceptable level of on-going the SRA for a two-year franchise extension for Central Trains operational and financial risk.
This was not achieved, therefore, from 1 April 2004.
Subject to the agreement of Centro and towards the end of the year, we decided to draw a line in the sand approval by the Secretary of State, it is our intention to enter on our potential future losses in this market.
The one-off cost to into a legally binding agreement shortly.
We are discussing with the Group of writing off these operations was 125.9m, a the SRA a two-year extension from October 2004 for the reduction on the expected cost at the time of announcing our Silverlink franchise.
We recently reached agreement with the withdrawal.
We took the opportunity to assess the carrying value SRA on the payments relating to the effects of the industrial of our Australian bus division in light of our withdrawal from action early last year on our ScotRail operations.
the train and tram operations, which has resulted in a goodwill 10 National Express Group PLC impairment charge of 13.5m.
I thank our Australian management team and those who oversaw our exit from these businesses.
The decline in stock market values has caused considerable speculation about the position of company pension schemes.
The main defined benefit pension scheme for Travel West Midlands staff, which was closed to new members a number of years ago, reported a 19% surplus as at the triennial valuation.
Whilst we are increasing our contributions to the rail schemes, our exposure is limited to the duration of these franchises.
The coach division scheme has a small deficit and we sought to improve the funding level by injecting 5.0m in March 2003 into this scheme which was closed to new members during 2002.
New employees in the bus and coach divisions have the option to join a defined contribution scheme.
The Board At the beginning of March 2003, we announced that Adam Walker, formerly the Groups Corporate Development Director, had joined the Board as Finance Director.
Larry Durham, Chief Executive Officer of our North American division also joined the Board, assuming a broader, corporate role.
We look forward to the contributions Adam and Larry will bring to the Board.
Following a series of succession planning discussions with the Board, I shall be offering up my retirement from the Board at the AGM in 2004.
We will be commencing the recruitment of a successor shortly.
The Board continues to review the recommendations of the Higgs report and the accompanying Smith report on audit Michael Davies committee reforms.
We currently comply with many of their recommendations.
The Board will be monitoring carefully the outcome of the consultation process on these reports and the resulting amendments to the Combined Code, and will review its corporate governance practices in accordance with any timescales set down.
The future In 2002 we produced a solid operating profit which led to strong operating cash flow, a major characteristic of our business.
We took the decision to withdraw from our Australian train and tram operations.
With six of our nine UK rail franchises coming up for renewal during 2004, we will be in a strong position to improve the cash returns in our trains division whilst, at the same time, rationalising our rail portfolio.
We look forward to developing our position in the UK bus and coach markets and to further growth in North America.
Our trading in 2003 is in line with our expectations.
Given our strong cash flow and the current level of our share price, we intend to implement a limited share buy-back programme during 2003, without affecting the Groups dividend policy.
Michael Davies Non Executive Chairman National Express Group PLC 11
