Chairmans Statement 2002 has been another year of service delivered by our Primecare Primary Dividends considerable progress for Nestor, building Care business.
The loss of the nite MAP Your Board is recommending a final on our strategy of focusing on UK health contract led to our focusing resources on dividend per share of 6.14p making total and social care, with substantial increases the Groups current operating divisions dividends per share for the year of 9.62p in turnover and operating profits and and considerably reducing the central 2001 8.02p, an increase of 20.0%.
We have moved to a more For the long-term, we expect to follow a efficient divisionalised structure and progressive dividend policy but maintain In 2002, we more than doubled the achieved annualised cost-savings in at least two and a half times adjusted previous years cash ow from operations excess of 2m.
by a combination of higher operating profit and effective working capital Summary of Results Summary of Performance management.
Turnover grew by 20.4% to 482.7m Healthcare Personnel Division 2001: 401.0m The Healthcare Personnel Division In the Healthcare Personnel Division, the Operating profit increased by 46.3% comprises British Nursing Association, the programme to reduce transaction costs to 37.3m 2001: 25.5m UKs number one general nursing and began to deliver cost-efficiencies, which, Pre-tax profit was up by 38.5% to care agency, Grosvenor Group and other together with improved gross margins 33.1m 2001: 23.9m businesses focused on providing health and the beneficial effect of acquisitions, Earnings per share were 45.4% higher and social care personnel on a temporary signicantly improved operating profits by at 29.8p 2001: 20.5p basis to a UK-wide client base including 14.5%, despite the impact on activity Operating margins were 7.7% NHS Trusts, Local Authorities, nursing caused by the roll-out of NHS 2001: 6.4% homes and private patients.
The programme of Cashow from operations was 54.1m, acquiring small, bolt-on businesses, an increase of 120.0% 2001: 24.6m Turnover was 309.7m mainly in the homecare sector, is set to 2001: 308.8m continue in 2003.
Throughout this statement, results are Operating profit increased 14.5% stated before goodwill amortisation and to 22.9m 2001: 20.0m It has also been a year of radical exceptional items.
These are discussed in Operating margins were 7.4% development in the Healthcare Services the Financial Review.
2001: 6.5% Division, with the start of our programme signicantly to enhance the quality of Antony Beevor Chairman Acquisitions are a key part of our strategy, and there are many opportunities.
In 2002 we completed eleven acquisitions, expected to deliver 2m operating profit in 2003.
The programme is continuing in 2003.
4 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 These encouraging results benefit from major programme of investment in the approximately 9m, expected to deliver better gross margins from improved Primecare Primary Care out-of-hours approximately 2m operating profit in pricing and business mix, coupled with business to improve the quality of service 2003.
We are successfully continuing this cost efficiencies.
I am pleased to report delivered.
This included employing more programme in 2003. that the contract to provide domiciliary doctors at higher rates of pay and the care services to the London Borough opening of our new clinical resource Clinical Governance of Harrow successfully started at the centres, together resulting in a temporary In both our Divisions the future depends beginning of February 2003 and is drop in margins to 3.5%, which we on building and retaining a reputation expected to contribute some 4.0m expect to improve materially by the end for the highest standards of Clinical of turnover in a full year.
of 2003 as the benets of the completed Governance and effective patient care.
Key to the achievement of this aim has Healthcare Services Division been the investment in a comprehensive Healthcare Services delivers innovative clinical governance infrastructure.
Under Acquisitions solutions to the UKs growing healthcare Acquisitions are a key part of our strategy the leadership of Dr Bill Holmes, the market through the primary care sector because the homecare market is Group Medical Director, the Group has or in government contracts.
fragmented and there are many signicantly enhanced its policies and opportunities.
We have continued our processes for identifying, managing and Turnover was up 87.8% to 173.0m programme of buying small businesses, controlling clinical risk.
Processes to 2001: 92.1m aimed mainly at expanding our existing mitigate clinical risk are overseen by a Operating profit increased by 161.8% locally based network in the homecare separate independent Clinical Advisory to 14.4m 2001: 5.5m sector and have successfully begun Board comprising a number of eminent Operating margins were 8.3% integrating them into our existing and independent healthcare practitioners 2001: 6.0% business in the Healthcare Personnel and any issues are reported to the main Division.
We have demonstrated the Board on a regular and structured basis.
The division benefited from the returns to be excellent, even assuming a impressive 11.8m profit contribution level of attrition normally associated with Board and Management Structure after central costs of the MAP contract the integration of such service businesses.
In June, we announced the appointment 2001: 4.0m where profits were of Stephen Booty as Managing Director, enhanced by lower than expected closure In 2002, we completed eleven such Healthcare Personnel Division.
At the same time, we began a acquisitions, at a total cost of delighted to welcome Stephen to the Split of Group turnover 2000 2001 2002 Healthcare Personnel Division Healthcare Services Division 2002 has been another year of considerable progress for Nestor.
There have been substantial increases in turnover and profits with excellent cash generation.
5 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement continued Board and since his appointment, he the finance function of Nestor, involved as well as opportunities.
On has proved to be an effective leader of administering the Group through a behalf of the Board, I thank them for their the Division.
He has already made a period of major growth both organically fortitude and dedication.
substantial contribution to the Boards and by acquisitions.
David has played strategic plans.
a valuable part in the implementation Outlook of our strategy and at the same time Our strategy is to grow turnover and Robbie Burns, Managing Director of has developed our internal controls margins in all of our businesses in UK Government Contracts left the Group and system to match the growth in health and social care.
This fast-growing at the end of October.
I should like to take our business.
and ever-changing market is offering this opportunity to thank Robbie for his significant opportunities to Nestor as a contribution to the integration of Healthcall.
leading provider of personnel and services.
Staff We are grateful to our teams throughout I am pleased to announce the forthcoming the organisation for their caring attitude The largest market, the provision of appointment of Martyn Ellis to the Board towards their patients and clients and nurses and carers to NHS hospital trusts, is as Finance Director.
Martyn aged 46 is their loyalty and commitment to the in a phase of uncertainty because of the currently Finance Director of TeleCity plc.
The dedication and concern creation of NHS Professionals, the The Board welcomes Martyn to the shown by all of our staff are the critical government created in-house nursing Group.
As an integral member of the elements of the Groups culture which agency.
While the final effect of NHS management team, he will play a key lies at the heart of our business and is Professionals, particularly on our large role as we move into the next phase of essential to its future success.
NHS contracts, remains unclear, we believe our development.
that the role of the private sector is critical Last year saw changes for a number of to the NHS meeting its targets and do not David Lyon, who has been Finance people in the Group, both those joining expect a significant reduction in commission Director for the past 5 years and with through the acquisition of Healthcall and income to result.
The market with the the Group for 12, will be resigning from those who have worked for the Group for best opportunity for growth is homecare.
the Board in order to pursue further some time.
All of the changes were aimed As well as driving organic growth, we are opportunities elsewhere.
The Board is at improving the quality of the service we implementing our programme of tactical appreciative and grateful to David for offer but we recognise that change can acquisitions in this and other areas and his considerable contribution within cause concern for some individuals will continue to do so in 2003.
The dedication and concern shown by all our staff critical elements of the Groups culture lie at the heart of our business and are essential to its future success.
6 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 In the Healthcare Services Division, our achieve efficiencies in the Healthcare priority is to build on our Primecare Personnel Division will stand us in good Primary Care business in order to develop stead for improved growth in the longerthe Division into the supplier of choice to term.
Whilst our targets for 2003 are Primary Care Trusts of a variety of care challenging, with the first half of the year services, both in and out of hours.
The being impacted by the transitional costs first step has been our investment in two associated with the above measures, we new clinical response centres.
The process anticipate that organic growth in profits, of migrating the 29 branches call together with major cost improvements handling operations has already begun and further tactical acquisitions, will and we expect it to be complete by the deliver a satisfactory result for the year autumn of 2003 when the benets of the as a whole.
investment we have made will start to come through.
A key priority will be the continuing development of constructive partnerships with Primary Care Trusts at the local level.
Antony Beevor, Chairman There are major opportunities for the 3rd March 2003 Group in the longer-term as the Government continues to seek new solutions to achieve its challenging targets for healthcare delivery and recognises that the private sector can provide cost-effective support to the NHS.
The measures we continue to take to improve the quality of our service in the Healthcare Services Division and to Operating profit by division m Healthcare Personnel Division Healthcare Services Division 22.9 14.4 2002 2002 2001 20.0 2001 5.5 16.0 2.3 2000 2000 before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Major long-term opportunities exist for Nestor as the Government continues to seek new solutions to achieve its healthcare delivery targets and recognises that the private sector can provide cost-effective support to the NHS.
7 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
