NEXT PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report another successful year for NEXT.
In the twelve months ended January 2002 Group turnover increased by 18% and profit before tax at 266m was 22% ahead of the previous year.
Earnings per share rose by 24% to 58.1p, enhanced by the beneficial effect of share buybacks in 2000 and 2001.
The post-tax return on capital employed increased to 36%.
This strong performance enabled the Board to recommend a final dividend of 18.5p, making a total of 27.5p for the year, an increase of 14.6%.
Dividend cover rises to 2.1 times.
Over the past five years, dividends have increased by 83% and the share price has risen by 65%.
Taking share price appreciation and dividends reinvested together, total shareholder return for this period has averaged 14.8% per annum compound.
This compares with just 6.7% for the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The balance sheet is strong and, in the year ahead, we again expect to generate surplus cash.
We shall continue our ongoing strategy of using this surplus to buy back shares, in order to enhance long term growth in earnings per share.
Shares will only be purchased when the price payable will result in an increase in earnings per share and it is considered to be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Our strategy is to continue to build our market share in the UK and Eire by expanding our store space and by developing new related product areas.
The move into larger retail stores continues to produce good results and the significant increase in Directory sales and customers reflects improvements we have made in services offered.
We warmly welcome John Barton, formerly Chairman of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
At this years Annual General Meeting in May, I shall retire as Chairman after four very happy and stimulating years.
I am delighted that David Jones, at present Deputy Chairman and formerly Chief Executive, has agreed to succeed me.
The combination of David as Chairman and Simon Wolfson as Chief Executive will be hard to beat and I have every confidence in the future of the company.
I thank our suppliers for their excellent support throughout the year.
Above all, I would like to thank the great team of talented people at NEXT for their outstanding achievements.
Sir Brian Pitman Chairman two
