02 Novar annual report 2002 Chairmans statement 03 Novar annual report 2002 The development of the Group has continued in 2002.
Investment in new products and marketing initiatives reached new highs.
We expect this to continue to drive our market shares in the years ahead.
Novars results in 2002 support the decisive action taken The acquisition of Alerton, announced separately on since the significant downturn of some of our markets last 26 February 2003, will further expand our portfolio of year.
The Group not only undertook a major restructuring Building Control brands, provide valuable technology, and programme over the last 18 months, but also raised expand our routes to market in North America.
It is a quality investment in new products and commercial initiatives.
business that offers excellent returns and future prospects.
As a result, good operating progress was made across the In some of the toughest markets seen for many years, Novar Group.
Market share increases compensated for lower is performing well.
That we have delivered the results we markets overall, sustaining turnover, improving operating have, owes much to the efforts of our employees, who profit, and producing a welcome recovery of headline remain committed to the Groups continued progress.
pre-tax profits and earnings per share.
And another year I thank them on behalf of my colleagues.
of excellent cash generation, underpins our proposal to maintain Novars dividend.
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of 6.6p per Ordinary share, payable on 6 June 2003 to all Group turnover was stable at 1,448m in difficult markets, shareholders on the register at the close of business on while operating profit before restructuring at 117m was 2 May 2003. up 2% on a like for like basis.
Headline earnings per share increased to 11.6p.
The balance sheet has been further strengthened with net debt reducing from 273m to 219m, year end gearing of 46% and interest costs covered 10 times.
The development of the Group has continued in 2002.
In Intelligent Building Systems we strengthened the technology base in CCTV, and dedicated resources to take on large projects that span multiple businesses.
We expect this to continue to drive our market Sir Graham Hearne shares in the years ahead.
