P&O Annual Report 2002 04 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement Despite the present uncertainties we are seeing a continuation of the positive trends that were present in the second half of 2002 RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The tax charge was 35.5 million 2001 In the meantime, P&O Nedlloyd is Our container terminal and ferries 44.8 million, reflecting an effective tax continuing to achieve significant businesses, which are central to the future rate of 30% on the pre-exceptional profit reductions in unit costs.
growth of the Company, achieved a of the Group before the Group share of significant increase in profit.
The result for the P&O Nedlloyd result.
We generally We made considerable progress with P&O Nedlloyd, where we are seeking to benefit from tonnage tax but when our our other strategic objectives in 2002. reduce our interest, showed a deterioration shipping businesses report losses we We focused investment on businesses of 108.4 million.
The contribution from are not able to claim tax relief.
where we are a market leader.
In Ports, Property also declined, by 42.3 million, we announced new projects of over because of the timing of development Before reorganisation costs, exceptional 90 million at Shekou in China, Manila in property disposals.
Total operating profit items and goodwill amortisation, the the Philippines, Le Havre and Marseille in was therefore 121.0 million loss per share was 1.6p 2001 earnings France and Vancouver in Canada.
The basic loss per share was will increase our total installed capacity 27.1p 2001 earnings 17.0p.
by approximately 1.5 million teus or The interest charge of 111.8 million was nearly 10%.
similar to last year 113.6 million, with The Board recommends a final dividend increased borrowings more than offset of 9.0p per 1 nominal of deferred stock Our consolidation of P&O Stena Line by lower interest rates and the impact which, together with the interim dividend and the major reorganisation of the P&O of the weaker US dollar.
of 4.5p, would give a total dividend for Ferries business should enable us to the year of 13.5p.
The dividend will achieve synergies of 15 million on an The pre-exceptional profit before tax was be paid on 4 June 2003 to deferred annualised basis in 2003 and to exceed 9.2 million 160.0 million.
Exceptional stockholders on the register at the this going forward.
In Cold Logistics, items showed a loss of 144.9 million close of business on 21 March 2003. we are now the market leader in the US profit of 13.0 million of which 98.4 Our dividend policy remains unchanged.
markets where we operate, primarily million related to the sale of Contract As we have said before, it reflects our California and Texas, following a US$70 Logistics.
Within the 98.4 million, 47.2 view of the long term prospects for the million acquisition towards the end of million consisted of goodwill previously Group and it will not be affected by any the year.
short term profit volatility resulting from cyclical businesses.
We took capital out of those areas where we did not believe that P&O GROUP STRATEGIC DIRECTION could achieve market leadership.
We are continuing to direct capital We completed a successful disposal to the strongest growing areas of the of most of our Trans European business business where we have a competitive in December for 152.5 million in cash.
advantage and exiting from, or reducing, Our bulk shipping investment has been investment elsewhere.
Our top priority is reduced through the sale of eight vessels our commitment to reduce our investment for US$107 million.
in our joint venture company, P&O Nedlloyd.
Market conditions in 2002 Looking ahead, we are committed to were not conducive to achieving this achieving operational excellence and objective.
As the container shipping further growth in Ports.
We are ahead cycle is now on the upswing we are of schedule with the reorganisation of determined to achieve progress.
Ferries and expect to achieve further Key announcements Acquisition of Stenas Disposal of 4 ABC Expansion of Shekou Disposal of 4 more 2002 40% holding in vessels Container Terminal ABC Vessels P&O Stena Line April May July August P&O Annual Report 2002 Chairmans statement 05 operational efficiencies and yield responsibility for Ports but will relinquish We previously announced that Joanne improvements.
We will continue to his position as Group Managing Director Curin planned to step down from the realise Property assets and reinvest of P&O Nedlloyd Container Line.
I am grateful the proceeds in our fastest growing to Joanne for all that she has done for the businesses, notably Ports.
We intend to appoint Nick Luff as our new Group, with enthusiasm and commitment.
Nick is currently We wish her well for the future.
The significant progress we have Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess made in challenging market conditions Cruises plc and, assuming the proposed OUTLOOK is a credit to our employees, whose transaction with Carnival Corporation Clearly there are many uncertainties at achievements are set out more fully proceeds as expected, he will be leaving present including the growth rate of the on pages 20 and 21.
worlds major economies, the oil price, Prior to the demerger of P&O Princess in currencies and, not least, the Middle THE BOARD October 2000 Nick was of course Finance East.
So far, however, we are seeing a Sir Bruce MacPhail, our Group Managing Director of P&O.
He therefore knows the continuation of the positive trends that Director, plans to step down from the Group well and I am sure he will make a were present in the second half of 2002.
Board at the end of this year.
Sir Bruce will strong contribution when he joins us full be 65 next year and, having been Group time from the beginning of June.
On a like for like basis, throughput in Managing Director of P&O for nearly 20 our container terminals for the first two years, now wishes to reduce his To ensure continuity following the months was over 20% up on the same commitments.
I am delighted, however, appointment of our new Chief Executive period last year and earnings are ahead.
that on a part time basis he has agreed to and Chief Financial Officer, the Board has Ferries has made a steady start to the retain responsibility for winding down the invited me to stand for re-election at our year and will benefit further from the property portfolio.
Going forward, I intend current reorganisation.
P&O Nedlloyds to devote as much time as need be to utilisation levels are ahead of last year Sir Bruce has been my closest colleague strategic matters and pursuing P&Os while average freight rates are 6% higher and friend for well over 30 years since interests with governments and high level than the low point of 2002 and there is joining me when I founded Sterling contacts both here and abroad.
Otherwise less new tonnage to be absorbed by Guarantee Trust.
He is an exceptionally I will leave the day to day running of the the industry.
able businessman who has made a huge Company to the executive team.
I am pleased that we propose to stand down from the Board On the basis of current trading we will continue to benefit from his detailed after the AGM in 2005. would therefore expect to achieve a knowledge of our property business.
significantly improved result for 2003 Graeme Dunlop retired from the Board and to move further ahead in 2004.
Robert Woods will become Chief at the year end.
Graeme joined P&O in Executive, taking over from Sir Bruce, from 1964 and was a member of the Board the end of this year.
It will be with great since 1991.
He played a major role in the pleasure that I welcome Robert to this role.
development of P&Os ferry division over Robert joined P&O in 1971 and has been many years, helping to achieve the brand a member of the Board since 1996.
He leadership we enjoy today and made an has had wide experience of the Group, invaluable contribution to the Board.
I am The Lord Sterling of Plaistow particularly in ports and container shipping.
delighted that he will become President of GCVO CBE When he becomes Chief Executive, the European Community Shipowners Chairman Robert will retain direct executive Association in June 2003.
6 March 2003 P&O Cold Logistics Ports & CMA-CGM Sale of Contract acquisition in US joint venture in France Logistics business October November December
