Chairmans statement ARMs competitive position in the intellectual property IP licensing business improved during 2002, despite tough trading conditions.
Although the short-term trading outlook is flattish, our long-term objective to become the architecture for the digital world remains on track.
Results People We finished the year with total revenues up 3%, In the fourth quarter, in response to the declining to 150.9 million, and licensing revenues up 8%, market, we took the painful, but necessary, decision to 83.0 million.
Profit before tax was down slightly to reduce our total workforce by approximately 12%: to 47.5 million, from 50.6 million in 2001, before at the end of the year we employed 721 people, taking restructuring costs of 2.0 million in 2002.
Improved us back to the number we employed at the end of 2001. management of our working capital contributed to The reductions, which were made across all levels and an increase in our cash and short-term investments business areas, will save approximately 5 million a year to 130.3 million, from 104.5 million at the end of in employment costs.
In March 2002, Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Brooks The market retired from the Company and we were pleased to The challenging economic environment and downturn welcome Tim Score as his replacement: in August 2002, in the semiconductor industry persisted throughout 2002.
Pete Magowan, Vice President of Business Development, While we showed a healthy growth in the first half of left us to enter the venture capital industry, and Mike the year, the industry slow-down caught up with us in Inglis was appointed to the ARM Holdings plc board as the second half as a number of our Partners deferred Executive Vice President, Marketing.
I would like to placing licensing orders from quarter to quarter and, thank both Jonathan and Pete for their significant as a result, licensing activity slowed down.
contributions to the Companys development.
This led us to revise our shortto medium-term revenue We strengthened the operational board of the company expectations in the fourth quarter and to adjust our cost by appointing Colm MacKernan as General Counsel and base accordingly.
ARM continues, however, to report by promoting Simon Segars, Executive Vice President, strong profits and to generate cash, and we have Engineering, and Jerry Ardizzone, Executive Vice persevered with our policy of investing in the Companys President, Worldwide Sales, to the executive team.
future by maintaining a high level of expenditure on research and development.
We appreciate the hard work and creativity of all our people and thank them for their contribution.
Geographic expansion In July 2002, we opened an office in Shanghai, in the Legal action Peoples Republic of China.
ARM Consulting Shanghai In May 2002, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed a Co. Ltd. will help to create a comprehensive value chain lawsuit before the Federal District Court for Northern for the countrys electronics industry by supporting California, claiming that our Jazelle technology for existing and prospective Partners, and by becoming Java acceleration infringes a US patent owned by involved in initiatives such as technology transfer and Nazomi.
We are confident that our products do not university programmes.
infringe the patent cited in the law suit or any other Nazomi patent.
4 ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 We believe that this action is more straightforward than the litigation with picoTurbo Inc. which was concluded in December 2001, and expect the cost and management time to be significantly less.
We believe that the matter could be concluded quickly.
We are now protecting our IP even more vigorously.
We filed twice as many patent applications in 2002 as in the previous year and now have more than 230 patent families which cover the scope of our activities: these comprise 738 patents on file around the world, 245 of which have matured into issued patents.
Current trading and prospects The strategic nature of our relationships with our Partners enables us to be optimistic about our prospects but, in the current climate, the timing of the completion of licensing deals is difficult to predict.
In addition, our reported revenues are exposed to any further weakening of the US dollar.
As a result, we expect our quarterly revenues to be fairly flat during 2003.
We have, however, received positive feedback from our Partners on our new ARM1136J-S and ARM1136JF-S processors.
During the year, we will introduce other new cores, platform products and Development Systems products, which should further stimulate demand.
Over the longer term, we believe that the industry downturn will serve only to strengthen our market position.
The accelerating pace behind the ARM architecture is illustrated by the expansion of the third-party community of companies that have chosen to work closely with us.
The quality and flexibility of our architecture, combined with our focus on high performance at low cost, and on good power efficiency, not only differentiates us from our competitors, but also makes us the preferred partner for many of the worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers.
Sir Robin Saxby Chairman ARM Annual report and accounts 2002 5
