2 CHAIRMAN S REPORT Overview Our recent acquisitions of Kettners and theA reorganisation of our restaurant This is the first time I have reported to you Gourmet Pizza Company, whilst small in regional management structure to as Chairman and it coincides with the scale, give us the chance to take two strong reduce the number of reporting layers.
most challenging trading conditions that formats and apply our management skills to As well as reducing costs this will our business has experienced since its develop them as alternative brands with improve the pace and quality of flotation in 1993.
A substantial number of distinctive market positions.
Both are already decision-making and encourage our restaurants fall within the M25 and showing encouraging potential.
everyone involved to focus on the increased competition together with a customer and their needs.
Sales of our chilled products in Sainsburys decline in tourism have combined to continue to exceed our expectations.
impact both sales and profitability.
We A review of menu content and further Research shows that the retail pizza business have made progress in provincial improvements in our service standards is growing nationally at a faster rate restaurants, both in new locations and and restaurant ambience.
than in restaurant sales and we plan through growing customer numbers in to expand our high quality, chilled products established restaurants.
We believe ourA review of site opportunities to other national supermarkets in the overall results demonstrate the robustness throughout the UK and Ireland under year ahead, commencing with Waitrose of our business even in difficult times.
We believe that from August 2002. there are more than 600 locations The year saw further substantial restaurant PizzaExpress To Go, situated in appropriate where one of our formats could openings and as at 30 June 2002 we mass transit locations such as Paddington operate profitably.
operate in 324 restaurants in the UK and station, is generating reasonable initial Ireland and 43 internationally.
results and we believe there is theAn examination of acquisitions that opportunity to develop this business could give us different formats that The success of our PizzaExpress restaurants profitably with little or no impact on our do not conflict with our existing is of course the key driver for the financial traditional format.
brands and which meet or exceed our performance of our business and over the financial criteria.
We trade internationally in 17 countries.
years has been built on the quality of The majority of these locations are our food, our friendly and efficient serviceAn accelerated capital investment franchised although we choose to own and the dcor and atmosphere in our programme focussing on the operations in a small number of markets restaurants.
These imperatives are our most refurbishment of our older restaurants.
where we see the opportunity for significant important priority in the years ahead.
In the context of the current restaurant Management market, we are pleased with the progress of The Board of PizzaExpress has seen further The Year Ahead Caf Pasta.
The menu we offer is excellent significant changes this year and is today In response to the challenging trading and we are looking to continue to grow the well balanced both in quality and environment, we have commenced several number of restaurants this year.
important initiatives: 3 CHAIRMAN S REPORT continued David Page has become Chief Executive which is preparing our best people for a our retail sales.
Together with a more following my appointment as non-executive broader contribution in due course.
focussed expansion internationally, the Chairman in the spring of this year.
He is Board is confident in the Companys future returning the focus of everyone to delivering We need properly to reward both the prospects.
performance improvements and getting current and future leadership of PizzaExpress back to the fundamentals of the business.
if they deliver results that meet stretching We are blessed with capable and His experience of our industry is a significant performance measures both in real terms enthusiastic staff at all levels they have asset in the work that lies ahead.
and by comparison with others.
We have been at the heart of our success so far and been working with external consultants to are key to the changes that are now taking We are delighted that Paul Campbell has create new incentive schemes that are place within the business.
Their response joined us as Group Finance Director.
He will directly linked to a significant improvement gives the Board confidence that we will continue to strengthen our financial, in performance and we will be seeking achieve what we are setting out to do.
systems, and strategic skills to respond to approval for these at this years AGM.
Ian Thomson has I also want to thank our multitude of loyal joined us as a non-executive director and Towards the end of the financial year, we customers who in addition to being regular brings with him a lifetime experience of introduced a new All Employee Share visitors to our restaurants are also our most retailing with the likes of Sears and Liberty, Incentive Plan, allowing our employees to constructive critics.
both in the UK and internationally.
participate in the growth of the business by acquiring and being awarded matching During the year Ian Eldridge left PizzaExpress shares in a tax efficient manner.
As indicated to you last Nigel Colne Non-Executive Chairman year, Glen Tomlinson also left us at the end of this financial year.
Since the year-end, Summary 10 September 2002 Matthew Allen, a long-standing director, PizzaExpress is a straightforward business decided to leave us to concentrate on his based on simple and enduring principles.
We thank We are cash generative and we operate in them all for their contributions to the the real economy which is largely unaffected business and wish them well for the future.
by the scandals that have cast a shadow over large parts of UK and particularly US PizzaExpress has skilled and experienced corporate life.
management in depth below Board level and we have identified a cadre of managers Our concentration on the core PizzaExpress from whom the next generation of business should result in performance leadership will emerge.
We have introduced improvements this year.
We also have an external training programme which confidence in the potential for Caf Pasta, complements internal development and PizzaExpress To Go, and further expansion of
