02 Chairmans statement 2002 has been a very significant year for Premier, dominated by the successfully completed in October, and production has been running at corporate restructuring announced in September.
This was the main above contract quantities for the past three months.
More recently, the objective for 2002 and it involved a great deal of work in complex Bhit gas eld in Pakistan has come onstream.
Gross contract production negotiations and structuring.
Along with this notable achievement, levels are planned to climb to 240 mmscfd by June 2003, of which the Company has recorded another year of improved financial and Premiers net interest is 2,400 boepd.
The Zamzama full eld operational performance.
development in Pakistan is on track for start up in 2003.
Financial and operating performance Restructuring Net profits for the year amounted to 25.0 million 2001: 20.3 The announcement of the major restructuring of Premier on million.
profits are shown on a pre-restructuring basis, as required 16 September 2002 was a substantial achievement, resulting in by UK accounting standards.
Net profits reect an improvement of the $670 million sale of our interests in Myanmar and part of our 23 per cent over 2001, even after allowing for a prudent write-off of Indonesian business for a consideration of the combined 50 per cent capitalised exploration expenditure of 17.7 million.
The statutory shareholding in Premier of Petronas and Amerada Hess, and cash.
reported net profits amount excludes 4.2 million 2001: 14.2 million associated with take or pay receivables on gas contracts.
Earnings per We have agreed the legal form of the transfer of the assets with share of 1.58 pence have risen by 23 per cent over the last year.
Petronas and Amerada Hess, and with the Yetagun joint venture partners in respect of their pre-emption.
We have also obtained Production averaged 53,600 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd written approval of the deal from the Indonesian government, and up 31 per cent which, with continued strong oil and gas prices approval in principle from the Myanmar authorities.
Details relating contributed to an increased turnover gure of 263.1 million, up to the Yetagun pre-emption are being nalised and we expect to 23 per cent on 2001.
Gas revenues have become more of a factor complete the restructuring early in the second quarter 2003. as the percentage of gas in our production mix rose from 47 per cent in 2001 to 60 per cent in 2002.
Premiers gas is predominantly Post restructuring, Premier will have over 200 million barrels of oil sold under long-term gas supply contracts, where prices move equivalent mmboe of total reserves, production of around 35,000 approximately in line with crude oil.
boepd and a signicantly stronger balance sheet.
As at the end of 2002, post restructuring pro forma net debt amounted to 47.1 Net cash ow, including joint ventures, was strong at 93.2 million million, with gearing at only 17 per cent.
2001: 87.6 million, after a capital expenditure programme of 73.1 million, of which 35.0 million was on exploration and appraisal and New Premier will focus primarily on its existing core areas of the UK, 34.6 million on development activities, partly offset by portfolio South and South East Asia and West Africa.
The principal objective management proceeds of 23.4 million.
Year end net debt, including will be to add significant value for shareholders through exploration joint venture balances, was 249.5 million, a substantial reduction of success and commercial deal-making.
The restructuring had become an imperative following the difficulties Operationally, highlights included agreeing increased gas sales from experienced in fullling the strategic goal of the alliance with Petronas the Zamzama and Qadirpur gas elds in Pakistan, which should see and Amerada Hess set up in 1999 to make Premier into a leading production in Pakistan rise to over 10,000 boepd net to Premier by year South East Asian gas company.
The need for a new strategy, and to end 2003.
Regarding the Yetagun gas eld in Myanmar, an agreement reverse the under-performance of Premier shares despite improved was signed with the gas buyer PTT of Thailand which resulted in the financial returns and operational success, had become critical.
I would settlement of the $22.7 million outstanding take or pay liability.
The like to thank Petronas and Amerada Hess for their support for Premier upgrade of facilities on the Yetagun production platform to allow rates during the last few years and for their co-operative approach to the of up to 300 million standard cubic feet per day mmscfd of gas was restructuring process.
New Premier will focus primarily on its existing core areas of the UK, South and South East Asia and West Africa.
The principal objective will be to add significant value for shareholders through exploration success and commercial deal-making.
03 Corporate Governance, HSE and Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate brochure 2002 was a turbulent year for markets and for companies working We have produced an updated corporate brochure reecting the internationally.
There have been increased challenges for companies Companys current activities and strategy.
This follows the first of these with their corporate governance, the security of their people and issued in 2002.
It is intended to be an ongoing record of Premiers assets, and their involvement with stakeholders and the environment.
capabilities and business principles, and can be obtained by lling in the enclosed postcard.
Our health, safety and environment HSE performance has again been industry top quartile, with Indonesia achieving to date a Board and management particularly noteworthy milestone of 644 days without a lost As a result of the restructuring the Petronas and Amerada Hess time incident.
I would like to express my thanks to Dato Idris Mansor, Encik Mohammad Medan Abdullah, J Barclay Collins Increased security issues in a number of countries in which we operate and Richard Mew for their valuable contributions.
have meant that we are continually improving our standards of security for our people and assets, whilst ensuring that production We have also said goodbye to Richard Liddell at the end of January and other operations continue without interruption.
We have, I 2003, who as Operations Director has contributed much to the believe, been one of the leading companies in embracing and development of Premier as an international production and evolving our corporate principles and embodying in them our respect development operator.
Our Finance Director, John van der Welle, for the population and environments where we work.
I am pleased has broadened his role to incorporate general management of our to report that as part of this evolution, we have recently signed business units, whilst Simon Lockett is now Head of Operations partnerships with UNEP the United Nations Environment and Technical.
Additionally, Robin Allan has become Head of Programme, and Save the Children USA who are our principal Business Development which includes our exploration and partners in helping us to run and or assess our community commercial activities.
programmes in the countries in which we operate.
I would also like to express the Boards gratitude to our staff in all The Higgs Report on the role and effectiveness of non-executive locations, who have continued to achieve excellent performance directors and the Smith Report on audit committees are reports which throughout the Group.
Premier, together with other publicly quoted companies, is studying carefully.
Premier already has strong governance processes in place Outlook and will continue to enhance them in the light of the eventual changes The direction of oil prices is uncertain in the light of current to be made to the Combined Code as a result of these reports.
international events, but given a reasonable scenario for prices, new Premiers combination of a solid base business of production, strong Dividend policy balance sheet and a good portfolio of new business assets gives the The Board believes that most of our shares are owned by investors Group a good platform from which to succeed.
looking principally for substantial capital growth in the share price, rather than regular small dividends out of income.
The Company is 2003 promises to be an exciting and, as usual, challenging year for strongly committed to generating returns to shareholders through Premier.
We have laid out a strategy of achieving success by adding capital growth, and to exploring other methods of returning value significant value through exploration and commercial deals actively to shareholders from time to time when appropriate.
Returns to managing our portfolio to realise extra value for shareholders.
We shareholders may be made from time to time via more significant have now begun to implement this strategy.
one-off cash dividends or share buyback programmes when large surplus funds have been generated which are not earmarked for nearterm reinvestment.
Consistent with this policy, the Board has decided not to make a dividend payment for the year 2002.
