Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 4 Chairmans Statement The Group is well-positioned with a strong balance sheet and excellent prospects.
January Arrivas new 5.3 million bus depot and offices in Key events Luton were opened.
2002 Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 5 I am pleased to report on the Groups pence, an increase of 23 per cent.
Profit with the interim dividend of 4.4 pence per further significant progress and strong before tax for the year was 80.6 million share paid in October 2002, makes a total financial performance.
We have improved 2001: 76.0 million and basic earnings per dividend of 17.2 pence per share, an earnings per share, excluding goodwill share was 38.0 pence 2001: 23.1 pence.
The final dividend amortisation and exceptional items, by 32 Total Group turnover grew by 4 per cent to will be paid on 1 May 2003 to all per cent in the last two years to a record 2,084 million 2001: 1,998 million.
shareholders on the Register at the close 36.8 pence.
From a strong base in the UK of business on 4 April 2003.
With year end net debt of 310.1 million we have developed a unique position in mainland Europe to benefit from the and EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, We announced in January 2003 that the increasingly liberalised passenger transport depreciation and amortisation increasing by triennial actuarial review of the Groups 10 per cent to 209.1 million, the Groups defined benefit pension schemes would markets.
The Group has the financial strength to continue to capitalise on these financial strength is clear.
The debt to equity be completed towards the end of 2003. ratio also improved from 75 per cent to 68 As already announced, it is anticipated that opportunities with the focus on growing profits and cash flow, and delivering per cent whilst the interest charge for the the charge to the profit and loss account in substantial value to our shareholders.
year was 17.1 million 2001: 20.0 million 2003, in respect of Arriva defined benefit representing an improvement in interest schemes, could be in the order of 20 The key highlights of 2002 were: cover from five and a half to seven times.
In million, an increase of 12 million over the Pre-tax profit, excluding goodwill October 2002, the Group was in a position charge for 2002.
This primarily reflects the amortisation and exceptional items, to recommence its share buy-back deterioration in the performance of the up by 11 per cent to 102.1 million programme.
By the end of the year, 3 per equity markets.
The cash contribution made cent of the issued share capital 5.9 million by the Group to these schemes is expected Earnings per share, on the same basis, shares had been purchased for cancellation, to increase from 11 million to 13 million up by 23 per cent to 36.8 pence representing a return of value, before stamp in 2003. duty and expenses, of 17.2 million.
Operating cash inflow of 224.1 million The UK Bus operations continue to be a In October 2002, we announced a formal substantial cash generator for the Group.
Establishment of further significant market process for the disposal of the Groups The London business is benefiting from the positions in Italy and Portugal Motor Retailing operations.
We have already initiatives taken by Transport for London to realised 33 million from the disposal of 14 increase the number and quality of bus Final dividend up by 5 per cent to dealerships, realising around book value in services in the capital as the new congestion 12.8 pence.
The conclusion, within the next charging scheme is introduced.
The market few months, of this disposal programme will outside London however is mature and, in Pre-tax profit excluding goodwill mark the completion of the strategic common with other operators, insurance amortisation and exceptional items was refocusing of the business.
costs and wage inflation have impacted on 102.1 million 2001: 92.0 million with financial performance.
While focusing earnings per share on the same basis The Board is recommending a final dividend investment on increasing patronage through showing growth from 30.0 pence to 36.8 of 12.8 pence per share, which together innovative marketing and improved February Twenty-four hour, seven days a week, customer relations helpline launched by Arriva Trains Northern.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 6 Chairmans Statement continued In 2001 we operated some 1,200 buses in London by the end of 2003 this fleet will have grown to over 1,400 vehicles.
March Our UK Bus operations complete the publication of all timetables on the web, many with supporting route maps.
Arriva plc Annual report and accounts 2002 7 customer services, the business is tightly increased substantially our previously The success of the Group relies on the managed to eliminate unacceptably low modest market position in Portugal.
provision of quality service and value for margin and loss-making operations.
money to our customers and I would like to The Groups first acquisition in Italy was Early indications of success in London of record the Boards appreciation to all our congestion charging are encouraging and completed in July with the purchase of SAB employees who, individually and collectively, it may prompt other areas of the country to Autoservizi S. r. L. SAB, the countrys largest have contributed to the Groups adopt similar schemes that can only be of private bus operator.
benefit to our passengers and the industry.
transport market in Italy is one of the largest in Europe with both bus and rail sectors Our two UK rail franchises achieved a moving rapidly to a competitive tendering significant turnaround during the year.
Arriva Trains Merseyside was rated the best mainland operator in terms of punctuality Our businesses in Denmark, the Netherlands Gareth Cooper and reliability in the latest figures published and Sweden have continued to win Chairman contracts through local tendering by the Strategic Rail Authority SRA whilst Arriva Trains Northern has delivered opportunities.
In Denmark, Arriva is the first substantial improvements.
When the SRA private company to be awarded passenger announced the new franchise agreements rail franchises by the Danish State.
The two commencing in February 2003, it franchises serving Jutland commenced in January 2003 for a seven-year period.
acknowledged that Arriva had improved performance by addressing the many fundamental problems that existed in the Arriva Vehicle Rental continues to deliver excellent performance.
This growing businesses when we took them over three years ago.
Whilst we were disappointed that business has again achieved record profits with its continued focus on high utilisation our bids for the new Trans-Pennine Express of its fleet of around 11,000 vehicles and and the Merseyrail franchises were unsuccessful, the Board believes that the UK meeting the needs of its major corporate and public sector customers.
rail sector can provide long-term growth opportunities for the Group.
This is, The Groups strategy is clear.
Over the past however, dependent on a structure that four years we have refocused the business allows the operator to provide robust on the passenger services sector.
In the services for customers whilst at the same process, we have realised some 600 million time generating appropriate returns for our from the disposal of our Motor Finance and shareholders.
These proceeds have been used to strengthen our position in the Arrivas business in mainland Europe has UK market and to build a strong business in grown substantially this year and is now a major contributor to the Groups results.
the growing European passenger transport sector.
At the same time we have halved Following two strategically important acquisitions in Portugal and Italy we now our debt and bought back shares returning value to shareholders.
The Group is wellhave significant positions in the positioned with a strong balance sheet and Netherlands, Denmark, Portugal and Italy with smaller positions in Spain and Sweden.
Our shares offer an attractive yield backed by a robust cashflow.
We maintained our strategy of expansion Going forward we will continue to target through successful tendering and acquisitions in our chosen markets whilst at the same time delivering further value to acquisitions.
In June we announced the acquisition of a 51 per cent interest in shareholders through our share buy-back programme.
Transportes Sul fide Tejo S. A. TST, which March Arriva Trains Northern signalled customer commitment through a new Passengers Charter.
