Chairmans statement times compared to a peer group average of 2.3 between 2.3 and 2.5 times.
This final dividend, if 1.8 approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be 1.5 paid on 21 May 2003 to shareholders on the register on 28 February 2003.
The AGM The agenda for the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2003 contains the normal resolutions seeking adoption of the accounts, approval of the 2000 2001 2002 final dividend, re-election of Directors and Dividend cover Reckitt Benckiser continued to deliver against its appointment of the auditors.
It also delivers on our times covered adjusted vision in 2002, reporting strong growth in net pledge to shareholders last year that there would revenues, profits and cash flow generated from be a vote to approve the Report on Directors delivering more and better products to consumers.
Given the importance of our 2.5 The Company has a strong management team, a incentive system in aligning the interests of 2.3 clear and focused strategy to generate sustained management and shareholders, we hope growth, and an absolute commitment to delivering shareholders will endorse the policy.
Outlook The Company had a further year of good share Reckitt Benckiser has a clear strategy to deliver price performance in difficult stock markets.
As you value to shareholders based on sustained growth in can see in the Report on Directors remuneration, net revenues, margins, profits and cash flow.
Reckitt Benckiser has delivered superior shareholder Sustaining Reckitt Benckisers past performance returns consistently since the merger that created requires a committed management team, aligned Reckitt Benckiser Peer Group the Group in 1999, and did so again in 2002.
Our behind common objectives and sharing a winning Dividend cover versus total shareholder return of 23% compared with culture.
I believe that Bart and his team are strongly peer group times covered negative returns for major market indices in the UK committed to delivering outstanding results to build and USA, and compared favourably with our on the success of the past few years.
I trust that industry peer group.
shareholders will continue to enjoy the fruits of their 2002 Results & Dividend hard work in the years ahead.
The results of the Company were again strong, at the top end of the industry peer group.
Net revenues rose by 7% at constant exchange 3% at actual while normalised net income rose by 20% to 408m, meaning net income has now more than doubled in the three years since the merger.
The Board has continued the policy, clearly Dr. Hkan Mogren Chairman communicated when Reckitt Benckiser was created in 1999, of holding the dividend payment at its present level until the cover reaches the levels of other companies in our industry.
The Directors therefore propose a final dividend of 12.8 pence a share, making a total dividend for the year of 25.5 pence per share.
Dividend cover on this basis is 2.3 2 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2002
