CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report a highly successful year for Redrow.
Sustaining profitable growth is one of the key objectives of the Board and we have therefore taken a number of important steps When the share buy-back took place in October 2000, the aimed at underpinning the continuation of our successful Board highlighted its focus on delivering increased shareholder performance.
Firstly, Tay Homes was acquired in January this value.
I am therefore delighted to report further strong year which established critical mass in two operating areas, growth in earnings per share of 34%.
Part of this increase Yorkshire and Scotland, enabling us to bring them closer to reflects the capital restructuring but the greater part is the maturity faster than would otherwise have been possible.
The consequence of the strong financial and operational acquisition also brought useful new opportunities in the performance of the business.
The purchase was almost entirely funded out of cash generated by selling a number of successful developments by Redrows financial strength is demonstrated by two key Robert Jones Chairman Redrows commercial arm, which generated turnover of 30.2m measures, its margins and its return on capital employed.
Both and an operating profit of 3.1m this year.
As a result I can not are at the top of our industrys range.
This year the operating only report that gearing of the Company as a whole fell from margin within the Homes Division was 17.6%, a considerable 60% at the start of the year to 42% at the half-year end but that achievement and one which the Board regards as sustainable in there has been a further fall to 39% at the end of the second the current markets.
Equally, the return on capital employed at half.
The Company remains strongly cash generative while 30% continues to reflect the emphasis we place on the efficient I am pleased to report a highly successful gearing reflects a prudent balance between leveraging our use of capital.
The increased volume of the business, generated year for Redrow.
Shareholders funds and maintaining an appropriately cautious both within the existing Redrow companies and from the approach to debt.
acquisition of Tay Homes, has enabled us to grow operating profits before integration costs relating to the acquisition by 24% from 79.5m to 98.4m.
I am therefore glad to report that once again the Board is able to recommend increasing the dividend by 10%, maintaining the progressive dividend policy since flotation.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 4 Secondly, building techniques throughout the industry have failed to change sufficiently to reflect the problems the country faces as a result of shortages of certain skilled trade workers.
After careful consideration of alternative solutions and pilot schemes using timber-frame and light steel-frame methods, as well as modular construction, Redrow has decided that the benefits from the use of light steel-frame warrant the establishment of a joint venture for their manufacture.
This joint venture with Corus brings together our expertise in residential development with their skills in steel manufacture and application.
Both companies are investing into a stand-alone joint venture company the equivalent of up to 3.0m.
We anticipate that the utilisation of light steel frames will benefit the Company in terms of build times and quality resulting in improved customer satisfaction.
Above Masterton Park, Dunfermline, Scotland Centre Odyssey, London Docklands Right Optima, the 27,000 sq.
ft. office development, St. Davids Park, Flintshire CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 5 Two other areas are critical to the sustainability of the business: John Tutte joined the Company as a regional chairman in the land and people.
Redrow has consistently anticipated changes South in January and brings with him a wealth of experience of in the planning system.
By placing emphasis on the our industry.
In July he was appointed to the Board reflecting Governments aims of sustainability and increased densities, our his significant contribution during his short tenure with the land acquisition programme has brought substantial financial Company.
Brian Duckworth joins us as a non-executive director benefits.
I am therefore pleased to report a further increase in and will bring his significant experience of business in general to our current land bank from 14,300 plots to 15,600 plots.
means that the vast majority of land we will develop in the next It is always gratifying that so many people comment favourably three years is already owned or controlled by the Company.
on the quality and range of our developments, varying as they Much of this is brownfield land which currently represents 69% Above do from stylish inner city apartments to refurbished buildings of our land bank.
Beyond that, there are approximately 25,000 Lansdowne Gardens, Leckwith, Cardiff and from traditional family properties to attractive new design plots within our forward land bank which have a realistic schemes.
There is indeed a home for every type of customer prospect of securing planning permission in the future.
As in recent years, Redrow has secured a Our workforce at every level is highly skilled and dedicated to significant number of awards but what is particularly pleasing is the success of the Company.
However, such skills require that in addition to this public recognition of the quality of our continuous honing and updating and we continue to dedicate homes, many of our customers recommend us to their friends considerable resources to training.
Redrow aims to build its and relatives or move from one Redrow home to another.
strength in people not only through internal promotions but also from external sources and I am particularly pleased to welcome those members of Tays staff who have joined Redrow and whose contribution is proving highly beneficial.
Two new members of the Main Board have joined us this year.
CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 6 For the future, our industry is not being permitted to build more than three-quarters of the minimum number of homes estimated to be necessary as a result of demographic change and the deterioration of older housing stock.
Inevitably therefore, whilst there is house-price inflation, affordability remains good as a result of low interest rates.
On the basis of our belief that the housing market remains sound, we can be confident that Redrow has an excellent future since our high quality products, low cost current land bank and focused management team are the very essence of sustainability in our industry.
Robert Jones Chairman Above Fedden Village, Portishead, Bristol Centre Guinea Hall Farm, Southport, Lancashire Right The Maltings, Braintree, Essex CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 7
