Chairmans statement RMC has a long history of delivering the highest quality products to its customers and it has always been a responsible company.
What we must now do is deliver improved performance, in every aspect of our business.
Sir John Parker My first year as your Chairman has been a Chairman challenging one for the Group, with difficult trading conditions in a number of our major markets reflecting global economic uncertainty and fragility.
The year, however, has been a particularly active one for RMC and has seen many positive steps taken to improve the Groups performance over the medium term.
The Board has been strengthened, a thorough business review has been undertaken, a major refinancing has been completed and significant progress has been made towards our commitment to reduce debt and reshape our portfolio.
All Group activities were closely examined during the business review to confirm the appropriate structure of the business, its future investment profile and ability to deliver on the Boards commitment to enhance returns to shareholders.
The outcome of this was a clear statement of our business strategy and a set of clearly defined targets and objectives over the medium term.
These are being pursued and good underlying progress is being made.
During the year a new, five-year 0.9 billion syndicated bank facility was concluded.
This is an important element of the Groups mediumterm financing and, in conjunction with existing long-term borrowings, provides a strong and well balanced debt profile for the Group over the medium term.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2 Dove Holes Quarry, Buxton, Great Britain Three new non-executive Directors were appointed to the Board during 2002.
As part of their induction to the Group, they visited a number of operations including a tour of Dove Holes Quarry in Buxton, the UKs largest hard rock quarry owned and operated by RMC Aggregates UK Limited.
Although trading conditions in Great Britain Earnings per share excluding exceptional items We also believe there are significant softened in the second half of the year, the and goodwill amortisation were 41.4 pence opportunities to improve operating aggregates business performed well, with compared with 43.7 pence in 2001.
For example, in our cement satisfactory results coming from the readymix these items, basic earnings per share were business we are committed to a number and building products divisions.
of improvement initiatives targeted at operation has, however, continued to producing an EBITA improvement of experience difficulties, holding back the The Board, in reviewing the dividend, 50 million in the medium term.
A more fragile economy in the USA recognises its importance to shareholders.
led to weaker demand for heavy building It also attaches importance, amongst other With actions underway to increase efficiencies, materials with our business reporting a judgements, to the level of cash cover and the to enhance market focus and to improve reduction in profits.
In Germany, where good progress that has been achieved in the underlying profitability in all businesses, the construction industry demand fell for the early implementation of the Groups business Board has confirmed its target EBITA return seventh consecutive year, our operations review.
Taking account of these factors, the on net operating assets for the Group of were affected by falling cement prices leading Board has recommended an unchanged 12% over the medium term, subject to a modest reduction in profits.
Elsewhere I final dividend of 21.8 pence per share to improved economic conditions.
was encouraged by particularly good results 2001: 21.8 pence which, together with the in a number of countries, notably Australia, interim dividend paid per share of 9.4 pence I am pleased to inform you that we have Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, and in 2001: 9.4 pence, makes a total dividend already taken significant steps to enable us France and Spain where we had a record year.
for the year of 31.2 pence per share to deliver these strategic goals.
In his Chief These performances reflect the benefits of the 2001: 31.2 pence.
Executives review, Stuart Walker outlines the Groups strategic geographic spread of activity.
major disposals made in 2002 as well as other Business strategy disposals that have already been made in The Chief Executive, in his review, discusses As a result of the business review, the Groups 2003.
As a result, I can report that during the the industry-wide investigation into alleged product portfolio is being streamlined in order year net debt was reduced by 309.8 million anti-competitive practices in the cement to add greater focus on our core products to 1,179.6 million and that the Group is industry in Germany, which was announced concrete, aggregates and cement.
We believe now well placed to achieve its commitment on 8 July 2002.
RMC Group has had a strict that by concentrating on our strong positions to reduce net debt to less than 1 billion by policy in place regarding compliance with in these product areas, we will be in a better the end of this year.
competition law for many years and the Board position to achieve the synergies of vertical will continue to reinforce all measures taken integration and to generate improved returns.
The improved business efficiencies referred to prevent anti-competitive practices.
In the same vein, we have reviewed the to above should generate sufficient funds Groups portfolio of businesses in order to to allow for adequate investment in 2003.
Group profit before tax excluding exceptional concentrate on our larger-scale operations or items, was 144.3 million compared to those which offer the prospect of achieving 170.7 million in 2001.
Including exceptional sufficient scale in the next five years.
items, profit before tax was 136.1 million compared to 161.5 million in 2001.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 3 Chairmans statement continued Blackheads House, Riga, Latvia The Blackheads Society was an organisation of foreign merchants who settled in Riga in the 14th century.
This building, destroyed by fire in WWII, has been rebuilt using 600 tonnes of cement from the Groups Latvian subsidiary companies, and provides a venue for meetings and festivities for public organisations in Riga.
Quality, delivery and responsibility Employees Alan Durant retired on 31 October 2002 on Our shareholders, customers and other I should like to thank our employees for their reaching age 65, after 38 years service with key stakeholders demand from us quality, hard work and application during what has the Group, the last three as a Director of delivery and responsibility in all that we do been a challenging year for the Group.
On your behalf, and on behalf and we make it our business to meet these I joined the Group I have enjoyed meeting of the Board, I thank Alan for his loyal and expectations.
Through our integrated product many RMC people in the business and I have unstinting service and particularly for his mix and expertise in local markets around the been struck by their commitment and significant contribution towards the growth world, we provide added value to our enthusiasm.
It is the strength and quality of of our businesses in the USA.
Mike Foster customers by developing the synergies our employees that gives me confidence to has assumed overall responsibility for our between our complementary businesses say that the Group is well placed to deliver its US operations in addition to his existing and sharing knowledge across the Group, medium-term strategy, thus maintaining its responsibilities for the Groups businesses facilitating the introduction of innovative position as one of the worlds leading in Great Britain and Ireland.
Bob Lambourne resigned by mutual As well as delivering high quality products and Board changes agreement as Group Finance Director in services to our customers, RMC recognises I take this opportunity to thank my January 2003 and I should like to thank him that its business success also relies on being predecessor, Chris Hampson, for his invaluable for his services to the Group.
Bob has been clear about its obligations to the wider service to the Group as Chairman and to wish succeeded by Adrian Auer, formerly Group community affected by its business practices.
him a long and happy retirement.
I should Finance Director at Taylor Woodrow plc, who It is for the Board to set the standard for the also like to thank Professor Dr Karlheinz was appointed as an executive Director and Group as a whole, which is why we have Rsener who retired as a non-executive Group Finance Director on 14 January 2003. adopted a statement of business principles Director during the year.
I am pleased to welcome Adrian, whose and values.
These describe the values that considerable experience will be a valuable should underpin the day-to-day activities of We have welcomed three new non-executive asset to the Group and we are confident he every employee within the Group.
Social Directors to the Board in 2002: Philip Hampton will make a significant contribution to our responsibility individual and collective is Group Finance Director of Lloyds TSB Group future progress.
an integral feature of RMCs approach to plc, Helmut Mamsch Deputy Chairman of business and is explained in greater depth LogicaCMG plc and Jamie Pike Chief on pages 20 to 25 of this Report.
Each brings an impressive portfolio of skills and experience, as well as a fresh perspective on the challenges we face.
I am already grateful for their contribution, as I am for the support and commitment of my other fellow Directors on the Board.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 4
