Chairmans Statement Performance in the second half saw an improvement on the first with a better level of electric and, especially, fluid power product sales.
Roger Lockwood Chairman Introduction comment from our sales force and customers alike.
We are also I am pleased to report another year of growth for Rotork during increasing our sourcing of Far East components for our UK and a period in which a number of our markets experienced difficult US assembled products.
While the effect of this is gradual, trading conditions.
Overall sales grew by 8% to 133.5m, based on replacement cycles of product and new product pre-tax, pre-goodwill profit increased by 6% to 27.5m and introduction, it does represent an inexorable movement towards pre-goodwill earnings per share advanced by 7%.
The closing lower production costs, better cost effective support for order book was similar to that at the prior year-end when customers, and protection of margins across our product ranges.
adjusted for acquisitions and disposals.
The Fluid System business is now benefiting from the Business Review structural changes that we put in place in 2000, and as a Our overall business is being structured around four major result, registered strong growth in the year contributing 12% business areas - electric actuators, fluid power actuators, valve of Group turnover and 7% of profit.
The Lucca operation gearboxes & ancillaries and process control actuators.
Jordan moved into its new larger premises in February 2003 and Controls, based in Milwaukee and acquired in January 2002, now has much greater capacity and flexibility to respond to has met our expectations for the year and enabled us to its markets.
We have also introduced important new products develop further our process control activities.
It will continue to recently and further rationalised some of the existing ranges, participate in joint product development initiatives and to allowing us to offer complete solutions to our customers.
We benefit from access to Rotorks international sales network.
feel confident that we can further build on the successes of the past two years both in terms of sales growth and increased New electric actuator product R&D was focused on the return on sales.
development of a new specification quarter turn actuator, the IQT, and a new non-hazardous area product, the AWT, the latter The result of the Gears operation, which performed well at its being produced in Malaysia.
In addition to this, further main Leeds location, was held back by poor market conditions development of our actuator control system offerings took for Valvekits and some operational issues in its Dutch subsidiary.
The IQT will be launched in the second half of 2003, while the AWT was launched as planned in the final quarter of The sale of the Luton based Control and Safety business in 2002.
Our new electric actuator facility in Malaysia is now in November represents the final disposal of non-core businesses production with first orders having shipped in December.
The and leaves the Group focused entirely on Actuation products, product manufactured there is new and is receiving positive which has been a long-term strategic objective.
Our aim now 02 Rotork Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Dividend growth for ten years 1993 - 2002 is to extend our product offerings to customers through This year we have extended the Chief Executives Report to organic product development and niche acquisition, and to incorporate an Operating and Financial Review.
identify new areas in which to promote our actuators.
The development of our process control business is an important Dividend part of this strategy.
A final dividend of 8.9p is proposed which gives a 7% increase to 13.9p for the year.
Over the last five years our rate of Group performance overall in the second half saw an dividend increase has been in excess of earnings growth.
Cover improvement on the first with a better level of electric and, has been maintained at 1.5 times which the Directors consider especially, fluid power product sales, although the effect of this is appropriate at the present time.
mix towards fluid power products dilutes margin slightly.
A modest reduction in underlying order book from the half year Outlook reflects the higher shipments in the second half.
Our markets Our commitment to investment in product development and were mixed with excellent conditions in the US and Canada and lower cost manufacturing facilities will allow us to continue some regional strong points in the Far East and Europe.
The UK offering high quality, cost effective solutions to our customer and some other worldwide markets were slightly weaker than base around the world.
We are planning for another year of expected.
Venezuela was the most troublesome market which growth and for further strengthening of Rotorks position within started the year with a major devaluation and deteriorated its chosen markets.
There are, however, economic and political from there.
uncertainties in a number of our markets which may impact the current years results.
Working capital management has been a focus of attention during the year.
As our product ranges have extended and our sourcing becomes more global we have adjusted some of our processes to maintain an appropriate balance between working capital level and operational requirements.
Debtor days are down again from 75 to 70 days and inventory fell slightly in a period of greater throughput.
The net cash balance reduced by 1.9m to 20.0m, notwithstanding the 7.8m purchase of Jordan Controls in January 2002, reflecting strong cash Roger Lockwood generation in the year.
