In the year to 31 March 2002, the Group again In contrast, Waste Services increased its trading increased headline profit before taxation, exceptional profits by 4.0m to 36.1m 2001: 32.1m.
These items and goodwill amortisation, to 45.3m results were buoyed by landll inputs arising from the 2001: 45.1m.
Turnover grew by 5% to 529m Foot and Mouth crisis and by contaminated spoil 2001: 502m with approximately half derived from projects.
Scottish operations have shown improved the Benelux countries.
An exceptional charge of results with contributions from the Argyll and Bute 8.4m arose from the decision to cease operations and Falkirk local authority contracts.
The collection at the Pontypool incineration plant, caused by the and recycling activities disappointed due to a harsh conditions in the hazardous waste market.
combination of strong competition and low recyclate The tax rate on headline profit reduced to 32% prices.
Electricity generation, however, has delivered a 2001: 34%.
profit after tax and goodwill amortisation record performance as new capacity came on stream.
Belgium Helped by the lower tax charge, earnings per share Trading profits in Belgium reduced by 1.6m to before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation 13.1m 2001: 14.7m.
In the two prior years rose 5% to 13.2p.
Your Board recommends a final landll volumes had benefited indirectly from various dividend of 3.8 pence per share 2001: 3.7p which, health concerns over dioxins.
These supplementary if approved by shareholders, brings aggregate volumes were no longer available and other landll dividends for the year to 5.7 pence per share, an inputs also declined.
Signicantly, our principal landll increase of 3%.
site received planning permission, subject to appeal, for additional void, which will extend its operating life The financial position remains strong with earnings by approximately ten years.
The two non-recurring before interest, taxation, depreciation and issues announced at the half year relating to a amortisation EBITDA rising by 3m to 113m.
As a demolition contract and site clearance at fide Paepe result of this strong cash ow, the Group has funded have largely been resolved, with performance 62m of capital expenditure and small acquisitions improving signicantly in the second half.
whilst reducing net debt from 302m to 290m.
Interest expense remained broadly steady at 18.8m The Netherlands 2001: 18.6m with interest cover, before Trading profits increased by 0.9m to 25.0m exceptional items, at 3.6 times.
The solid waste activities performed strongly, aided by lower treatment costs on some Divisional Review waste streams being exported to Germany.
Three United Kingdom small acquisitions were made for an aggregate of Trading profits grew by 1.4m to 32.1m 2001: 30.7m.
The hazardous waste market has proved extremely Reym industrial cleaning prospered in the year whilst challenging for Chemical Services resulting in the Flection computer refurbishment results were increased trading losses of 4.0m 2001: 1.4m.
adversely affected by the general price erosion for The ending of the first contract for the disposal of new IT equipment.
Meat and Bone Meal MBM from the BSE crisis in March 2002 triggered the incineration capacity ATM, the hazardous waste activity, has had a reduction at Pontypool.
This action will lead to cost challenging year reecting difficulties in the savings of 4m in the current year.
As previously repermitting of one of the three principal processes announced, the exceptional charge arising is on the Moerdijk site.
Negotiations on a new permit expected to total less than 10m, of which 8.4m for this pyrolysis plant continue.
2002 Developments Outlook United Kingdom Last years benets from the Foot and Mouth crisis The Group is bidding on a selected number of long and the first MBM contract will not recur.
However, it term local authority waste disposal contracts.
An is currently expected that the positive effect of the integrated array of innovative new technologies has Pontypool cost savings, increased power contribution been assembled which allows local authorities to together with growth in the core business will lead to meet the emerging requirements of the Landll modest progress in the current year.
Directive, without resort to new incineration capacity.
The Group has a strong spread of activities both These highly attractive solutions have already geographically and technically.
The implementation of resulted in our appointment as preferred bidder for European legislation and increases in environmental both Dumfries & Galloway 0.1m tonne year and the taxes, especially in the UK, are trends in our favour.
East London Waste Authority 0.5m tonne year These developments play to the Groups strengths waste management contracts.
It is anticipated that and provide a platform for future growth, particularly both will move to financial close in the current year in the processing of municipal waste.
with more projects to follow in due course.
A select portfolio of these opportunities, project nanced through the Private Finance Initiative could provide a high degree of certainty over future cash ows and earnings.
The Groups rapidly growing electricity generating activities have similar characteristics.
Benelux I M Clubb Tuck-in acquisitions continue to expand the business Chairman base and provide scope for efficiencies and new services.
These developments are important as they facilitate progress in growth market segments compensating for declines in mature areas of the rapidly changing market.
An eventual resolution to the pyrolysis permit at ATM will also provide a welcome boost.
Directorate In this my first Chairmans Statement, I pay tribute to retiring Chairman, Gordon Waddell, whose skill and wise counsel served the Group well for ten years.
The directors and employees join me in wishing him a long, happy and healthy retirement.
