Chairmans statement 2002 was a challenging year for Shire and our industry.
Pressure on is the US market leader in the ADHD field.
I would like to take this the global pharmaceutical industry was increased by several aggressive opportunity to thank Mr Stahel for his outstanding contribution to the launches of generic drugs.
In addition, an ever-increasing population success of the Company.
of ageing patients and inadequate third-party reimbursement schedules In March 2003, Shire took a major step towards the next stage of its continued to exert price pressures on healthcare providers.
Maximising growth by choosing Matthew Emmens as Chief Executive.
Mr Emmens returns in the face of these pressures will require pharmaceutical has a strong track record of success over a pharmaceutical career companies to deploy resources effectively to drive the discovery, spanning nearly 30 years.
He was a founder of the Astra Merck Inc. development and marketing of novel drugs.
joint venture, and later its President and Chief Executive.
Most recently, Shire is particularly well placed to deal with such challenges.
Mr Emmens was President of the global pharmaceutical business of The Company has always maintained a substantial research and Merck KGaA, in Germany.
He had established its US prescription development R&D programme to create a sizeable portfolio of new pharmaceutical business, EMD Pharmaceuticals, before moving to therapies.
Building from its position as an international pharmaceutical Germany.
Mr Emmens extensive experience and leadership should company targeting specialist doctors, Shire is emerging as a global prove crucial drivers as the business moves ahead.
Today the Company not only in-licenses projects People for internal development, but also has the technological capabilities Shire had 1,847 employees worldwide as of 31 December 2002.
The to discover and develop its own molecules.
Our R&D approach is risk Group believes in the importance of hiring well-qualified, experienced balanced with a careful and objective discipline that focuses the portfolio staff with proven records of success.
The Groups future success on low to medium risk projects.
depends upon its ability to attract and retain such individuals.
Shire In 2002, following six major mergers and acquisitions during the past will continue to apply and develop a strong focus on staff development eight years, Shire acquired the US specialty pharmaceutical manufacturing at all levels.
facility of Atlantic Pharmaceutical Services Inc. APS, and more recently, Future prospects the rights to METHYPATCH methylphenidate a transdermal delivery ADDERALL XR is now well established as a leading once-daily ADHD system, an important new attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder treatment and, in its first year of launch, has become the preferred ADHD product under registration.
choice of top-prescribing physicians for their patients in the US.
In 2002 results conjunction with continued growth of our key revenue streams, including Group turnover increased by 23% to 712.5 million 2001: the relaunch of CARBATROL, and three pending product registrations 580.4 million.
Loss on ordinary activities before taxation was ADDERALL XR adults in the US, FOSRENOL lanthanum carbonate 526.8 million 2001: profit of 81.4 million.
Diluted loss earnings US EU, XAGRID EU, our sales and marketing organisation is poised per share was 117.5 p 2001: 8.5p.
to continue driving the performance of Shires revenues.
The results for 2002 include a 614.0 million write-down of the goodwill The Board is committed to continuing to develop the Companys global that was created on the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. in 2001. strategy and growth.
Shires strong investment in R&D will continue to support the future growth of Shire, with a total of four further projects The US product portfolio, which includes ADDERALL XR mixed scheduled to move into Phase III development this year.
We have all amphetamine salts, ADDERALL mixed amphetamine salts, AGRYLIN witnessed the dramatic growth of Shire over the last few years and anagrelide hydrochloride, CARBATROL carbamazepine, PENTASA I believe we can look forward to even more opportunities in the years mesalamine and PROAMATINE midodrine hydrochloride has, once ahead.
again, delivered strong revenue growth.
Notwithstanding aggressive generic competition, our US sales and marketing team delivered 16% revenue growth in our US business, including 17% growth in the ADDERALL franchise during the year.
Dr James Cavanaugh Augmenting its strong US business, Shire continued to develop its Chairman international strategy, launching two specialty pharmaceutical products in Europe, SOLARAZE diclofenac sodium 3% and ADEPT 4% icodextrin solution.
Total turnover in the international pharmaceutical segment grew by 44% in 2002, with a meaningful contribution from XAGRID anagrelide hydrochloride.
The Board It is with much regret that we report the passing of Dr Bernard Canavan, the former President of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc. a member of Shires Board of Directors and Chairman of our Audit Committee.
Dr Canavan died in August 2002.
His guidance and dedication to the Shire Board will be greatly missed.
In October 2002, we announced that Rolf Stahel, our Chief Executive, would be stepping down in 2003.
During his nine years as Chief Executive, Mr Stahel drove Shires formidable success and growth.
He presided over the listing of the Companys shares in 1996, over six significant mergers and acquisitions, the broadening of the Companys sales and marketing infrastructure, and the development of a number of successful products through the Companys extensive R&D pipeline.
Today Shire is the third largest pharmaceutical company in the UK and ADEPT is a registered trademark of ML Laboratories plc.
