In my interim statement I referred to the solid progress which existing and newly acquired bakery ingredients businesses had been achieved in the first six months of the year and I in the UK and the US.
The result was a decline in profit but, am delighted to report that our operational performance in the despite this setback, we are confident that growth will be second half has maintained that rate of growth.
Operating profit, resumed in the current year.
before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill, increased by 44 million, or 13%, to 395 million.
It is particularly noteworthy Our grocery businesses again produced an excellent result.
that this performance has been achieved against the background Allied Bakeries continued to grow branded volume in the of a global market characterised by excess capacity and declining multiple retail sector.
With contributions from a bread price consumer confidence.
increase, cost reductions and operational efficiency improvements, Allied Bakeries achieved a significant improvement in its results.
All divisions, with the exception of Australia, achieved Twinings maintained its strong performance in worldwide sales, double-digit profit increases maintaining the trend established market share and profit growth.
A strong feature in this growth in the first half.
Primary food & agriculture again produced story in recent years has been the successful development of its strong profit growth.
Despite a smaller UK beet crop, British product range into the herbal and fruit infusion markets both Sugar achieved a satisfactory increase in profit.
This could in the UK and overseas.
not have been achieved without the ongoing rationalisation and cost reduction programme which has been a constant focus Primark has again achieved outstanding growth in both in recent years.
Despite an improved operational performance, sales and profit.
We continue to acquire and develop stores our overseas sugar business in Poland was hit by adverse in new city centre locations and we are confident that the market prices resulting in a fall in profit.
Although faced with growth of this business can be maintained in an increasingly a poor wheat harvest, Allied Mills and our arable business competitive sector.
achieved strong gains in profitability.
Here again restructuring and cost reduction has been a constant theme.
In agriculture, The poor performance of George Weston Foods in Australia traditionally the most volatile sector of our operations, we were continued into the second half of the financial year.
Despite a highly able to overcome the trailing impact of disease and adverse successful performance by the milling and baking businesses, weather conditions to record strong gains in our animal feeds our meat and biscuit operations continued to underperform.
Given the continuing problems of pricing, financial the year we sold, at a profit, our loss-making starch manufacturing instability and over capacity in the farming industry, the operation.
Since the financial year end we have completed the achievement of double-digit growth in a shrinking sector of buyout of the minority shareholders in the company.
We are now the UK economy is a remarkable result.
in a position to take positive action to best position this business for growth.
This will be a major focus in the coming year.
With one exception, the ingredients & oils businesses put in an outstanding performance.
ACH signicantly increased its The disposal of redundant properties continued resulting in profit and this is particularly pleasing because it was achieved a profit of 8 million in the year.
before including any contribution from the Mazola oils acquisition, which was only purchased towards the end of Despite an increased level of expenditure on xed assets and the financial year.
The integration of Mazola is going according acquisitions at over 450 million, the strong cash ow from our to plan and it is expected to make a substantial contribution operating activities ensured that at the year end our net liquid to the profit growth of ACH in the coming year.
SPI, our polyols funds were in excess of 1 billion, a level virtually unchanged business, has made a recovery from the operational problems from the previous year.
Improved returns on these invested funds experienced last year and achieved a signicantly improved in the second half of the year enabled us to restrict the decline profit.
It is disappointing to report that our Abitec ingredients in the level of investment income as a result of lower interest rates.
business faced problems in reorganising and integrating its At 57 million this was 9 million, or 14%, below last year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 5 Chairmans statement continued Adjusting for exceptional items, profits on the sale of xed assets up to the possibility of war in the Middle East, a seemingly and amortisation of goodwill, group profit before tax increased unending financial crisis in Japan and low to zero growth in the by 9% to 430 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were 14% US and Europe.
No company as large and widespread in its ahead of last year at 38.7p.
activities as ours can be totally immune from these inuences.
Your company is renowned for its defensive strengths and its cash Despite this gloomy outlook I believe that this company can face generating capability.
These results, achieved against a background the coming year with the confidence that it will maintain its positive of increasing global uncertainty and decreasing investor confidence, growth in sales and operating profit.
In the past year, we have demonstrate not only the strength and resilience inherent in our invested over 450 million on acquisitions and capital expenditure core businesses but their capacity for producing further growth.
Such is the strength of our cash ow that we have nanced all this without any significant reduction in Management effort continues to be focused on improving the level of our net liquid funds.
These investments and the further the efficiency of our businesses.
This is not only a process of acquisitions since our year end will have a positive effect on our reducing our cost base but of improving the level of performance operating performance in the coming year.
by our operating management both by developing the best of our existing executives and targeted recruitment of stronger The growth of your company has been nanced from its own managers where required.
The value of this long-held and important discipline is clearly demonstrated in todays hostile financial environment Spending on acquisitions in the year totalled 268 million where the very existence of many companies is threatened by including 235 million for the purchase of Mazola in the US.
their inability to service debt taken on in more expansionary times.
This bottled corn oil business is an ideal t with ACH oils and Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable pace funding enables us to broaden our product offering into the branded our development from cash ow and a strong balance sheet.
retail segment of the market as well as to rationalise production and distribution costs.
This acquisition will have a positive impact The base of our business has been signicantly reshaped in the on earnings in our 2003 financial year.
We have sought to eliminate areas of weakness or irrelevance to our planned growth but at the same time we Since the end of the financial year we completed the purchase of have sought to strengthen and expand those sectors which can the minority shareholdings in George Weston Foods in Australia at act as the framework for our future development.
I am confident a cost of 58 million.
In early October we announced the purchase that your company can maintain its current momentum.
of Ovaltine, the branded malted drinks business, from Novartis of Switzerland for a consideration of 171 million.
The acquisition Board changes includes Ovaltine and associated brands throughout the world The appointment of Mike Alexander as an additional non-executive except the US.
The addition of this internationally known brand to director was announced in January this year.
Mr Alexander is our product portfolio will enhance our presence in the international executive director and chief operating officer of Centrica plc, consumer market for hot beverages.
This acquisition is forecast to having previously held a number of management positions with be earnings enhancing in its first year under our ownership.
BP and latterly with British Gas.
He brings a wealth of operational management experience and will make a strong contribution to In my last annual report I stated that the outlook for the year our activities.
ahead was one of escalating uncertainty and of reduction in consumer confidence.
Financial markets throughout the world Dividends over the past year have reected that in moving consistently The directors have declared a second interim dividend of 9.00p lower.
I believe that the coming months will bring little in the 2001 7.55p which will be paid on 18 February 2003 to way of relief from these pressures as the global economy faces shareholders registered at the close of business on 17 January 2003.
6 Associated British Foods plc The growth of your company has been nanced from its own resources... Our objective is to grow at a steady and sustainable pace funding our development from cash ow and a strong balance sheet.
This makes a total dividend for the year of 13.25p, an increase of 12% on the previous year.
Employees The pace of change in our organisation owes much to our employees around the world who have not only risen to the challenges this poses but have made major contributions in taking us forward.
The successes we are recording in this report are a testament to their efforts and I take this opportunity to thank them all.
Chairman Your company is well placed to achieve further growth.
It has an excellent management team and a solid financial base.
Having served as a director for the last 23 years I feel that it is the appropriate time to step down and I have notied the board that I intend to retire immediately following the annual general meeting.
My successor as Chairman will be Martin Adamson, a fellow board member who will bring to the role a wealth of business experience and a breadth of knowledge of your companys activities.
I wish him and my colleagues every success in the years ahead.
Harry Bailey Chairman Annual Report and Accounts 2002 7 Chief Executives review Good market positions have been strengthened, strong management teams have been reinforced and a more international ABF is emerging with the first rate new businesses acquired in North America, Europe and Asia.
Businesses across the group again delivered excellent results, There is however much still to do in order to bring the company increasing operating profit, before exceptional items and closer to achieving its full potential.
We need to do even more amortisation of goodwill, by 13% to 395 million and increasing to develop our management teams and we must further increase group sales by 3% to 4,545 million.
Adjusted earnings per the focus we place on the marketing of our products.
also continue to review the performance and plans of all our businesses to determine those where we can achieve the best A particularly pleasing aspect of these results is that, for the returns on our investment.
second year running, four out of five of the business categories outlined in our segmental analysis delivered operating profit A key element of our future is the further development, either increases in excess of 10%, a clear indication of the breadth organically or by acquisition, of very strong market positions of progress being made across the group.
that have the scale, cost base and breadth and depth of product offering necessary to make a major impact on their markets.
Delivering sustained growth is however only one of our goals.
We still have a place for efficient, smaller businesses with the The other major goal is the generation of strong cash ow, the potential to grow, but the development of larger scale positions means by which we will ensure our ongoing ability to invest heavily will strengthen the base of our business and provide the platform in the capital projects and acquisitions necessary to underpin for significant subsequent growth.
The cash ow generated by the group over the last year, after capital expenditure but before acquisitions and One example of our ability to develop businesses is at ACH.
This result demonstrates the strong Here the business has moved, in a two year period, from cash generating ability of the group.
being a medium size refiner, bottler and marketer of private label cooking oils to becoming a leading player in the bottling Although our shareholders and our employees should take and marketing of oil based food products in North America.
In some satisfaction from these financial results there have also making this transition we outsourced the inefficient elements been other signs of progress.
Good market positions have of our manufacturing operations and, with the acquisition of been strengthened, strong management teams have been strong brands in both foodservice and retailing, created strong reinforced and a more international company is emerging market positions with the scale necessary to optimise our with the first rate new businesses acquired in North America, distribution and buying efficiencies.
In time this strength will Europe and Asia.
inevitably provide further opportunities for significant growth.
