Chairmans Statement We have performed well The Group increased sales substantially in 2002, despite a Margins sharp decline in the market for commercial interiors Increased costs and adverse changes in the sales mix caused products across Europe, and a more general reduction in operating profit margins to decline in all three geographic building activity in Germany.
Sales were increased on a like regions.
The overall Group operating margin declined from 5.4% 1 for like basis in all three geographic regions in local in 2001 to 4.6% in 2002. currency UK and Republic of Ireland, mainland Europe and the USA.
In addition, the acquisitions made during 2002 Earnings and Dividends performed well and contributed to the Groups top line Earnings per share in 2002 were 26.3p compared with 28.8p growth.
A final dividend of 7.7p is proposed, subject to shareholders approval.
This would make As the year progressed, it became evident that despite the the total dividend for the year 11.6p, up 5.5% from the 11.0p paid overall sales growth, profits would be below prior year.
This represents the ninth successive year of increased Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, which was in line dividend and reflects the Boards confidence in the future with market expectations, fell by 2%.
This fall was due to: prospects of the Group.
ladverse changes in the mix of sales If approved, the final dividend will be payable on 16 May 2003 lincreased investment in new branches and to shareholders on the register at 11 April 2003. customer-focused resources Acquisitions lone-off charges arising from a cost rationalisation Six acquisitions were made during the year, five in the UK and programme.
one in the Netherlands, for a total consideration of 23.8m.
Whilst the decline in profits is disappointing, when considered The greatest focus for this investment has been within the UK against the very difficult conditions in a number of markets roofing market.
in which the Group operates and the costs incurred in improving the business for the longer term, the underlying Finances strength and resilience of the Group is clearly demonstrated.
Cash flow strengthened progressively throughout the year, and gearing fell to 63% compared with 66% at the end of 2001 and Results 74% at 30 June 2002.
Interest and dividend cover, whilst below Sales 2001 levels, remain healthy, and the Group has a sound Sales increased by 117.7m 11.4% to 1,155m.
Of this growth, financial position.
77.2m 66% was organic and 40.5m 34% came from acquisitions made during 2002.
It is believed that this Trading Conditions performance demonstrates gains in market share in most of our In the UK and Republic of Ireland overall demand in the major markets.
Geographically, sales performance was as building and construction sectors was positive, which benefited follows: the roofing and building insulations businesses.
Demand from the more specialist industrial insulation sector declined.
The UK and Republic of Ireland: Sales up 15%, an overall increase decline in tenant occupancy in the office market caused a sharp of 95.7m.
Growth was achieved in all three main product fall in demand for ceilings and partition products, negatively sectors of Insulation, Roofing and Commercial Interiors.
impacting on sales and operating margins in the Commercial Mainland Europe: Sales were increased by 6% in local Interiors operations.
currencies and growth was achieved in each country, In mainland Europe market demand for commercial interiors i. e. Germany, France, the Netherlands and Poland.
products fell across the areas in which the Group operates.
This USA: Despite the depressed market conditions, a small sales affected the businesses in France, the Netherlands, Poland and increase was achieved in US dollars as a result of the new Germany.
In Germany it is estimated that demand for products from the wider building and construction sector fell by around 10%.
Profits lOperating profits before goodwill amortisation were 57.9m In the USA overall demand from the core industrial and 2001: 59.1m.
This is after charging exceptional costs of petrochemical market remains depressed.
2.3m arising from the rationalisation programme To summarise, more than half of the markets in which the Group implemented towards the year end.
operates experienced reduced demand in 2002.
Against this lProfit before tax and goodwill amortisation was 50.9m background, the like for like sales growth achieved in all areas 2001: 54.1m, a decline of 3.2m 5.9%.
justifies the investments made during the year to develop and strengthen the position of the Group for the future.
lProfit before tax after goodwill amortisation of 4.5m 2001: 2.8m was 46.3m 2001: 51.3m, representing a decline of 5m 9.6%.
1 like for like in this context means excluding the sales of acquisitions made in 2001 and 2002.
10 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 in very difficult conditions.
Pensions The Board is aware of recent recommendations and reports The Group has four defined benefits pension schemes in concerning corporate governance and the composition and existence with combined active membership of 296 employees, structure of the boards of listed companies.
The various constituting less than 8% of UK employees.
Money purchase recommendations are actively discussed and considered by the arrangements exist for all other employees in the UK.
All four Board on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that the highest defined benefits schemes were closed to new members some standards of corporate governance are maintained.
After consultation with the active membership of the largest scheme during the year, certain changes were made to Prospects the future contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future Overall, we expect no material change in market conditions in liabilities.
In the UK and Republic of Ireland, the housing market for both new build and repairs and maintenance is expected to Under FRS 17 Retirement benefits which the Group intends to remain sound.
Non-housing construction is expected to remain adopt in accordance with requirements in 2005, the total net broadly flat, with the exception of office interiors, which is deficit at the year end on the four defined benefit schemes expected to decline further in 2003.
The new insulation amounted to 13.957m 2001: 5.413m.
Had the standard standards are beginning to have a positive impact on new been adopted in 2002, the impact on the profit and loss building activity and this influence is expected to continue account would have been minimal.
Employees Overseas, we expect construction activity in Germany to decline The drive, creativity and professionalism of our people are the further but to remain broadly stable in France, the Netherlands hallmark by which the Group is recognised across all the trading and Poland.
Industrial demand in the USA is expected to activities.
I would like to pay tribute to all our employees for their continue at similar levels to 2002. vital contribution to SIG in 2002.
Against the background of considerable macro-economic Board uncertainty, the Group expects to benefit from the actions taken We have recently announced the appointment of two new last year to gain market share in a number of areas of operation, non-executive directors to the Board, with effect from 1 March and from the restructuring programme implemented towards the 2003.
Les Tench 57, until recently managing director of end of the year.
CRH-Europe, Building Products, takes on the role of senior The Group enters 2003 with sound finances and a strong independent director.
He is joined by David Haxby 61, position in all its main markets.
The Board looks forward with previously a senior partner with an international accountancy confidence to further progress.
practice and presently a non-executive director with Cattles plc and Cyberes plc.
Barrie Cottingham, Non-Executive Chairman The new directors each bring considerable experience and will add significantly to the Board.
As the Company continues to move forward, I believe they will both make an important contribution.
These appointments, particularly the newly created post of a senior independent director, strengthen further the Board from a corporate governance perspective.
Nick Paul, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in 2001 has decided to step down from SIG, with effect from 1 March 2003, in order to concentrate on other business interests.
The Board thanks him for his valuable contribution.
We have continued to invest for future growth and have performed well in very difficult markets.
Barrie Cottingham, Non-Executive Chairman SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 11
