TriGen A summer time car crash landed this universitybound student on a surgeons operating table with a femoral fracture.
The less-invasive TriGen femoral nailing system helped to mend her broken bone and restored her to walking so she could start the autumn term in time.
We have had another excellent year of growth within each of our three businesses.
Financial performance and dividend Chairmans Group sales grew strongly, led by the Orthopaedics business.
Underlying growth of statement 14% was augmented by acquisitions, which added a further 4%.
Our drive to deliver innovative products across all our businesses is paying off In 2002 we achieved our targets within the and we are also benefiting from the past two Orthopaedics, Endoscopy and Advanced years sales force expansions.
Each of Smith & Nephews businesses strengthened its We achieved an ongoing operating margin positions in the markets in which it operates before exceptional items of 16.5%, despite the through a combination of sales growth, new dissynergies of the restructuring divestments products and technology acquisition.
The underlying margin increased by 0.7%.
Before goodwill amortisation, In March 2002 we acquired and have since the margin was 18.1%.
successfully integrated ORATEC Interventions, Inc. establishing our Endoscopy business as Investors continue to recognise the companys a leader in radiofrequency technology and strength and share price growth potential.
Smith minimally invasive spinal surgery.
We also & Nephew was one of the UKs best-performing acquired the remaining half of the Dermagraft stocks in 2002, outperforming the FTSE 100 by and TransCyte joint arrangements from more than 20%.
The recommended final dividend Advanced Tissue Sciences, Inc. gaining full is increased to 3.00p, making a total dividend strategic control of those products.
We disposed of our Rehabilitation business People to AbilityOne Corporation also in March 2002, Our people take pride in our products which retaining a 21.5% interest in the expanded enable patients to regain their lives.
This focused the group on our three extremely talented group of individuals and we chosen areas of expertise.
thank them for their commitment, creativity and energy in serving the company and the medical community.
02 Smith & Nephew 2002 TriVex procedure Dermagraft She faces the same A keen golfer, he has problems every mother suffered from diabetes does: dressing the kids, all his life.
He ignored making lunches, finding a wound on his foot, time for herself.
Faced thinking it would clear with an uphill battle of up, but when he lost another type one sensation in his lower against unsightly, painful leg he finally went to see varicose veins, she his doctor.
The foot ulcer received treatment with was so serious he was the TriVex procedure.
in real danger of having She can now handle the limb amputated.
the challenges of After 12 weeks of being motherhood without the treated with Dermagraft, added difficulty of leg a bio-engineered human pain, which allows her dermal replacement, more time to concentrate he was out of the danger on what matters most zone and looking forward her family.
We remain confident in our ability to deliver sustainable growth for the future.
We pay particular tribute to Larry Papasan markets.
In 2003, we will see the impact of for his valued contribution as President of the our strong ongoing sales and profit growth Orthopaedics business.
He retired at the end on our reported results without the impact of 2002 and we welcome David Illingworth, of divestments.
who has joined us to lead the division to further success.
We have a leading range of technology and products that repair and heal the human body.
Board We will maintain our progress by investing in Tim Lankester has chosen not to stand again new and differentiated technologies which bring for re-election to the Board and will be standing benefits to patients, and in the specialist sales down at the AGM in April.
We thank him for forces to bring these products to the medical his contribution over the last seven years.
We will continue to invest in our businesses by increasing sales force strength, Corporate governance has been a priority adding manufacturing capacity and enhancing over the past year particularly as we are listed new product development to generate vigorous on both the London and New York Stock growth.
We will also acquire businesses or Exchanges.
Smith & Nephew is committed to technologies that strengthen our long term an open and constructive relationship with our prospects.
shareholders and the overall investment community.
We are working to comply with the We remain confident of delivering sustainable new US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the ongoing growth and believe we are well placed to detailed guidelines being supplied by the achieve our mid-teens underlying pre-goodwill Securities and Exchange Commission.
amortisation EPS growth target going forward.
Outlook The markets on which we focus continue to demonstrate robust growth.
Smith & Nephew is achieving sales growth that outpaces the industry, and is demonstrating its ability to grow share and position within the Orthopaedics, Dudley Eustace Endoscopy and Advanced Wound Management Chairman Smith & Nephew 2002 03
