ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement for the year ended 31 December 2002 I am pleased to report an excellent year in 2002, which saw the Group focusing on its activities as a major international drilling services provider.
We have made progress in all our principal markets: North and West Africa, the Middle East, the Caspian Region, Russia, the UK and mainland Europe.
The benefits that continue to accrue from our acquisition of DEUTAG are clearly evidenced from this highly satisfactory performance in 2002.
While our investment would have continued to provide the oil and gas industry having held senior appointments with inspection services, the Group is now focused on its oil drilling contOperating profits, excluding exceptional items, goodwill amortisation profitable growth, it would nevertheless have required an increasing Conoco both in the UK and abroad since 1973, becoming Chairman racting and engineering business and is a major participant in its key and discontinued businesses more than doubled to 31.8 million level of capital expenditure.
and Managing Director of Conoco U. K. Ltd in 1993 until his core markets.
Operating profits rose The Board, therefore, concluded that shareholder interests were retirement from that company in 2002.
His experience will be of The Governments Royalty Relief Provisions which took effect from to 24.8 million 2001: 11.3 million, an increase of 118%.
best served by focusing our resources on the profitable expansion of great benefit to the Group.
1 January 2003, coupled with the sale of assets by major companies The Group made an exceptional gain on the sale of its 50% share our core international drilling businesses.
At the same time Guy Lafferty resigned from the Board.
I would to larger independents, should have a positive impact on UK activity in the wind energy joint venture with Powergen of 46.1 million, After the year end, we sold OIS International Inspection plc OIS like to thank Guy for his contribution to the success of the Group overall.
At the same time, onshore drilling in all of our core areas partly offset by provisions totalling 9.8 million in respect of the to Oceaneering International Services Ltd for a total consideration of since our stock market flotation in 1995. continues to grow steadily having strong visibility of contracts for disposal closure of operations of its inspection division in early 16.9 million, which after repayment of bank overdrafts and inter- 2003 and into 2004 5, with confirmed utilisation of our marketable 2003, to give an overall exceptional gain of 36.3 million.
company debt, resulted in a loss on disposal of 7.5 million over Corporate Governance rigs being at very high levels for the current year and beyond.
Pre tax profits, excluding exceptional items, goodwill amortisation book value of which 5.8 million related to goodwill.
We continue to comply with the provisions of the Code of Best It is anticipated that world-wide demand for oil and oil based and discontinued businesses increased to 24.7 million 2001: The Surveys Division of OIS was retained and provision has been Practice set out in The Combined Code on corporate governance, products will continue to increase.
Provided any conflict in Iraq does 13.2 million, a rise of 87%.
Pre tax profits rose to 50.2 million made for losses on the closure of this operation totalling 2.3 million.
particularly with regard to the independence of non-executive directors.
not escalate into neighbouring territories, there should not be any 2001: 10.2 million, an increase of almost 400%.
The decision to sell OIS was taken following the acquisition of To this end, and as a result of his appointment as a director of Iskut detrimental affect on our operations in the Middle East.
Adjusted earnings per share, excluding exceptional items, goodwill DEUTAG, which effectively doubled the size of our drilling operations, Investment Holdings Limited, a significant shareholder in Abbot, The financial strength of the Group, as evidenced from its balance amortisation and discontinued businesses rose by 47% to 9.7p thereby resulting in OIS becoming a non-core business in relation to Guy Lafferty tendered his resignation as a non-executive director as sheet, has been substantially enhanced and we are now in a position 2001: 6.6p.
Basic earnings per share rose by 500% from 4.3p to 25.8p.
he felt he could no longer be considered to be truly independent.
to pursue the many opportunities for growth that we see in several With regard to my own position as Executive Chairman, the Board of our main markets.
This, together with our continuing drive for greater Dividend Borrowings has concluded that, with my substantial shareholding in the Group, efficiency with particular emphasis on margin improvement, leads The directors are recommending an increase in the final dividend to As a result of the disposal of Powergen Renewables, referred to above, my interests are very much aligned to those of all other shareholders, me to believe that we shall show a significant improvement in results 2.75p 2001: 2.40p per ordinary share, which, taken together with an early loan repayment of 40 million to Bank of Scotland BoS and therefore it does not believe that there is any conflict between for the current year.
the interim dividend already paid, would give a total distribution of was made.
In December, we reached agreement with BoS, in return my position and the continuing prosperity of the Group.
In any event, 4.0p 2001:3.5p per ordinary share, an increase of 14.3%.
If approved, for a one off payment of 4 million of which 3.2 million is shown the day to day operation of the Group is undertaken by the Chief the final dividend will be paid on 6 June 2003 to eligible shareas an exceptional item, to prepay deferred interest of 7 million due Operating Officer.
holders on the register at 9 May 2003. to BoS in October 2006.
In addition the warrants owned by BoS to The recently published Higgs Report on corporate governance subscribe for 9,254,539 ordinary shares in Abbot up to 30 September and the Smith Report on guidance on audit committees contain many Disposals 2006 at an exercise price of 200p, were cancelled.
Total net debt at proposals which the Board will consider and look to implement as In October, we disposed of our 50% interest in Powergen Renewables the year end was 45.6 million giving a gearing level of 35%.
appropriate for the future well-being of the Group.
to Powergen UK plc Powergen for a total consideration of 57.5 million resulting in a profit on disposal of 46.1 million.
Under the terms The Board Outlook of the joint venture agreement with Powergen, E. ONs acquisition of In December, we welcomed Dr. George Watkins CBE to the Board The current year has started well and in-line with our internal forecasts.
Alasdair J. D. Locke Executive Chairman Powergen in July 2002 enabled us to review our interest in the joint as a non-executive director.
George has a wealth of experience in As a result of the disposal of our interests in renewable energy and 12 March 2003 Page 4 Page 5 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 ABBOT GROUP plc Annual Report Accounts 2002 Operating Review for the year ended 31 December 2002 Following the acquisition of DEUTAG, we have undertaken a substantial reorganisation of operations in both Aberdeen and Germany and have achieved our targeted cost savings within budget and more quickly than planned.
The Drilling Group Land Drilling of the client.
Further improvements are anticipated following the award The Group also carries out a significant number of facilities upgrade We are continuing with an efficiency programme within which the The major event for the land drilling division was the successful of a performance improvement contract to Technical Limit Services, projects, which become necessary over the life of rigs or fixed platdrilling group has set medium and long-term targets for further cost placement, commissioning and start-up of an arctic class drilling unit a joint venture between KCA DEUTAG and RLG International which, forms.
Opportunities arise as reservoir characteristics change and the savings and improved operating margins.
on an artificial island in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian for AGIP KCO, following the inclusion of some incentives into the primary contract, requirement for long reach wells, which were not envisaged by the Significant progress has been made in the efforts to centralise a consortium of international oil companies in partnership with the should deliver enhanced benefits to the Group.
certain functions, in particular, purchasing and logistics which are Kazakh National Oil Company.
For a number of other clients including Shell, performance improveThe Aberdeen division carried out upgrade work on Talismans now co-ordinated centrally with savings beginning to be realised This is a demanding project in an area of high environmental ments in some cases relating to safety, yielded rewards under various Claymore platform, and was also awarded a contract for further work not only through operational efficiencies but also through greater concern, difficult logistics and extremes of weather.
Safety performance is particularly important in the on Amerada Hesss Scott platform.
Major projects include continuing purchasing power.
Following extensive modification, the rig was mobilised from Bad winning of new and the retention of existing contracts.
The continuing work on AIOCs Central Azeri and Shah Deniz projects in the Caspian Work will continue to centralise other functions, particularly those Bentheim, via the Russian canal system in late 2001 just prior to the emphasis in this area and the results that accrue are particularly pleasing.
which has led to further work on phases II and III of the overall field relating to commercial activities.
winter freeze, and commenced operations in mid-April.
Contract renewals or extensions were negotiated with BP, TotalFinaElf, development.
The Group has some 130 engineers working in Paris The onshore rig disposal programme for redundant or mislocated This time last year we stated that we intended to concentrate the ExxonMobil and Amerada Hess, and the Group won a tender for and London on these projects.
equipment was essentially completed during the year, although the land drilling operations in areas where we could gain most benefit new work on the TotalFinaElf Dunbar platform.
This was the only KCA DEUTAGs Houston office has won a number of study contracts two units in Algeria, earmarked for disposal, were moved to Jebel from existing operations.
During the year we withdrew from Algeria such contract tendered during the year, and it followed alterations and is marketing the Groups services in particular for the Russian far Ali in the UAE for upgrading to meet improved market demand.
and Venezuela, focusing efforts on our principal markets.
These efforts to the platform enabling on-platform operations rather than the east and Angola.
The recent award of engineering work for Hyundai Subsequently, the larger unit has been awarded a contract which were rewarded by the start-up of an additional rig in Oman during tender assisted operations which had been in place.
Heavy Industries for the Exxon Neftegas Sakhalin project should be will commence in mid 2003. the year, and in December by the award of contracts for two further During the latter half of 2002 CNR International UK Limited followed shortly by further contract wins.
rigs all for Petroleum Development Oman, a subsidiary of Shell took over the Ninian Field assets from Kerr McGee.
This resulted in Bentec, which is largely concerned with land drilling projects and International.
By mid-2003 we will have 8 rigs working in Oman.
an almost immediate increase in activity for the Group.
We are optimistic electromechanical products and maintenance services, continued to Nigeria saw the addition of two more rigs to the existing two already therefore that the recently announced asset sales of the Forties provide support for the AGIP KCO Kashegan project, following its in operation with new contracts for Shell and Pan Ocean.
complex by BP to Apache, should similarly lead to increased work.
successful delivery of the modified rig for the project.
In Pakistan the Group put two rigs to work complementing the Internationally, the Group continued to make progress on AIOCs A number of upgrades to rigs and equipment were carried out single string operation in that country at the time of the DEUTAG Central Azeri and Shah Deniz project in Azerbaijan.
Both of these during the year, with satisfactory results, including the major upgrade acquisition.
projects have received sanction to proceed and we anticipate an to arctic class of the rig for the Sibneft project.
In addition, Bentec Much of the preparatory work done in Iran came to fruition during announcement shortly with regard to the operating contracts.
The has managed to pursue a number of new markets for its electrical 2002 with rigs starting up onshore for TotalFinaElf, AGIP and Norsk Central Azeri contract should commence operations in 2004 with products and for its service and repairs facilities.
It is now successfully Hydro.
The two Petrom jack-ups we manage for Pedec, also in Iran, Shah Deniz following in 2006.
The Group has also been awarded a gaining work from third parties in both of these areas, a trend which continued to work throughout the year.
training and development contract for personnel to be utilised on should continue following a product and services review.
This review An innovative European contract was won for Danish Olje og the two primary contracts.
Activities under this contract have already also addressed the cost base of the facility and actions are now being Natur Gas DONG and Lunds Energi for the drilling of geothermal commenced in Baku.
This followed extensive project engineering work put in place to balance resources to ensure the future profitable wells in Denmark and Sweden, thus far a very successful contract which is continuing.
which could lead to further work.
Existing operations in Germany In the Russian Far East, a contract for Sakhalin Energy Shell for and Holland continued satisfactorily throughout the year.
drilling and workover operations on the Molikpaq mobile platform In the autumn of 2002 the Group mobilised another arctic class near Sakhalin Island has commenced.
rig, this time to Western Siberia for a project with Sibneft.
This rig In all areas KCA DEUTAG has continued to press for improvements in was successfully commissioned commencing operations in late safety performance, and has in almost all areas achieved or exceeded January 2003. its aims.
Offshore Drilling Engineering Operations in the North Sea continued satisfactorily with significant This is now reported separately and covers the operations of the improvements in performance in a number of key areas, and it is a engineering group based in Aberdeen, Germany and Houston.
market which continues to provide us with steady and profitable The Aberdeen and Houston based offshore engineering provides a business activity.
clear lead into major offshore projects, and is the vehicle, particularly For BP, the overall operational performance, and in particular in the Caspian Region, Sakhalin and Angola, to lead KCA DEUTAG Michael J. L. Salter Chief Operating Officer regarding safety, was enhanced very significantly to the satisfaction into long-term operating contracts.
