S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT The results for the fty two weeks ended 2 August 2002 show turnover of Results 467 million 2001 498 million and profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items of 36.1 million 2001 62.0 million.
The exceptional charge of 9.5 million represents the estimated cost of the rationalisation and restructuring measures announced during the year, which were made necessary by substantially reduced demand for many of our products and services.
profit before taxation, but after amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items, was 24.3 million 2001 60.5 million.
Earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items were 24.33p 2001 41.59p.
A final dividend of 12.15p per share is proposed, making total Dividend dividends of 17.15p per share in respect of the year as a whole, the same as for the previous year.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 4 December 2002 to shareholders on the register on 25 October 2002.
As anticipated at the half year, almost all of our markets experienced Trading Conditions worse trading conditions than for many years.
In most parts of the business, we have been affected by a sharp reduction in advertising expenditure, especially in the technology and internet related sectors.
The effects of the resulting fall in demand have been exacerbated by the significant over-capacity which exists in our industry in all the geographic areas in which we operate.
Amongst the markets which we serve, only that for monochrome books in the UK has remained resilient.
Sales of mass market paperbacks have grown strongly, while overall Books sales have shown a modest increase on the previous year.
We continue to produce a high proportion of best-selling titles for the UK market and have gained additional volumes from existing customers following the closure of two of our competitors.
Export sales, chiey of religious and reference books, remain subdued.
In a further enhancement of exibility and service capability, we are investing in new binding and sheet-fed and web offset printing capacity all of which has or will come on stream during the first half of the new financial year.
Overall, sales to direct response and commercial markets in the UK Direct Response and were somewhat lower than in the previous year, reecting reduced Commercial demand, increased activity by overseas competitors and continuing UK pricing pressure.
Sales of shorter-run, specialist products for customers with demanding service requirements generally proved more resilient than those of longer-run, less time-sensitive material, for which in particular there continues to be significant over-capacity.
In the light of these conditions we reduced capacity and rationalised several of our facilities: we closed our nishing operations in Penge: we moved the business of DisplayCraft from two sites in south London to new premises at Crayford: and in April, web offset printing ceased at Leeds, where the expanded direct mail operations of Red Letter in Yorkshire are now based.
3 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 C HAIRMAN S S TATEMENT continued Germany Johler Drucks sales were substantially reduced, as a result of overcapacity, weak demand and further pressure on pricing.
In the middle of the financial year, we reduced our capacity by decommissioning our oldest, least versatile press and we have replaced another older press with a more exible machine capable of printing a wide range of products.
USA Sales to commercial markets in the USA showed a significant increase because the results of St Ives Inc Avanti and St Ives Inc CaseHoyt were included for a full year for the first time as compared with the second six months only in the prior year.
Generally, we experienced falling demand and a weak pricing environment, attributable mainly to sharply reduced advertising expenditure.
We reduced capacity by disposing of our three oldest presses.
Following last years acquisition, our operations serving these markets, together with those serving the publications market in the USA, are now fully integrated.
Financial Extremely low levels of activity in corporate financial printing markets, both in Europe and North America, persisted throughout the period.
As a result, we have been unable to generate acceptable returns, despite having taken action to reduce costs early in the financial year.
The market for Annual Reports for public companies and investment funds has become increasingly competitive both in the UK and USA.
Magazines Falling advertising expenditure led to reduced paginations and a number of title closures.
Internet and technology related advertising and UK titles have been particularly affected, while, in contrast, fashion and lifestyle titles generally held up well.
Against this background, excess web offset capacity has resulted in increasing pricing pressure at contract renewal, particularly for those titles where high quality and service levels are not a requirement.
Our own sales to these markets in the UK were lower than in the prior year.
In June, we reduced capacity by closing operations at Gillingham, our least well equipped site, and have been successful in retaining substantially all the work previously undertaken there for production at other factories within the Group.
USA In the USA, our experience was similar, again leading to a reduction in volumes accompanied by further pressure on prices.
Closed-loop colour is now fully installed across all presses at St Ives Inc Hollywood, enabling us to deliver shorter run products and faster turn-around times more cost effectively.
Multimedia Demand for both music and multimedia related product remains weak in the UK and Europe.
Levels of activity have also uctuated sharply in the short term.
These factors, together with continuing pricing pressure, have made it difficult to achieve satisfactory levels of utilisation and as a result we have been unable to generate adequate returns.
4 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Regrettably the rationalisation and restructuring made necessary by Staff the prevailing market conditions has resulted in a number of people being made redundant throughout the Group.
The total number of employees at 2 August 2002 was 5,232 as compared with 5,911 at the end of the previous year, a fall of some 11.5 per cent.
On behalf of shareholders and the board, I should like to thank all employees who have made a contribution to the years results in what have been more challenging conditions than we have seen for a long time.
Capital investment during the year amounted to 35.3 million 2001 Balance Sheet and Investment 36.9 million.
Substantially the whole of the Group is now equipped with full digital pre-press capabilities, which has further enhanced exibility and service levels.
Notwithstanding reduced profitability and significant exceptional costs, the financial position of our company remains strong.
Our operations continue to generate strong positive cashow, with the result that net cash at the year end amounted to 13.4 million an increase of nearly 12 million during the year.
In the UK monochrome book market, demand remains robust and Outlook service requirements are becoming greater.
However, the growth prospects of the other markets which we serve continue to be uncertain.
There are, as yet, no signs of any sustained increase in advertising expenditure or upturn in levels of activity in corporate financial markets.
We continue to keep all costs in the business under close review.
We remain committed to the highest standards of service, to consistent and continuing investment in the latest, most exible technology and the development of systems and people to support it.
While the current surplus of capacity in our industry will make significant progress hard to achieve in the short term, we remain confident that the financial and competitive strengths of our company will enable us to improve our returns over the longer term.
