Yule Catto & Co plc We are well positioned Annual Report Chairmans Statement to deliver growth this year and remain confident of the long term prospects for the group.
04 05 Turnover m 512.0 00 474.8 01 510.8 02 Profit before tax m We are delighted to report a substantial Competitive forces in the insurance growth in profit, a further increase in industry have caused the market to dividends and another year of positive tighten further, leading to an escalation in 36.2 00 cash flow.
Current conditions are likely to 40.3 01 persist for the foreseeable future and we The first half of 2002 was particularly strong are reviewing alternative risk transfer 52.6 02 for our Polymer Chemical activities owing strategies to mitigate the impact.
As a result to the benefits arising from the creation of a of weak global stock markets, the rising global water-based polymer business and cost associated with final salary pension favourable raw material prices.
plans has been well publicised.
Our primary scheme is in the UK, which is reviewed on As the year unfolded the position changed a quarterly basis.
Increased cash payments with regard to the cost of petrochemical of 1.1 million were made in the year and, based raw materials.
However, this was following determination of the funds Before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items more than counterbalanced by the rewards triennial valuation due in 2003, we emerging from our strategy of investment in anticipate a further increase in annual the development of pharmaceutical active costs of 3-5 million.
In addition to direct ingredients.
Good results were delivered exposure to the USA market, an element across the Pharma & Fine Chemical of our international trade is denominated companies and these received a further in US dollars.
Therefore, the steady boost in the final weeks of the year with the devaluation of that currency against 28% long anticipated launch of a generic version sterling and euro during the year has of omeprazole in the USA.
increase in adjusted With good progress in many of our Adjusted earnings per share have been earnings per share businesses, turnover rose by 8% to 511 struck at 23.9 pence, 28% higher than million.
We continue to focus on higher 2001.
With the confidence of further growth value, technically demanding applications in prospect, your directors have proposed and this has been reflected in the a final dividend of 7.4 pence per share, improvement of operating margin to 13%.
making a total for the year of 12.5 pence, an increase of 4% over last year.
The speciality nature of our portfolio provides some protection against the global economic slowdown.
In difficult market conditions, profit before taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items at 52.6 million is a creditable advance of 30% over the corresponding twelve months.
This was achieved in spite of significant underlying negative pressures.
01 Cash management consistently receives 02 01 Synthomers nitrile latices have the ideal a high level of attention.
This year was no properties to meet the needs of the medical exception and we are happy to report a and electronics industries.
strong free cash flow of 29.8 million.
As previously indicated, 2002 saw a much 02 Ultramarine, or synthetic lapis lazuli, is an reduced level of capital expenditure eco-friendly powder pigment widely used to following the successful commissioning colour plastics.
of our new nitrile latex facility in Malaysia.
At the year end we experienced some upward pressure on working capital caused by higher trading activity in the final two months and, to a lesser extent, the impact of rising raw material costs.
This was a timing issue, as cash receipts early in the new year more than compensated, leaving us well placed for another robust performance.
Safety, health and the environment The political uncertainty relating to Iraq is As a consequence of a fire at one of our SHE are of the utmost importance and it causing the price of oil to remain high, facilities in France, we have recorded an is pleasing to report good progress, along consequently the cost of our major raw exceptional charge of 1.8 million relating with the launch of a new initiative.
In the materials remains a concern.
At the same to the fixed assets destroyed during the UK the group has achieved compliance time growth rates for the major economies incident.
We have approved capital with government targets for the reduction are being scaled back, providing investment for replacement equipment in energy consumption per tonne of uncertainty with regard to demand.
That to be installed during 2003, which will production.
As well as benefiting the said, the benefits of capital investment incorporate state-of-the-art technology environment, it will provide the maximum made in recent years and opportunities for and substantially further reduce sulphur rebate from the Climate Change Levy geographic market expansion are starting dioxide emissions to air.
Targets to enhance our to show through.
The penetration of safety performance, as measured by the generic omeprazole in the USA is also frequency of 3 day lost time accidents, exceeding previous expectations, as are have been achieved, delivering a further other pharma developments.
We are well 23% improvement on the reductions of positioned to deliver growth this year and 2001.
To focus even greater attention on remain confident of the long term the root cause of SHE issues, the senior prospects for the group.
03 management incentive scheme has been adjusted to target further improvement.
In an ever changing business climate, the success of the group can only be realised through the hard work and commitment of A E Richmond-Watson all of our employees.
On behalf of the 12 March 2003 directors and shareholders, I would like to thank everyone for their contribution to the excellent results achieved this year, which provide a solid platform for future growth.
03 Generic omeprazole has been successfully launched in Europe and the USA, rapidly gaining market share.
