Chairmans Statement 2002 proved to be another successful year for the Group, conrming the strength of Taylor & Francis position in a dynamic market sector.
The Groups strategy of growing the business through a combination of organic development and earnings enhancing acquisitions has once again delivered solid growth in turnover, profits and cashow.
As previously indicated the scientific, Technical and Medical STM market continues to grow in size and consolidate in structure and Taylor & Francis continues to benefit from this process.
In September 2002 we acquired the publishing list of US based Fitzroy Dearborn Publishers and in recent weeks we announced the acquisitions of UK based Bios scientific Publishers and US based CRC Press.
All of these businesses complement Taylor & Francis existing publishing programmes and will benefit from being part of a larger publisher.
Directors and Staff Our new Chief Executive officer David Smith has had a galvanising impact on the management of Taylor & Francis in his first year.
His arrival has coincided with challenging trading conditions in the STM publishing market and his wide international operating experience has ensured timely reviews of our publishing activities and the structure of our US operations.
Davids energy, coupled with that of Group Finance Director Tony Foye and the rest of the senior management team, has been impressive in the light of the challenges and opportunities that have presented themselves over the last twelve months.
Of particular importance was the consolidation, completed in July 2002, of the Groups UK journal publishing activities under one roof in Oxfordshire.
The speed, efficiency and budgetary control involved in the move were of the highest order and special thanks are due to the staff and management involved.
Overall the Group is well blessed with strong management, enthusiastic staff and a sense of purpose in serving its chosen markets.
Again my thanks to all who have played their part so well.
Corporate Strategy Whatever global conditions exist there is an irresistible world-wide demand for higher education and scientific research.
This forms the basis of Taylor & Francis strategy of growing the business through organic development of its established market positions and the integration of earnings enhancing acquisitions.
Robert Kiernan Chairman 19 March 2003 Taylor & Francis Group plc - 3
