This is Taylor Woodrow by focus on customers We consistently strive to improve the products we offer as well as developing new ways of working and better standards of customer care across all our businesses.
Our philosophy is more closely aligned to that of a retailer the customer comes first than a more traditional house builder.
In the UK our Customer Journey is designed to reduce the stress associated with moving house by making the process as smooth and easy as possible.
We offer homebuyers additional services such as interior decorating, garden design and after-sales maintenance.
In North America, our CARE programme customer, attitude, respect & excellence in Arizona benchmarks the relationship with customers against nine criteria, with quarterly reviews.
In California, buyers can tailor the interior of some of our homes to suit their particular requirements.
In our construction business we apply similar criteria.
One example is our 15 year relationship with Tesco developing prototype schemes and other new initiatives tailored to Tescos FACTS & FIGURES changing needs.
BRYANT AT WARWICK Bryant Homes development at Warwick is one of our largest, consisting of 800 homes with fifteen house types and a range of apartments.
Prices range from 147,000 for a two bed apartment to 290,000 for a four bedroom house.
The development has been Bryant Design carefully designed to reflect the allows customers to unique character of the town, using personalise their materials that blend effortlessly new home.
The Tierra Rosa one Our new marketing suite provides of our entry-level a high-end retail experience, Homes in Arizona.
demonstrating our homes, the skill with which we build them and our Tescos 80,000 sq ft store in Altrincham, range of design options and garden Manchester opened landscaping.
The style and layout in November 2002. enhances our customer experience through a comfortable, informal environment for them to browse through brochures, chat to our site staff and consider their choices in an unhurried way.
6 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 Taylor Woodrow plc Annual Report 2002 7
