Chairmans statement The Group made good underlying progress in more uncertain trading environments and, despite a poor European summer, saw a welcome improvement in second half year trading.
As over 70% of our turnover derives from North American and UK markets, we are less exposed to the difficulties of the major Euro zone countries.
Furthermore, our strategic substantively, was impacted focus on consumer related by poor performances, sectors, coupled with long particularly in France and term contractual relationships, Poland.
has proved more resilient than transactionally based network Outside our core markets and industrially related of Europe and the Americas, operations.
The stability and the emergent international focus of the Group are operations, including China, providing real competitive delivered a third successive John Harvey advantage.
year of improvement in Chairman turnover and profit.
In March Over 75% of growth was we were proud to receive organic, with all regions the Queens Award for increasing turnover.
We International Trade initiative achieved a strong rate of in recognition of the Groups contract renewal and added success in translating its skills 212m of annualised revenue into overseas markets.
Free cash ow increased by Financial results over 70% from the previous In the year ended 31 year.
In addition, a number December 2002, at constant of legacy issues were exchange rates, turnover was successfully resolved and, in up 11% to 1.52bn 2001 Mexico, Dimalsa was acquired 1.35bn and operating profit in March and is being down 3% to 35.3m 2001 successfully integrated into 37.4m.
per share of 38.7 pence 2001 43.1 pence were Despite the strength of correspondingly lower and sterling, the North American also impacted by the increase business contributed 40% in the headline tax charge.
The UK The Groups operations achieved a good second half remain strongly cash performance despite increased generative with operating insurance costs.
Mainland cash ow of 74.6m 2001 Europe, whilst growing 73.6m.
Free cash ow, 2 Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 after the payment of interest, long contribution in building Our business strategy, built taxation and dividends, todays robust and successful primarily on organic growth, improved by 13.5m to business.
I also welcome has enabled the Group to 32.1m.
After investments Saad Hammad, who joined us develop successfully in North in Dimalsa and Davids of in February 2003 to lead the America and mainland Europe Thailand, year end net debt European team.
This process The free cash ow, plus These changes will enhance is now being replicated in existing borrowing facilities, our focus on the strategic China and other international continue to provide a platform development of the business markets.
and reinforce the development of customer partnerships.
Dividend The Board is recommending Tibbett & Britten remains a final dividend of 17.4 pence dependent on the per Ordinary share 2001 commitment, skills and JA Harvey CBE 16.8 pence for the year ended experience of over 38,000 Chairman 31 December 2002, to be people in 34 countries.
paid on 28 May 2003 to I should like to pay tribute shareholders on the register again to their achievements, at 2 May 2003.
The interim enterprise not least dividend of 7.9 pence resilience and acknowledge per share was paid on with gratitude the support 11 November 2002.
This brings so freely given.
total dividends for the year to 25.3 pence 2001 24.4 Outlook pence, up 4%, and marks Generally, this year has the seventh successive year started positively, despite of increase.
weak volumes in mainland Europe.
There is some Organisation and people evidence that deferred The Board has been outsourcing projects have restructured, with a smaller been reactivated and we Corporate Board addressing expect continued growth strategy and corporate in our major markets, despite governance, and an enlarged the current political and Operating Board under economic uncertainties.
Mike Arrowsmith running the operations.
New logistics opportunities are inherent in extended As a consequence of these supply chains as the changes, Martin Graham accelerating global migration and David Musgrave have of manufacturing and the resigned from the Corporate development of trans-national Board to concentrate on their retailing gathers pace.
As responsibilities within the a result of our sector Operating Board.
Mike Evans, concentration on consumer after 28 years, retired at the markets and our strategic end of the year and, on behalf geographic presence, we are of all his colleagues, I should particularly well placed to like to thank Mike for his exploit these opportunities.
Tibbett & Britten Group plc Annual report and accounts 2002 3
