2 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that 2002 was a year of achievement and progress for Tullow.
Strong increases in sales and profits reflect the first full year contribution from the UK SNS assets and the initial contribution from two projects that were brought on production - CMS III in the UK and Espoir in Cte dIvoire.
Further investment in development projects, together with an active exploration programme, is anticipated in 2003.
Tullow is also actively considering acquisition opportunities and seeking to increase returns and capital efficiency through selective disposals and farmouts, positioning for further growth during 2003.
Financial Results The 2002 financial results benefited from the strong performance of the SNS assets, acquired in 2001.
These are the core of the Groups production, contributing over 80% of total turnover of 112.6 million, 47% greater than 2001.
This was reflected in record Operating Profit Before Exploration Costs of 33.3 million 2001 - 26.3 million.
Pretax profits also showed strong growth, increasing by 41% to 22.5 million.
The North Sea assets met operational expectations and, while gas prices were generally weaker than budgeted, an active forward gas sales and hedging strategy helped offset this.
Average prices realised were 23.6 p therm for contracted gas 60% of total production and 20.1p therm for uncontracted gas.
Total production amounted to 37.2 bcf 102 mmscfd.
CMS III contributed to production and reserves in the last quarter of the year.
Espoirs revenue reflects the decision to defer bringing the upper production zone on stream until 2003 as part of a reserve recovery optimisation programme.
Performance benefited somewhat from higher than expected oil prices despite a weakening US dollar.
In 2002 the rate of Corporation Tax applying to UKCS profits was raised from 30% to 40%.
While this has a limited cash impact on Tullow due to the availability of accelerated capital allowances, the Board believes that it may discourage new entrants and introduces an unwelcome element of fiscal uncertainty at a time when many of the major companies are seeking to divest of assets, or exit the area.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 3 Strong increases in sales and profits reflect the first full year contribution from the UK SNS assets and the initial contribution from two projects that were brought on production - CMS III in the UK and Espoir in Cte dIvoire.
Dividend Policy Tullow has achieved very significant growth in turnover, cashflow and profitability in recent years and is now in a strong position to continue this growth.
In recognition of this the Board has decided to commence dividend payments during 2003 at an initial level of 1p share.
This payment will, however, be subject to the approval by the High Court of Ireland of an application to write off the accumulated deficit on the Profit and Loss Account of our Irish subsidiary against that companys share premium account and the completion of related accounting work.
This application is due to be heard in May 2003 and further details in relation to the record date and payment timing of the dividend will be circulated in due course.
Operational Activity In the UK, Tullows strategy is to develop and expand its exploration and development portfolio while maximising revenue from producing fields.
The major success in 2002 was the CMS III project which produced first gas in September.
In addition, Tullows success in the 20th Licensing Round, securing six attractive blocks within the greater Caister-Murdoch area, should help secure the production profile of this region for several years to come.
Tullow also intends to participate in the recently announced 21st Licensing Round.
Encouraging advances were also made in the Thames-Hewett area, most notably in identifying a number of exploration prospects.
One of these prospects, Gawain South East, will be drilled during 2003.
Tullow has also recently participated in the Squirrel exploration well in the Outer Moray Firth which, despite encountering good reservoir sands, was unsuccessful.
Within our international assets, the most significant event was the production of first oil from the Espoir field in Cte dIvoire in February 2002.
The operator has commenced a programme of perforating the upper zone in a number of the producing wells with a view to reaching the target production level of 25,000 boepd in 2003.
There are a number of exploration prospects within the licence, one of which has recently been drilled, resulting in the Acajou oil discovery.
During 2002 Tullow commenced operations on Block 9 in Bangladesh with extensive 2D and 3D seismic surveys.
The results are being examined to determine optimal drilling locations and we look forward to the commencement of drilling in this highly prospective area later in 2003.
4 Chairmans Statement continued Strategy, Current Opportunities and Outlook Business development and the acquisition of new interests have always been central to Tullows growth strategy.
Major change took place in the international oil and gas industry in 2002 and we believe this will lead to an attractive range of acquisition opportunities for Tullow in 2003.
To position the Group to take advantage of these opportunities, Tullow recently undertook a Placing to raise 14.3 million and agreed the principal commercial terms of a new acquisition banking facility of $100 million jointly arranged by Bank of Scotland, BNP Paribas and Royal Bank of Scotland.
This facility may be increased to up to $250 million in certain circumstances.
A number of opportunities are under consideration in Northern Europe.
We also believe that West Africa offers a wide range of opportunities for independent companies.
In December 2002 we announced the signature of the Ngosso area licence in Cameroon and in March 2003 signed the Kiarsseny Marin licence in Gabon.
In each case Tullows focus during 2003 will be on evaluating development options for existing discoveries on the blocks.
Exploration and development drilling is planned for all our main areas during 2003.
A number of prospects have the potential to add materially to Tullows existing reserve base.
The recent, higher risk wells in India and Algeria have produced disappointing results, however we remain hopeful for a favourable outcome on the remaining projects.
Within the Groups development assets, two more wells are scheduled for the CMS III project, while the first phase of the Espoir development should conclude in mid 2003.
Corporate Initiatives Since the acquisition of the SNS assets, Tullow has focused on developing an experienced and cohesive UK team in London with the objective of maximising value and ensuring continued reserve and production growth in the SNS.
On the International side of the business, a new Managing Director, Brian OCathain, was appointed to head the team, which moved to a new office in Dublin.
In 2002 particular attention was paid to developing, improving and benchmarking Environmental Health and Safety performance throughout our operations.
The Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate reduced dramatically and I commend all Tullow staff for their professionalism and commitment to this vital aspect of our operations.
TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 5 Corporate Governance Developments Tullow has studied with interest the proposals for the reform of Corporate Governance put forward by the Higgs and Smith Reports, published in January 2003.
Upon finalisation of the proposals and guidelines the Board will take steps to ensure early compliance, or to identify any specific areas where immediate compliance may not be appropriate for Tullow.
Duilio Ciriani 2002 brought great sadness through the untimely death of Duilio Ciriani in July.
As Exploration Manager, Duilio was instrumental in bringing the Group to prominent positions in areas as diverse as Europe, the Middle East, Africa and South Asia.
Many of these ventures form the cornerstone of our current activities throughout the world.
Duilio had a great appreciation for the people and cultures he encountered, and over the last 15 years forged many long-standing friendships all over the world.
We are justly proud of his many achievements.
Conclusion The past year was one of solid performance for Tullow and I would like to thank management and staff for their efforts and commitment during the year.
The group is well positioned to continue to grow within its core areas through a combination of exploration, development and acquisition.
The year ahead is expected to present good opportunities for asset acquisition and Tullow will seek to avail itself of these opportunities as they arise.
I look forward to an exciting and successful year and would like to thank shareholders for their continued support.
