Ultra Electronics at a glance Chairmans Statement capability ULTRA ELECTRONICS SPECIALISES IN THE DESIGN, MANUFACTURE AND SUPPORT THE ORDER BOOK IS AT A NEW HIGH REFLECTING OF ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMECHANICAL SYSTEMS, SUB-SYSTEMS AND THE CONTINUING GROWTH IN THE BUSINESS AND PRODUCTS FOR AIRCRAFT, SHIPS, SUBMARINES, ARMOURED VEHICLES, AIRPORTS MAJOR ORDERS WON IN 2002.
010 1011010 0110 011101 101 TACTICAL SONAR AIRCRAFT INFORMATION POWER & VEHICLES Peter Macfarlane, Chairman 010 010 ADVANCED PROGRAMMING CONCEPTS FASL PRECISION AIR SYSTEMS 1011010 1011010 I am pleased to report that Ultra has enjoyed Based on this years profit performance, There are, however, a number of airport 0110 0110 011101 011101 101 Battlespace IT solutions.
Software based data 101 Airport IT system integration.
IT services High pressure pure air generators HiPPAG an excellent year with record sales and profit.
the Board is recommending a dividend investment programmes underway, some fusion and display systems for applications in and solutions for airlines and airports: for cooling thermal imagers and infra red The order book is at a new high reflecting increase of 7.7% to give a total dividend reflecting the requirement for enhanced military command, control, communications, central database UltraDB : flight sensors, and for pneumatic ejection of the continuing growth in the business and of 11.2p per share.
Ultra is winning orders for electronic computers, intelligence, surveillance and information UltraFIDS : management aircraft munitions.
Sidewinder missile 4 reconnaissance C ISR systems.
information UltraMIS : passenger bag overhaul and repair.
Importantly, Ultra systems in these areas.
Demand for defence In 2002, Ultra made a substantial acquisition, matching UltraTrak : resource has continued to meet its commitments electronics is growing strongly, particularly in010 COMMAND & CONTROL SYSTEMS SIGNATURE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 1011010 Tactical Communication Systems TCS, a management UltraResource : data 0110 011101 across the range of its major defence the USA, and Battlespace IT equipment 101 Battlespace IT solutions.
Geographical Multi-influence measurement ranges for acquisition and control UltraControl.
manufacturer of military radios based in information management systems.
Data link measuring complex signatures of naval programmes.
Ultras strategic objectives remains a high priority for military Montreal, Canada, for 21.5m before communication systems.
Magnetic sensors, instruments and remain to concentrate on growth in its niche expenditure.
Ultras expertise in supplying expenses.
With a similar customer base to console systems with integrated application Sonobuoy telemetry receivers for ship demagnetising systems.
aerospace and defence markets and to make electrical power conversion equipment for software and at panel displays for command maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
other Ultra companies and with many SONAR & COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS acquisitions of complementary businesses.
rapid transit rail systems in the United and control.
opportunities to win business internationally, Active and passive sonobuoys.
Sonobuoy Kingdom also holds significant potential.
010 Sales were 8.7% higher at 260.4m despite TCS is an excellent complementary t for Ultra.
CONTROLS DIVISION MANUFACTURING & CARD SYSTEMS receivers and acoustic processors for 1011010 0110 011101 101 Landing gear control systems.
Propeller High integrity contract manufacturing.
The maritime patrol aircraft and helicopters.
Ship the softness in the civil aircraft market.
This With an order book at the year-end of The Group had considerable success during fide-icing, balancing and control systems.
Magicard range of identity card printers.
Torpedo defence systems and strong sales growth reflected Ultras focus on 348m and with headroom for further 2002 in winning large orders in its core Supervisory engine controls.
Data link communication the expanding defence electronics sector acquisitions, the Board is confident of the MARITIME SYSTEMS business areas.
This reects the excellent systems.
DATEL DEFENCE Passive sonobuoys and bathythermal and, in total, military sales now represent outlook for the current year and beyond.
long-term relationships that Ultra has with itsHigh integrity systems including safety buoys.
High power TACTICAL COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS over 80% of turnover.
Profit before tax and key customers worldwide.
The largest Finally, I would like to thank all Ultra critical software, Internet-based shared sonar transducers.
High capacity, multi-channel line-of-sight amortisation of goodwill grew by 10.6% to working environments and secure radios.
Electronic counter-counter measure contract secured by Ultra to date was a employees for their continuing commitment MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS INC 29.9m whilst earnings per share before communication networks.
programme to develop, supply and support a and for their contribution to the success of Displacement and force joysticks, hand goodwill amortisation increased by 9.1% to system to protect Royal Navy surface ships the Group.
ELECTRICS DIVISION grip controls, trackballs, encoders and UNDERSEA SENSOR SYSTEMS INC 33.2p in 2002.
Specialised control handles, high integrity simulation equipment.
Advanced from attack by torpedoes.
This contract switches and indicators, lighting systems.
autonomous sensor systems for coastal The continued international development of utilises the combined strength of several Ultra NOISE & VIBRATION SYSTEMS Ruggedised cable harnesses.
Ultra is demonstrated by the growing businesses.
Additionally, the Group won a Civil and military aircraft cabin quieting management and vision control systems for systems using active noise and vibration importance of North America as a market, contract from BAE Systems to supply bow armoured vehicles.
now representing almost 40% of Group sales.
sonars for the Royal Navys new Type 45 EMS destroyer.
Ultra has supplied the UK MoD PMES Specialised power supplies and demagnetising Once again, I am delighted to report a very High power solid state power conversion and with its sonobuoys for many years and this systems for the electromagnetic silencing of strong cash performance, and especially control equipment.
Naval data processing and position is now being reinforced by naval vessels.
pleasing is the cash conversion ratio of 116%.
Transit system power Peter Macfarlane Chairman negotiations for a ten-year partnership conversion and control.
Net debt at 39.3m leaves Ultra with ample agreement with MoD to develop and supply resources from which to make further sonobuoys exclusively.
New syndicated banking facilities established during the year have The outlook for civil aerospace remains dull Businesses in the UNITED KINGDOM reinforced the Groups financial strength.
and a recovery in demand for new aircraft isBusinesses in NORTH AMERICA not expected in the next twelve months.
02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03
