Chairmans Statement 2002 has been a year of consolidation for Waste Recycling Group with no major acquisition activity and consequently the Group has been able to focus on improving the services it currently provides and in developing new activities to ensure future growth.
Good progress has also been made in a number of areas, both in operational and capital investment efficiency.
Financial Results and Dividend Your Board is recommending a maintained final dividend As was the case for most of our competitors, business of 3.1p per share payable on 15 May 2003 to shareholders conditions worsened as the year progressed.
Despite this, on the register at 25 April 2003.
Together with the interim turnover grew to 302.5 million which, excluding landfill dividend of 1.5p per share, this brings the total dividend tax, represents net growth of 10%.
Earnings before for the year to 4.6p per share 2001 4.5p.
interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items adjusted EBITDA, grew by 7%, generating strong Bid Approach operating cash flow to allow investment in the business I wrote to shareholders on 9 January 2003 informing them to continue.
that the Company had received an approach, which may or may not have led to an offer being made for the However, as a result of higher regulatory requirements and Companys share capital.
This announcement created the increased investment in development activities over the further interest from other potential bidders and, although last few years, the Groups depreciation charge adjusted for the first approach did not lead to an offer, the Company amounts in relation to prior years as described in note 3 continues in discussions with a second potential bidder rose by 8.6 million year on year.
This was a major factor who is in the early stages of due diligence.
I wrote to in the reduction in operating profit before goodwill shareholders on 3 March 2003 giving an update and will amortisation and exceptional items to 53.4 million, a continue to keep you informed of developments.
decrease of 8% compared to last year.
It is expected that the depreciation charge will rise again in 2003.
Operational Highlights After a good start to the year, trading slowed during the During the year the Group took an exceptional charge of middle of the year and declined a little in the last quarter 9.8 million in respect of our mixed waste composting due to the effects of a contract loss in Cambridgeshire activities and the Kennett landfill site as a result of and the general slow-down in the economy affecting both legislative changes and planning issues respectively.
The municipal and trade volumes.
It is anticipated that the profit for the year was further reduced by one-off charges waste market will remain static in the short term until of 2.0 million due to historical accounting adjustments the economy starts to improve.
and by 3.6 million for other non-recurring charges.
Major contract wins, however, were secured from Wakefield, The Group made a loss for the financial year after tax of Bradford and Lancashire along with a number of other short- 9.1million 2001 7.9m profit resulting in a loss per term local authority contracts.
The Group also continued to ordinary share of 7.8p 2001 earnings 6.7p.
Adjusted expand its green waste composting operations with contract earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and these wins in Warwickshire and Kent, reinforcing the Groups one-off exceptional charges was 21.3p 2001 27.0p.
position as the UKs leading composter of green waste.
2 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 As indicated in my Interim Statement, the integration of Integrated Waste Management and the other businesses acquired during the second half of 2001 has gone well and these businesses are proving to be good strategic acquisitions.
The operating profit of the Groups waste to energy activities grew by 28% to 9.2 million during the year with almost 10 million invested in new capital equipment, which has brought into production a further 14MW of capacity.
The Group had a total commissioned capacity of 92MW at the end of the year with further expansion planned for 2003, some of which will supply power under the Renewables Obligations Regulations.
HOUSEHOLD WASTE RECYCLING CENTRES Waste Recycling manages around 60 household waste recycling centres also known as civic amenity sites for local authorities.
The centres are important facilities where members of the public can bring their bulky household waste for re-use, recycling and disposal.
Modern, user-friendly centres such as the new facilities built by Waste Recycling at Carnaby, East Yorkshire, and Wigan pictured, can help to push average recycling rates to well in excess of 50%.
The UK produces enough waste in one hour to fill the Albert Hall.
Government Strategy Unit study, Waste Not, Want Not, 2002 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 3 Chairmans Statement continued The Group strategy continues to be to provide efficient and cost-effective waste management solutions for our customers in the areas of treatment, recycling and disposal.
Operational Highlights The Group now has 50% of its turnover secured by municipal waste contracts and 7% through electricity generation contracts.
The Groups Financial Shared Services Centre FSSC opened during the year in Doncaster to integrate the different financial systems born out of the Groups rapid expansion over the last four years.
The Centre has transferred four out of the five regional offices with the final stage due to be completed shortly.
I am confident the Group will benefit enormously from the FSSC in future years.
Business Development The Group strategy continues to be to provide efficient and cost-effective waste management solutions for our customers in the areas of treatment, recycling and disposal.
As part of this strategy the Group has continued to develop its regional network of waste reception, recycling and transfer station facilities which will be key assets in providing the services required by our customers in the future.
We will soon have twenty-five such facilities around the Country.
England recycles 12% of its municipal waste I am pleased to report that substantial progress has been stream, and deals with 9% of it through made in the development of the Allington energy from thermal treatment technologies including waste project to meet the needs of Kent County Council incineration.
This is in contrast to the waste for long-term disposal.
The 500,000 tonne per annum management methods of most of the UKs incinerator has the potential to generate up to 35MW of European neighbours.
It has already received planning permission and Switzerland recycles or composts 45%, is close to receiving its Pollution, Prevention and Control incinerates 48% and landfills just 7%.
Government Strategy Unit study, Waste Not, Want Not, 2002 4 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 permit, which will allow it to operate.
The lenders to the which brings our total landfill capacity for future use to project have been identified and it is hoped that the over 150 million cubic metres.
project will move towards financial close during the first half of 2003.
The Group has also won two additional I have already mentioned the development of our waste contracts from Kent and is the preferred bidder for a longto energy activities during the year and these will term contract from the adjoining Borough of Bexley.
continue to be expanded on the back of strong capital returns.
We are investigating innovative ways of financing During the year the Group was also successful in this expansion, capitalising on the long-term nature of obtaining planning approval for additional landfill void its capacity and certainty of income stream.
at several landfill sites totalling 8.6 million cubic metres, Household waste in England is growing at a rate of 3% annually faster than the growth in GDP.
At this rate, the volume of Englands GENERATING municipal waste ELECTRICITY will double by Waste Recycling is generating more than 2020, and will cost 90MW of electricity from the landfill gas 16 billion a year produced at its landfill sites in the UK.
Another 20MW of electrical output capacity more at todays is planned to be installed within the next prices to manage 18 months.
The Group also generates steam and dispose of.
from waste incineration at Nottingham, and is developing two further Energy from Waste Government Strategy EfW incinerators at Allington, Kent, and Hull.
Unit study, Waste Not, Pictured here is an artist impression of Want Not, 2002 the Hull Plant.
Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 5 Chairmans Statement continued Whilst there are challenging times ahead as this new legislation and Government policy emerges, its scale, management and technical expertise will enable the Group to take maximum advantage of the opportunities which without doubt will be available within this expanding industry.
Industry Issues remain the main disposal route for non-value residual The UK waste industry is currently going through a period waste for years to come.
The Group currently holds of significant change fuelled by legislation mainly from approximately 23% of the UKs planned landfill void, Europe.
The Government, however, has still not yet which will become increasingly valuable as the UKs provided clear direction on the implementation of this capacity reduces over time.
This puts us in a very strong legislation, which has created an element of uncertainty position to capitalise on the available revenue streams in parts of the industry.
The Cabinet Office Strategy Unit report into the future of Board and employees During the year there have been a number of Board the waste management industry was published at the end of November 2002 under the title Waste Not, Want changes, all of which I have reported in detail in my Interim Statement.
I would like to thank my Board Not.
It coincided with the Chancellors Budget Review, which set out increases in landfill tax by 3 per tonne per colleagues for their support during what has been a difficult year for the Company.
I would also like to thank annum from 2005 until it reaches around 35 in 2011.
The report highlighted the Governments concerns over all the Groups employees for their hard work and contribution to what has been achieved during the year.
the ever-increasing volume of waste produced and how these amounts can be controlled through recycling and Prospects other waste reduction activities with the overall aim of reducing the amount going to landfill.
The Board is disappointed with the financial results for the year and has been taking steps to ensure performance The Group welcomes these developments as providing improves in the future.
A vigorous cost control process is further long-term business opportunities in the recycling in place to manage the ever-increasing costs arising as a and pre-treatment of waste.
However, we believe the result of the new legislation and higher regulatory report did not adequately clarify two key issues.
First, it is requirements within the industry.
A new approach has unclear how the additional costs of running the industry also been developed to more cost effectively deliver the due to legislation and higher landfill tax are to be funded, increasing capital expenditure programme based on the especially by our municipal customers.
Second, the report successful methodologies adopted by some of the utilities.
failed to encourage investment in the different technologies, which are going to be needed if the targets The Group is determined to show strong commercial for recycling and diversion from landfill are to be achieved.
leadership in an industry, which has in the past undersold its assets and has failed to pass on increased costs to its Until further clarification on these issues is received and customers.
Your Board expects this strategy to improve with only a gradual increase in landfill tax, landfill will margins over time, but there may be a short-term loss of 6 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 trade volume.
Current trading is in line with the Boards will enable the Group to take maximum advantage of the expectations.
opportunities which without doubt will be available within this expanding industry.
The Group has a clear strategy to meet the new requirements of the waste management industry and the needs of our customers.
Whilst there are challenging times James H Newman ahead as this new legislation and Government policy Chairman emerges, its scale, management and technical expertise 28 March 2003 COMPOSTING Waste Recycling is the UK market leader in composting.
In 2002 the Group became the first national waste management company to be awarded Composting Association accreditation for its green waste composting partnership with Cheshire County Council.
The Group expects to be composting more than one million tonnes of waste material a year within the next five years.
The EU Landfill Directive requires the UK to reduce the volume of biodegradable municipal waste sent to landfill by 2010, with further reductions in 2013 and 2020.
Failure to meet these targets could result in fines of up to 180 million per year.
Government Strategy Unit study, Waste Not, Want Not, 2002 Waste Recycling Group plc - Annual Report 2002 7
