Chairmans statement This is the Groups seventh successive year of delivering record profits.
David Wilson Chairman It gives me great pleasure to report As a result of improvements in Net borrowings fell by 18.9m in that the Group achieved profits margin in David Wilson Homes, the year as increased sales before tax of 178.8m in 2002 an our main housing business, volumes and selling prices on increase of 28.4%.
This was driven Group profit before tax rose by housing, coupled with the sale of by 6.6% overall growth in residential even more than turnover, and the West One retail development in completions to 4,164 units, and we produced a 28.4% improvement Manchester generated more than with property development profits to 178.8m.
As a result earnings enough cash to offset the continuing broadly maintained.
per share rose by 29.4% to 134.6p increases in investment in land per share, giving compound and work in progress across the This is the Groups seventh growth over the last seven Group.
Net borrowings at the year successive year of delivering record years of 30.3%.
Over that time pre-tax with gearing reduced to 18.1% profits have grown by almost 30% Group return on capital rose to 2001: 24.8%.
While this level of per annum compound while housing 26.2% in 2002 which is again a gearing could be considered completions have shown compound record for the Group and comes conservative at the year end, it annual growth of almost 12%.
as a result of improvements in should be borne in mind that we all our key activities.
are using our borrowing facilities to I believe that our results greater effect during the year to demonstrate quite clearly that Dividend grow the business, thus producing our strategy of organic growth A final dividend of 20.5p per share higher, albeit cautious, levels of through geographic and product is recommended by the Board gearing between reporting dates.
This is an increase shareholder value and a quality of 22.0% over 2001, and, taken David Wilson Homes balance sheet, not only in the together with the interim dividend Turnover in David Wilson Homes, short-term, but, more importantly, of 6.3p paid in November, makes the Groups core housing business, over the long-run as well.
a total dividend for the year of rose by 26.4% in 2002 as a result 26.8p 2001: 22.3p an increase of a 4.7% improvement in sales Results for the year of 20.2% over the year.
Cover is completions coupled with increased I forecast at our last AGM that we 5.0 times 2001: 4.7 times.
selling prices and greater square were looking to exceed 1bn of footage per unit.
The mix of sales turnover by 2004 and we are Balance sheet and financing between apartments and houses therefore delighted to see this During 2002 shareholders funds altered little in the year.
Our years performance make that grew by 18.4% to 649.9m.
Net estimate of underlying sales price target look very achievable.
assets per share were 693p at the inflation, after removing the effects end of 2002 2001: 586p, having of site and product mix, is 10.2%.
Turnover for the year rose by shown compound growth of Operating margins also improved 24.6% to 983.9m with growth almost 14% per annum over the rising by 0.6% to 20.2%.
As a result across all sectors of our business.
operating profits rose by 30.1% to 6 Chairmans statement Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 165.2m 2001: 127.0m.
Return for property development, and that finance and resource in the land, on capital employed also rose, by a return to profit growth was unlikely work in progress, and business 2.2%, to 29.0%.
until the general economy improved.
infrastructure necessary to deliver continued growth.
Lack of continuity Wilson Bowden City Homes Against that background the caused by land shortages is a Wilson Bowden City Homes is our property development activities significant potential problem which business dealing with inner city of Wilson Bowden Developments the industry faces and I believe we and mixed use apartment have performed creditably with are tackling this confidently.
It operates within turnover up 9.9% at 156.9m forward to continuing expansion of Wilson Bowden Developments in 2001: 142.8m and operating this business in the years to come, order to access, and take full profits at 23.7m almost matching obviously assuming the market advantage of, the mixed use and last years 2001: 24.4m.
Last year I declared my construction experience within objective of achieving completions that division.
2002 saw the first Taken together with the profits on 5,000 housing units per annum completions from sites actually earned on Wilson Bowden City by 2004 and I still see that as a sourced by the new business and Homes, which is also within their realistic target.
as such represents the first real care, the management of the opportunity to assess progress.
division have delivered an excellent Wilson Bowden City Homes, which result in a very difficult trading is also predominantly a residential Wilson Bowden City Homes took environment, with operating profits business operating in the inner sales from its Nottingham Lace from the combined businesses up cities, is in a start-up phase.
It is Market and Southampton Ocean almost 3% at 25.1m.
encouraging therefore to see not Village sites during the year, only the 73 completions in 2002 delivering 73 completions.
Growing the business delivering a margin of 14.9% but also Turnover from these completions To grow the business for the future to note that the business now has totalled 9.4m with operating profit we have, over the last eighteen seven sites, five of which will be in of 1.4m.
Operating margin of months, developed a clear focus build during 2003, and delivering 14.9% reflects not only the start-up on three distinct business streams, sales in 2004.
With the continuing costs of the business but also the which, while separately managed, investment of funding available to sales mix at Southampton where benefit from each others knowledge, the business, Wilson Bowden City the first blocks contain a high experience, and opportunities.
The Homes is capable of delivering proportion of smaller, less expensive three streams are our core housing around 500 units per annum on units than in the later phases.
developments: inner city and mixed an ongoing basis by 2006. use apartment schemes: and Against that background we are very commercial property development.
Our major commercial development pleased with the success of the These three businesses provide, activity is contained within Wilson business, not only on sales, but on between them, a balanced spread Bowden Developments.
This area sourcing sites for future growth and across the market as well as the of the business has suffered from mastering the build of higher rise benefits of a one-stop shop for the general economic downturn of developments which, additionally, potential development opportunities.
the past two years, particularly in reduces our reliance on the use the office sector.
Despite this we of external contractors and the In 2002 we saw continuing growth have been able to maintain the vagaries of pricing which that brings.
in David Wilson Homes, aided by a general levels of profitability of the buoyant market which provided the business without increasing the Wilson Bowden Developments opportunity for greater sales per risk profile.
Our commercial development and site and significant selling price construction business, Wilson increases.
Our unit sales volumes It should also be noted that, Bowden Developments, carries out rose by 4.7% to give yet another year while sustaining the profitability the major commercial property of volume growth in the business of Wilson Bowden Developments, development activities of the Group.
which now shows compound the management team there are annual growth in completions of also responsible for the progress I indicated in my last Annual Report 11.4% over the last seven years.
to date of Wilson Bowden City that 2002 would be a difficult one We continue to invest significant Homes, and have thus played their Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement 7 Chairmans statement continued part in continuing to move the to maintain a higher quality land by the improvements in selling prices Group forward.
This is a prime bank we have been successful in which we saw during 2002.
While example of the benefit of sharing extending the housing land bank the rate of increase in selling prices knowledge and expertise.
with acquisitions or planning has been slowing since August 2002, approvals on several major sites these improvements have been Overall our strategy remains such as Chapelford near sustained in the reservations we focussed primarily on delivering Warrington 2,000 plots, Rauceby have been taking during January organic growth across the business Hospital, Lincolnshire 500 plots, and February and the actual prices through geographic expansion and Carterton, Oxfordshire 300 achieved are still outstripping our and product diversification, while plots.
We also expect to receive a budget expectations.
maintaining the same cautious planning consent on Ravenscraig, attitude to risk which has stood us near Motherwell, in the next few Any assessment of the current in such good stead over the years.
months, thus providing us access state of demand in the housing I remain cautious also about taking to the first of the eventual 3,600 market is, in our case, affected on the goodwill costs involved with plots which the site will produce by the strong sales performance so many larger acquisitions for over the next 15 to 20 years.
which we achieved in the final as long as we can continue our quarter of last year.
This, as success in the land market, but In total across the Group we have reflected in our balance sheet, am happy to pursue smaller 16,266 plots of residential land owned impacts on our stock availability regional or strategic acquisitions or controlled with planning plus a coming into the new year.
In which deliver land bank benefits further 1,227 plots owned, or with addition the impact of planning at advantageous margins.
deposits paid, where we await meant we came into 2003 with detailed planning.
This gives us a fewer live sites than in January Land and planning residential land bank of over 4 years 2002.
While this position will be In our experience the land market, supply.
We also have land for more than reversed by the second for much of 2002, has been commercial development sufficient quarter of this year, it does affect showing the effects of the boom in to provide 7.7m square feet of space.
current reservation levels in the house prices.
Every site is keenly same way as does stock availability.
fought for and the vendors of land All this means an ongoing annual wish to share in the benefits of the land spend of over 400m across Allowing for all these factors we housing market.
It is my earnest the Group and we shall continue believe we saw a somewhat slower hope that as the market slows to to spend at these levels to maintain and more uncertain start to sales more sustainable levels the rate our land bank.
It is worth noting in the early weeks of 2003, albeit that of selling price increases will have that it is precisely because of the following the interest rate reduction a knock-on effect on land prices difficulties and delays brought about implemented by the Bank of before we reach the stage of by the current planning regime England in early February we have untenable land values.
that we have to maintain a longer seen reservations per site at least land bank in order to ensure matching those of the same weeks That said, as a company we are continuity of build, rather than, as twelve months previously.
in a better position on future land suggested by some commentators, supply than for some time at that the industry hoards land to It is early days to be predicting the prices which meet our investment push up prices.
The hoarding market, with the main sales season hurdle rate, and in many cases accusation is, in our eyes, simply ahead of us, but, at this time, we better it.
We have in place, with designed to deflect criticism away believe the customer is balancing detailed planning, almost all the from the housing shortage created downsides such as the global political specific plots we need to deliver by the appalling planning situation.
situation with economic upsides our 2003 sales targets, and already such as lower UK interest rates, have detailed planning on over Prospects and continuing to see the housing 50% of the specific plots we need David Wilson Homes came into 2003 market as sustainable and attractive.
with a record forward order book up This is reflected in our current visitor some 30% in unit terms compared levels and prices being achieved.
In addition to undertaking the with the position at the end of 2001.
I see no reason therefore, why we ongoing level of spend necessary That position was further enhanced should not enjoy a further year of 8 Chairmans statement Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 growth unless there is a significant We have also always sought to ensure closely and successfully over the further change in the market.
that our Non-Executive Directors last two years and, with the full are fully armed with the maximum support of your Board, I believe On Wilson Bowden Developments amount of information possible, it is now the right time for me commercial business we have the and we see our duty of ensuring to relinquish the role of Chief product and sites available to exploit they are in a position to carry out Executive and for Ian to take over demand.
On leisure, retail and their role fully as a major objective.
responsibility for the day-to-day industrial there is still steady take-up running of the business as on prime sites such as ours, but until Social responsibility Group Chief Executive, from the economy perks up enough to In the area of social responsibility 1st March 2003. restore the office market I do not we continue to be very sensitive expect to see our commercial activities to the environmental impact of I remain as enthusiastic as ever delivering profit growth.
I do not now our product and our operations.
about our business and this see that happening in 2003 so our Accordingly we issued a separate industry.
I intend therefore, as aim will once again be to maintain Environmental Report for the first Chairman, to continue to devote profitability in a difficult market.
On time in 2002 and, as mentioned the whole of my time to the Wilson Bowden City Homes however, therein, we are now developing Groups affairs.
In this capacity my I see prospects for significant growth identifiable measures and focus will primarily be on strategy in the business during 2003 as it benchmarks for our environmental and policy, whilst using my long continues to develop its sales volumes performance both on site and in experience in the industry to and average unit size.
I believe that the office with a view to reporting provide advice and support to Ian taking into account both its businesses, on these later this year.
housing and commercial development, Wilson Bowden Developments On health and safety we have Graham Brown will succeed Ian as is capable of delivering significant restructured our management Finance Director on 1st March 2003. profit growth in 2003, given a processes to bring extra weight Graham has been our Company favourable housing market.
to our efforts in this area, and Secretary since the Groups the Group Board has undertaken flotation in 1987 and has had a Corporate governance its first detailed annual review of considerable involvement in our We are very much aware of the our processes and performance finances throughout that time.
concerns surrounding corporate in this area.
While we will continue governance both in the US and to strive for improvement it is Management, staff and suppliers here in the UK.
Accordingly, in encouraging to note that our Our industry is going through anticipation of the Higgs Report on performance in this area is times of change more significant Non-Executive Directors and the better, dare we say it, than the than ever.
Once again, therefore, Smith Report on Audit Committees, industry average.
I would acknowledge that excellent we had already been examining results such as I have outlined our corporate governance.
It is Board changes above could not be delivered our strong belief that we should For some time we have been without the outstanding efforts do all we can to reassure both considering the separation of the of our management teams, our shareholders and stakeholders, roles of Chairman and Chief staff whether on site or in the that the business is run to the Executive in order to meet the office, our suppliers, and our best possible standards.
needs of our growing businesses subcontractors.
I pay tribute and to address issues of to all of them, and look forward Our Audit Committee, for example, management succession.
to working with them to deliver has for some years now adopted another successful year in 2003. many of the practices suggested One important step in this process by the recent Smith Report.
was taken two years ago when the Nonetheless we are actively Board asked Ian Robertson to take considering what further measures on the role of Deputy Group Chief we can take in line with the thrust Executive, in addition to his duties David Wilson of the Smith Report to further as Finance Director.
Ian and I have Chairman improve our performance.
worked together increasingly 26th February 2003 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement 9
