3 Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement outlining the changes to the board which have These excellent results reinforce my view taken place this year.
After 12 years of service to the group, David Tucker retired as that Wolseley, through building on its a non-executive director in April.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank him strengths, has earned, deserves and continues for his dedication and valued contribution to the groups affairs especially as Chairman to retain its position as the worlds number of the Audit Committee.
We welcomed one distributor of heating and plumbing Jim Murray, formerly Finance Director of Land Securities PLC, to the board as a products and a leading supplier of builders non-executive director.
Jim is ideally suited to succeed David as Chairman of the products to the professional market.
Finally, and on a more personal note, I am continues to retain its position as the worlds retiring as Chairman this year after 47 years number one distributor of heating and with Wolseley, with 27 of those years spent on plumbing products and a leading supplier of the board and the last six years as Chairman.
builders products to the professional market.
It is with mixed emotions that I write this statement for the last time.
During my time Dividends with the group, I have watched it progress In line with the strong financial performance to become the major international building of the group, the board is recommending materials, plumbing and heating distributor a final dividend of 13.90 pence 2001: 12.35 it is today.
I am proud to have been involved pence, an increase of 12.6%.
With the in that development.
It is also a matter of interim dividend of 5.0 pence already paid, some pride that I leave the group in such total dividends for the year will amount to strong financial shape and under the guidance 18.90 pence per share, an increase of 11.8% of an outstanding management team.
In over dividends declared in respect of last year.
April, it was announced that John Whybrow The dividend reinvestment plan continues would succeed me as non-executive Chairman to be available to shareholders.
following my retirement immediately after this years AGM.
As well as thanking him for Employees his contribution as deputy Chairman I wish Continued financial strength As always, I would personally like to extend him all success in his new role.
We live in a fast changing world to which my thanks to all our employees, without business has to respond quickly or risk whose contribution this excellent set of I know that I leave the group in excellent failure.
Last year we witnessed the terrible results could not have been achieved.
Over shape and good heart and I wish it and all and tragic events of September 11 and at the years I have had the honour of meeting its people everywhere good fortune.
that time, many faced an uncertain future.
many of them whilst travelling around the Businesses also had to adapt to the new group.
I continue to be impressed and commercial environment in which they encouraged by the strong and efficient found themselves.
international teams that make up the 38,000 employees in Wolseley.
I would also like Despite the major economic uncertainties to welcome all the new employees who have that followed, Wolseley proved its resilience joined during the course of the year, Richard Ireland and produced record profits for the sixth especially our Dutch colleagues from Wasco, Chairman consecutive year.
The Group Chief the specialist trade distributor of plumbing Executives review and the Operating and and heating products and spares, which we financial review set out in more detail how acquired in July this year.
these results were achieved and outline the group strategy.
These excellent results The board reinforce my view that Wolseley, building I started this Chairmans statement by talking on its strengths, has earned, deserves and about change and will now conclude by
