CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In this, my last annual statement, I am happy to confirm that the confidence I expressed in last years report has been fully justified by the companys performance over the last busy twelve months.
The process that began over ten years ago to broaden the base of Vosper Thornycrofts business has continued apace.
In parallel, the long-term future of the companys original core shipbuilding business has been secured.
02 Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2002 2001 m m % Turnover 479 379 26 Operating profit pre-goodwill amortisation 34.1 29.8 14 Profit before taxation and goodwill amortisation 36.8 36.3 1.4 Cash balance 71 115 Dividend per share 39.0p 36.25p 7.6 Overall turnover has increased by 26% compared with last year to 479m an order book that is eight times what it was when he took over.
Profit before tax and the amortisation of goodwill was up been reflected in the performance of the share price, which has steadily by 1.4% to 36.8m 2001: 36.3m.
increased over the period and is now some six times what it was in 1989.
This performance has enabled the board to recommend a final dividend of I am delighted that Martin will maintain his association with the group by 27.75 pence giving a total dividend for the year of 39 pence per share, an agreeing to succeed me as chairman.
I look forward to continuing to work increase of 7.6% over last year.
with him for a further year as deputy chairman on your board.
The company has used its strong cash position to make 6 acquisitions during We are very fortunate to have secured in Paul Lester a first-class successor the year to strengthen still further our support services offering.
The largest to Martin as chief executive.
Paul starts with the advantage of already of these, Merlin Communications, provides and manages communications being very familiar with Vosper Thornycroft, having been a non-executive facilities world-wide, including those for the BBC World Service.
Merlin will director for the last four years.
He brings with him a wealth of experience improve our technical services capability, enhance our position in defence of both defence and government outsourcing markets gained as a group markets and open up new civil markets for the group.
managing director of Balfour Beatty plc, where he has been responsible for the UK construction, building management and services business.
On the military side we acquired Griffin Services, Inc. a leading US provider of facilities management services.
Griffin will give us the opportunity to I am also delighted to welcome on to the board Andrew Bunney, managing deploy the expertise gained in the more mature UK outsourcing market in director of our shipbuilding business.
the much larger and less developed US market which has even greater growth potential.
I am sad to report that Graham Raper, who was a director of the company for 6 years, decided in November to resign from the board for personal In civil support services, our purchase this year of Westminster Education reasons.
On behalf of all his colleagues on the board I would like to thank Consultants Limited builds on previous acquisitions to position Vosper him for the commitment, energy and wisdom that he brought to the Thornycroft as a leading provider of services in the related areas of careers company and wish him the very best for the future.
We have retained advice, vocational training and education.
Further growth in this area is anticipated.
Spencer Stuart, an executive search company, to assist us to identify and recruit to the board suitable new non-executive directors.
The negotiations with BAE Systems and the Ministry of Defence regarding the role of our shipbuilding division in the Type 45 destroyer programme The group has altered significantly over the years and, to reflect the are now reaching a successful conclusion.
We believe our role is a recognition diversity of the group, the board will seek shareholder approval at the July that we are one of only two UK warshipbuilders with the capability to build AGM for a change of name of the holding company to VT Group plc.
The frontline warships for the Royal Navy.
The definitive contract due to be Vosper Thornycroft name is a strong shipbuilding brand and we intend to signed later this month covers the first six Type 45 Destroyers, with the continue using this name for our shipbuilding business.
At the same time prospect of contracts for up to a further six.
The agreement already we will be seeking approval for a five-for-one share split to improve the signed gives Vosper Thornycroft a defined and significant role throughout liquidity of the shares.
the design and production of the whole class.
The past years successes across the business reflect the continuing benefits The agreements make possible the transfer of our shipbuilding activities of our diversification strategy.
Once again we have shown that we are able to state of the art facilities in Portsmouth Naval Base.
The investment to win new business by adapting our skills to new areas.
These strong programme and transfer are expected to be complete in 2003.
This will results reflect the important contribution that our employees continue to make give Vosper Thornycroft one of the most modern and efficient shipbuilding to the success of the company.
Their commitment to the company and facilities anywhere in the world, at the heart of the Royal Navy, alongside on-going ability to deliver innovative products and services on time and to our refit and repair and logistic support operations.
It will allow the budget gives me great confidence for the future success of the company.
company to compete strongly for further RN work and for export orders for many years to come.
We are strongly positioned for growth in the future and I am convinced that we will continue to deliver value for shareholders over the coming year.
Difficult market conditions have continued to limit the development of our Marine Products business over the last year.
Most notably, the down-turn I have greatly enjoyed being chairman of the company over the past seven in the US economy has meant that the growth opportunity in the provision years, and would like to thank everyone for their support.
I wish the of complete small scale power plants to US generators has not materialised.
company well for the future.
We do not intend to pursue this market, although we will continue to supply individual items of equipment to the US power supply market as we have done in the past.
We continue to do well in the luxury yacht stabilisers market, which has remained buoyant over the last year.
In November I announced, as part of a planned succession strategy, Martin Jays wish to retire as chief executive after 13 highly successful years at the helm and my own intention to step down as chairman.
Martin has been instrumental in the transformation of Vosper Thornycroft from a shipbuilder to a broadly-based defence and support services group with Wakeham Chairman Vosper Thornycroft Holdings plc 03
