Balfour Beatty plc Chairmans statement Annual report and accounts 2002 02 As shareholders know, I will be retiring in May and this is therefore my last report.
It has been a great privilege to have been Chairman for We have made some important acquisitions the last seven years and I have been very during the year, although we were disappointed fortunate to have worked together with such Three areas of business that we have in failing to make the acquisition of J.
A. Jones Inc a fine team of people.
I will naturally be sad to developed strongly during that time have in the US.
These acquisitions are covered leave, but will do so heartened not only by the been Rail Services and PFI PPP concessions.
elsewhere in our Chief Executives report, as is state of the Company but by the confidence In the first of these, we are now one of the the detail of our various operating businesses.
that it will be in the excellent hands of my worlds leading rail engineering companies, successor, Sir David John.
with the potential that gives for the future in The Board 2002 was a year of further progress.
Apart from the UK, important During the year, Ian Tyler, previously our Turnover increased to 3,441m and the order markets today include Germany, Italy, Spain, Finance Director, was appointed to the new book at year-end was a record 5.1bn.
post of Chief Operating Officer.
This reflects This latter figure excludes any share of the In the UK, we welcome the creation of the increasing size and scope of the business.
workload we can expect from Metronets Network Rail but it is essential that sufficient Anthony Rabin, previously responsible for involvement with London Underground.
funding is available to ensure that the much of our success in the PFI PPP market, Before exceptional items and goodwill UK network achieves the improvements took his place as Finance Director.
amortisation, operating profit improved by that are required.
Alistair Wivell joined the Board with 10% to 149m and profits before tax, Services have become a substantial and responsibility for Building, Building Management were in line with market expectations at growing part of our business.
We provide and Services in place of Paul Lester who left, 118m.
Earnings per share on the same basis maintenance and general support to a very wide with our thanks and good wishes, to take increased to 16.1p per share.
A final dividend range of customers ranging from highway up a senior position in the defence industry.
of 3.05p per ordinary share is proposed, which authorities, utility companies and the Royal Mail Sir David Wright, formerly head of would give a total distribution for the year of to leading banks, retailers, schools and hospitals.
British Trade International and also with a 5.4p 2001: 5.0p per ordinary share.
PFI PPP is very important to us.
distinguished career in the foreign service, Looking back over the past few years, As contractors, we benefit through earnings and Richard Delbridge, former finance director it is encouraging both to note that 2002 is from the construction work itself: the return in turn of HSBC Holdings plc and National the sixth consecutive year in which Balfour from ongoing maintenance and servicing of Westminster Bank PLC, both joined the Board Beatty has shown a strong increase in profits the projects: and the long-term return on our as non-executive Directors.
with a matching generation of cash and to initial capital investment.
The benefit to the Christopher Reeves, who has served for compare this years results with the operating public sector is quite simple.
Complex projects many years as a Director and as Chairman of profits of the business as it was in 1996 which are delivered on time and within initially set the Audit Committee is sadly retiring in May.
were the rather modest total of 10m.
Overruns and delays are to our account, As a former chief executive of Morgan Grenfell It required great management effort and designs are cost effective.
The recent and chairman of Merrill Lynch International, in that period to put the Company into its National Audit Office report comments he has given us the best of financial advice, present shape.
The cable businesses were favourably on the outcome of this and we owe much to him.
Richard Delbridge sold: our name became simply Balfour Beatty: procurement system.
We believe that these will succeed him as Chairman of the Audit and the business was transformed from being benefits outweigh the fact that private sector Committee, and his qualifications speak a traditional cyclical construction company financing costs are obviously higher than for themselves.
with a large exposure to major projects, those for government funding.
Sir David John will, as you know, succeed many of them abroad, and to hard-bid general Nonetheless, PFI PPP is subject to external me as Chairman.
I need not add that he is a contracting in the UK.
Some of it is simply self-serving or far more than adequate replacement for me.
process of radical reorganisation supported driven by out of date ideology, and much of it I believe that, at a time when the role of by selected acquisitions, it is a far more broadly is ill-informed and simply inaccurate.
For our non-executive directors is under particularly and soundly based infrastructure engineering, part, the delivery of major projects of public keen scrutiny, we have an exceptionally strong construction and services company, and that benefit, like Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, is a Board with non-executives of great experience is where we see our continuing destiny.
source of great pride and satisfaction.
and of very independent character.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 03 People Our people are our strength, from those out on the sites, through the engineers, the administrators, and all the other functions, up to the executive Directors at the top.
They are a good, honest and hard working team and such success as the Company has had is entirely due to them.
They are rightly proud of what they do.
I hope that our shareholders also feel they, too, can share some of the satisfaction our people have Viscount Weir Chairman when they see some of the fine jobs they do, and will join with me in thanks and appreciation for their efforts.
Public issues Recently the Higgs Report on the role of directors and Sir Robert Smiths Report on audit committees have been published.
Once it has become clearer as to the extent to which their recommendations are to be adopted, we will then re-examine our own practices in that light.
Unfortunately, implementation in full of Higgs may well produce as many unintended consequences as it contains good intentions.
As last year we are again producing a separate report on Safety, Environment and Social issues.
Outlook Generally, economic conditions are very difficult for most economies and companies and there are more uncertainties than for many years.
We are fortunate, however, We have a large in that so much of our business is in the infrastructure field and largely financed by governments, which understandably and logically maintain such expenditure in periods and growing order of low economic growth.
We have a large and growing order book secured for 2003 and beyond.
Our PFI PPP portfolio will produce increasing returns.
Our position in the major book secured for building market and rail contracting is strong.
Prospects in civil and specialist engineering are good, as they are in our services businesses.
I can only therefore anticipate another year of progress in 2003, and indeed encouraging 2003 and beyond.
