Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement Financial results I have to report a curates egg set of results.
The good parts relate to the solid strides made across the major urban projects under our stewardship.
Progress may not appear spectacular against the high standards which we set ourselves, but we can view what was achieved last year with a certain sense of satisfaction.
In contrast, the conditions faced by Global Switch have proved sterner than we hoped when buying out our erstwhile partners some twelve months ago.
Completion of the acquisition was followed almost immediately by the unpredicted and precipitous collapse of KPNQwest, then the second largest tenant of our newly consolidated telehousing subsidiary.
This was to prove a klaxon signal that an already rigorous trading environment was to become even harder.
The Board was under no illusion at the time of purchase that the requirements of telecom companies, which had previously formed the backbone of telehousing demand, would be sufficient to sustain the business going forward.
New lettings had to rely on a changing customer prole comprising corporate occupiers with heavy IT reliance and those service groups offering IT outsourcing, again typically to major corporates.
In the event, we saw further deterioration in the telecom sector during the second half of 2002 in terms of both covenant and long term requirements which was not compensated by the emergence of new corporate business.
As a result, it has again been necessary to reect losses for Global Switch, both through the balance sheet and profit and loss account, in the second half of 2002.
It is obviously disappointing to have to report an overall loss at group level for the second successive year: disappointing but, on further analysis, not dispiriting.
There is now a corresponding leverage into recovery and I will describe below the basis on which that has started to be achieved since the year end.
So as to enable shareholders to make proper assessment, I shall also endeavour to disaggregate the accounting for Global Switch from the results for the rest of the group.
I explained in my note accompanying the interim results last September that the required accounting format is to show separately the results before and after our having purchased the outstanding shareholding interest in Global Switch on 18 April 2002.
Accordingly, we have repeated the presentation adopted in the interim accounts whereby the first column on the consolidated profit and loss account includes our pro rata share of the total losses.
The second column then shows the results on full consolidation since April.
Neither provides a clear picture of losses attributable to Global Switch for the full year and so we have included a more detailed exposition within note 14.
Shareholders will see that losses totalling 36.8 million have been reected in the twelve months to 31 December 2002.
This includes a gure of 18.6 million for the first half which took account of write offs resulting from the disintegration of KPNQwest of some 21 million, split between pre and post acquisition periods.
2 Chelseld plc profit before tax from group operations, other than Global Switch, are reported as 35.5 million to 31 December 2002.
Those results were countered by the losses within our telehousing business to produce a net overall pre-tax loss for the year of 1.2 million.
The comparison with 2001 was for pre-tax losses of 25.6 million after accounting for Global Switch losses of 76.2 million and profits from all other operations of 50.6 million.
Whilst the logic of acquiring Global Switch and bringing it under Chelselds direct management still pertains, it has become clear that the terms of purchase from TrizecHahn Corporation were less advantageous than they appeared in April 2002.
The valuation from Insignia Richard Ellis at the time of acquisition gave rise to negative goodwill in the Chelseld accounts of 55.8 million.
The concept of negative goodwill is an attempt to quantify the extent to which assets are acquired at an undervaluation.
The subsequent valuation undertaken by Richard Ellis last December had regard for the changed circumstances and included a general lengthening of void periods.
The majority of the resulting writedowns have been taken through the profit and loss account, with a corresponding negative goodwill reversal.
Previous uplifts on revaluation reserves have also been extinguished.
The remainder of the reductions were allocated and taken directly through the 2002 profit and loss account for the year as a cost of sale.
Part of the reason that the trend is seen as upwards for Global Switch is because we are now coming off such a low base.
The decreased year on year contribution from the core business also obviously warrants comment.
In my September 2002 interim statement, I referred at some length to the unusual combination of lower yields and declining rents evident in an investment market sustained by low interest rates.
On the basis that the income prole was considered mature, we took the opportunity to sell a number of investment properties into this market, notably the two retail agships on Bond Street let to Polo Ralph Lauren and Burberry respectively.
The group income is now benefiting from the handover of Riverside House in October 2002 and the reversionary prole of rents at Merry Hill, but the immediate impact of sales was to take net rents received during 2002 down to 58.6 million as against 67.0 million in the previous year.
We had also wanted to refresh rental income through new purchases.
These remain surprisingly difficult markets in which to buy well and we have not been as successful as I would have liked in replacing income through acquisitions.
We continue to nd that there is little product of real appeal and a maintaining weight of money chasing those limited opportunities.
3 Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued That having been said, we are pleased with the previously described acquisition of 185 Park Street, SE1 and are in the process of organising an architectural competition for its ultimate redevelopment.
The principal leases on the building expire in 2008 and redevelopment will be a significant further step in the visual and economic regeneration of Bankside, for which Chelseld has been responsible in no small measure.
I also expect that we will be able to create substantial value in the process.
My only wish is that we could nd more opportunities of equivalent calibre.
The lack of product has also meant that, unusually, there were no trading profits in 2002.
This was in sharp contrast to the good previous year when the greater market uidity enabled us to generate some 8.7 million of profits before tax from property trading activities.
The profit contributions from joint ventures was also down by some 6 million to 4.7 million for 2002.
The 2001 results had benefited particularly from residential sales at Benbow House and at Chesham Place.
Turning to net assets, again the results are decidedly speckled.
Shareholders funds were 1.02 billion at 31 December 2002 compared with 966 million twelve months earlier, but I take no pleasure in recording that the increase is less than the 106 million net proceeds arising from the share issue accompanying the Global Switch purchase in April.
The basic headline gure of 364p per share at 31 December 2002 is down some 8 per cent on the equivalent gure 12 months previous.
A substantial element of the reduction stems from the dilutive impact of the share issue.
A better comparison of net asset per share movement is probably to be found against the interim gure for 30 June 2002 of 377p which took account of that dilution.
On this measure, net assets per share are down approximately 3 per cent.
We have maintained the practice introduced last year of including externally appraised valuations of land uplifts within a note to the accounts.
These are not taken into the balance sheet but are intended to provide a guide to open market value.
The nature of residual land value calculations is that they are sensitive to small changes in economic assumptions.
Again, I have to report a mixed picture: the surpluses over cost on land holdings were judged higher at White City and lower at Paddington relative to those twelve months previous.
Important practical advances were made on both projects during the year and the revised gures are to be regarded as a reection of somewhat snapshot economics.
Chelselds pro rata share of the land at Paddington was appraised at 15 million, a fall of 23 million, notwithstanding our obtaining an exceptional planning consent for the Grand Union Building.
Land values for prospective commercial schemes have undoubtedly come under pressure over the last few months, but my opinion is that the Richard Rogers Partnership design will prove the most majestic new West End building in the foreseeable future.
It seems a reasonable assumption that the residual land value will recover, at least, to previously appraised levels.
4 Chelseld plc The net outcome for last December was that our share of the combined uplift shown in the notes came down from the gure of 62.8 million at 31 December 2001 to 50.2 million.
This represents the equivalent of 18p per share 31 December 2001 - 26p per share and is in addition to the headline gure of 364p quoted above.
Merry Hill I doubt that I shall ever tire of describing the extent to which our Merry Hill estate, comprising more than 230 acres within the enlarged Brierley Hill, provides the most reliable engine for the group.
There are two immediate operational priorities.
The first is to continue to broaden the offer and in the process create new rental evidence ahead of the now imminent review cycle: the second is to confirm the planning status of Merry Hill within Regional Planning Guidance.
Many shareholders will be aware that the next review cycle at Merry Hill substantially commences in March 2004.
It is important that we look to substantiate comparability ahead of that review process, not least because there has been a historic tendency for retail tenants at Merry Hill to elect to have rents settled at arbitration.
Ultimately, rents are driven by trading performance.
All anecdotal evidence suggests Merry Hill is maintaining profitability as a retail location.
Merry Hill moved down two places in the Experian ranking to sixteenth, but remains behind only Bluewater amongst the new retail locations and followed a jump of eleven places in the previous year.
The strength of the location and its dependable profitability is recognised by incoming tenants.
The 2001 reference point for prime zone A space was around 230 per square foot.
A letting to a national fashion multiple, equivalent to 240 in prime pitch, was completed in December 2002 and provided further evidence for an estimated rental value on the retail component of 41.8 million deployed within the Chesterton year end valuation.
The book value of the estate as estimated by Chesterton, including land holdings and the adjoining Waterfront investment, rose to 741 million.
Looking at the retail component separately, the valuation reached 663 million compared with 632 million 12 months ago.
After making adjustment for direct capital expenditure, the underlying uplift in value of the estate was of the order of 2.5 per cent.
The percentage growth is a little lower than we have become accustomed to but we content ourselves in the knowledge that the reversionary valuation yield approaches 6.5 per cent on retail income calculated with reference to 240 prime zone A. Chelseld would certainly be a buyer at that level.
5 Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued We are careful to balance the desire to build income with the importance of keeping a broad tenant mix.
To that end, I am able to further record that we are in negotiations with retailers not represented currently at Merry Hill, who would extend the range and who appear willing to pay rent at levels materially above the established markers.
The strengthening of the offer also comes from the introduction of large national anchors.
The new Next unit, which measures in excess of 40,000 square feet and which will open in the summer, provides good illustration.
It will become a destination trading from two oors, both of which can be accessed from a new 1600 space multi-level car park which is under construction and will be operational before Christmas.
Such is the integrated approach we are now able to adopt, that construction of the car park, in turn, involves building 39 new apartments which comprise the external elevations.
Unattractive parking at grade is thereby replaced in appearance by new residential fronting decked car parking which, whilst no longer visible and intrusive, better serves the retail stores.
This approach is very much consistent with the aspirations of the wider urbanisation which we share with Dudley Metropolitan Borough Council.
Our expectation is that car parking at Merry Hill will be fully decked within a decade with a corresponding dramatic improvement to the built environment.
The unfolding drama to integrate Merry Hill and the adjoining commercial and leisure facilities at the Waterfront within the enlarged town centre of Brierley Hill is now being played out in public with the opening of the inquiry into the proposed revised Dudley Unitary Development Plan.
There is a coincidence between planned changes to Regional Planning Guidance for the West Midlands and the intended revisions to the Unitary Development Plan.
The recent panel report on Regional Planning Guidance fell short of recognising the enlarged Brierley Hill as an existing town centre but was supportive of the regeneration case for integration and gave a rm footing for the Unitary Development Plan.
Publication of Regional Planning Guidance is due in the summer and adoption of the Unitary Development Plan is scheduled some six months later.
The latter contains allocations for around 1100 new housing units, very substantial ofce and retail components and around 500,000 square feet of comparison retailing on land within our existing ownership.
Progress on the ground continues without much reference to technical process.
The Inland Revenue and NHS Direct have taken residence alongside West Midlands Ambulance and Stourbridge College on what was formerly termed the Waterfront Business Park.
Pedestrian links have been strengthened through new construction and usage and we have clear, if unsurprising, evidence of improved walk in trade for the retail areas.
In addition to the new residential referred to earlier, 105 additional units are under construction and sales are ahead of expectation.
6 Chelseld plc An additional application for a third residential phase of approximately 100 apartments, together with 120,000 square feet of new commercial ofces, has been made.
The expectation is for a positive decision from Dudley Council in the summer.
Contractors have already been appointed and the capital spend will be of the order of 30 million.
The proposed site fronts on to the canal and is highly visible from all areas.
The intention is to construct the external residential facades in order to safeguard the commitment to visual quality.
We may introduce a residential partner to assist with internal t out and sales.
The new ofces are expected to command rents in excess of 15 per square foot.
Whilst arguments in relation to locational labelling may be kept alive through Regional Planning Guidance, the basic reality of the extraordinary regeneration within the Brierley Hill area has come to be recognised at regional and national levels.
Chelseld now has extensive experience of regeneration partnerships.
Drawing upon that bank of knowledge we have been instrumental in the creation of a new Partnership for Brierley Hill.
The Regional Development Agency, Advantage West Midlands, has been highly supportive.
The Partnership has not yet been in existence for six months but is already showing concrete outcomes in new job creation and, in particular, in obtaining external matched funding from both central Government and the European Community.
Enhanced public transport provision also remains a preoccupation.
Centro, the local agency responsible for implementation of the Midland Metro light rail system from Birmingham and Wolverhampton to Brierley Hill are pursuing the application for the relevant Transport and Works Act Orders.
Our capital commitment remains at 35 million in pledged land works and cash.
This will be drawn down in phases from 2005 6 onwards.
Major improvements to the bus station are nearing completion and additional upgrades to local road junctions will further enhance bus movements.
White City Work on site at White City is being stepped up.
The Vanderbilt Racquet Club, which straddles the centre of the site, will close on 30 June 2003 and early demolition works have commenced.
The Australian contractor, Multiplex, was appointed in December and has been working alongside the existing professional team with a view to settling costs and rening the construction programme.
We had reported previously that the scheduling of works, including construction of a new depot and the creation of a building slab over the Central 1 Line was likely to lengthen the build programme out to about 4 2 years.
Proposals made via our nominated contractors to London Underground would result in reductions to build programme of at least six months.
We continue to work towards a 2007 opening.
7 Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued The capital construction costs of the project, including the investment of some 150 million into new public transport provision, are settled at around 650 million.
The contract with Multiplex will be xed price and substantial bonds are being placed in the insurance market in order to secure the cost of delivery.
The ability of Multiplex to offer a bonded xed price contract was considered a competitive advantage given the scale and importance of the project to Chelseld.
Terms have been offered by Barclays Bank to lead a 750 million secured syndicated debt facility covering capital and interest.
The ability to place a bonded building contract was an important component in banking discussions.
Whilst preparatory works are ongoing and there is no requirement to introduce external equity funding from the outset, we do anticipate settling negotiations with potential funding partners before the commencement of major contract works in the second half of the year.
DTZ were appointed to assist before Christmas.
Funding submissions are now being received on a number of different bases, including some which would allow Chelseld to hold an equity ownership above 50 per cent, albeit with a higher exposure to development risk.
Letting discussions with prospective anchor tenants are running in train with those relating to nancing.
Again, there are now choices to be made.
It is testimony to the strength of the scheme and its quite exceptional catchment and public transport provision that we are in a position to exercise choice.
We are being advised by CB Hillier Parker in relation to tenant anchoring.
Public announcements will be made in conjunction with those prospective occupants.
It is also encouraging to see the manner in which the broader masterplanning exercise for the development corridor from Shepherds Bush Green up to Old Oak Common, better known as Wormwood Scrubs, has come to inform and sustain not only our development, but also that of the surrounding area.
Masterplanning was undertaken in conjunction with the BBC and the Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and the first phase of the 1.4 million square feet development of the BBC Television Centre campus being undertaken by the Trillium division of Land Securities is nearing completion.
Our understanding is that it will be fully occupied later this year.
The United Dairies site to the north of the corridor has been reported as purchased by Helical Bar, funded by Morley.
We are given to believe that the aspirations are for further large scale mixed use development.
Our White City proposals have acted as catalyst for the additional development and will be strengthened by its implementation.
8 Chelseld plc Paddington Basin The reported decline in residual land values at Paddington ought not to detract from the manner in which the development around the Basin continues to be secured.
The Point building was handed over to Orange in February 2003 and completion of construction of the new Marks & Spencer head ofce at Waterside is on programme for May.
Orange is a subsidiary of France Telecom and, notwithstanding the continuing business growth being achieved by the former, we were notied of their decision not to occupy the building.
The valuation at the year end recognised the Orange covenant but had regard for the fact that there had been no sublettings.
I made previous reference to the obtaining of consent for the Grand Union Building.
The design reaches 30 storeys and over 120 metres at its highest level.
This is beyond the conventional limit which Westminster Council had set but recognises the quality of our proposals.
The basic design of the ofce element is for six interconnected rising blocks which split vertically or horizontally, but could also accommodate a single commercial tenant of up to 650,000 square feet.
I am of the rm view that it will become an iconic building for London.
As part of the same application, consent was obtained for 280 residential units in three 15 storey blocks fronting onto the Basin.
Subsequent to the Grand Union application being granted, we have been able to obtain final vacant possession on part of the site formerly occupied by a Westminster City Council refuse depot.
The eventual change of use could scarcely be more stark.
Early demolition has commenced and, whilst it is not our intention to commence construction within the Paddington joint venture without pre-lettings, our land cost is such that we will require only a proportion of the space to be pre-let.
There are already preliminary enquiries and we remain genuinely hopeful that construction will commence by next Spring.
We are building residential at Paddington Walk, which was known previously as Hermitage Street.
The scheme provides for a total of 153 market units with a gross development value of approximately 80 million and 79 affordable units which were pre-sold to Peabody for a gure of 11 million.
There is also a small retail element.
Following an initial marketing in Hong Kong, approximately 40 of the private units have been sold.
The first release was of the smaller units and around 15 million of market sales have been made to date.
Construction is being undertaken by Carillion following on from the Waterside contract.
Total build cost, including fees, is approximately 51 million.
Barclays are making available a development facility of 45 million to the joint venture.
9 Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued Stratford My expectation is that we will submit before Easter outline applications for over 13 million square feet of mixed development on the 180 acre Stratford Rail Lands site.
The submissions run to more than 40 separately bound documents and are being made in conjunction with our development partner, Stanhope, on behalf of the existing land owner, London & Continental Railways.
The applications envisage a new metropolitan centre and follow some three years of consultations.
The bold ambition is to deliver high quality, integrated residential, ofce and retail environments and in the process create a strong economic driver for East London and the Thames Gateway.
A fundamental element will be the demonstration of integration with the surrounding Stratford area.
The vision and scale of the project are supported within the draft London Plan and have been commended publicly by the London Mayor.
There is the realistic capacity to deliver more than 5,000 new homes and 30,000 jobs within a 10 year time horizon from the commencement of construction.
The existing rail transport connections are quite exceptional.
Stratford boasts the most accessible rail station outside of central London and already has six different rail lines passing through.
Additional rail upgrades within the next 15 years are likely to include a new Docklands Light Railway link to City Airport and a Crossrail connection to Heathrow and Stansted.
The international station for the Channel Tunnel Rail Link is at the centre of the site and will form an integral component within the broad scale of the development.
First services between St. Pancras and Paris, stopping at Stratford, will commence in 2007.
Chelseld and Stanhope have a development agreement with London & Continental Railways in which we are majority partner.
That agreement provides for the development partners to meet the full cost of obtaining planning consent in exchange for an ability to draw down land in successive tranches upon completion of tunnelling works in 2006.
The proposals include a new 1.5 million square feet metropolitan retail offer linking directly back into the existing Stratford Town Centre.
On the basis of current timetables, the retail core, as well as substantial associated residential development, could be completed by the end of 2009.
Construction of the retail helps fund considerable infrastructure costs and the combination of retail and high quality residential will help create a destination and sense of European identity for Stratford which will enable commercial and major hotel development to be brought forward.
10 Chelseld plc Global Switch The losses suffered last year in respect to KPNQwest served to compound the most disappointing aspect of performance, namely the lack of new large scale major tenants.
As I reported last September, small lettings on tted space proved quite resilient.
Where we fell short was in contracting with corporates and those looking to undertake structural outsourcing.
The benets and cost efficiencies of housing IT infrastructure within Global Switch purpose built data centres are starting to be recognised.
Important advances have been made since the year end which will not only serve to help restore the previous income base but also act as encouragement to other prospective tenants.
Contracts were signed in February with both Shell IT International and IBM Nederland NV for long lease and service agreements in the Amsterdam facility of Global Switch and in respect of former Exodus space taken back from Global Crossing.
The combined lettings amounted to approximately 47,000 square feet of predominantly technical space at an average rent equating to around 57 per foot and were related insofar as they arose from a decision by Shell to outsource much of its data operations to IBM.
As a result, both are planning to move their data centres to Global Switch.
The incoming tenants undertook substantial research with Global Switch sales staff over a number of months before concluding that the cost and exibility afforded by our facilities could not be matched.
In similar regard, it is significant that the first letting secured on London 2 since buying out our shareholding partners is with another international oil company.
The amount of space to be occupied in the first instance is not large but the fundamental decision was to move to an external facilities provider.
Our belief is that there is much scope for incremental business.
The publicity associated with lettings of this stature will support our programme of improved awareness for the Global Switch brand.
There is a growing demand for both European and global framework agreements with corporates operating across a range of geographic locations who would look to Global Switch as being the technical facilities provider of first choice.
Discussions are progressing with a number of existing tenants to this end and we expect to announce the first framework agreement shortly.
There is a sense of circularity in that such agreements would be in similar format to those on which Global Switch based its original business model.
In that instance, the presumption was for development to help sustain the growth of Global Crossing, KPNQwest and Abovenet amongst others.
The replacement signatories are typically looking to cut costs through the use of our facilities rather than build new economies.
11 Annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued At the time of writing, Global Switch has a vacancy rate of 70 per cent on net lettable space totalling 1.8 million square feet.
Current contracted income covers not much more than xed overheads and property costs.
Conversely, the Richard Ellis estimated annual rental when fully let, and after allowing for all annual running costs, is of the order of 73 million.
The extent to which the value of the written-down investment is leveraged into new lettings is obvious and has attracted the attention of potential investors.
For our part, Chelseld is currently holding a higher proportion of gross assets than had been intended in this particular specialist investment.
The ultimate objective is to keep a reduced equity participation in a larger business better able to take advantage of the competitive position Global Switch has secured.
Discussions have been held with parties interested in investing alongside Chelseld in some or all of the Global Switch portfolio of operating facilities.
Whilst we have yet to sign any denitive contracts, I can confirm that negotiations with Morley Fund Management are at an advanced stage: other negotiations are being actively pursued with other institutions.
I am authorised by Morley to confirm that the basis of our discussion is that they will purchase a substantial, albeit minority, investment in the European assets of Global Switch.
Attention has been focussed on the participation by Morley in a limited partnership fund for which Chelseld would be the asset and property manager.
The intention would be to introduce additional institutional investors in due course in the expectation of enlarging the business base with the purchase of additional assets or the management thereof under the Global Switch brand.
This would enable Chelseld to reduce our percentage ownership of a fund growing in value through acquisition, the letting of the estate and the participation of further institutions.
Separate investors may be introduced into the Asia Pacic assets but, again, under Global Switch management.
Wentworth The operating profit at Wentworth has proved resilient to date and again topped 5.1 million, despite increasingly difficult market conditions.
Income from corporate hospitality has been under strain and it is very much to the credit of the Wentworth management and staff that profit levels have been maintained.
The security of income at Wentworth relies upon the subscription base and reects the sustained programme of capital investment, both in golf and in tennis and health facilities.
In order that the patience of Wentworth shareholders in supporting the capital investment programme can now be recognised, Lloyds TSB Bank have made available a long-term loan which will fund in part the payment of a 20 million special dividend.
Chelseld, as a shareholder with a sixty per cent interest, will receive 12 million of this dividend.
12 Chelseld plc The bank instructed Insignia Richard Ellis to provide a valuation for security purposes.
The gure of 85 million was 8.1 million, net of minority interests, below the previous carrying value in the Chelseld accounts and is probably also below a gure at which a majority of the minority shareholders would be prepared to sell.
Valuations on other bases may have produced higher numbers.
The Board elected nonetheless to reect the bank valuation in the group accounts and the consequent reduction in the carrying value has been charged against the revaluation reserve.
Bank debt and gearing Group net gearing at 31 December 2002 was higher than at the previous year end, mainly because of the consolidation of 212 million of borrowings arising from the acquisitions of the outstanding interests of Global Switch.
Total net borrowings amounted to 862 million, compared with 615 million 12 months previous.
Gearing was 85 per cent which is at the upper end of the range in which we like to operate.
The gure of 165 million for net current liabilities includes a 60 million 10 year subordinated loan from Lloyds Bank which was arranged prior to the companys public listing in December 1993 and falls due for repayment in December 2003.
The amounts also take account of 70 million of Global Switch facilities which would most likely be repaid in the event of a minority institutional investment into the business of the like described above.
Dividend Your Board is deeply cognisant of the fact that the group is reporting an overall loss for the second successive year.
As a fellow shareholder you can be reassured that I am also personally committed to restoring earnings and value within the company.
The policy of the Board since otation has been to declare progressively increased dividends.
In the light of the first half performance the Board elected last September to hold the 2002 interim dividend at the same level of 2.0p per share as had been paid 12 months previous.
Having regard for the continuing operating deficit within Global Switch and the reported reduction in net assets, the directors do not feel able to recommend an increase beyond the level paid last year.
Accordingly, it is proposed that the same final dividend of 2.8p will be paid, amounting to 4.8p for the year.
Consistent with historic practice, shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend.
