Chairmans statement Pillar will continue to maintain key holdings in the Trusts to which we are advisers 02 03 Pillar Property PLC Last year we announced that the most important objective last year.
We consider that this is appropriate in view of the Hercules objective of focusing on larger parks with open for Pillar was to secure the major expansion of the loss for the year.
The dividend will be paid on 26 July 2002.
A1 consent and Pillars aim of holding its parks through Hercules Unit Trust Hercules and this was finally its investment in Hercules.
Net assets Net assets per share were 433p, virtually achieved in January 2002 by the transfer of our major Our remaining shopping park at Beckton, East London is the same as last years restated value of 431p per share.
shopping parks at Edinburgh, Chester and Preston for due for completion in summer 2003 and lettings continue to However, excluding the related costs of the sale to 444 million.
At the same time Hercules took over the be secured at rental levels above expectations.
Once Hercules the underlying increase in net assets was 6.2%.
Retail Park Unit Trust, whose sole asset was Fosse Park, completed and fully let this park will be offered to Hercules.
Investment Our investment portfolio is increasingly held Leicester undoubtedly the premier shopping park in the We have also entered into a joint venture with Capital & through unit trusts.
As a result of these transactions Hercules now has Regional Plc for the development of a new park on the investment assets were held in the form of units in the gross assets of some 1.5 billion in which Pillar retains an M8 east of Glasgow, which will be called Glasgow Fort.
This compares with 36% held in units last year.
investment of 48% of the units in issue.
With the inclusion The development comprises some 300,000 sq ft of open A1 Retail parks represent 65% of the portfolio, City offices of the 0.6 billion portfolio of The City of London Office retail space and once again we are securing pre-lettings to 20% with the balance mostly being in other retail and Unit Trust CLOUT, in which Pillar has a 36% interest, major retailers at levels above expectation.
Pillar has 2.1 billion of property under management.
will commence this autumn and the first phase will be This year we are announcing a change in strategy for Retail parks The value of the retail park portfolio has completed and open in autumn 2003. the group, with an enhanced emphasis on earnings continued to grow.
Overall, the value of the parks grew At Dartford in Kent we have commenced work on the growth, that we believe will best position the group for the by 9.6%, the majority of the growth coming from the major redevelopment of our existing park, having at the future.
The new strategy, detailed below, allows us to shopping parks.
We believe that this growth will continue same time purchased the 50% interest of our partner, make a capital return of 100p per share later in the as an increasing number of high street retailers look to the summer, with the prospect of further returns to follow.
out-of-town sector as an affordable location for expansion.
The outlook for consumer sales out-of-town remains buoyant Profit The loss before tax of 11.7 million compares with a with Verdict Research predicting that retail sales growth restated profit of 24.2 million for the year ended March 2001. out-of-town over the next five years will be 32% compared The loss was occasioned by the significant cost of implementing with 13% on the high street.
the transfers to Hercules totalling 36 million much of which was The Hercules retail park portfolio continues to be the cost of unwinding financing arrangements.
As at 31 March 2002 its rents are expected rental income from the investment portfolio attributable to to increase from the current level of 78.3 million to Pillar increased by 22% during the course of the year.
101.5 million when reviewed to current levels, ignoring any Most importantly, management and performance fees from future rental growth.
Hercules and CLOUT amounted to 16 million compared to Since the year end, six parks owned by Hercules and 12.3 million for the year ended March 2001. five by Pillar have been sold to Morley for an aggregate Dividend We are recommending a final dividend of 5.1p per consideration of 185 million, 53 million of which is share making a total for the year of 7.3p, unchanged from attributable to the Pillar parks.
