l. c. ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT RESULTS I AM DELIGHTED TO REPORT THAT WE HAVE HAD OUR MOST SUCCESSFUL YEAR EVER.
BY SELLING OVER 6,000 HOMES FOR THE FIRST TIME, TURNOVER HAS IMPROVED BY 77.3m TO A RECORD 773.0m.
THE OPERATING PROFIT JUMPED BY 25.8m TO 133.1m AND THE OPERATING MARGIN HAS ADVANCED FROM 15.4% TO 17.2%, ONE OF THE HIGHEST IN THE INDUSTRY AND WE BELIEVE IT WILL REMAIN SO.
Consequently the profit before tax at 31 July rose to a record 125.3m, our sixth consecutive increase.
Basic earnings per ordinary share climbed to 78.6p against 63.2p last year, a healthy improvement of 24.4%.
Retained profit for the year was 68.6m giving a further boost to our strong balance sheet with shareholders funds growing to 460.4m.
The company places great emphasis on cash management and the return on average capital employed was 27.9%.
Borrowings at the year end fell to 41.6m producing gearing of 9%, despite an investment in land during the year of 192m.
Increased dividend The Board is delighted to continue its progressive dividend policy and is pleased to recommend a final dividend for the year of 11.2p, compared to 10.1p last year.
This produces a total dividend for the year of 15.75p, compared with 14.2p, an increase of 10.9%, the twelfth consecutive annual increase.
Ordinary shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday, 13 December 2002 will receive the final dividend of 11.2p on Monday, 13 January 2003.
Current trading and prospects We have entered the new financial year in an excellent position with record forward sales of 325m, an increase of 47% over last year.
Since 1 August demand across all divisions has remained strong.
Furthermore we were successful in adding more than 6,700 plots to increase the land bank with planning permission to 17,400 plots.
In addition, to further underpin our growth plans, 12,500 plots are held where we expect to receive planning permission shortly.
There are also further substantial strategic land interests, owned or controlled, which are being progressed in the long term through the planning process.
With a strong balance sheet, we are in an excellent position to secure future opportunities as they arise.
Top: Detail of bathroom fitting.
2 Main: The Laurels development, Ipswich, Suffolk.
3 4 People are our strongest foundation These record results have been made possible by the skill and dedication of the Groups employees together with our many suppliers and partners.
The Board would like to place on record, once again, its deep gratitude to all who have served the Group so well during the year.
Board changes Alan Robson retired as Finance Director on 31 July 2002 and the Board offer him sincere thanks for his major contribution to the Groups progress over the last eighteen years.
His successor from 1 August 2002 is Alistair Leitch, a Chartered Accountant who has held a number of senior financial positions within the Group, most recently Group Chief Accountant.
On 1 August 2002 Kevin Wrightson was appointed Company Secretary.
Kevin is a Chartered Secretary and joined the Group in 1990.
His appointment allows Peter Stoker, his predecessor, to concentrate on his role as Commercial Director.
Corporate social responsibility Bellway is committed to enhancing the environment and the community.
The Groups environmental policy and initiatives are set out in the Annual Report and on its website, www.
co. uk In addition, the Group is particularly aware of its responsibility to ensure the highest levels of Health and Safety in the workplace.
This affects all areas of operation as we strive to minimise and eliminate risks to employees, suppliers and the general public.
Building for the future We ended the financial year with our strongest forward sales position ever and current sales are extremely encouraging with all divisions experiencing strong demand.
Over the years we have consistently demonstrated that Bellway can increase its market share and earnings, and the Board remains confident that this trend will continue.
I am extremely optimistic about the future prospects for the Group.
H C Dawe Chairman 14 October 2002 Top: Detail of kitchen fitting.
5 Main: The Point development, Boscombe, Dorset.
