R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:51 PM Page 2 Our success is reflected in substantial financial strength, major growth in the business within the UKs rapidly changing development market and the sheer diversity of both our products and operating companies.
The Berkeley Group Classic homes Mixed-use schemes Diverse buildings Quality and innovation Regeneration of city centres Sustainability Dedicated employees Urban renaissance Award winning brands Health and safety Renovation of old buildings Planning initiatives and relationships 2 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 3 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:52 PM Page 4 Chairmans Statement Roger Lewis Chairman For the year ended 30 April 2002, 6,400,000 new ordinary shares of 25p a gearing level of 25.1% 2001: 29.7%.
The Berkeley Group plc is delighted each.
This placing was successfully Bank facilities are in excess of to announce pre-tax profits of 196.2 achieved by UBS Warburg at a price 530.0 million, of which 200.0 million million an increase of 15.5% on the of 735p and it raised the sum of are medium term.
169.8 million reported for the approximately 47.0 million.
The policy of the Board has always New Accounting Policy Turnover was 976.8 million, up 17.1% been to ensure a sound capital base On 30 April 2002, The Berkeley Group on the figure of 833.9 million recorded and to put in place financial resources plc announced that future results would in 2001.
The number of units sold in well ahead of need.
We are currently be reported using a revised accounting the year was 3,182, compared with in the process of agreeing a number policy in respect of revenue and 2,440 in the previous year, and the of significant joint ventures and profit recognition.
average sales price fell from 285,000 considered it appropriate to secure the to 273,000.
Earnings per share rose necessary finance by way of a placing, The new policy reflects the by 15% from 91.6p to 105.3p and the so as not to deny financial resources to development of our two main net asset value per share increased the ongoing activities of the Group and business activities traditional by 14.2% from 628p to 717p.
without placing undue demands on the housebuilding and urban regeneration.
borrowings level of the Group.
The For traditional housebuilding, we The Directors are pleased to new projects include Crosbys joint now recognise revenue and profit on recommend a final dividend of 12.5p venture with AMEC to develop the physical completion, bringing our per share.
This dividend, together with Smithfield site in Manchester and its policy closer into line with most the interim dividend of 4.0p per share large joint venture in York with Land other companies in the housebuilding paid in February 2002, will make a total Securities and Evans of Leeds.
The policy for complex, dividend of 16.5p an increase of 10.7% We expect to be able to announce multi-unit schemes is to recognise over the 14.9p paid last year.
The cost of other joint ventures in due course.
revenue and profit on a phased basis, the final dividend will be 16.9 million.
reflecting the progress of the scheme If approved, this will be paid on At 30 April 2002, shareholders funds within a financial period.
30 August 2002 to shareholders amounted to 968.2 million compared on the register at 2 August 2002. to 804.7 million in 2001.
The increase The results reported this year accord resulted from the years trading with the new policy and the figures operations and cash placing, offset by for the previous year have been Share Placing and the impact of the change in accounting restated.
The impact of the change Shareholders Funds policy outlined below.
At 30 April 2002, in policy, summarised in Note 2 to On 22 January 2002, Berkeley net debt was 243.5 million the accounts, is to reduce profits for announced the issue for cash of 2001: 239.0 million, representing the year ended 30 April 2002 by Eversley Court, Eastbourne, East Sussex 4 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 5 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:53 PM Page 6 During the past five years, The Berkeley Group has increased pre-tax profits by over 100% and shareholders funds have more than doubled to a figure approaching 1.0 billion.
Chairmans Statement around 6.6% and shareholders funds of the UK, especially in areas where Health, Safety and as at 30 April 2002 by approximately the Group is a dominant player.
Significantly, there are now more During the year, we continued to households in this country than there give high priority to the key issues of are homes available and demand health and safety, the environment, Our People inevitably continues to increase.
During the past 5 years, The Berkeley Group has increased pre-tax profits by Berkeleys forward position is We are delighted to report that both over 100% and shareholders funds have immensely solid.
Provided sales St George and Crosby secured RoSPA more than doubled to a figure volumes remain reasonable, we are Gold Awards for Health and Safety.
confident that the Groups experienced In addition, St George won the Queens management and its skills as a Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Such a performance is not achieved housebuilder focused on urban Development 2002, a rare achievement without the commitment, dedication regeneration will put us in a strong in our industry.
For the first time and expertise of our staff.
On behalf and enduring position to build this year, the Group will publish of the Board and shareholders, I would confidently on the good progress a Sustainability Report a further like to express our sincere appreciation of the last 5 years.
sign of our commitment to follow and thanks to all of them.
best practice in this area.
As announced last year, Mike Freshney retired from the Group in June 2002 Looking Ahead after 4 years with Berkeley.
He will The last few years have seen an continue to act for us as a consultant exceptionally strong market for new Roger Lewis in specialist fields and we wish him housing.
The Berkeley Group began Chairman every happiness and success in his this cycle in a strong position, as retirement.
witnessed by our impressive growth over the period.
We are delighted that Victoria Mitchell joined our Main Board at the Interest rates remain historically low beginning of May 2002 as a and there is every sign that market Non-executive Director.
The who for many years was a Director of shortage of available land will continue FPDSavills, brings valuable strength to contribute to a shortfall in new and expertise to the Group.
housing provision throughout most A view looking up the boulevard at Imperial Wharf, Fulham The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 7 6 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 R&A2002 Final Front Half CL 23 07 2002 5:54 PM Page 8 I am delighted that The Berkeley Group is reporting a further record year of success.
Managing Directors Operational Review Tony Pidgley Managing Director I am delighted that The Berkeley 24 operating companies, leaving the Bridge.
This site, acquired by way of a year included No.
1 Deansgate in Oxford & Chiltern, Southern, sites: Chelsea Bridge Wharf for 622 Manchester, Liberty Place in Hampshire and Eastern.
This division Group is reporting a further record Group to focus on ensuring that company purchase for the equivalent units and 260,000 sq ft of mixed-use year of success.
our overall aspirations and visions cost of 49 million, will add nearly 700 Birmingham, Landmark Place in is working on over 90 sites and development: The Royal Arsenal for Cardiff and Whitehall Road in Leeds.
units to our portfolio and work will 714 units: and Bromyard Avenue, That success chronicled throughout begin on site later in the year.
There In March 2002, Crosby acquired a year it acquired further strategic Acton for 425 units and 90,000 sq ft of strategically important site in Newcastle sites in its area including the former this Annual Report springs, in my As this Annual Report shows, will also be in excess of 290,000 sq ft mixed-use development.
The sales view, from a clear set of aspirations The Berkeley Group has the resources of commercial space and community for 194 residential units.
The scheme bus depot in Oxford and New Barn launches at Chelsea Bridge Wharf and will be a mixture of town houses and Place in Wantage.
At Berkeley, we remain and expertise within its structure and facilities for the benefit of the area.
The Royal Arsenal have both been committed to undertaking todays management to undertake any form of apartments.
In Birmingham, Crosby extremely successful with over 350 acquired a site on Navigation Street Berkeley Homes Home Counties most exciting and challenging property development.
The structure St George continues to extract private residential units sold on these urban regeneration and renaissance we created in the early 1990s to take maximum value from the holdings and has enhanced the planning consent has continued to develop Leybourne sites within the year.
from a mixed-use scheme of 111 Lakes, Warlingham Village, Royal projects.
These outstanding the business forward continues to under its control and has secured developments on brownfield sites are serve us well.
further consents at Imperial Wharf, residential units and a hotel and Clarence Yard, Gunwharf residential, Supporting both of these divisions is restaurant, to 258 residential units and bringing new life to towns and cities Riverside West, St George Wharf and Knowle Village, The Brewery and Berkeley Partnership Homes, which across the UK.
St George St George is run by two Putney Wharf.
In 2002, our pioneering retail space.
All of these sites has extensive experience in the Main Board Directors, Tony Carey vision reached new heights with an are on brownfield land and they provision of affordable housing.
It is To enable us to undertake these major and Greg Fry.
It consists of 4 operating application being submitted to build Crosby also achieved important have benefited from the strong sales also involved in a number of significant planning consents in the year on regeneration and renaissance projects companies covering the whole of Europes tallest residential building at market and interest in the type of regeneration schemes working in alongside our high-quality executive London and the surrounding area.
St George Wharf, where we aim to Clarence Dock in Leeds and Redbank high-quality developments for which partnership with the public sector.
Clarence Dock has developments our experienced St George is currently working on 17 provide residential space over 50 Berkeley Homes is known.
management, and the first class team of sites comprising over 4,400 plots.
This will be a challenging planning approval for 600 apartments Such is the scale of this division and and 467,000 sq ft of mixed-use people we employ, have followed a developments that are now in progress project and one we intend to undertake Berkeley Homes London is run by the diversity of the sites under its consistent approach to managing the include St George Wharf which is with vigour and imagination.
development including offices, retail Paddy Sweetnam, and consists of 5 control that in the future we plan to and leisure.
Redbank was purchased in Group, to land policy and to the means located by Vauxhall Bridge, Riverside operating companies covering the split this thriving business further.
by which we finance our growth.
In West by Wandsworth Bridge, Putney The Crosby Group The Crosby 2001 with outline consent for 350 units.
The Company is By working closely with Manchester that combination lie the reasons why Wharf by Putney Bridge and Imperial Group, which includes the Beaufort currently developing 36 sites of St James Homes St James Homes is Berkeley continues to perform so well, Wharf between Chelsea Harbour and Group, is run by Main Board Director, City Council, we have secured an approximately 3,800 units.
The major our joint venture with Thames Water enhanced consent for 750 units.
while at the same time having the Wandsworth Bridge.
Geoff Hutchinson, and is made up of sites under construction are Chelsea and is run by Main Board Director confidence to innovate and to improve 6 companies based in Birmingham, Bridge Wharf, The Royal Arsenal Tim Farrow.
Berkeley Homes Berkeley Homes was standards throughout our industry.
Our commitment to such brownfield Manchester, Preston, Leeds, Bristol at Woolwich and The Edge in regeneration in London is flourishing and Cardiff.
split into 2 divisions during the year.
St James Homes is developing more Berkeley Homes Home Counties is and since the year end, we have than 20 sites with over 2,200 plots.
It Managing The Group announced the purchase by St George The Crosby Group is currently run by Andrew Saunders Davies and In the year, Berkeley Homes London has secured further planning consents consists of 4 operating companies, The Berkeley Group has a management of a significant 13-acre site on the south working on over 100 sites and controls secured planning consent on 3 major for developments at Kew Riverside, structure which devolves operational side of the River Thames at Gargoyle approximately 5,000 plots.
Major activity to 9 divisions comprising Wharf, just to the west of Wandsworth developments in progress during the 8 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The Berkeley Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 9
