02 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement approach to the buy-out and technology businesses.
The ability to mobilise specialist teams, able to draw on the regional knowledge Since the autumn, when my predecessor, Sir George Russell, of 36 offices in Europe, the US and Asia, gives 3i a powerful reported on the difficult conditions experienced by 3i, there have combination of focus and reach.
been some encouraging signs of improvement.
Our Enterprise So 3i has ended the year with its strategy reinforced: to enhance Barometer indicates that business confidence has picked up shareholder value by exploiting its strength as Europes leading among the companies in which we invest, and 3i achieved a venture capital company.
Its edge comes not merely from financial positive return in the second half of the year.
strength, but crucially from the ability to use its international Total return for the year to 31 March 2002 as a whole was a network to provide competitive advantage to its buy-out, early negative 960 million, reducing 3is compound annual return over stage and growth capital businesses.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.1p, making a total dividend of 13.0p, unchanged Sir George Russell, Chairman of the Company since before its since the previous year.
Though performance varied across the flotation in 1994, retired at the end of December 2001.
I am portfolio, overall realisations slowed as did investment and indebted to George for his invaluable advice, and honoured to weak equity markets depressed 3is valuations.
But the second have been invited to succeed a chairman who did so much to lead half of the year saw a recovery of 137 million in total return, and a 3i through a period in which the business was transformed.
Oliver Stocken, who has been a member of the Board since 1999, has been appointed Deputy Chairman, and will also become the The Company has pruned branches of its office network to build nominated Senior Independent Director of the Company when bigger teams in key business centres, while expanding its reach in Lord Camoys retires from the Board at the Annual General Meeting Asia and the Nordic region, and developing its capability in the US.
Tom Camoys has been a member of the Board since At the same time, management has reinforced its international 1991, and has made a tremendous contribution to 3i throughout this period.
This is a good time to invest, and the financial strength of the 3i Group enables us to do so.
Chairmans statement 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2002 03 I am delighted that Fred Steingraber, Chairman Emeritus of A. T. Kearney Inc, has joined the Board as a non-executive Director, bringing us the benefit of his American and continental European experience.
Although still subject to both political and economic risks, the world outlook has improved since the autumn.
3is extensive portfolio provides the protection of diversity, while its strategy is tuned to opportunities in all its major markets.
This is a good time to invest.
The financial strength of the 3i Group enables us to do so.
And the management has positioned the Company well to win the best deals for 3i and add value to its portfolio companies in the coming year.
