qxd 5 3 03 3:08 pm Page 2 BUSINESS REVIEW AND FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS THE ABBEY NATIONAL GROUP 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT At the start of 2002, I spoke of the challenges we were facing as a company.
In the event, these have been far more severe than expected.
Clearly, the significant losses incurred in 2002, do reect the harsh impact on Abbey National of extremely difficult markets.
The decline in equity markets has affected our Life businesses, and the trading climate facing the Wholesale Bank has worsened in terms of defaults and credit spreads.
That said, we were not well positioned for these market conditions.
During the year, I have been pleased to welcome Luqman Arnold, as our new Chief Executive, and Stephen Hester, as Finance Director now Chief Operating officer.
Both have already had a positive impact in addressing these challenges, and taking major steps to reduce risk exposures to protect against future volatility.
Also, our focus back on our core markets is a radical strategic shift and we are channelling all our energies into turning the business around.
We have a management team in place who are capable, experienced and equipped to deal with the problems we face.
Our people throughout the organisation are also critical to our success, and I would like to thank them for their continued hard work and commitment.
Despite our efforts, the fact remains that these results are extremely unsatisfactory.
On behalf of all the Board, I would like to express our regret at the results and dividend cut that we have announced.
We are not happy about this, nor are we underestimating the task ahead.
We have already achieved a lot in a short time, and are determined to maintain this momentum.
We have completely restructured the organisation, and have a clear strategy for the future that focuses on what we do best delivering UK personal financial services.
This remains an attractive market in terms of returns and opportunity.
We have a great business with great potential potential that we need to leverage far more effectively in the future.
In all we do, we are governed by the goal of rebuilding and maximising value for our shareholders, working with all our stakeholders to deliver earnings quality.
This discipline will be foremost in all decisions we take.
