Chairmans Statement The past year has been very difficult for the Group activities and the implementation of the decision to and for the whole investment management industry.
divest the property division will further reduce our However, the broadly diversified range of our gearing.
The Board will keep under review whether activities, the result of successful acquisitions made or not other asset disposals should be undertaken.
over several years, has mitigated some of the worst effects of the unrelenting decline across major We started the year with 34.7 billion of assets equity markets.
During the course of the year, following Abbey Nationals acquisition of Scottish The bear market has seen the FTSE World Index Provident, 8.9 billion of funds managed on behalf fall by some 25 per cent over the past year and by of Scottish Provident were transferred out.
35 per cent over the last three years.
Bonds and 2.2 billion of the reduction in assets under property account for 58 per cent of our assets under management resulted from market movements, debt management and these proved to be more resilient repayments by split capital closed-end funds reduced than equity markets: the IPD UK Monthly Property assets by 0.8 billion and net new business flows Index had a positive return over the year of 10 per added 0.9 billion, leaving assets under management cent and many areas of the bond markets produced totalling 23.7 billion at the year end.
Dividend The Board has decided to recommend a final It is against this general background that profits dividend payment of 2.15p per share, making a before taxation, goodwill amortisation and total for the year of 6.0p per share, compared with exceptionals this year amount to 41.7 million, 10.5p in 2001.
The decision to reduce the total compared with 48.2 million earned in the previous dividend to a sustainable level has been taken in the year and earnings per share amount to 16.5p this light of current conditions in world markets, which year compared with 21.1p in 2001. we expect to prevail through next year, and the desire to conserve financial resources until there is a The impact of falling revenues and funds under marked recovery.
In the coming year the interim management has brought pressure on our balance and final payments will be rebalanced on the basis sheet.
During the previous financial year, to 30 of the total dividend for 2002 to reflect a more September 2001, we increased bank borrowings by normal payment pattern.
202.6 million in order to help finance acquisitions, which cost a total of 357.5 million, of which Strategic Review 222.8 million was paid for in cash.
This year has In October we completed a strategic review of our seen modest acquisitions, the largest of which was operations.
A key decision was to focus on our the purchase of Old Mutuals Isle of Man life core competencies in the management of equity and assurance operation for 36.6 million.
This was taken particularly purchase was funded by a 100 million convertible in view of the emphasis clients are now laying on bond issue in January 2002, 43 million of which investment performance and process disciplines, was used to repay bank borrowings, which have irrespective of market conditions.
As it stands, the now been reduced to 122.7 million.
We have bear market has dented investor confidence, but the recently completed a strategic review of our Aberdeen Asset Management 5 Chairmans Statement continued long-term argument for investment in risk assets and administration functions.
Together with other remains valid, not least as governments around the cost saving measures, this will result in an overall world encourage individuals to make provision for reduction in costs on an annualised basis of some their retirement.
Our current staff base comprises 968 employees worldwide, of whom 262 work in our Aberdeen Asset Management is an independent property division.
Nevertheless, we remain manager of third party assets.
Our business committed to maintaining the highest standards of strategy is to offer high-quality investment customer service and risk control in all areas of our management services to discrete market segments business.
worldwide, defined by where we can compete Split Capital Closed End Funds effectively and best leverage economies of scale.
The split capital closed end fund sector in the UK has We systematically evaluate our business mix in continued to suffer dramatically in the downturn.
We order to ensure we can maintain sustainable managed or advised 19 such funds during the period, margins and thus healthy returns to shareholders.
each with distinct investment objectives and Aberdeen Property Investors structures, out of an industry total of 138 funds.
As Our strategic review led us to conclude that the the largest of the 37 fund managers operating in the interests of shareholders will be best served by the sector, we have faced intense scrutiny.
disposal of a majority interest in Aberdeen Property Investors, our property asset management business, The UK regulator is reviewing the whole sector.
We through flotation on the London Stock Exchange.
believe that at all times we have acted with complete Following our announcement of the intention to integrity and in accordance with all relevant pursue a flotation, we have received approaches regulations and laws.
These issues are, however, from a wide range of financial institutions extremely complex and come at a time of market expressing interest in purchasing this division.
uncertainty and widespread negative comment.
These are being given due consideration by the Further comment on this item is included in note 29 Board.
Cost reduction programme In conjunction with the boards of the split capital Against the background of falling equity markets, closed end funds that we manage, we continue to we have kept our cost base under constant review explore all positive measures to improve sector and have taken significant steps to bring it into line confidence, in addition to measures to assist with prevailing market conditions.
As a individual client companies and funds.
I would consequence, we have been able to maintain like to state that we are distressed at the losses operating margins, before goodwill amortisation suffered by investors in the split capital sector.
and exceptional items at 29.8% compared with While these individuals make up a small 32.3% achieved in 2001.
This has, however, meant proportion of the investing public, we recognise a headcount reduction in our equity and fixed the impact that the steep decline in values, or interest fund management divisions of 27 people outright failure, of some trusts may have had on during the year and another 61 across marketing their portfolios.
6 Aberdeen Asset Management Board Restructuring Chief Executive of Littlewoods Retail Limited.
The Board had grown considerably following I would also like to thank her for her valuable acquisitions over the last few years.
As part of the contribution over the past two years.
Strategic Review, we have restructured it in order to streamline decision-making and to separate Outlook governance from operational issues more clearly.
Many of the challenges we face are common to all As a consequence, all of the executive directors, in the fund management industry and may be with the exception of Martin Gilbert, Chief associated with a deeper than expected bear market Executive, and Bill Rattray, Finance Director, have following a decade-long period of growth.
That resigned from the Board, although they continue in said, our margins remain steady.
Our immediate their existing management roles.
They now task is to shed non-core activities, support our constitute a separate Executive Management existing clients and restore brand confidence.
A Committee, reporting to the Board on each of our reinforced commitment to our core asset principal operating areas worldwide.
Chris management skills will enable us to deliver the Fishwick, who resigned from the Board in October, strong performance our clients require, across our is leaving the Group at the end of December.
Finally, I would like to offer my thanks to everyone At the forthcoming annual general meeting, two of at Aberdeen Asset Management for all their hard our longest serving non-executive directors, Ronnie work and support during this challenging year.
Scott Brown and Clive Gilchrist, will also be retiring.
Ronnie Scott Brown joined the Board as a founding director in 1983, becoming non-executive Deputy Chairman in 1997.
In its early days, Aberdeen had less than 35 million under management and the Group has developed CLA Irby enormously since then.
Both Ronnie and Clive have Chairman given magnificent service over the years and their 20 December 2002 wise counsel will be sorely missed.
Phil McLoughlin will also retire at the annual general meeting after five years service, and his position will be taken by Simon Tan, Executive Vice President of The Phoenix Companies, Inc.
I extend a warm welcome to Simon Tan in his new role and an expression of much gratitude to Phil McLoughlin for the benefit of his experience over the years.
Susan Murray has recently resigned from the Board in order to devote all of her time to her new role as Aberdeen Asset Management 7 Diverse We have a diverse range of asset management businesses encompassing active equity and fixed interest investment, passive investment, deep value and private equity.
