2 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be able to report another Board and Management successful year for Alliance & Leicester plc.
In June 2002, Richard Pym became Group In a year when we celebrated 150 years Chief Executive.
Richard has been with the of serving customers, the Group made Group since 1992 and his leadership and excellent progress in developing our focus have made, and will continue to make, business.
That progress is reected in our a tremendous difference to the performance financial results, in the growth we have of the Group.
I very much enjoy working seen in sales and revenues, and in the with Richard and, on behalf of the Group increasing optimism amongst Board, I thank him for his efforts.
Also in June, Chris Rhodes was appointed to the Group Board as Operations Director.
Financial Results Chris has been at the forefront of a number Pre-tax profit in 2002 was 468m, up of business developments in the Group, 18% on 2001.
Basic earnings per share including our strategic partnerships with were up 21% to 68.0p.
The Board has MBNA and Legal & General, as well as proposed a final dividend of 26.9p, leading a variety of significant systems making a total dividend of 39.9p, a 10% and process improvements which are increase on the equivalent gure for 2001. fundamental to delivering our strategy.
John Windeler, Chairman 3 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 In September, Richard Banks became but that is not, and nor will it be, at the responsible, as Wholesale Banking Director, expense of asset quality standards.
for the Groups Commercial Banking and Corporate Social Responsibility Treasury businesses.
David Bennett remains our Group Finance Director, and details of As well as achieving shareholder value from all executive directors responsibilities can our business performance, we also recognise be found on pages 26 and 27 of the the wider impact we have on all our Report & Accounts.
Corporate social responsibility During 2002 the Group made excellent progress in implementing our customer focused strategy.
John R. Windeler, Chairman Upon Richard Pyms appointment, I reverted is at the heart of Alliance & Leicesters to being non-executive Chairman of the business activities.
I would like to thank the Board and have an important role to play in our local communities, by being a responsible all the management of Alliance & Leicester for the support given to me during my employer and through charitable giving and staff volunteering.
We have recently period as executive chairman.
published our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report and we have Business Performance signicantly increased our contribution to Each of the Groups business sectors had a our local communities through donations, successful 2002, as is highlighted elsewhere gifts-in-kind and staff volunteering in 2002. in this Report.
These results reect the excellent work of the executive team, The Future under Richard Pyms leadership, as well In July 2000 we set out a vision for Alliance as the dedication and ability of our staff.
& Leicester, to become the most customer focused financial services provider in the Outlook UK bar none.
The Group continues to Alliance & Leicester is widely regarded as make very positive progress towards meeting being a low-risk bank.
We have worked that vision, and the financial benets are hard to gain and maintain that reputation, shown in our 2002 results.
The Board has consistently pursuing prudent lending now approved further targets for the criteria in each of our markets, and we Group, taking us through 2004, and will continue to do so.
achievement of those targets will further The outlook for the UK economy, and the demonstrate the value of our strategy for housing market in particular, is uncertain our shareholders.
We are confident, however, By maintaining our focus on driving real that if the UK economy broadly follows value, on simplication and on excellent the path suggested by consensus forecasts, customer service, I am confident that then we will be able to hit our targets 2003 will be another successful year and continue to deliver shareholder returns for the Group.
that compare well with our peer group.
We are also confident that, should economic conditions prove to be John R. Windeler, Chairman signicantly tougher than current forecasts suggest, we are better positioned than many of our competitors to ride out any economic turbulence again to the benefit of our shareholders.
We are growing revenues and controlling costs successfully,
