The merged Company The successful demerger of BHP Steel.
One should not spend too much time reflecting on the past, but A smooth transition of the Chief Executive Officer it would be remiss of me not to revisit the merits of the merged responsibilities from Paul Anderson to Brian Gilbertson.
Companys value proposition and then comment upon some of A restructure of the Board that will result in a downsizing from the opportunities that should add future value.
The merger has created a Company with an exceptional lowHow then do these initiatives transfer into value?
It has long-life operations, with outstanding Creating value commodity and country diversification.
BHP Billiton is an industry There are a number of ways to measure a companys ability to leader or has a near-leader position in aluminium, metallurgical create value: from an external perspective, by focusing on those coal, seaborne steaming coal, copper, ferro alloys, iron ore and value propositions that will drive its share price over time, or from titanium minerals, and substantial interests in oil and gas, LNG, an internal perspective by analysing its business fundamentals, nickel, diamonds and silver.
e. g. strategy, operational effectiveness and the quality of its Since the creation of BHP Billiton on 29 June 2001, there have human resource assets.
been many outstanding initiatives undertaken and completed The mining industry has often been characterised as highly from a Board perspective.
For the purposes of this review I would cyclical and has had difficulty covering its cost of capital during list the following initiatives as integral to the long-term wellbeing economic downturns.
However, a close analysis of our 2002 of the Group: financial results gives an indication of how the Group is The finalisation and publication of our Strategic Framework, delivering on those external value drivers that contribute which detailed the key value drivers that distinguished us from to sustained share price throughout the cycle.
our competitors and outlined the strategic imperatives that will realise our full potential.
Our operating cash flows after net interest and tax were The performance measures against which we have invited steady at US$3.9 billion for the year.
Our strong balance sheet is reflected in improvements to key The approval of 12 new projects involving aggregated capital financial ratios our gearing reduced to 35.0 per cent and investment of US$2.9 billion.
Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation A number of remarkable successes by our Petroleum EBITDA interest cover was strong at 11.0 times.
2 CHAIRMANS REVIEW EBITDA before exceptional items was US$4.9 billion, down only investors in reported financial results.
What is required now is for companies like BHP Billiton to demonstrate that we are 7.2 per cent on last years record level, notwithstanding much pursuing a culture of good corporate governance.
One of the benefits that emerges from a Dual Listed Companies Good progress was made towards the delivery of our merger structure is that we have to comply with the Corporations Laws target of US$270 million of ongoing benefits by the end of next and Stock Exchange listing rules in the various jurisdictions financial year, with US$220 million being delivered in this year.
where we are listed and operate.
The Group, through portfolio diversification, is now able to lower As you will observe from the Corporate Governance Statement the risk profile of its operations and increase expected returns on pages 38 to 46 in this Report, we comply with the various over time.
rules and regulations of those jurisdictions and adopt the better Adherence to rigorous capital management disciplines based on of the prevailing standards.
This delivers an outcome that enshrines a business model that crafts value propositions for its customer in our culture a desire to ensure that we continue to be at the base, as distinct from the traditional dig and deliver model will, in forefront in delivering best practice in corporate governance, and the short to medium term, deliver sustainable benefits and warrant that we maintain the support and confidence of all our a closer examination of how this Company is rated in the market.
It is difficult to attribute a figure to the value of the strategy, Succession planning of executives and Board members is a operational effectiveness and our human resource assets.
critical element of good corporate governance.
When one considers the speed and excellence of execution With regard to the Board, an undertaking was given at the time of the merger transformation process, the various initiatives introduced under the Operating Excellence program, and the of the merger to review its size and composition.
clear articulation of the strategic direction introduced to the Messrs Ben Alberts, John Conde, Derek Keys and Barry Romeril market in April 2002, it could be argued that real value has retired from the Board at the end of June 2002.
Messrs John already been delivered under the Dual Listed Companies Jackson, John Ralph and Paul Anderson will retire from the structure.
That can only be attributed to the quality of the human Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in resources in the organisation, and augurs well for succession November 2002. planning.
This gives the Board confidence that we have a human All of these members have made enormous contributions to the resource asset base that is psychologically and financially stimulated to growing an efficient and productive Group.
decisions of the Group and I am sure all shareholders join me in thanking them for their contributions, without which delivery Mention of the transformation process cannot pass without of the merger transition would not have been possible.
paying tribute to Paul Anderson, Brian Gilbertson and their management teams, who have led this complicated and delicate Passing the baton transaction with a vision and wisdom that has resulted in an There is never a right time for a successful CEO to move on to new outstanding outcome when it appeared that execution risk interests.
However, in Paul Andersons case, when one reviews was a market concern for some time.
the progress that has been made since November 1998, it can be argued that he has his timing right again.
His achievements as I am sure all shareholders join the Board in thanking all of our CEO of BHP and latterly BHP Billiton, are too numerous to list here, people for their efforts.
but if we assess him on vision, trust, team leadership, creativity, Social responsibility integrity and community involvement, then he would have few The attributes of a consolidating industry global reach and peers.
The financial performance speaks for itself, but I sum up financial strength are probably the greatest concerns of Paul Anderson as a person who has a profound understanding of economically disadvantaged countries and sectors.
Historically, his own strengths and weaknesses: a very sound understanding large global resource companies had a choice of either taking of the motivations of people around him: a deep understanding the position that they were strong enough and had sufficient of the tensions and trade-offs of the challenges of the external flexibility to avoid social issues, or being part of the solution.
market and he has delivered on goals.
A job well done, and appreciated by all.
To the industrys credit, they have chosen to take the responsible path and be part of the solution.
This is the path that BHP Billiton Paul has passed the baton to Brian Gilbertson, who has himself has taken, and its significance is reflected in our strong had much success building Billitons business.
Brian has been commitment to the Global Mining Initiative, as outlined in the instrumental in leading the transformation process of the merger HSEC review on page 28 of this Report.
and has created a Strategic Framework against which the Company will be measured over time.
We look forward to the Corporate governance opportunities that lie ahead for BHP Billiton under his leadership As globalisation of investment flows continues, the availability and to working with him in his role as Chief Executive.
of capital from international markets will increasingly move to those economies and companies that have sound corporate governance standards.
Good corporate governance is not difficult.
Its principles are well understood and accepted.
Don Argus It is unfortunate that we have witnessed a number of corporate Chairman collapses in recent times, which undermines the confidence of 3
