directors report chairmans statement Our objective is to provide the core investment for those who wish to build up a long term store of increasing value Last year, for the first time since the 1970s, the major conditions, and we have been particularly pleased with the world economies faced the prospect of a synchronised rapid take up of the Alliance Select Pension.
The corporate sector was plagued by the well for future demand for the service we offer excesses of acquisition and technology driven expansion, stockholders - a core investment, which is well managed over-borrowing and doubtful accounting practices, and and supported by an efficient delivery system.
stock markets were depressed by crystallising risks and This service is unique in this industry and is built on the key falling returns.
advantages of a self-managed investment trust which is Against this background a reduced valuation was both large enough to benefit from economies of scale and predictable, but the Alliance achieved one that fell less than has been able to develop its own savings products and the that of most of its competitors with a portfolio of stocks resources necessary to serve its stockholders direct.
The which outperformed their markets, an increased total long established practice of the Alliance Trust employing its dividend and a stronger market for the Companys stock.
own staff means that many of the decisions which the We have been cautious over the last few years and, by Board takes are akin to those of a commercial company and maintaining a traditional approach to investment, we have require senior executive involvement.
We prefer these avoided the worst.
Our portfolio is widely diversified and executives to take responsibility as directors and, with a we pick companies which are willing and able to pay view to continued expansion and an orderly succession, we dividends, avoiding those we dont understand.
We adopt are proposing to increase the maximum number of conservative accounting policies, we watch costs and we directors from eight to nine.
This will allow up to four have not added to risk by borrowing money.
These policies executive directors whilst maintaining the required majority have once again proved sound.
of independent non-executives on the Board.
Now that markets have fallen and companies are finding it In view of current debates elsewhere, I should like to hard to earn profits, the conventional wisdom of the record my appreciation of the work of my non-executive superiority of equity investment is being questioned.
This colleagues who are most diligent and conscientious, both in questioning will continue while the excesses of the last few applying their considerable combined knowledge and years are purged, and there will be opportunities in the near experience in helping to determine the future strategy and future to pick up attractive investments at lower prices.
development of the Company and in carrying out their However, we continue to believe that, for the genuinely corporate governance responsibilities.
They are a key long term investor, equities are likely to prove rewarding, component in our success.
This year we were joined by provided risks are diversified.
Lesley Knox but we shall lose Nelson Robertson who During the year we continued to invest in our infrastructure retires by rotation and, at 68, is not seeking re-election.
We and have been pleased with the results even at this early are very grateful for the benefit of his wide experience in stage.
Our investment team is robust.
Alliance Trust the financial services industry and for his sound guidance Savings ATS continues to expand, despite weak market over the last 6 years.
