Chairmans Statement Results negative with a 2% rise in the euro offset by a fall of 7% in It gives me no pleasure to report our second successive the US dollar and Japanese yen.
The geographical annual decline in net assets and the share price.
The fall breakdown of our investments is shown on page 16. in our net asset value per share over the past year of just Earnings and Dividends below 17% compares favourably with the 20% decline in After two consecutive years of earnings declines I can the FTSE All-Share Index and also against the report that our earnings have resumed an upward trend performance of nearly all global growth investment trusts.
increasing by 2% to 7.02p per share.
Although we have I can fully understand, however, that a relatively favourable suffered from dividend cuts and a reduction in interest on outcome is of little consolation to shareholders in what our cash deposits, our overall management expenses have has been one of the worst years for world equity markets declined at a greater rate than our revenue which has since 1974.
On a happier note we plan to increase the been the main reason for the rise in earnings.
We are total dividend by 3% and we are forecasting a further proposing a final dividend of 1.74p per share, making a increase in the current year as you will read below.
Our total of 6.78p, an increase of 3% for the year.
For the long-term record appears on pages 1 and 17. current year we are forecasting a minimum rise in the Assets total dividend per share of 2.7% to 6.96p.
A quarterly At the interim stage we reported a net asset rise of 10%.
dividend of 1.74p will be paid at the end of May, August Stockmarkets rose through the period largely through and November with a minimum final of 1.74p payable in expectations of a recovery in the US economy stimulated February 2004. by the interest rate and tax cuts following the tragedy of I am pleased that once again we are able to extend our 11 September.
In the second half our net assets declined companys record of increasing the dividend which has by 24.5% which is one of the worst six month periods I been achieved every year since 1967.
During this period can remember.
Equity markets suffered from a range of funds have been built up in a revenue reserve that was negative factors.
In the USA there were fears of a double established to enable us to maintain payments through dip recession and concerns about the implications of a the economic cycle.
This year again we are making a Gulf War both for the oil price and consumer sentiment.
transfer to revenue reserve although smaller than the Equity valuations, particularly in the USA, were undermined previous year.
At present, and probably for the foreseeable by fears of over-stated profits, lax accounting and fraud.
In future, dividend increases may prove hard to come by and the UK and Europe equity markets suffered equally badly we might consider it necessary to draw on our reserves in with life assurance companies and pension funds reducing order to maintain our progressive dividend policy.
their equity weightings in favour of bonds and cash.
AGM, Management and Buy Backs Throughout the past year we have remained positively The AGM will be held at the Drapers Hall on 14 February geared in equities which benefited us in the first half but 2003 at 12 noon.
A map showing directions appears on not in the second: we also maintained a significant page 39.
We look forward to welcoming as many of you underweight position in US equities counterbalanced by an as are able to attend.
A presentation will be made by our overweight position in the UK and Europe.
Japan in fact manager, Michael Moule, and our deputy manager, Alex was one of the better performing major equity markets until Crooke.
As reported before Alex Crooke will become the the last month of our year.
On page 16 we give a manager of Bankers on 1 July 2003 when Michael retires breakdown of our performance within the major from Henderson.
The management transition from Michael geographical regions which shows that we have added Moule to Alex Crooke is proceeding smoothly and Alex value through stock selection in the UK, Europe and Japan, has been managing the UK portfolio of Bankers and the performance was very much in line with the indices successfully since April 2002.
On a personal note, I am in North America.
Currency movements were a marginal naturally disappointed that I could not persuade Michael to 3 Chairmans Statement continued stay on longer as our investment manager.
However, when Board and the European Central Bank should have a he retires on 30 June 2003, he will have been our beneficial impact on stockmarkets.
The US economy, manager for 25 years.
Fortunately his enthusiasm for which is so important for the world economy, should Bankers is undiminished and I look forward to his eventually benefit from the most stimulative combination contribution as a non-executive director in future years.
of fiscal and monetary policy for forty years.
We continue to market your investment trust to new and The European economies are looking decidedly twoexisting investors both institutional and private.
The speed with the all important German economy suffering proportion of the Company now owned by individual from weak consumer demand.
Here in the UK the investors is over 80% which I think indicates the merits prospects look rather more encouraging than in of this investment trust as a savings vehicle.
Any improvement in the US economy will have an important impact elsewhere.
Despite the We are again seeking shareholders permission to renew disappointment of reporting a fall this year I believe we our authority to purchase up to 14.99% of our issued share are coming through the downturn in stockmarkets in capital at the AGM in February 2003.
I would like to remind relatively good shape and are favourably positioned for shareholders that we will only use these powers to provide an improvement in equity markets.
a meaningful enhancement to the net asset value per share.
No shares were bought back in the year under review.
Outlook We hope that by now stockmarkets will have adjusted to the great excesses of the 1990s and that they are now discounting the poor near-term earnings outlook.
The Andrew Barker, Chairman recent cuts in interest rates by the US Federal Reserve 3 January 2003 4
