BBS00031P Inners 21 2 03 8:54 PM Page 4 4 Bradford & Bingley plc 5 Bradfo Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year Chairmans statement Exception 15 millio 2002 was a good year for Bradford mortgage with ALLT & Bingley and its distinctive strategy Pensions Because o markets d pension lia It is now over two years since Bradford & Trading profits by some 40 million.
This resulted valuation, Bingley converted from mutual to plc status The Groups policy is to lend selectively to from the anticipated reduction in balances funding is and floated on the London Stock Exchange.
those segments of the residential and driven by account closures following flotation.
we consid In that period the Group has seen continuing commercial property markets which meet our This was offset positively by some 19 million additional growth in revenues and profits.
careful underwriting criteria and in which we by the Group changing the amortisation As at the believe we can make a good return over the period for mortgage incentives bringing it Requirem The Group has also made significant progress full lending cycle.
into line with the industry standard.
We believ in developing its distinctive strategy - namely adequatel to concentrate on profitable segments of Our lending balances have increased, with We continue to manage our capital actively liabilities.
W mortgage and property lending, whilst moving rapid growth in our selective lending business, and repurchased 88 million of our own contributi increasingly into a range of fee-earning property particularly in the buy-to-let market, more shares during the year.
In the course of the increases related and personal financial services.
than offsetting the redemptions in our year we completed two substantial capital traditional book.
market transactions which supported our Results lending growth.
People Profits before tax and exceptionals rose 8% We are pleased to report that new lending Our achie to a record 273 million: profit attributable rose to a record 5.8 billion in the year The contribution from our Distribution challenging to shareholders rose 5% to a record compared to 3.4 billion last year.
Our business, which comprises Mortgage Broking, of the hard 172 million: before exceptional costs, managed lending balances exceeded Estate Agency, Insurance Broking and throughou earnings per share rose 13% from 26.0 pence 20 billion for the first time.
Arrears and Independent Financial Advice continued to emphasis o to 29.3 pence and return on equity rose from defaults have continued to decline.
Pre-tax profits doubled, delivering 14.2% to 15.8%.
advancing from 14 million to 28 million, The Board Overall savings balances have stabilised after despite the difficult equity markets and further for the po Dividend the substantial outflow of carpetbagger investment spend.
We reached our target of to continu The Board is pleased to propose a final deposits following the flotation.
There has 1,000 advisers in mid 2002, ahead of schedule.
dividend of 9.9 pence per share for payment been a continued shift from convenience Board on 9 May 2003 to shareholders on the savings to lower margin value savings.
We have delivered on the 30 million cost I would lik register as at 28 March 2003.
This will result reduction target we set ourselves in 2001, a particula in a full year dividend of 14.8 pence, In total, outflows post-conversion are with costs falling by 5 million in 2002, retired as a 14% increase on 2001. estimated to have reduced Lending & Savings before exceptionals.
Earning before Up 13% BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 1:17 pm Page 5 5 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002 Exceptional costs totalled 33 million, including It is rare for a Chairman to be required to Economic and political uncertainty is likely to 15 million relating to our decision to end our lead companies through changes as radical as lead to continued low interest rates which mortgage systems and processing joint venture those Lindsay experienced at Bradford & can be expected to underpin the property with ALLTEL Information Systems.
Lindsay joined the Board in 1990, and market and mortgage repayments.
We expect when he became Chairman in 1995 Bradford house prices to grow more slowly in 2003 Pensions & Bingley was still a medium-sized building and even to fall in those areas that have seen Because of the rapid decline in world stock society.
He leaves us, seven years on, as a exceptional growth in the last 12 to 18 markets during the year, we have reviewed our FTSE 100 company, with a clear, distinctive and months.
It will take some time for consumers pension liabilities in advance of our triennial successful strategy.
The Board will miss his wise to regain confidence in the stock market but ulted valuation, due 30 June 2003.
While pension counsel and stewardship, and we all wish him the need to save for the future remains and is ances funding is essentially a long-term consideration every success and happiness in his retirement.
underscored by uncertainty over pensions.
we considered it prudent to transfer an 19 million additional 50 million to our pension fund.
I would also like to thank Keith Greenough, Our focus remains on achieving further tion As at the end of 2002, our Minimum Funding who retired from the Board and from his improvements in our operating performance ing it Requirement ratio was estimated to be 125%.
position of Managing Director for Lending & while looking for acquisitions that complement We believe this indicates that we are Savings at the end of December 2002.
adequately funded to meet our existing has made a significant contribution to the actively liabilities.
We will adjust corporate and individual business since joining us in 1997 when we At the same time we will need to digest the own contributions as needed to meet future acquired Mortgage Express and has played a implications of the extensive regulatory changes of the apital increases in liabilities.
pivotal role in developing our successful that the Financial Services Authority proposes to d our specialist lending strategy.
We wish him well make to the mortgage and regulated products People in his retirement.
The Board remains confident that our Our achievements in 2002, in increasingly selective lending strategy and our focus on on challenging markets, have been the direct result Share price financial services and property retailing are right Broking, of the hard work and dedication of staff Bradford & Bingleys shares continued to for the Group and will allow it to carve out a throughout the Group.
We have placed increasing perform resiliently last year in a difficult market distinctive position in the markets it serves.
ed to emphasis on improving productivity and are now and as a result we joined the FTSE 100 index in delivering record revenues with fewer people.
By the end of 2002, our second full year of million, The Board would like to thank all our colleagues trading on the London Stock Exchange, our nd further for the positive way in which they have adapted share price was 19% ahead of our flotation arget of to continued change in the business.
price and 2% ahead of our end of 2001 price.
comparison, the UK Banks index fell by 22% and Board the FTSE 100 index fell by 25% during 2002.
Rod Kent n cost I would like to take this opportunity to pay Chairman 2001, a particular tribute to Lindsay Mackinlay, who Outlook 17 February 2003 2, retired as Chairman of Bradford & Bingley plc The outlook for the UK financial services in October 2002. and property markets is uncertain.
Our Our p pr riior oriities ties Our overall corporate goals are profit growth and improved return on equity.
Four guiding principles help us to drive towards these goals.
In Lending, we aim to compete in niches where we can achieve better than average returns and growth.
In Retail, we aim for high growth and innovation to make the most of high margins and its lower capital requirement.
Our results demonstrate Across the Group we are focused that we are delivering on our on tight cost control, and we are actively managing our capital base promise of offering choice to improve returns to shareholders.
and advice in financial services and continuing to 29 29.. 3 3p p build our selective lending Earnings per share and property services before exceptionals businesses.
Up 13% BBS00031P Inners 25 2 03 1:19 pm Page 6 6 Bradford & Bingley plc 7 Bradfo Annual Report & Accounts Annual Repo for the year ended 31 December 2002 for the year By focusing on specialist lending products, Bradford & Bingley is building a high value, profitable lending business.
specialised BBS00031P Inners 24 2 03 8:47 pm Page 7 7 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2002
