British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report a successful year in comparative performance terms although a less successful one in absolute terms.
A satisfactory first six months of the period in which the net asset value increased by 11.8 per cent.
was followed by the very difficult markets which have prevailed throughout the second half of the period.
In the circumstances, a fall in net asset value per share over the year of 7 per cent.
as compared to a fall of 26 per cent.
in the MSCI World Index can be regarded as a considerable achievement.
Over three years our net asset value per share is up 9 per cent.
while the MSCI World Index is down 37 per cent.
The Company is first out of 25 Global Growth Trusts over five years and first out of 29 William Fossick Global Growth Trusts over three years source: Cazenove Datastream.
Chairman Our revenue account has remained buoyant although at a slightly lower level than last year because of reduced liquidity.
Accordingly your Board has decided to recommend a special dividend of 0.4p per share in addition to an increased final dividend of 1.1p per share.
In aggregate, dividends for the year will total 1.9p per share, the same as last A successful year.
As I warned last year the special dividends recommended this year and last are the result of exceptional revenues earned in these years and are not to be regarded as year in dividends which will be paid regularly.
comparative Markets have mounted a vigorous rally in recent weeks but it is difficult to ascertain whether this is a technical situation or one in which investors are at last beginning to performance see value in stocks which have fallen substantially from previous highs.
If the markets rally further, the Company may give up some of its exceptional outperformance but terms the Board believes that our policy of buying companies selling on wide discounts to asset values that have fallen sharply with the markets, continues to be appropriate.
In many cases, yields are at attractive levels in the context of limited inflation and our managers feel that valuations, although not cheap, are at more realistic levels.
However, it is difficult to believe that volatility in the markets will end until such time as the situation in Iraq has been resolved in one way or another.
In my statement of last year, I referred to the acquisition of our Investment Manager, Asset Value Investors Limited AVI, by Aberdeen Asset Management plc.
I emphasised that there was no change as far as this Company was concerned to the Manager, the investment strategy or in the terms our management contract and that remains the situation.
I would like to re-emphasise that this remains the position and that AVI operates as an independant entity within the Aberdeen group.
During the year your Board has sought to address the rating of our shares through regular share buy-backs.
We expressed an intention of buying back not less than an aggregate of 15 million shares over the period and this we did, buying back exactly that number.
This has helped to maintain the discount on which our shares stand at around 8 per cent.
and, at least in part, accounts for the fact that our share price fell by 3.6 per cent.
compared with the fall of 7 per cent.
in the attributable net asset value.
While 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 the Board sets no targets for the coming year, buy-backs will continue to be used to help maintain the Companys rating.
I also stated that we would be seeking to appoint additional independent directors to represent the interests of all the shareholders.
The search has taken longer than anticipated but we have now been able to announce that Peter Allen, recently retired as the Finance Director of the Corporate Banking and Financial Markets division of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Rosamund Blomfield-Smith, a Director of Arbuthnot Latham, part of the Secure Trust Banking Group plc, and Strone Macpherson, formerly the Executive Deputy Chairman of Mysis plc will join the Board following the Annual General Meeting on 19th December.
Further details of these appointments will be found on page 25.
At the same time, Clive Gilchrist and I will step down from the Board and Iain Robertson will take over the Chairmanship.
It will be a sad moment for me when I leave the Board but I have decided that the time has come for me to depart.
I do not share the belief of those ardent followers of corporate governance codes that, after a set number of years, a director ceases, by virtue of that fact, to be independent and to have no further useful contribution to make!
However, after nearly 35 years on the Board, and 14 as Chairman, perhaps I should admit that I have enjoyed it all immensely and am very proud of what has been achieved over that period.
The milestones are many and varied, but in 1967 when I joined the Board the Company was an eccentric, self-managed minnow with net assets of 1 million.
In 1984 when John Walton was appointed to manage the Company, the assets had risen to 6 million and today net assets are over 275 million and we are one of the 300 largest companies by capitalisation on the London Stock Exchange.
The transformation of the Company has, of course, been mainly due to the talent and hard work of John Walton but I think he would agree that he has been well supported by the Directors and has even had the odd helpful suggestion from them!
I should also like to pay tribute to Clive Gilchrist.
He has made a major contribution over the 18 years he has been on the Board.
We have all appreciated his informed and cogent comments which have helped us and our Manager.
In retiring, Clive and I are leaving a Board which will have a majority of independent directors as defined by current standards and a Chairman of wide experience.
As a substantial shareholder in the Company, I wish them well and hope and believe that the Company will continue to give its shareholders every reason to be satisfied with its performance.
In closing, I and the other Directors would like to thank John Walton, John Pennink and their team for another successful year and to congratulate them on British Empire being awarded Money Observer Best Global Trust, and named the winner of Bloomberg Money International Investment Trust and Standard and Poors Global Growth Trust over both one year and three years besides the 3 and 5 year rankings referred to above.
As in previous years, the Directors would like to invite Shareholders to a buffet lunch following the Annual General Meeting.
If you wish to attend, please complete the enclosed card and return it to the Company Secretary as soon as possible.
