4 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 Chairmans Statement Barrie Cottingham profit before tax of 93.6 million, representing an increase of 23.4% over profits of 75.8 million reported last year.
It gives me great pleasure to report great credit to the quality and strength another year of excellent results for the of our senior management team and group, with profit before tax of their determination to maintain the 93.6 million, representing an increase groups impressive profit growth, of 23.4% over profits of 75.8 million particularly during this period of reported last year.
Basic earnings per continuing expansion of the groups share increased by 20.4% to 21.95p activities.
Of particular note amongst the many The directors are recommending an achievements last year, I would like to increased final dividend of 7.00p per highlight the completion of the share payable on 9 May 2003, integration of the management and compared to 6.05p paid last year.
This, operations of our monthly and weekly together with the interim dividend of consumer credit businesses.
In 3.40p per share paid on 25 October addition, we were delighted to have 2002, gives a total dividend for the announced in October 2002 the year of 10.40p, representing an acquisitions of Dial4aloan Limited, a increase of 15.6%.
specialist consumer credit broker, and of a motor finance portfolio from Shareholders will again be offered the Associates Capital Corporation plc, for opportunity to receive shares in the which we received widespread support company through our Dividend from our shareholders in providing the Reinvestment Plan, as an alternative to necessary funding of 81 million, by the cash dividend.
These important acquisitions have been The original five year plan, adopted by successfully integrated and are both the group in 1998, is reaching the end of performing in line with our its term.
The principal goals we set expectations.
ourselves almost five years ago have been successfully achieved which is Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2002 5 Separate reviews of the Consumer have had any material effect on The continuing success of the group Credit Act 1974 and the European reported earnings.
has been possible only through the Consumer Credit Directive are currently commitment, dedication and underway and are in their consultative The directors strongly believe that enthusiasm of our employees.
The indications are that the employee participation as behalf of the Board, I should like to implementation of any major changes shareholders in the company is to be thank them for their invaluable arising from these reviews is unlikely to encouraged.
Two all-employee share contributions and support during 2002. take effect before Autumn 2004 for the schemes, the Cattles Employee Consumer Credit Act and 2007 for the Sharesave Scheme and the Cattles We are very pleased with the groups European Consumer Credit Directive.
In Employee Share Scheme, have performance during 2002 and I look common with other responsible operated within the group since 1993 forward to another successful year in lenders, we welcome these reviews and and 1994, respectively.
2003. will continue to contribute to the consultation process.
The lifespan of the 1993 sharesave scheme was for a fixed period of Through our four trade association 10 years, expiring in 2003.
In addition, bodies, Cattles is actively engaged the beneficial UK tax reliefs available to and working closely with the relevant employees under the 1994 profit DTI, European and consultative sharing scheme were withdrawn by Barrie Cottingham working groups.
the Inland Revenue for any Chairman appropriation of shares after 6 March 2003 The company continues to adopt the 31 December 2002.
Consequently, transitional arrangements of FRS 17 resolutions will be put forward at the Retirement benefits.
If this standard forthcoming annual general meeting to had been fully operative in 2002, the seek shareholders approval to replace groups consolidated net assets of the existing schemes with the 346 million would have been reduced introduction of a new Employee Share by 15 million primarily reflecting the Incentive Plan and a new Employee recent decline in equity valuations.
Adoption of this standard would not
