Chairmans Statement This is my first year as your Chairman, following the In the current year, faced with an uncertain outlook for retirement of Jim Titcomb at the last Annual General income into the Company, we are forecasting a minimum Meeting.
Jim will be a hard act to follow but I will increase of 0.8% in the Companys total net dividend to endeavour to deliver shareholder value through both good 8.00p, payable at the new quarterly rate of 2.00p.
The Board and difficult times.
will decide whether a further increase is appropriate at the time of the fourth interim, when the total income received by David Hubbard, who with great distinction has served the Company is known.
shareholders as a director since 1989, is retiring at this Management Fee and Expenses years Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank him for Our new management agreement involved a reduction in the the wise counsel he has given us over many years.
We are base fee, but introduced a performance fee payable in the delighted that Helen Weir joined the Board in March.
Helen event of outperformance relative to the total return on the is Group Finance Director of Kingsher plc.
This year we have outperfomed and Performance therefore a performance fee will become payable to our The year under review was a testing one for investors managers, Henderson Global Investors.
It could perhaps be seen as an antidote to the charged to the capital account as it has been earned from optimism of the late 1990s which led to excessive capital capital outperformance of the index.
expenditure in the telecommunications, media and For the year to 30 June 2002, excluding interest but including technology sectors and disappointing subsequent returns.
In the proportion of the management fees which is charged to addition, the loose accounting policies and corporate capital, total expenses amounted to 0.68% of assets under scandals that have been revealed in the United States have management.
Excluding the performance fee, total expenses been a major blow to investor confidence.
amounted to 0.42% of assets under management.
Against this sombre background, City of Londons Savings performance has been relatively good, reflecting the focus on City of London sets out to be an attractive and value.
A negative total return was limited to 11.4% whilst the straightforward long-term savings vehicle for private FTSE All-Share Index negative return was 14.8%.
Over recent years we have received excellent fourth year out of the last five that City of Londons support for our Share Savings Plan, PEPs and ISAs.
performance has exceeded the FTSE All-Share Index.
Outlook Dividends The FTSE All-Share Index has fallen by some 39% since its A fourth interim dividend of 2.00p was paid on 31 August peak at the end of December 1999.
Part of this fall has 2002, making a total net dividend for the year of 7.94p.
This been caused by a downgrading of profit expectations, is an increase of 5.9% over the previous year, which is especially in the telecommunications, media and technology signicantly better than the dividend growth for the FTSE Allsectors.
In addition, there has been a derating of equities.
Share Index of around 1.5% over the same period.
It also This had taken equity yields, when compared with bond continues the Companys unbroken record of annual dividend yields, to a level that indicates that equities are relatively increases since 1966. cheap based upon differentials over the past decade.
The In the year to 30 June 2002, the Companys investment dividend yield for the UK stock market now appears to offer income decreased by approximately 11%.
This was caused good value relative to cash.
The main threat is a further by dividend cuts from a few of the companies in which we global economic downturn but this should be countered by are invested, an 0.83m fall in special dividends received and the easing of monetary and scal policy in many of the major some companies adopting a distribution policy that includes economies of the world, including the UK.
Overall, prospects both dividends and share buy-backs.
for UK corporate profits growth are likely to improve although some sectors will be adversely affected by tough Shareholders should note that the Company had built up competitive conditions.
revenue reserves of 12.27m and, in the year to 30 June 2002, 0.95m was taken from this reserve to supplement Annual General Meeting AGM the income received and enable the Company to pay the Shareholders are invited to the AGM which will take place on increased dividend.
Going forward, your Board is aware that Friday 18 October at 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
The many shareholders rely upon annual dividend growth and will AGM will start at 12.00 noon and include a presentation continue to consider using part of these reserves to from the Portfolio Manager and a buffet lunch.
supplement dividend ows when income received by the S M fide Zoete Company is disappointing.
