Chairmans statement In my first statement since becoming chairman following the last Annual General Meeting in January 2002, I thought that I should give you an overview of your company, followed by a perspective on the recent past, the challenges that lie ahead and your boards approach to addressing them.
I have travelled extensively and had the opportunity to visit operations and to meet customers and staff throughout the world.
I am immensely impressed by the capability of the company and the goodwill it enjoys.
There are also good opportunities for the future that I will comment on later.
A revitalised BOC Since the joint bid for the company from Air Liquide and Air Products lapsed over two years ago, your company has been invigorated under the executive leadership of Tony Isaac.
A new team of executive and non-executive directors has been built, all of whom share the same passion and commitment for the future development of BOC.
The same revitalisation has occurred at every level of the company.
The board has reviewed all aspects of strategy, performance and governance during 2002.
There is an ambitious forward programme for our management and staff to achieve.
Our principal objective is to deliver superior returns to our shareholders, both in the form of dividends and share price appreciation.
The graphs shown on the following page indicate how we stand now against this objective.
They will be updated in future annual reports so that shareholders can monitor progress.
I have chosen October 2000 as the start point for the graphs as it was the beginning of the first financial year after the bid lapsed.
One graph shows progress in total shareholder returns relative to the FTSE 100 group of companies to the end of this financial year.
It demonstrates outperformance relative to this group.
The second graph compares your companys performance with its main global gases competitors.
The message here is less positive and spurs us on to improve our position.
Delivering superior returns Our strategy to deliver superior returns for shareholders is to focus on sustained and sustainable growth in earnings and improvements in capital efficiency.
These, in turn, require us to grow the scale and scope of your company whilst continuously improving the efficiency and productivity of capital and other resources.
Success will enable us to sustain a progressive dividend policy, on which the board is seeking your endorsement at the next Annual General Meeting.
It would also result in the value of your shares being underpinned through increased support in the market.
We are also seeking your endorsement at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for our remuneration policy.
This has been thoroughly reviewed and is designed to support the strategy I explained above.
It is in line with current best practice.
The board has also reviewed all aspects of governance in its widest sense, adopting best practice wherever opportunities have been identified and has updated its approach to social responsibility.
These are mentioned in this report.
Finally, the board has reviewed its own performance, a process which it will undertake annually, and board process improvements are currently being implemented.
04 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002 Dividend Total shareholder return since 1 October 2000 The BOC Group has performed well over the last year.
Excluding BOC Edwards, where orders from semiconductor manufacturers were down sharply, operating profit before exceptional Percentage items for the year increased 11 per cent at constant currency.
This is a strong result against a 40 background of variable economic growth in markets that are important to us, with Australia and 30 South Africa showing sustained improvement while manufacturing activity in the UK and US was 20 more restrained.
As a result the board was pleased to propose a first interim dividend for 2003 10 of 15.5p per share.
This follows our established policy of maintaining a consistent first interim 0 dividend and reflecting any increase in the second interim dividend when we announce our half -10 year results.
Following a period when many discounted the value of dividends as they searched for -20 BOC often illusory growth, the importance of dividends to shareholders is more apparent today.
FTSE 100 -30 -40 Continuing the strategy Oct-00 Apr-01 Oct-01 Apr-02 Oct-02 Tony Isaac and his management team have been pursuing a consistent strategy.
One of BOCs strengths is its compressed gases business, contained within Industrial and Special Products.
Total shareholder return This line of business has a sensible balance of growth opportunities in new products, services and October 2000 October 2002 geographies matched by careful management of its core industrial business.
Process Gas Solutions BOC relative to FTSE 100 compared with major gases companies relative to seeks to increase the percentage of BOCs business that comes from tonnage schemes, where respective local indices dedicated plants supply large volumes of gas to customers on long-term contracts.
It has a Percentage solutions-driven approach that really does differentiate it from its competitors.
BOC Edwards 70 offers a unique combination of products and services to the semiconductor industry and is a leader in the supply of vacuum products to a wide range of other customers.
Despite its cyclical 60 nature, the semiconductor industry is an excellent long-term market and one that BOC Edwards 50 is well set to serve.
The two other specialist businesses in the portfolio, Gist and Afrox hospitals, 40 have well developed strategies to meet their individual market needs.
Having identified underperforming assets in our portfolio, management has either improved 30 them to acceptable levels of performance or sought to dispose of them.
This programme has 20 both generated cash and improved the Groups return on capital employed.
A well founded 10 investment and acquisitions process has added a number of attractive new businesses to the BOC relative Other gases 0 Groups portfolio this year, strengthening our geographical presence and the growth prospects companies to FTSE 100 of our lines of business.
Board of directors This year I am delighted that two new non-executive directors have joined your board.
Matthew Miau brings extensive knowledge of the global electronics and semiconductor industry and of Asian business in general.
Roberto Mendoza, who joined in October 2002, brings to our deliberations a lifetime of experience in business and finance.
I am particularly pleased that Tony Isaac accepted the boards invitation to stay as chief executive until June 2005, which is beyond his previous retirement date.
This will give the Group the continuity of executive leadership that is so vital for sustained value creation.
I took over the chairmanship at the Annual General Meeting in January when Sir David John retired.
David had been a director since 1993 and chairman for six years.
Howard Macdonald and Harry Groome also retired at the Annual General Meeting having served BOC for nearly 12 and six years respectively.
I thank all three for their contributions.
Thank you Your company has a very strong business, close customer relationships and highly committed employees.
On behalf of the board I thank our customers for their business and our staff for their achievements.
Over the last two years the industrial gases industry has provided solid investment opportunities in an uncertain world and I am delighted to have joined one of the UKs truly world-class companies.
The foundations for future prosperity are firm and your board is confident of the continuing success of your company.
Rob Margetts Chairman a very strong business 05 The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2002
