CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WEVE IDENTIFIED MARKET SECTORS THAT OFFER THE BEST POTENTIAL FOR HEALTHY RETURNS, AND WEVE ALIGNED OUR OPERATIONS TO MAXIMISE OUR INVOLVEMENT.
RISING TO THE CHALLENGE The Finance Directors review includes a detailed analysis of the The new Millennium, thus far, has proved extremely challenging performance of the discontinued commercial business.
It is, therefore, pleasing to report that Cox has achieved a significant improvement in financial Cox is now free to concentrate on the retail insurance market, performance.
Against a general market backdrop of uncertainty where we have an impeccable record.
We have deliberately and, in some sectors, pessimism, we are looking forward to built a broadly based, balanced family of businesses that continued growth and profitability.
reflect the diverse nature of the retail insurance industry.
Todays insurance companies must be flexible, nimble and We are committed to underwriting for profit, rather than market aggressive.
If we are to succeed, we must react to changing share.
We are determined to maintain strict financial controls conditions and take advantage of opportunities as and when and, with the benefit of our mature and multi-stranded distribution they arise.
At Cox, we have identified market sectors that we capability, we are well positioned to manage any future changes consider offer the best potential for healthy returns, and we in the underwriting cycle.
have aligned our operations to maximise our involvement.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In 2002 we completed our withdrawal from Commercial Overall profit before tax increased to 43m 2001 241m loss.
Division underwriting by exiting Nuclear and Aviation All areas of the ongoing retail business enjoyed an excellent and we reduced exposure within other discontinued year in 2002.
We have increased underwriting gross written commercial activities.
Underwriting profit has increased to 40m 2001 26m and Broking and Whilst last year we did not forecast any positive release from Insurance Services profit has increased to 19m 2001 11m.
our discontinued commercial business, we were hopeful that a surplus might emerge.
The result of the discontinued commercial operation in the second half of the year and the way the business is now running-off support that view.
Cox Insurance Holdings Plc 02 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 43m PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2001 241m LOSS 302m RETAIL UNDERWRITING GWP COX SHARE 2001 273m 19m BROKING AND INSURANCE SERVICES PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2001 11m DIVIDEND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is not recommending any dividend in respect of the We are conscious that the current membership of our Board, current year, but in the absence of any unforeseen events we whilst meeting the current requirements of the Combined Code, intend to do so for 2003.
However, the Directors will consider does not match all the recommendations of the Higgs and the timing again at the interim results stage.
Smith Reports, in particular with reference to the independence of Non-executive Directors.
We will continue to assess the needs YOUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the business.
We will make sure that the Board is balanced Following our withdrawal from the commercial arena, we have and has the necessary skills to assist in the development of announced that Michael Dawson, who played a significant role the Company.
in helping to construct the agreement with Lloyds, will be stepping down from the Board and leaving the Company at the LOOKING AHEAD end of May.
We are pleased that Michael will continue to be With a company such as ours with business balance, skills available to advise the Company on a one day per week basis.
and experience, there is opportunity for success throughout the cycle.
We have proved this in the past and intend to We also announced that Bernard Watkins retired from his fullcontinue this in the future.
time executive responsibilities at the end of March but has agreed to stay on as a Non-executive Director, thus ensuring that his 40 years underwriting experience is still available to the Company.
The role Bernard has played in the outstanding performance of our retail business has been highly significant.
The team he has put in place under Ray White is well placed to maximise market opportunities.
PETER OWEN CHAIRMAN 8 April 2003 Cox Insurance Holdings Plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 03
