Chairmans Statement Introduction Acquisitions Current Trading and Prospects It has been a tough year.
As reported in The focus of management in 2002 has Trading in 2003 has started at a marginally November, the encouraging signs mid-year been to reduce the cost base, instil stricter lower level than that of 2002.
As detailed by proved to be a false dawn.
We have never capital expenditure disciplines and improve John Hubbard in his Chief Executive's review, previously experienced such a widespread efficiencies in our existing businesses we continue to focus on operational excellence, downturn in our markets.
Commercial rather than to strengthen the Group by cost efficiency and capital expenditure discipline.
aerospace, power generation, oil and gas all acquisitions.
We have, however, made some To this end internal reporting measures have experienced demand weakness.
The Board bolt-on acquisitions at a total cost of 11.2m been strengthened across the Group, which have been active in addressing these changing including assumed debt.
facilitates improved benchmarking between market conditions and we are now much plants and best in class technology sharing.
Board Changes and Structure better placed to deal with the market wide I am pleased to report that our plans to The escalating threat of war with Iraq brings issues than we were twelve months ago.
reshape the Board are complete.
It now increased uncertainty and it is not possible Trading comprises of a majority of non-executive to comment with any accuracy on the likely Turnover and profits this year have fallen in directors.
Our new non-executive directors, impact on our business.
Nevertheless we well over half of our plants.
As announced at Hans Vogelsang and Laurent Bermejo, were remain confident of our business model and the half year, corrective action has been taken appointed with effect from 2 January 2003. will continue to provide leading quality and to reduce our cost base and we have incurred They bring a wide range of international service to our customers at good value.
business experience to Bodycote and have We aim to be the market leader in all the The cost savings from these actions are settled in well.
countries where we operate and although in line with our expectations but have been we are not actively seeking acquisitions we Martyn Wilton and Mike Hallas have largely offset by the decline in turnover will explore bolt on opportunities that arise relinquished main board responsibilities to focus and increases in other costs such as energy to ensure a continuation of our market on wider executive responsibilities.
Before these exceptional costs leadership and geographic expansion at a both members of the Senior Operating Board and amortisation of goodwill our pre-tax profit sensible cost.
We will also sell some plants which has established itself well during the year.
for the year was 38.2m 2001: 66.3m whose operations do not t in with the long on turnover of 440.1m 2001: 479.4m.
Bernie Rickinson will retire from the Main term plans of Bodycote.
Board at the annual general meeting in Materials Testing was the most successful We will continue our drive to improve order to concentrate on his new duties of our Strategic Business Units SBUs, operating and net cash ows and the return as non-executive chairman of our HIPping achieving organic growth in sales and profits.
business, as we switch towards a global The most disappointing was Metallurgical management approach for this SBU.
Coatings, where business levels in electronics and telecommunications are still signicantly I would like to thank all the retiring directors down and we have not yet seen the full for the valuable contribution they have made, benets of our rationalisation efforts in at Main Board level, in this and previous years Scandinavia and the UK.
Heat Treatment sales and for facilitating these changes.
James Wallace and margins were affected in all regions by the 18 March 2003 Going forward we have a Board which has a general downturn in the Western Hemisphere balance of experience and a strong commercial and the downturn in aerospace and power background appropriate for the Group and generation, in particular, had a major impact our shareholders in these challenging times.
on our USA and UK businesses.
HIPping was similarly affected as this SBU has the Employees greatest exposure to these two markets.
We are fortunate to have, at all levels, such a strong, dedicated and professional Dividend workforce.
They continue to show a The Directors are recommending an unchanged high level of commitment coupled with final dividend of 3.85p per share which a determination to succeed.
I thank them maintains the total dividend for the year at for their continued support.
This dividend is covered 1.7 times before the exceptional Safety, Health and Environment operating costs.
The final dividend will be paid Our internal reporting on these issues has on 1 July 2003 to shareholders on the register improved in the year as has our record and at the close of business on 6 June 2003. the resources applied.
We now have 15 plants that are certied to ISO 14001 on environmental management and more plants are expected to achieve this status in 2003.
