Chairmans Review This is my first statement as chairman of DIGIT and I should like to start by paying tribute to my predecessor, Ewan Brown, who in his five years as chairman guided our company most successfully through some very turbulent waters.
Nowadays, there is a most confusing array of to justify the use of borrowings to finance a statistics one can use to describe the performance of significant part of the portfolio, a strategy to which an investment trust.
We hope we have shown all the the investment trust structure is ideally suited.
relevant ones on page 2, but I shall confine my However, even within a favourable long term trend comments to the NAV total return for the year, there are inevitably periods, such as the year under while the manager has concentrated on the capital review, when borrowing can be painful.
During such performance of the companys assets.
periods, it is one of the most important duties of your directors to ensure that the overall level of The year under review has been a difficult one for borrowing remains prudent in the context of both equity markets and we have not been able to the prevailing environment and DIGITs investment preserve the value of the companys assets during it, objectives.
Following the terrorist attacks on 11 which is disappointing.
Our benchmark, the FTSE September, we took the view that there had been a All-Share Index, recorded a negative total return of significant increase in the levels of risk associated 15.6% during the year: given the presence in DIGIT with the outlook for both economies and of a significant level of gearing, which has the effect stockmarkets and that it would be appropriate to of exacerbating gains or losses, we consider our own raise cash in order to reduce the trusts borrowings.
negative return of 12.2% to be a fair result.
We therefore made sufficient sales from the portfolio to repay the 25 million drawn on the facility we Dividend had arranged with the Bank of New York, returning The proposed final dividend of 4.6p per share will the company to the position where its only give a total dividend for the year of 6.75p, some borrowings were its long term debentures and its 3.1% higher than last years 6.55p.
For comparison, overall gearing was 15.7%, a level with which we headline inflation for the period was 1.3% and core feel comfortable in the current environment.
inflation, which excludes the impact of changes in mortgage interest rates, 2.6%.
The revenue per share Change of Portfolio Manager within the trust fell from 7.18p to 6.87p, reflecting a David Binnie took over as portfolio manager in modest shift to lower yielding shares in the portfolio.
He is an experienced fund manager and The proposed dividend is comfortably covered by our is working closely with the rest of the UK equity earnings and we continue to have a substantial team at Edinburgh Fund Managers.
We should be revenue reserve to draw upon should we need to.
careful not to allow the decline in net asset value to obscure the fact that he added considerable value Gearing during the year, as can be seen from the Investment Over the years, your board has taken the view that Managers Review.
Your board considers that he has the long term returns from equities would be such as made an excellent start as portfolio manager.
PAGE PAGE 3 3 Dunedin Income Growth Investment T Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 rust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans Review Discount Outlook The discount to net asset value at which the As ever, the outlook is beset with conflicting forces.
companys share price stands is a statistic we The legacy of the boom years is excess capacity, monitor closely.
I am pleased to note a modest sluggish demand and depressed profitability in a narrowing from 12.2% to 11.2% in the year number of important industries.
Perhaps as important is the fact that interest rates have helped consumer spending and, in the discount was remarkably stable in the second the UK at least, government spending is set to half of the year.
Our objective is a low and stable provide a significant stimulus.
It is not clear that discount.
Our marketing efforts described below stockmarket valuations in general are cheap, but we and the renewal of our authority to buy in our own believe that there is sound value to be found in shares should both be a help to us in achieving this many individual shares and we retain a bullish view objective.
of the long term prospects for our portfolio.
Marketing The companys Annual General Meeting takes place The level of the discount depends on supply and in Dundee this year, on 23 April and I look forward demand for the companys shares and we work to seeing as many of you there as possible.
A reply actively to stimulate demand.
We continue to card is enclosed for those wishing to attend.
support the Association of Investment Trust Companies and their marketing campaign, which has been successful in attracting more retail investors to investment trusts.
Our managers have a regular programme of visits to financial advisors and potential investors round the country aimed at promoting the company as an attractive investment.
We also contribute to the promotion of the managers investment trust savings products, which Max Ward include ways of purchasing shares in DIGIT at low Chairman cost either with a lump sum or through regular savings.
Details of these products can be found on 13 March 2002 page 34.
PAGE 4 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2002
