Chairmans Statement The two halves of the year to 31 March 2002 were very different both for the stock market and for the company.
During the first six months the market fell sharply and the company failed to meet its benchmark: during the second six months markets recovered and the benchmark was exceeded.
For the year as a whole, however, performance was extremely disappointing with the net asset value per share NAV falling by 10.4% compared to a fall of 5.7% in the FTSE All-Share Index.
The board is proposing a final dividend of 8.65p which, if approved, will give a total distribution of 12.75p, an increase of 2.4%.
During the same period the UKs underlying rate of inflation was 2.3%.
The Earl of Eglinton and Winton The Earl of Eglinton and Winton Market background NAV, compared to the 13.7% reduction in the For the second successive year, the FTSE All-Share benchmark index.
Index ended the period to 31 March at a lower level There has been a welcome improvement in the than at 1 April.
Following a sharp fall in the months second half of the year, as a result of improved before the start of the year under review, the UK market optimism and some change in focus of the equity market reflected initial optimism that the portfolio to companies and sectors benefiting from world economy would avoid major recession.
In this second six months, event, this proved unduly optimistic and weakness in the companys NAV has increased by 9.9%, the US caused major problems to international compared to a rise of 9.3% in the benchmark index.
companies, and in turn affected all the worlds major stock markets.
The UK was not immune from this The better second half performance has not offset effect and, as I reported at the interim stage, the FTSE the result in the first six months, and over the year All-Share Index had by 30 September 2001 fallen by as a whole the 10.4% decline in NAV was greater 13.7% in the six month period: the effect of 11 than the 5.7% fall in the FTSE All-Share Index.
September accounted for only a small part of this fall.
Subsequently, markets recovered sharply in the final The use of borrowings gearing has been a quarter of 2001 as investors became more confident significant contributor to the performance of the of global economic recovery.
This optimism was later portfolio.
The companys long term borrowings tempered by reported earnings which fell short of represented 14.6% of shareholder funds at the start of expectation and, despite recovery in March, the the year, rising slightly due to market movements market performed poorly in the first quarter of 2002. during the year.
Over many years of rising markets, gearing has been highly beneficial in adding value for Overall, the FTSE All-Share Index declined by 5.7% shareholders: the reverse is true when the market falls, in the year ending 31 March 2002: a fall of 13.7% although this impact can be mitigated by increasing in the first six months being partly offset by an the amount of cash in the portfolio.
To put this in increase of 9.3% in the second.
context, the use of gearing contributed 0.8% to the fall in NAV during the year.
Interest charged to the realised Portfolio performance capital reserve accounted for an additional 1.1% I reported at the interim stage that the companys reduction in NAV.
The company has not utilised any portfolio had performed badly in the six months to of the additional 75 million short term loan facility 30 September.
The manager had been unduly which was mentioned in my interim statement.
optimistic about economic growth and the portfolio had been positioned accordingly: balance sheet Share buy-back programme gearing had exacerbated this position and the The boards continuing policy is to buy back shares outcome of the first half year was an 18.5% fall in for cancellation in order to address any imbalance PAGE PAGE PAGE 3 3 3 The Edinburgh Investment T The Edinburgh Investment T The Edinburgh Investment Tr r rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 ust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 ust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement between the supply and the demand for the shares other fund managers would be invited to tender for and to reduce the scale and volatility of the discount, the Investment Management Contract.
Subsequently whilst at all times enhancing the NAV for the Hermes withdrew from its discussions with EFM.
These events have introduced an element of During the year the company bought back and uncertainty into the relationship between the cancelled 6,040,000 ordinary shares, representing company and its manager which, if allowed to 2.4% of the share capital at the beginning of the continue, could be to the detriment of shareholders.
This resulted in an increase in the NAV for The board is anxious, therefore, that this uncertainty remaining shareholders of 0.3% should be dispelled.
After much thought, it has concluded that, despite a welcome improvement in The board believes that its ability to buy back shares performance since 30 September 2001, it is not able for cancellation is to the benefit of all shareholders.
to give a commitment to a continuing relationship As in recent years, a Special Resolution proposing an with EFM without judging them formally against extension of this facility will be put to the annual other fund managers.
Accordingly, Hymans Robertson has been retained Dividends to assist the board in conducting a formal selection The board is recommending a final dividend of process, which will include EFM.
Progress will be 8.65p per share, which will make a total for the year reported at the annual general meeting of the of 12.75p per share, a rise of 2.4%.
The revenue company on 3 July 2002 and it is hoped that the return per share for the year was 12.50p and process will be completed shortly thereafter.
therefore revenue reserves have again been drawn on modestly to meet the companys dividend objective.
In the interests of the companys shareholders The board remains comfortable with this policy, protective notice terminating the management which is under regular review, as the level of revenue contract with effect from the close of business on reserves presently represents more than a full years 31 August 2002 has been given to EFM.
dividend and also because it anticipates that future dividend growth will not need to rely to any The way ahead material extent on the use of these reserves.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust is the UKs largest investment trust focussed solely on UK quoted The board companies and its objectives are the achievement of Dick Barfield, who was previously the Chief capital growth higher than the FTSE All-Share Index Investment Manager at Standard Life, was appointed and dividend growth above the rate of UK inflation.
We welcome him Its aim is to provide both institutions and individuals warmly and the company is already benefiting from alike with a low risk, lightly geared exposure to the his wealth of investment management expertise.
The board is confident that, when Management contract the steps it is taking have settled the uncertainty Last October, following a period of poor investment surrounding the management of the company, these performance, the companys manager, Edinburgh objectives and aims will be seen to offer an excellent Fund Managers EFM, agreed to the boards vehicle to long term investors.
request that the notice period under the management contract should be reduced from 1 year to 3 months.
On 4 March 2002 it was announced that the board had confirmed to Hermes Pensions Management, who were in merger discussions with EFM, that in The Earl of Eglinton and Winton the event of any change of control of its manager, Chairman and irrespective of the party acquiring control, the company would initiate a process whereby EFM and 21 May 2002 PAGE 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
