Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that the company continues to meet the objective of tracking the performance of the S&P Composite Index.
In the 12 months to 31 January 2002, the net asset value per share NAV fell by 14.0% to 658.77p compared to a fall of 14.5% in the index in sterling terms.
The difference in the returns was attributable to the timing of the sales of non index stocks received through spin-offs from constituents of the index and the benefit from issuing new shares at a premium to net asset value.
Sir Angus Grossart Since the investment objective of the company was funds to this marketing effort and we have revised in June 1997, the capital performance has withdrawn from the AITC.
matched that of the index to within 0.5% per annum.
This close tracking of the index confirms the Your board continues to promote the company reliability of the tracking methodology employed by through the managers marketing initiative.
provides a series of savings schemes by which savers can invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust in a low The companys share price fell by 11.7% over the cost and convenient manner.
At 31 January 2002 that price contributed 90,000 to this initiative during the past represented a premium of 0.2% to the net asset value year.
Up to date information about the company is of 658.77p.
At the start of the financial year, the available on the companys website on share price had been trading at a discount to the net www.
The companys shares traded at a premium to the net asset value for most of last year Annual General Meeting and a total of 4,910,000 new shares were issued at The companys Articles of Association require small premia to meet investor demand.
shareholders to vote on the continuation of the company at every Annual General Meeting.
Revenue Accordingly, a resolution to this effect will be Revenue per share rose from 4.74p to 4.88p per proposed as Special Business at the Annual General share.
The increase was attributable mainly to the Meeting to be held on Monday 13 May 2002.
If this favourable movement in the value of sterling.
Your resolution is not passed, the company will be board is recommending a final dividend of 2.85p liquidated later this year.
Liquidation would result in which will take the total dividends for the year to a disposal of the companys shares for taxation 4.85p, which is unchanged from last year.
purposes and therefore shareholders should consider carefully whether they wish the company to be Marketing wound up.
There will be another opportunity to Last year the Association of Investment Trust consider the future of the company at the same time Companies AITC decided that a financial next year.
contribution to promotional activities would be a compulsory part of an investment trusts continuing The economic strength of the US lies in the size of membership.
The issues which the AITCs marketing the market place, the mobility of labour and an campaign seeks to address are less relevant to a trust entrepreneurial culture.
These factors have combined which is a tracker fund and whose shares are trading to create an environment where a large number of at a premium to net asset value.
Your board decided US companies have emerged as world leaders in that it was inappropriate to commit shareholders many industries.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust PAGE PAGE 3 3 Edinburgh US T Edinburgh US T racker T racker T rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 rust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement provides shareholders with a broadly diversified The directors are also seeking shareholder approval portfolio which covers the top 500 companies in the to renew the authority to issue new shares for cash United States of America.
to meet investor demand provided the subscription price is not below the net asset value per share.
Your I believe that our investment performance, aided by board also currently has authority to purchase the low management and administration costs, as companys shares for cancellation.
This authority evidenced by the total expense ratio of 0.3%, would only be exercised were the shares persistently underlines the attractions of the index tracking to trade at a discount in excess of the levels reached approach to investors.
Your board therefore strongly in recent years.
Special resolutions proposing an recommends all shareholders to vote in favour of the extension of these facilities will be put to resolution.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Also under Special Business, an ordinary resolution Board of Directors proposing an increase in the authorised share capital The Earl of Mansfield, having passed the age of 70, of the company will be put before shareholders.
The will not be seeking re-election at the forthcoming increase in the authorised share capital is required to Annual General Meeting.
Lord Mansfield joined the facilitate the potential issue of new shares in the board in 1985 and on behalf of shareholders and the company.
In conjunction with this, an ordinary board I should like to take this opportunity of resolution is also proposed granting the directors thanking him for his valuable contribution to the authority to allot relevant securities up to an affairs of the company over many years.
That figure equates to one-third of the companys existing James Ferguson, who has many years of investment issued ordinary share capital and is in accordance experience and is a former chairman of Stewart with institutional guidelines.
Ivory, was appointed to the board on 12 March 2002 and will stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Sir Angus Grossart Chairman 13 March 2002 PAGE 4 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
