04 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 Chairmans statement tremen Roberto Mendoza 05 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 dous 2002 was an important and Egg is now a company of internationally.
We also appointed successful year for Egg.
Independent audience Pascal Cagni to the Board of years report, we made three measurement data from Nielsen Egg Banking plc as non-executive important commitments to you, Net Ratings has ranked Egg director, and as you will see from our shareholders, which I am recently as the largest pure online the enclosed voting cards, we are delighted to report that we have bank in the world.
We take our proposing at our AGM in April for achieved.
Firstly, we committed privileged position as market him to join the Egg plc Board of to developing a sustainably leader seriously and are aware Directors.
I heartily recommend profitable UK business: you will that this means we have even this appointment to you, on the see in the Financial review that more reason to set an example basis that I believe his wide the UK has reported a profit in our field.
This applies to all experience in international before tax of some 35 million aspects of our business from business and technology will compared to a 76 million loss our stand on responsible lending complement well the existing skills in 2001.
Secondly, we committed to customers, to our policies of your Board.
to developing an international in the workplace.
We have much to do in business: during the year, we Egg people have worked 2003, in what is proving to be completed our acquisition of hard and enthusiastically this an uncertain and challenging French online bank Zebank, year, and on behalf of the Board environment.
However, Egg and in November, launched I thank them sincerely for their remains intent on its mission our first Egg product in France.
It is to deliver long-term shareholder Early data suggests we have also appropriate for me to thank value, through building a profitable successfully established a the Board for their contribution international business of scale.
presence in France with Egg to the Companys strategic brand awareness already having development and resulting reached 55%.
During the year, we committed to innovation.
said good bye to non-executive We have provided enhanced director, David Smilow.
David technology to both improve our made a very positive contribution service and relationship with to Egg, for which we thank him, our customers, for example but he felt he should step down by helping them understand from his responsibilities at Egg and manage their money due to increased business more effectively through Egg interests in the United States.
I am delighted to announce that during the year, the Board was further strengthened by the appointment of Dr. Juan Rada, whose knowledge and international experience will be of great value to our Board as we continue to lead the digital financial services industry and develop the business 06 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 07 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 02 go that little bit further Revolutionising customer service We know it is important to invest time and money in giving customers not only great value products, but also the best possible service and relationship.
We dont always get it right but we try hard to resolve problems quickly and efficiently and to learn from our mistakes.
And we will keep on trying and improving.
08 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 09 Egg plc Annual Report 2002 03 broaden horizons Weve launched in France From the outset, the intention has been for Egg to become an international business of scale.
We launched our first product, la Carte Egg, in France in November and are pleased with its success to date.
