Overview Chairmans Statement The Year to 30 September 2002 The last year has been characterised by declining stock markets, increased economic uncertainty, hostilities in the Middle East and fears of terrorism, all contributing to a difficult investment environment.
Against this background the performance of the majority of Electra's investments has been robust.
Although the portfolio mainly comprises investments in companies which are not quoted on a public market, the valuation of a number of investments has been impacted by the fall in earnings multiples of comparable companies quoted on stock markets.
This has however been mitigated by strong cash generation in many portfolio companies which has enabled borrowings of these companies to be reduced.
Overall, the Board is encouraged by the quality of the underlying investments in the portfolio.
The net asset value per share at 30 September 2002 was 764p compared with 830p at 30 September 2001.
Although this represents a decrease of 7.9% it compares favourably with the decline in the FTSE All-Share Index of 23% over the same period.
As in previous reports to shareholders, full details of the Boards valuation policy are set out in the Investment Manager's Review.
Realisations and Investments Last year's Statement indicated that future portfolio realisations in a weaker economic environment were likely to be at a slower rate than previously.
For the year to 30 September 2002 realisations from the portfolio amounted to 137 million compared with 167 million in the previous year.
Despite this slowdown, aggregate realisations from the portfolio now amount to 1.3 billion since the start of the realisation programme in March 1999.
In June 2001 shareholders approved a new investment strategy.
This provided for at least two-thirds of future cash flow to be returned to shareholders with the balance to be invested in private equity investments.
Full details of realisations and investments made over the year are included in the Investment Manager's Review.
Further Returns of Capital In June 2001 it was also announced that, subject to market conditions, the Board Overall, the Board is encouraged anticipated that realisations would result in 500 million being returned to by the quality of the underlying shareholders over the next three years of which 150 million has already been investments in the portfolio.
Over the last 18 months the environment for realising investments has become difficult and in the absence of any improvement, the Board now regards the balance of 350 million to be at the top end of the range.
The Future The underlying strength of Electras portfolio comes from investment in well established, cash generative businesses, with sound management supported by appropriate capital structures.
Although there have been some individual disappointments over the last year, the medium-term prospects for the portfolio as a whole remain encouraging.
4 Electra Investment Trust PLC Overview Chairmans Statement Electra has been successful in the timing of both purchases and sales from the The underlying strength of Electras portfolio over many years and through different economic cycles.
The current portfolio comes from investment in strategy to maximise shareholder value is to realise investments as markets well established, cash generative improve while continuing to invest in existing companies and in new opportunities businesses, with sound generated by Electra Partners.
The Board continues to keep this strategy under management supported by review as market conditions and the economic cycle evolve.
Sir Brian Williamson Chairman 4 December 2002 Electra Investment Trust PLC 5
