4 Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder A particularly important task of the board is to monitor the Weak stock markets worldwide have been driving down share way the company manages its approach to opportunities and prices, but I am pleased to report that we have been able risks, which may be operational, financial, environmental or to increase the total annual dividend per share to 24 cents, ethical.
This monitoring includes an annual review of the full thanks to BPs strong underlying performance in 2002.
This range of possible risks, a review that shapes our continuing is a dividend increase in dollar terms of 9.1% over 2001. assessments.
The boards committees review the business This further increase is a testament to the performance throughout the year.
Their role, too often overlooked, is we delivered in business conditions that remained difficult highlighted in the accompanying box.
It reflects the success of our strategy We believe that we have robust policies and processes of continually seeking to improve our portfolio of assets that give the board a clear picture of the business as a and of establishing leading market positions.
The completion whole, and the ability to monitor and assess changes and of the acquisition of Veba Oil in 2002 is a notable example.
At the same time, the chief executive and Our fundamental objective is to protect and enhance his team must have the freedom and flexibility to exercise shareholder value in a sustainable way, in both the short and the day-to-day judgements needed to run the company.
In order to fulfil this responsibility to our global These policies and processes are all the more important shareholder base, we place great emphasis on the duties because, as a major international company, we come under of the non-executive directors.
They form a majority on the intense and varied scrutiny in the societies in which we board and its committees and their role as champions of operate.
This comes from regulatory authorities and others shareholders interests is increasingly widely recognized.
representing the interests of people who are affected in We must recognize too that the oil business has a longsome way by our operations as well as our shareholders, term project development cycle and the industry itself is employees and customers.
cyclical over an extended period.
In these circumstances, We also believe that, in addition to serving our customers, the board believes it is strongly in the shareholders interests the investment, trade, skills and opportunities we bring to to have a number of non-executive directors with longer-term countries around the world can be hugely beneficial.
We try experience of the business.
This is particularly so for BP over to have a positive impact on every community in which we the next five years as the board works with John Browne work, and aim to operate in a way that does no harm to the to bring on a new executive team and leadership.
Our long-term performance is linked to our As a UK-registered company, we are pleased that our own success in managing these challenges and our commitment policies and practices are already substantially in line with the to investment for the future.
Higgs and Smith reports on governance.
In the USA, where Fundamentally, our ability to deliver outstanding we are listed on the NYSE, significant regulatory proposals are performance depends on the work of the more than 100,000 currently in the course of implementation.
We look forward to people in BP and on the leadership provided by John Browne monitoring progress as these developments are implemented and his team.
We depend on their determination, experience on both sides of the Atlantic.
We do not expect they will cause and creativity.
On behalf of the board I would like to recognize us to make any significant changes to our existing practice.
their contribution in 2002, and thank them for it.
We have in place the management processes and the exceptional people to respond to challenges.
These strengths underpin our commitment to build long-term shareholder value in a sustainable way.
BP 2002 Chairmans letter 5 It is essential to the success of our business that we The boards committees are key to the systematic attract and retain exceptional people at all levels, and create assessment and management of the opportunities and the conditions in which they are motivated to be the best risks facing BP.
Particularly important in this process are in their field.
This need shapes our remuneration policies, the three described below.
Each committee consists and we are confident that the current level and structure of of up to six of our non-executive directors, and plays a executive reward provide the appropriate incentives.
Reward vital role in representing the interests of shareholders is tied to performance and, at senior levels, to the long-term and testing management decisions, processes and success of the company.
The standards we set for performance judgements.
Further information on the work of these are both clear and highly demanding, in a very competitive committees and the board as a whole is set out on sector.
Details of these remuneration policies are set out later pages 28 to 29 of this report.
As a board we believe our approach is confirmed by the value we have delivered to shareholders.
Sir Ian Prosser chairs the Audit Two of our long-serving executive directors are leaving Committee.
It is responsible for the board.
Rodney Chase relinquished his role as deputy chief monitoring all the reporting, accounting, executive in January 2003.
He will retire from the board in control and financial aspects of executive April, after a 38-year career with BP.
Dr John Buchanan, our management activities.
chief financial officer for the past six years, retired from the board last November after 33 years service with BP.
We have Dr Walter Massey heads the Ethics and greatly valued their respective contributions and thank them Environment Assurance Committee.
very much for the part they have played in the development It is responsible for monitoring the of the business.
non-financial aspects of executive Dick Olver, formerly chief executive of exploration management activities.
and production and an executive director since 1998, has been appointed to the role of deputy group chief executive.
Sir Robin Nicholson is chairman of We welcome to the board Dr David Allen, Dr Tony Hayward the Remuneration Committee.
and John Manzoni, who were appointed executive directors It is responsible for determining the on 1 February 2003. structure of rewards for the group chief executive and executive directors.
Peter Sutherland Chairman 11 February 2003 Shareholder returns against the market % Over 10 years 1993-2002 Over 5 years 1998-2002 BP BP Shell Shell ExxonMobil ExxonMobil ChevronTexaco ChevronTexaco TotalFinaElf TotalFinaElf -601 6 128 24 30 0 50 100 150 Over 3 years 2000-2002 BP Shell ExxonMobil Shareholder returns comprise annual share price movements, with dividends reinvested, for investments held over the period shown.
ChevronTexaco Shareholder returns against the market reflect the returns generated above or TotalFinaElf below returns from equivalent investments in the overall market.
