Chairmans Statement levels and, given the low by historic standards cost of borrowing, we intend to keep this level of gearing.
We also believe that gearing will continue to benefit shareholders in the long term.
Dividend - As indicated last year, your Board recommends the payment of a lower ordinary dividend of 1.2 pence per share 2001: 2.0 pence per share payable on 28 May Robert Walther Chairman 2003 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 March 2003 ex-dividend date 5 March 2003.
Your I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of Board believes very strongly that total return income and Fidelity European Values PLC for the year ended 31 capital is the key performance indicator.
We will not December 2002. therefore restrict the Fund Manager even if this leads to lower dividends in future.
Performance - The past year has been a very difficult one for investors.
Despite a relatively stable market in the first Directorate - As mentioned in the interim report the half of the year, the market fell to new lows in the later growth of Fidelity International and his appointment as part of the year.
The market volatility continued unabated Chairman of COLT meant that Barry Bateman decided to as investors remained concerned over the poor economic step down as a Director of the Company in July last year.
climate and the prospects of war in the Middle East.
Notwithstanding the recent proposals from the Financial During the period under review, the FTSE World Europe Services Authority that directors of the Manager should ex UK Index returned -27.4%.
In light of this not serve on the Board, I believe that there is value in investment background, I believe the Company having a senior member of the Companys Fund Managers performed very well.
The net asset value per share of the who assumes the responsibility of being a Director of the Company returned -8.5%, and performed significantly Company.
All of the other Directors are totally better than the index.
The strong relative outperformance independent and this provides an appropriate balance.
We was due to strong stock picking and favourable market are therefore pleased that Simon Fraser joined the Board selection during a volatile period for equity markets.
Simon is currently Fidelitys Gearing had a negative impact on the portfolio during the Chief Investment Officer and has been with Fidelity since reporting year.
The shares ended the year trading at a 1981 when he joined as an analyst.
discount of 12% to the underlying asset value per share.
All figures are in sterling and are on a total return basis.
Mr Albert Francke resigned as a Director on 1 February A detailed review of the performance of the portfolio is 2003.
Albert served as a Director from December 1992 provided in the Managers review.
and his wide experience made him a much valued colleague and, on behalf of the shareholders, I would Gearing - The Board is responsible for the level of gearing like to say thank you to Albert for his contribution over in the Company and reviews it on a regular basis.
Company retained a modest amount of gearing throughout 2002 17% as at the year end, which reduced Any proposal for a new Director is considered by the the net asset value by 2.3% as a result of falling markets.
whole Board with the independent Directors taking the Your Board believes that markets offer fair value at these lead.
A number of candidates were considered and, after 5 Chairmans Statement due consideration, Mr Simon Duckworth was appointed uncertainty due to the presence of geopolitical tensions, as a Director of the Company on 24 February 2003. developments in financial markets, and the persistence of Simon has a proven track record in private and public global imbalances.
service and will be a welcome addition to the Board.
In this uncertain economic and market environment there Resolutions to elect Simon Fraser and Simon Duckworth are opportunities for good stock selection and we hope will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General that our Manager will capitalise on these opportunities in Meeting.
the future as well as he has in the past.
Continuation Vote - In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company continue as an investment trust for a further two years will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual Robert Walther General Meeting.
Your Board recommends that 24 February 2003 shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
There will be a further continuation vote at the Annual General Meeting in 2005.
Annual General Meeting - The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due to take place on 22 May 2003 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street just next to St. Pauls Cathedral.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 41 to 43 and I look forward to meeting you then.
Outlook - In 2002, continental European equity markets posted their third year of decline, falling by 33.4%, as measured by the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index in local currency terms.
This compares with losses of 19.7% in 2001 and 1.3% in 2000.
From their peak in March 2000 to the end of 2002, European equities have declined by 51.8%, dragged down by the poor performance of technology hardware, telecom services, insurance and banking sectors.
The European Central Bank ECB forecasts a gradual recovery in economic growth in the eurozone during the course of 2003.
The main factors expected to support the strengthening of the economy are lower inflation, a further recovery in foreign demand, which should support exports, and an increase in investment while interest rates remain at relatively low levels.
However, the ECB cautioned that this outlook is surrounded by high 6
