Chairmans Statement Lord Renton of Mount Harry PC CHAIRMAN As Chairman of Fleming Continental European, earned a performance bonus for the first time I have recently been reminded of Lewis Carrolls since we introduced this three years ago.
They famous statement in Through the Looking-Glass missed it by a narrow margin full details are on the rule is, jam tomorrow and jam yesterday, but page 24 largely due to the market movement never jam today.
back into Telecom and media stocks in late March.
This was an undeserved disappointment for them.
At our AGM in 2000 I reported that our NAV and share price had gone up by more than 30% in a It is the Boards policy to pay out as a dividend the single year that was our yesterday.
There is a greater part of the net earnings for the year.
widespread belief that the Euro, especially now As compared to the 4.40p paid last year, we that the currency is successfully launched, will recommend a dividend this year of 3.20p.
Our strengthen against sterling and the dollar as, shareholders will know that, from year to year, the worldwide, more international institutions invest in level of our dividend is likely to fluctuate.
major Continental stocks and in the Euro itself that is our tomorrow.
Your Board has not been inactive.
Shortly before the major market collapse in the autumn, we The facts, today, are that there is a greater converted our 100m 10 year floating rate notes transparency in costs and prices, and some into fixed rate notes at a total charge of 6.29% per significant gains in productivity, in Continental annum.
With part of the proceeds we repaid our Europe.
But there is still a reluctance to lessen the earlier Euro and Swiss Franc loans in March.
Our rigidity of the labour market and, most important, available gearing is now around 20% of our to reduce the social costs of employment.
This will, as our Investment Believers in the European Union such as myself Manager says in his report, be of substantial wait for these structural changes to happen but we assistance when markets improve.
cannot forecast the precise moment when they will and, at times, we are disappointed by the delays.
After our year end, Henderson Global Investors, historically our largest shareholder, substantially Our Investment Managers report gives a reduced their shareholding, as we had long comprehensive and detailed view of the expected them to do.
From a figure of over seven Companys performance through the twelve million shares they now hold only around one months to year end March 2002.
We had a million shares and these are in a number of client somewhat prosaic year, with our net asset value accounts.
We believe they are now at a level at falling by 6.8% compared to our benchmark index which they feel comfortable.
However, our managers very nearly Fleming Continental European 1 Chairmans Statement continued During the financial year, the Company did not buy Audit Committee since its inception in 1993.
However, in May 2002, the very grateful to William Berry for the care he has Company bought back 700,000 shares at a price of devoted to the detailed work of the Audit Committee.
This compares Finally, on a personal note, having reached the ripe with a price, as I write this, of 610.5p and a age of 70 a few weeks before the AGM, I am discount of 10.8%.
The Directors will be asking for standing for re-election for one year.
I propose to a renewal of this facility at the forthcoming AGM.
stand down as Chairman of your Company at our In April we appointed Andrew Murison to our Board.
AGM next summer and a new Chairman will He is Senior Bursar of Peterhouse, Cambridge.
He succeed me at that time.
has extensive business experience that stretches The efforts of your Investment Manager and Board beyond the University, and I am sure he will be a will be directed to seeing that the current year is valuable addition.
You will be asked to elect him at fruitful and profitable for you, our shareholders.
I our forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Ferdinand am sure you will join me in hoping that we are Verdonck, first elected in 1999, Robin Faber and successful.
Alexander Zagoreos are retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at our AGM.
On 1st April Robin Faber took over the Chairmanship of our Audit Lord Renton of Mount Harry PC Committee from William Berry who had chaired the Chairman 10th June 2002 2 Fleming Continental European The efforts of your Investment Manager and Board will be directed to seeing that the current year is fruitful and profitable for you, our shareholders.... equities are a sound longterm investment... over the last ten years the compound annual rate of growth in the stock price of our Company has been 12.2%.
