Chairmans Statement David Ritchie CHAIRMAN It has been a torrid year for equity market remains that however many new initiatives are investors worldwide and it is scant comfort to us proposed, or however optimistic commentators that the falls in the Japanese stockmarket were may become from time to time, progress remains rather less than those elsewhere.
Thus, the approach of the investment 30th September 2002 the net asset value per managers is not predicated on the achievement of share fell by 14.6% to 180.2p, while the share price reform, or the solution of problems in the banking fell by 16.1% to 146.5p.
In common with investment sector, or on a robust economic recovery.
Rather, trusts generally the discount widened, in our case and this is the key, it is based on the to 18.7%.
encouragement that they take from the evidence of change at individual company level where It has been a year in which the continuing increasingly they are seeing attractive economic and political troubles in Japan have opportunities to invest in world-class companies taken something of a backseat to the unfolding with real growth prospects.
We are convinced that anxieties elsewhere.
The events of 11th September this is a policy which in due course will be last year were always going to lead to some rewarded.
economic dislocation, but this has been The benchmark against which we compare our compounded by the further unwinding of the performance is the TOPIX index, but this does not technology bubble, some questioning of mean that the portfolio has to be a slave to it.
In corporate accounts following the scandals of Enron recent years the Board has consistently and WorldCom, and now anxieties about possible encouraged the investment managers to back the war in Iraq.
The result has been clear: a worldwide stocks and sectors that they believed to be collapse in share prices as investors appeared to attractive regardless of what the benchmark lose confidence in equity market investing.
A corollary to this is that in little doubt that this phase will prove temporary because we are prepared to take higher stock and that confidence will eventually return, but we specific risks, the Board has judged it right to scale are equally in no doubt that part of the collapse in back the risk associated with gearing.
Portfolio share prices has been an unwinding of the gearing has thus fallen from 120% to 107%.
excessive optimism of recent times and that there Portfolio risk positions are shown on page 13. will need to be a greater realism that stockmarket returns will be more modest in an era of lower A Company such as Fleming Japanese, which growth and lower inflation.
invests wholly in Japan, will never escape completely from the general level of returns of the In one sense, Japan went through this process a Tokyo market, but the financial record on page 11 decade or so ago, but its recovery has been demonstrates that, by comparison with the index, thwarted by a series of deep-seated structural our results have been encouraging.
Successive administrations have been 12 months our net asset value outperformed the slow to tackle the burden of over-regulation or the TOPIX index, expressed in sterling by 3.1% on a more intractable problems of the banking sector.
Perhaps more significantly, the There were higher hopes of the current Koizumi cumulative effect over the past 5 years is such that government and these may yet be met, but the fact Fleming Japanese 1 Chairmans Statement continued our net asset value is now some 35% higher than it Authority to Repurchase the Companys would otherwise have been had we just matched Shares the index performance.
Last year, shareholders gave the Directors the authority to repurchase the Companys shares for The Board cancellation and over the period 8,035,000 shares Ivan Kingston retires from the Board at the Annual were repurchased at a cost of 14.4m, reducing the General Meeting having reached the age of 70.
He issued share capital by 4.1%.
The effect of was appointed a director in 1989 and over the past purchasing the Companys shares at prices at a 13 years the Board much appreciated the specialist discount to net asset value has been to enhance knowledge and counsel that he brought to our the net asset value per share and this contributed discussions from his own background as an 0.2% to the relative return over the period.
The adviser to clients including the Japanese Directors believe that circumstances could again government and important Japanese exporters.
arise when the mechanism would be of benefit to In seeking a successor we deliberately sought a shareholders.
It is therefore proposed that the candidate who might provide a similar input having authority be renewed for a further period.
had commercial business experience in Japan.
A formal exercise through an independent executive Annual General Meeting search firm was carried out during the year, as a The Annual General Meeting of the Company will result of which David Pearson has been invited to be held on 19th December at 2 p. m. at join the Board.
His appointment will take effect 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2.
As has been the from 1st January next year.
case in previous years, the proceedings will include a presentation by the Investment Manager.
David Pearson is 52 and from 1988 to 1998 held After the meeting, shareholders will be able to senior positions in Sony, becoming managing meet the Board and representatives of JPMorgan director of UK Electronics and country manager for Fleming.
He is currently chief executive of NXT plc, which is a leader in flat loudspeaker technology and as such has concluded a wide range of David Ritchie licensing agreements in Japan.
David Pearson has Chairman 12th November 2002 therefore direct business contact with many of the most important Japanese corporations and personally visits Japan several times each year.
2 Fleming Japanese The approach of the investment managers is not predicted on the achievement of reform, or on a robust economic recovery.
Rather... they are seeing attractive opportunities to invest in world-class companies with real growth prospects.
