Chairmans Statement Simon Keswick CHAIRMAN Performance Repayment of loan It has been a difficult year for many companies, As indicated in last years report we utilised some with UK equity markets suffering the first instance of the Companys available cash to repay early the of back-to-back negative years since 1973-4.
25m loan with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Against this background, Mercantiles total return which had been due for repayment on 13th with net income reinvested was 12.6% compared December 2001. with 11.9% for the benchmark index, the FTSE AllShare repurchases Share excluding the FTSE 100 and investment At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders trusts.
The underperformance on a total return gave the Directors authority to repurchase the basis can be attributed to the effect of our gearing Companys shares for cancellation.
Although no which, as ever, was unhelpful in a falling market.
such repurchases have taken place, due to the However, it is encouraging to note that the underlying performance and the narrowing of the underlying performance of the portfolio was in fact discount, the Directors continue to believe that a 2.4% ahead of the benchmark for the year.
strategy to reduce discount volatility of the The investment managers, in their report on pages Companys shares is important and is therefore 3 to 6, set out in more detail a review of the proposing that the authority be renewed at the underlying portfolio and an outlook for the future.
Earnings and Dividends Outlook Earnings per ordinary share increased by 18.6% for Whilst UK equity markets may remain volatile in the year.
The Company maintained a relatively high the short term, the Board believes that the weighting in cash deposits during the year and the Company is well placed to take advantage of any deposit interest earned thereon assisted in the recovery, given its broadly diversified portfolio and growth in earnings.
the investment managers emphasis on stock selection.
The Directors have declared a fourth quarterly dividend of 7.00p which together with the three The mid and small cap universe in which we invest quarterly dividends already paid gives a total is well exposed to the UK economy, where the dividend for the year of 17.50p per ordinary share.
outlook is positive and the underlying portfolios This represents an increase of 18.2% over the last prospective yield of 3.1% is attractive.
In order to equalise the dividends more evenly during the year it is the Boards intention to pay 4.00p per ordinary share for each of the first three quarters of the financial year ending 31st January 2003.
This, however, should not be taken as a profit Simon Keswick forecast.
Chairman 12th April 2002 Fleming Mercantile 1 It is encouraging to note that the underlying performance of the portfolio was in fact 2.4% ahead of the benchmark for the year.
