Chairmans Statement George Paul CHAIRMAN will take place on 30th December 2002 and the Performance costs associated with this are expected to be fide The performance of world stock markets has again minimis.
The Board believes that the long-term been disappointing over the year under review.
outlook for equities is favourable, particularly as During the year, the Companys benchmark valuations are starting to reach attractive levels.
produced a negative total return of 21.8% in sterling terms.
Over the same period, the Companys The graphs on page 10 show the longer term negative return on net assets was 23.0%.
The performance of the Company, including the positive underperformance against the benchmark is the performance since the implementation of a result of being geared i. e. having the Floating Rate performance fee in July 1998.
Note FRN borrowings during a period in which During the year, the Companys share price fell by stock markets fell.
The gearing was taken out in 25.2%.
In addition to the fall in markets and the 1997 and was fixed at a cost of nearly 8% until cost of borrowing detailed above, the discount at March this year, when the cost of borrowing was which the Companys shares are traded widened switched to a lower interest rate.
As the table in the marginally from 11.3% to 13.2%.
As you can see Investment Managers report on page 4 clearly from the graph on page 10, the volatility of the shows, the detrimental effect of the gearing was, in discount has decreased significantly in recent part, offset by a positive performance by the years, providing buyers and sellers with a more Manager in stock selection.
The Board continually stable trading range.
This has been brought about reviews the level of actual and potential gearing in by our efforts over the last four years to exert a the portfolio.
As a result of share buy-backs and the greater influence over the discount by being 1 recent falls in equity markets, potential gearing has prepared to buy back shares in the market when risen from 113% in June 1997 when the FRN was put supply exceeds demand.
Over the year, the in place to 125% at the year end.
Company bought back approximately 6.8 million Subsequent to the year-end the Board has decided shares compared with 17.3 million in the previous to reduce the potential level of gearing by year.
Fewer institutional shareholders wished to sell redeeming 40m of the FRN.
At current portfolio significant tranches of the Companys shares at a valuation levels, the impact of this repayment will time when there was insufficient demand in the be to reduce the Companys potential gearing to market for our shares.
It is anticipated that repayment 1 Potential gearing is defined as total assets less current liabilities expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Fleming Overseas 1 Chairmans Statement continued Earnings and Dividends Annual General Meeting Earnings per share fell to 4.5p as anticipated in My fellow Directors and I very much look forward to last years annual report, due to falling dividend welcoming you to the Companys Annual General and income receipts from the portfolio.
The Board Meeting, which will be held at JPMorgan Flemings is proposing, subject to shareholders approval at offices at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on the Annual General Meeting, to pay a substantial 26th November 2002 at 12.00 noon.
The Investment amount of these earnings out as a dividend of 4.2p Managers, Peter Harrison and Peter Warnes, will per share.
This compares to the same amount in review the past year and comment on the outlook the previous year and 3.6p in the year prior to that.
If you have any detailed or Such a dividend is to be paid on 2nd December technical questions, you may wish to raise these in 2002 to shareholders on the register of members advance with the Company Secretary at Finsbury at close of business on 1st November 2002.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in Directors person are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
In November we were pleased to announce the appointments of Richard Barfield and John The AGM will be followed by refreshments, and an Rennocks as Directors of the Company.
Richard opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors Barfield holds a number of other appointments and the Investment Managers.
Earning including a directorship of Equitas and was formerly Change of Company name Chief Investment Manager for Standard Life.
Shareholders will have noticed that The Manager John Rennocks is a non-executive Director of has changed its name to JPMorgan Fleming Asset Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc and was Managment, which is their brand name for asset previously the Finance Director of Corus Group plc management across Europe.
In order to benefit formerly British Steel.
from alignment with this brand, the Directors propose that the Company changes its name to As is standard practice, shareholders will be asked JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Investment Trust plc.
to confirm their appointments at the forthcoming This change of name is consistent with other Annual General Meeting.
A brief description of investment trusts managed by JPMorgan Fleming, each Director is shown on page 20. and I can confirm that any costs relating to the I succeeded John Evans as Chairman in October change of name will be paid for by JPMorgan 2001 upon Johns retirement.
Both Directors have made a significant contribution to the success of the George Paul Company and I wish them well in their retirement.
