Chairmans Statement We maintained a relatively cautious approach throughout the year.
Our gearing remained negligible, having been cut back the year before, given the uncertain outlook.
Our slight outperformance came thus from stock selection.
You will find a fuller account of developments in the portfolio in the Managers Review on pages 4 to 7.
Revenue Our gross income for the year fell by 11%: however our expenses fell more sharply.
This was due primarily to a further fall in the management fee, in the wake of last years renegotiation of the rate, and of the decline in the value of the portfolio.
Interest costs are also down significantly owing to the absence of gearing.
The result of these two factors is that net revenue attributable to shareholders rose from 2.737 million to 3.659 million.
Douglas McDougall, Chairman Dividend Dear Shareholder As last year, the Board is declaring both an ordinary and a special dividend.
In setting the amounts, the Board has had Capital Performance again to take account of the risk of setting a precedent for The past year saw further falls in the continental European next year which would be difficult to repeat should expenses stock markets.
The Companys net assets per share fell from rise again.
This might happen should, for example, equity 478.3 pence at 30 September 2001 to 351.8 pence at markets recover or gearing be resumed.
The Board is thus 30 September 2002, a decline of 26.4%.
This compares with recommending an unchanged ordinary dividend of 1.70 a fall of 27.0% in the FTSE AWI-Europe Index, excluding the pence per share, in addition to a special dividend of 3.00 UK and adjusted to sterling, over the same period.
Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust NAV vs. Having moved at first largely sideways, the European FTSE Europe ex UK in Sterling markets fell again sharply in the second half of our financial 1992 2002 All figures rebased at 100 year.
Fears of a forthcoming war with Iraq, mixed economic 500 FTSE W EUROPE EX UK - PRICE INDEX news, corporate earnings disappointments and accounting scandals in the US all undermined investor confidence.
400 Heavy selling came both from mutual funds suffering from 300 major redemptions and insurance companies obliged to rebalance their portfolios towards bonds for solvency 200 reasons.
Within the markets, the best performing sectors 100 over the year were again the more defensive ones, such as 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC NAV par pharmaceuticals, foods, utilities and oils.
The poorer FTSE W EUROPE EX UK - Price Index performers included insurers, banks and technology.
Source: Datastream 2 Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC 2002 3 pence per share declared on 8 November 2002.
The Annual General Meeting combined dividend is an increase of 104.3% on the We hope that as many shareholders as possible will attend corresponding amount for last year and enables the Annual General Meeting which will be held on Tuesday shareholders to enjoy the benefit of this years buoyant 17 December at 3:00 pm at the offices of F&C Management account without any commitment to the higher level for at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
you wish to attend, please return the enclosed card.
Directions how to get there will be shown on the card.
We Share Buy Backs and Demand for Shares look forward to meeting all of you who can come.
The Company bought back and cancelled 50,000 shares during the financial year, and a further 131,500 shares from Outlook the year end to date.
The Board will propose to the Annual The background for European equity markets remains General Meeting that powers for further purchases should be difficult.
Military action in Iraq and the continued worldwide taken.
We continue to review the level of discount to net threat of terrorism are worries: the economic outlook remains asset value at which your shares trade and believe that share uncertain and structural problems continue to beset many buy backs can be an important factor in addressing industries.
However, we have been able to find companies supply demand imbalances while increasing the net asset whose market valuations look reasonable by traditional value per share.
standards, and since our year end there has been something At the end of September, there were over two thousand of a bounce in markets.
At 7 November our net asset value individuals participating in the private investor plan on a per share was 398.0 pence, 13.1% above the level at regular monthly basis.
It is a very attractive way for the 30 September 2002. private investor to buy shares, and we believe it justifies fully its cost to the Company.
We now have some 25,000 Management shareholders, and the percentage of the Companys share I should like to thank our manager, Stephen White, and his capital directly owned by private individuals is over 78%.
This colleagues at F&C Management for their efforts during is one of the highest levels of individual ownership in the another difficult year.
investment trust sector, and a feature of the Company we are keen to see continue.
