Chairmans Statement 2002 was another dismal, uncertain, volatile and allocation were to switch out of Japan and Continental depressing year for stockmarket investors.
We suffered as Europe into the UK and USA.
Overall, these changes had well and our net asset value and share price fell a positive impact on performance, although our optimism substantially, although the discount on your shares for the US proved premature.
narrowed during the year and the Board is again The third influence on our results was gearing.
The recommending a good increase in your dividend.
The ability to borrow money to improve returns for shareholders start of 2003 has seen continuing nervousness and has been an enduring feature of your Company and it has volatility, but I am confident that your Companys strengths added to long-term performance.
This was not the case and experience will see us through these difficult times, in 2002 where it had a negative impact of 2.2%.
The and help us to achieve our objective of growth in capital Board has set a gearing range, currently 5% to 15%, and and income over the long term.
F&C manages gearing actively within that range.
At the year end the figure was 8.1%.
The Managers Review Performance in 2002 explains what was done in 2002.
Almost all stockmarkets fell in 2002 and in most countries Our performance this year has lagged our peer group the bear market is now the longest for over 50 years.
After slightly, but longer-term comparisons continue to show us declines in 2000 and 2001, the falls in 2002 were larger in a more favourable light.
and more widespread, exacerbated by deteriorating global economies, ongoing corporate malaise and the spectre of Dividend and Revenue terrorism and war.
Our net asset value per share fell The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.45 pence 27.9% to 178.87 pence.
per share, making a total proposed dividend for the year of Total returns in the major markets and our own 3.50 pence.
This is an increase of 6.1 per cent, which is performance in those markets are shown in the table below: yet again well above inflation.
Over the last five years our dividend has grown twice as fast as the average of our OUR PORTFOLIO LOCAL INDEX peer group.
Our total income fell by 3.5%, mainly because of lower UK -19.8% -22.7% deposit interest.
Costs fell by 14% because we North America -33.8% -29.5% economised on marketing and the management fee reduced as falling markets worked through to the Europe ex UK -24.5% -27.0% calculation of the three-year moving average fee.
Earnings Japan -19.2% -18.0% per share were marginally up on the previous year.
Despite a reduction in our marketing costs the number of Pacific -16.8% -17.6% investors in our savings schemes increased again and the The most important influence on our performance was amount invested was almost as much as in 2001, which the selection of individual shares.
In the UK, Continental was a record year.
Europe and the Pacific we outperformed the local markets, Our ability to carry on increasing dividends faster than but we underperformed in Japan and other emerging the rate of growth of income from our portfolio cannot markets and had a poor result in the US.
However, the broad spread of our expressed concern to F&C Management about the US investment portfolio should protect us from individual performance and the steps being taken to improve this are dividend cuts.
We also have two years worth of dividends covered in the Managers Review.
in our revenue reserve which gives us added strength The major changes to our geographical asset and flexibility.
2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Over the last five years our dividend has grown twice as fast as the average of our peer group.
Private Equity In the past your Company has made large profits from investing in unquoted investments, essentially private equity.
Since the sale of our holdings in Robert Fleming and F&C Management the Board has been investigating new opportunities in private equity.
Our objective has been to find a way we can invest in an area which has in the past produced higher returns than investing in stockmarkets, without incurring undue risk or distracting our attention from the rest of the portfolio.
A Private Equity Committee was established to make specific Mark Loveday, Chairman recommendations to the Board.
At the end of the year we made commitments of liquid, we expect that, on the basis of our research and US$120 million to Limited Partnerships managed by the historic performance of private equity, they will produce HarbourVest Partners, which is based in Boston, USA and a higher return for our shareholders over the long term.
We 115 million to a Limited Partnership managed by think this is a good time in the cycle to be investing in Pantheon Ventures, which is based in London.
Both these private equity, but we have no plans to make any firms are leading managers investing in a spread of private additional commitments at this stage.
equity funds with excellent long-term performance records.
HarbourVest will invest in the US with 25% going into the Corporate Governance Venture Partnership, 65% into the Buyout Partnership and There have been very well publicised problems in some 10% into the Mezzanine Fund.
The Pantheon Fund will split capital investment trusts and I want to reassure you invest in Europe around 50% in the UK with 75% that your Company has had no involvement at all in the expected to be committed to Buy-outs, 12.5% to Venture split capital sector.
As a result of these problems, the Capital and 12.5% to Special Situations.
Each Limited Financial Services Authority is proposing changes to Partnership intends to invest in about 25-30 separate improve investor protection in investment trusts, with private equity funds, which in turn will each make around particular emphasis on the independence of boards and 25-30 investments, so your Company will have a well greater disclosure.
The AITC has also recently issued a spread private equity portfolio.
As is normal in the private draft Code of Corporate Governance.
We already comply equity industry, management charges and performancewith most of the FSA and AITC proposals as we believe related fees will be payable to the managers of the private that a strong, experienced and independent board is a equity investments, but there will be no duplication of fundamental part of good corporate governance.
The management fees payable to F&C.
Board reviews the performance of F&C continuously, and On the basis of past experience, it will take at least has also undertaken a formal annual review of all aspects four years for our commitments to be drawn down and of F&Cs management, to ensure shareholders get the less than 75% of our total commitment of approximately best possible service from our Manager.
We are 150 million is likely to be invested.
Private equity tends to determined that your Company will remain at the forefront be long term in its nature and we would therefore not of best practice in looking after shareholders interests.
expect the performance of these investments to affect our results significantly for a number of years.
Although they may carry a higher degree of risk and are certainly less Report & Accounts 2002 3 Chairmans Statement continued Directors We recognise all these problems and do not believe I succeeded John Sclater as Chairman following his any of them will be solved quickly.
Nevertheless, we are retirement after the AGM in May 2002.
I would like to put very aware of the opportunities that exist even in the most on record his invaluable contribution and outstanding difficult times.
Some companies are improving profits, service to the Company over 21 years.
At the AGM in May generating cash and increasing dividends.
Valuations of 2003, The Lord Rockley, the Deputy Chairman and Senior many companies have fallen to levels that are considered Independent Director will retire from the Board after 12 low by historic standards.
Dividend yields are higher than years.
He has made an important contribution over this short-term interest rates in many markets and close to long period and we will miss his wise advice, sound judgement bond yields in the UK for the first time in 40 years.
and common sense on the Board.
Ewen Macpherson will Economic growth is still continuing despite enormous become Senior Independent Director and join the political uncertainty worldwide and the long drawn out Nominations Committee.
Haruko Fukuda will stand down unwinding of the bubble of the late 1990s.
However, we from the Audit and Management Engagement Committee may have to accept for a period that we are living in a which she has chaired very effectively for the last five years.
John Rennocks will become its Chairman and Sir Michael As the guardians of your investment, our job is to try to Bunbury will join the Committee.
The Private Equity balance the risks and opportunities to achieve our Committee, which will monitor the performance of our objective of long-term growth in capital and income.
We investments in this area, is chaired by Sir Michael Bunbury.
believe Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust is well placed to do this.
Our costs are low, our finances are strong and Prospects we have a large revenue reserve.
We can borrow to There are many reasons to be cautious about stockmarkets.
improve returns and we can also buy back our own The prospect of war in Iraq and the continuing threat from shares.
Above all we have the ability to be flexible in our global terrorism are the most immediate.
Substantial cuts in investment approach.
I am confident we will achieve our interest rates have not caused as much of a boost to objective in the years ahead.
economic activity as in the past and there are concerns about the future direction of consumer spending.
Businesses face over-capacity and rising pension costs and there remain significant risks within individual companies.
After three years of falling markets some insurance Mark Loveday February 2003 companies and pension funds have become forced sellers, and many investors have lost confidence in equities and are switching to other investments.
4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
