18 03 03 02 04 tp 25 3 03 3:16 pm Page 2 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DAVID NEWBIGGING CHAIRMAN first full year as a publicly listed company.
Also, it was accomplished in a very challenging environment of declining and exceptionally volatile stock markets worldwide, considerable economic uncertainty and the prospect of war pursuing in the Middle East.
Industry overview Last year, I reported on the major industry reviews at that time being undertaken on behalf of Government and the Regulators, and the impact they would have on the future of the Life our strategy Assurance Industry.
In particular, I commented that it was for Government, the Regulators and the Industry to create a more positive environment for the investing public.
Also, that there should be a common goal of reducing the Savings Gap of some 27 billion which has come to symbolise the inadequate level of In 2002 we made good progress in pursuing companies in the United Kingdom, with some private saving in the United Kingdom today.
our main strategic objective to build on our 60 billion under management at the end of 2002. position as one of the leading life and pensions During 2002 three major reviews were In the Life & Pensions business, we acquired and asset management groups in the United completed: the Sandler Report on Long Term Royal & SunAlliance International Financial Kingdom which was set when we listed Savings, the Pickering Report A Simpler Way Services in August which has made Friends on the London Stock Exchange in July 2001. to Better Pensions and, in December, the Green Provident International one of the largest In line with this strategy, in 2002 we developed Paper on Pensions Simplicity, Security and offshore life operations.
both our core businesses Friends Provident Choice.
While we welcome proposals to Life and Pensions and ISIS Asset Management We also entered into an exclusive distribution simplify such key areas as pensions and the through a combination of organic growth and agreement with Countrywide, the United taxation regime that surrounds them, we believe selective acquisitions.
Kingdoms largest estate agency, which will that the crisis affecting long term savings and substantially increase our sales of mortgagepensions in this country requires more coherent These businesses have added new dimensions to and profound action by Government if the related products.
These two developments in their operations which will generate additional Savings Gap is to be closed.
All product the Life & Pensions business have broadened revenue and which are expected to enhance providers are facing the challenge of delivering our distribution channels and the investments earnings in 2003.
Following the acquisition of top quality product value, advice, service and made in leading Independent Financial Advisers Royal & SunAlliance Investments by Friends Ivory investment management to their customers, IFAs during the year will provide more & Sime in July, the latters name was changed to together with good returns to their shareholders exibility for our future distribution strategy.
ISIS Asset Management, a 67% listed subsidiary of or policyholders in the case of mutuals, Friends Provident.
The acquisition has resulted in We are encouraged by the progress made in within the 1% annual management charge ISIS becoming one of the largest fund management 2002 in pursuing our strategy in that it was our which is now stipulated for pensions products.
FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 3 In November 2002 the Association of British the year we have focused on those parts of Holding Insurers ABI provided new information on the our business which we can inuence such sales of stakeholder pensions introduced by as revenue growth, cost control and selective our course Government to provide a simple good value acquisitions, recognising that many of the pension for low to middle income earners and factors affecting the general environment in turbulent times in which we operate are outside our control.
concluded that stakeholder had yet to make any appreciable dent in the Savings Gap and was Notwithstanding this, however, we are concerned therefore failing the Governments original target at the public perception of the financial strength group.
The ABI cited the constraint of a price of the industry generally, and the difficulty in cap, costly sales regulation, low employer and understanding the rather complicated technical employee interest and the lack of incentive as language used such as technical solvency and some of the critical factors creating this situation.
Accordingly, we welcome the As a result, a number of product providers have FSAs moves towards modernising the somewhat withdrawn from the stakeholder market which outdated methodology used in assessing the they regard as not commercially viable.
Lessons financial strength of Life companies.
We would should be learned from this in terms of how the also welcome, wherever possible, a simplication Government implements the recommendations of the terminology used so that it is more easily of the Sandler Report.
The Sandler suite of understood by our shareholders, policyholders products needs a much simplied sales regime and customers.
and a pricing structure which is fair to the consumer but, crucially, allows a reasonable Results return on capital to the product provider.
Our 2002 achieved operating profit before amortisation of goodwill, operating exceptional All this industry change is happening in a We believe that the items and tax, was 305 million.
New life and period of declining economic growth worldwide, pensions business continued to grow strongly weak and fragile global equity markets, and crisis affecting long term throughout the year with total new business widespread concern about the possibility of premiums increasing 11% to more than savings and pensions conict in the Middle East.
The impact on many 1.7 billion.
On a comparable basis, contributions of our customers has been severe, and the steep from new business before tax grew by 22% to in this country requires decline in equity values has placed considerable 66 million from 54 million, as underlying strain on all Life companies whether margins improved.
more coherent and proprietary or mutual to meet the technical solvency requirements of our Regulator, the Following the acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance profound action Financial Services Authority FSA.
We believe Investments, funds managed by ISIS doubled and we have managed this situation well in that our exceeded 60 billion at the end of 2002. by Government.
Group balance sheet remains strong, we have met the FSAs requirements throughout, and we have Dividends maintained our Standard & Poors AAfinancial Subject to shareholders approval, the Board has strength credit rating.
Importantly, throughout recommended a final dividend of 4.8 pence per 18 03 03 02 04 tp 25 3 03 3:17 pm Page 4 4 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We enter 2003 in sound financial condition after absorbing two sizeable acquisitions last year, and having increased our new business in a very challenging environment.
share which, if approved, would bring the total will give us food for thought and we will consider the satisfaction of our customers rests in the dividend for 2002 to 7.25 pence per share.
This them carefully and constructively to determine hands of our people and I would like to take this would represent an increase of 3.6% over the how our own procedures can be improved.
opportunity to thank all those who work for the annualised dividend of 7 pence per share for Friends Provident Group for contributing to the We welcome the emphasis on explanation 2001.
This is in line with our progressive dividend success we achieved in 2002. of compliance rather than prescription and the policy, referred to in my Statement in last years recognition that the recommendations should I am also very pleased to welcome Alison Report and Accounts, which implied growth in dividends in excess of ination.
This policy was set be implemented gradually over time.
Carnwath as an independent non-executive just ahead of our otation in 2001 when the FTSE director to the Board of Friends Provident plc.
However, at this early stage, one recommendation 100 index was around 5600 and was maintained Alison is a Chartered Accountant and brings in the Higgs Review gives us cause for in respect of our 2002 Interim Results when the with her a wealth of experience in the eld considerable concern since we believe it displays index had fallen to around 4600.
Investment of investment banking, financial services a fundamental misunderstanding of how a Board returns are the key element supporting dividend and other industrial sectors gained through should operate effectively.
This is the proposal policy and the index had fallen further to 3600 a number of senior appointments.
She joins us that a senior non-executive director should be in February 2003.
As a result, while we expect at a time of great challenge and opportunity to continue to grow our dividend in the future, identied who would chair meetings of the and her experience will be greatly valued.
growth will be at a lower rate than previously non-executive directors without the Chairman indicated.
However, any such growth in the being present and who would visit institutional We enter 2003 in sound financial condition dividend is dependent on our planning shareholders with Management but without the after absorbing two sizeable acquisitions last assumptions being met, principally equity Chairman being present.
We regard this as year and having increased our new business investment returns of 7% per annum in the confusing and potentially divisive and, indeed, during the year by some 11% in a very medium term.
Consistent returns well in excess it is contradictory to other recommendations challenging environment.
Also, our balance of this assumption or a significant upward equity which clearly set out the respective responsibilities sheet has been strengthened by raising market movement will be needed for a return to of the Chairman and Chief Executive, and of the 290 million through a convertible bond a policy of dividend growth in excess of ination.
However, issue shortly before the year end.
we fully support the identication of a senior We have previously indicated dividend cover in This year will be just as challenging but we independent director with whom shareholders the range of one and a half to two times modied have an excellent Management team who will can communicate if they feel their views are statutory solvency MSS operating profits.
Going continue to concentrate on the fundamentals not being appropriately recognised by the forward, we are prepared to relax this cover given of our businesses with the aim of achieving Chairman or Chief Executive, and who is also the underlying strength of the business.
sustainable growth in the long term.
available to other directors if they have difficulty in communicating with the Chairman.
Corporate Governance Elsewhere in this Report we have referred to Our people the Higgs Review of the role and effectiveness This year I am delighted to welcome new of non-executive directors and the Smith Report members of staff to the Group from organisations on Audit Committees.
we acquired during the year.
Their skills and We agree with many of the recommendations experience will play an important part in taking D K NEWBIGGING which conform with our current practice.
The success of the Group and CHAIRMAN FRIENDS PROVIDENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002
