qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 1 DAVID ROUGH INTERVIEWS JAMES CROSBY.
ROUGHS STYLE IS DIRECT, DISARMING AND CRITICAL.
THE ROUGH REPORT IS INFORMATIVE AND VALUABLE READING FOR ALL HBOS INVESTORS.
qxd 26 3 03 2:55 pm Page 2 Howdo you make the wheels dont f DAVID ROUGH: Youve been JAMES CROSBY: Yes, our This underpins retail credit growing this business strongly, investment businesses have generally but also the how do you make sure the been hit by stock markets housing market.
because the stock market level does drive revenues it shows DAVID ROUGH: Yes, JAMES CROSBY: With the through this year again in a but arent people just territory of growth comes a significant reduction in profits overstretching themselves?
responsibility to ensure it from our investment businesses converts into solid earnings.
JAMES CROSBY: Mortgage because of uctuations due to Our strategy demands tight finance is much more short term investment returns control of costs, stable margins affordable today than it has of course recovering markets, even though were delivering been for years people are whenever they happen, will more to our customers and spending 15% of their income have the opposite effect.
DAVID ROUGH sound credit quality.
Even in on mortgage finance against started work in the city in tough times were proving this a long term average of 22%.
DAVID ROUGH: And will you, like 1974 for Royal Insurance and is the strategy that delivers.
Theres also a real shortage many life companies, be ned for of housing particularly in the moved to Legal & General at mis-selling of endowments?
DAVID ROUGH: But what about South East!
Were just not the start of 1989 as Head of credit quality, youre not immune JAMES CROSBY: I dont heading for a significant set UK Equities.
In 1991 he was from these tough times?
expect so but when you make back in house prices.
any comment like that, you appointed to the Legal & JAMES CROSBY: No were always touch wood.
General Board as Group not.
One of our fastest growing DAVID ROUGH: But what about areas is mortgages, theyre lending volumes?
Director Investments, and DAVID ROUGH: You appear relaxed the highest quality assets in JAMES CROSBY: We may retired from the Board of about the prospects for the banking.
Our strategy in other have seen a boom in prices Legal & General at the end housing market.
How are you banking products is to offer but transaction volumes over going to survive or protect yourself of 2001.
He was Chairman value and simplicity to the last five years have been in an at best, stagnant market over customers of our competitors.
of the Investment Committee materially lower than they were the next two or three years?
That really helps business in the late 80s: in fact not of the ABI for 2 years quality, generally its the better JAMES CROSBY: Whatever much above the trend for the between 2000 and 2002.
He quality customers who move deterioration we see in retail last thirty years.
The housing for a current account that pays is currently a Non-executive credit in the UK, its likely to market may well be slower in interest and its the better be comparatively benign, terms of price, but still good in Director of Land Securities quality customers who come first because interest rates terms of transaction volumes Group PLC, EMAP plc, BBA to you to transfer the balances are so low and likely to stay with good credit experience.
so and second because we Quite probably there is as will see only a small increase much if not the same DAVID ROUGH: The same cannot in unemployment.
opportunity to grow the surely be said of Corporate credit?
JAMES CROSBY: No and as wed expect in any slowdown our Corporate provisions have risen.
Equally, that makes this an opportune time to lend, margins are wider, competition less intense and business propositions are more realistic.
DAVID ROUGH: In terms of your efficient, cheap and cheerful approach to your investment products in falling equity markets havent your profits just been blown apart by the halving of equity markets?
