Chairmans Statement The major world markets have continued to fall during Prospects the twelve months to 31 May, our year end.
ShareSince the end of May markets have been very weak.
holders of Henderson Electric and General have seen This has been general and the technology sector has the net asset value fall by 19.6% from 419.75p to not stood out from the wider market.
337.54p and the market price fall by 28.3% from 399p There are signs in the United States that the economy to 286p, with the discount to net asset value widening has stopped decelerating and has now resumed to 15.3%.
In capital terms, the FTSE All-Share Index modest growth and there is a school of thought which over the same period was down 11.9% and the FTSE considers equities to be cheap on an historic basis.
Over a five year period consider, however, there is still risk to current however, the Companys net asset value has increased valuations.
While profit warnings may be expected to by 16.7%.
This years disappointing result was due subside in due course, the general disenchantment chiey to the exposure to the technology, media and with equities, already referred to, is gaining ground and telecoms sectors which have very substantially underthere is now evidence of substantial selling from performed the market averages in the past year.
pension funds and insurance companies.
These longThis concentration of the portfolio, which had brought term investors are seeking to reduce their risk and us spectacular outperformance over five years ending volatility by switching into bonds.
While this forced in May 2000, was a serious handicap over the last two selling has elements of a market capitulation, current years.
Management was slow to recognise the problem, valuations remain high and there is widespread although our exposure to what used to be considered expectation within the investment industry of better growth technology companies has steadily reduced times ahead.
It is noticeable that over the last six month period our underperformance against the two In last years report I wrote that the next upturn is likely indices was less severe.
We now feel that our portfolio to be led by quite different sectors.
It is our task to is reasonably balanced and our income position identify those companies which will be the main improved leaving scope to recommend an increased engines for growth over the next few years and buy at final dividend of 2.35p per share which, if approved the right prices.
at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on We are reducing our exposure to the United States, 20 September 2002. having regard to both the market and the dollar, and The United States economy continued to decelerate for have increased our holdings in Japan.
Our United most of the year under review, as did the major Kingdom percentage will remain at about 50% for the European economies.
Notwithstanding the efforts of time being.
It does seem as though some of the major major world central banks to stimulate their economies difficulties, such as accounting irregularities and by unprecedentedly low interest rates, stock markets spectacular boardroom greed, are most pronounced in paid more attention to the deteriorating outlook for the United States and this is contributing to the current profits.
Some sectors, such as telecoms, have seen some dollar weakness.
Consequently world stock markets spectacular bankruptcies.
Moreover the demise of Enron may not follow the lead of Wall Street quite as closely and the alleged misdemeanours of its auditors have as has been the case recently.
raised questions over the integrity of company accounts A recovery in our asset value and an increased regard in the United States.
Combined with almost daily reports to the dividend yield are our main priorities and we very of excesses in the boardrooms of many leading much hope to report a better result next year.
companies, a mood of profound disenchantment with equity investment has spread amongst many investors.
L C N Bury The situation has been most prominent and visible Chairman in the United States but their problems have affected 11 July 2002 all markets.
