ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 4 Chairmans Statement The Groups profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 89.1 million for the year to 31 March 2002 compared with 75.6 million for the previous year.
Shareholders funds at 31 March 2002 were 188.5 million, up 26.5 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 18p per share to be paid on 30 August 2002 making a total dividend of 24p per share for the year, an increase of 20%.
This was a very good performance from The structure of our industry continues ICAP and reflects the strength of our to change rapidly.
It was historically market position.
The markets in which we fragmented with low barriers to entry.
operate have been very active, positively Consolidation over the past few years has, influenced by frequent interest rate changes however, been driven by mergers of our and increased bond issuance.
We did, customers creating fewer but larger banks however, suffer significantly from the and the increasing importance of technology impact of the attack on the World Trade which has significantly raised barriers to Center.
ICAP has benefited from increased operational leverage and by realising the Overall the business had slightly increased benefits of our size and reach.
Consolidation its market share by the end of the year.
is continuing and there are several corporate We estimate that the global interdealer opportunities in our sector that we are broking market for OTC derivatives, fixed pursuing energetically.
income securities, money markets, futures, foreign exchange and energy and Our strategy in those markets where we equity derivatives was worth approximately do not have a strong market share has $4 billion in revenues in 2001.
ICAP is been to create joint ventures with the global leader in this market with a appropriate partners to achieve significant 20% share, a position that we have liquidity or to make acquisitions.
Our continued to build on with the recent successful joint venture in currency acquisition of First Brokers Securities Inc. options, TFS-ICAP, was combined with ICAP plc Annual Report 2002 5 Volbroker, a bank-owned consortium that On our Charity Days in 2001 the combined includes the most active currency options effort of our staff and customers helped players.
We firmly believe that bringing us to raise an extraordinary 2.8 million.
together liquidity from the leading voice The largest share was dedicated to charities broker and the foremost electronic platform linked to the World Trade Center disaster is the key to increased efficiency in the but we were also able to give a significant financial markets.
The combined business sum to two charities working in war torn is performing well.
The Group donates its entire revenue on Charity Day, without any cost During the year we took complete control deductions, to various charities.
of our Spot Foreign Exchange joint ventures by acquiring the 52% we did not already One of our non-executive directors, own.
This is a profitable business and the Jon Robson, resigned from the board in Spot FX market still has room for a strong November 2001.
He had previously been voice broker.
We have been able to make a member of the Intercapital board and I cost savings as a result of improved would like to thank him for his contribution economies of scale.
The attack on the World Trade Center on The response of our staff worldwide to 11 September resulted in the destruction the opportunities and challenges of the of ICAPs entire New York offices.
As the past year has been outstanding.
In particular result of a remarkable response from our our staff in New York suffered a most management team in New York, together traumatic experience and I would like to with their staff, we were able to restore acknowledge their remarkable efforts in limited broking operations very quickly.
restoring our business so successfully.
When the enormous scale of the tragedy The leadership shown by the senior became clear the financial community management team in their rapid response reacted with tremendous support and to the challenges presented by the events offers of help came flooding in.
In on 11 September was extraordinary.
As a particular we are very grateful for the result of all their efforts the business can incredible assistance we have received now go forward, even stronger than from Bloomberg, HSBC Bank USA and before.
Sadly we lost one of our staff in the disaster: our thoughts remain with her family and the families and friends of all those who were Charles Gregson Chairman affected by the tragedy.
