Chairmans Statement Digital success Driven by Skys vision and commitment, the UK leads the world in its take-up of digital television.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 03.
1 Sky continued to deliver on its operating and financial targets in the year to 30 June 2002, and to maintain its position as the market leader in the UK and Ireland.
Thanks largely to Sky, the UK now leads the world in its take-up of digital television, with over 6 million digital satellite homes and total digital penetration of 35%.
2 Skys philosophy has always been to listen to what customers want and then to deliver it.
This strategy has been consistently successful, and has been amply rewarded by a healthy increase in subscriber revenues and the continuing loyalty of Sky customers.
Sky News pioneering achievements in 24-hour news were recognised with a BAFTA award, Sky Sports achieved strong audiences, and Skys 3 other channels, including Sky One and Sky Movies, continued to grow their audiences.
Interactive services from Sky and other channels are providing our subscribers with outstanding entertainment and information opportunities.
Despite turbulent times in the advertising market and the financial difficulties affecting The Groups success is thanks to third-party distributors, Skys profitability and cash ow have increased this year.
The the talent and creativity of Skys employees and partners.
management team and all of their colleagues deserve credit for achieving this growth.
I am confident that an improvement in advertising and wholesale revenues, allied to the continuing success of the direct-to-home business, will create considerable scope for future increases in profitability.
As one of the UKs largest public companies, Sky recognises its responsibility to contribute to the community in which it operates.
As well as constantly increasing its awareness of environmental issues, the Group supports a range of community initiatives focused on young people.
David Evans was appointed to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 21 September 2001.
He brings a wealth of experience in media businesses, and is currently President and Chief Executive officer of Crown Media Holdings.
Our thanks go to Dr Dieter Hahn who resigned as a Director on 6 February 2002.
Dr Hahn had been a Non-Executive Director of BSkyB since May 2000.
I would like to pay tribute to the talent and creativity of Skys employees and partners.
CRM centre Dunfermline Their efforts have been the mainspring of the Groups successes to date, and they will 2.
Sky digital installer at work London continue to be an intrinsic part of its success in the future.
Rupert Murdoch Chairman Digital take up Britain leading the world EU 11% US 32% UK & Eire 35% British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
