Chairmans Statement profits, namely core income, increased by 16% to 39.0m on the back of growth in both net interest income and fund management fee income.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.4p net per share to be paid on 24 May 2002, which, with the interim dividend of 8.6p per share, brings the total for the year to 28p net per share, an increase of 12% over last years dividend.
It is ICGs policy to deliver continuing dividend growth, driven by growth in core income.
This years dividend maintains our record of producing double digit dividend growth every year since we oated in 1994.
The dividend is covered 1.7 times by core income net of tax and 1.8 times by post tax earnings.
The loan portfolio Introduction At the year end our portfolio of loans and In the context of a testing business environment I am investments amounted to 704m which represented pleased to report a good performance by ICG in the a good increase of 12% over the year.
In a less active market we had a satisfactory year The economic slowdown, which was becoming for new lending.
We arranged or provided a total of apparent in the first half of the year, was accelerated 308m of funding in respect of 16 deals, of which by the events of 11 September.
This led to decreased 176m was invested on our own Balance Sheet, the levels of activity in mergers and acquisitions and in balance being taken by our fund management clients the buyout markets.
Although this resulted in a and syndicated to third parties.
We were particularly slowdown in the rate of growth of our new lending, active in France, where we made eight new we yet again increased our loan book to a new record investments, and at the year end our continental level.
Core income, comprising net interest income European portfolio represented over 60% of our and fee income, which is the key element of ICGs loan book.
The lower level of M&A activity also profits, showed further strong growth, while capital resulted in fewer realisations and thus a lower level gains were, as expected, materially lower than the of repayments, which amounted to 81m in respect exceptionally high level achieved the previous year.
We are very pleased to have successfully launched The more difficult economic environment has a new loan fund, as a result of which our funds inevitably led to underperformance by some under management have increased from 1.0bn to companies in our portfolio.
In a small number of approximately 1.2bn at the year end.
these instances, where the companies were already We have had an encouraging start to our current performing poorly prior to September, their financial year, having completed four new deals, situation is now of greater concern and in these and while the current business environment cases we have made the appropriate provisions.
presents us with challenges it also offers us good In most other cases the level of underperformance opportunities from which we believe ICG and its is of less concern, and we would expect the trading shareholders can benefit.
of these companies to start to improve once we see an upturn in the global economy.
Results Overall we are pleased to be able to report that Pretax profits for the year amounted to 41.7m, down the bulk of our portfolio is performing satisfactorily.
from 58.0m in the previous year.
This reduction was Funding in line with expectations given the weak market for During the year we took the opportunity to increase realisations and the high levels of capital gains in the previous year.
The most important component of our our facilities so as not to be constrained in our ability 2 Intermediate Capital Group Chairmans Statement continued London 20 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1DP While Europe remains our main focus, we have expanded our Paris 38 Avenue Hoche activities into the Asia Pacic region, 75008 Paris opening an ofce in Hong Kong.
Hong Kong 3603-3604 Edinburgh Tower 15 Queens Road Central Hong Kong Sweden 40m Norway 3m Denmark 43m Ireland 29m Netherlands 16m United Kingdom 259m Belgium 7m Germany 50m France 249m Switzerland 4m Italy 4m 3 Intermediate Capital Group Chairmans Statement continued to finance new lending opportunities in what could the natural nancing instrument to ll the gap left be an attractive environment for mezzanine by the banks.
We raised 100m through a further Overall we have seen the financial structures private placement with maturities between five and becoming somewhat more conservative since ten years and have since the year end raised an September with lower levels of gearing which is, additional 90m of medium term bank facilities.
In terms of pricing This has resulted in our total borrowing facilities on new deals we have comfortably been able to amounting to 768m.
At the year end our total maintain the cash yield as well as the overall level borrowings amounted to 524m, which results in of projected returns.
a relatively conservative gearing ratio for a financial During the last financial year the high yield institution like ICG of 2.6:1. bond markets were only really open for bond issues in excess of 100m for larger and safer companies.
Fund management Consequently we rarely competed with that market.
Last year saw further growth in our fund The competitive threat from banks providing management activities with funds under mezzanine themselves has reduced somewhat from management increasing by 20% to 1.2bn and fee the previous year.
There remain a small number of income increasing to 8.8m from 5.6m the banks that are particularly keen to build their own previous year.
mezzanine portfolio and they have continued to The highlight of the year was raising a new be active in the market place along with a few e450m 280m loan fund which will invest independent mezzanine providers.
primarily in higher yielding European bank loans.
While at present the competitive threat from The fund attracted considerable investor interest banks offering both senior debt and mezzanine even in the difficult investment climate at the end of may have reduced, in due course we expect this September and we believe the opportunity exists to trend to reverse.
raise new funds in this area.
In 2001, ICG was the second most active arranger e750m Our two existing CDO funds, totalling of mezzanine in European buyouts.
The European high We recognise that we are operating in a market yield bond market again performed very badly last place which is already competitive and may become year.
Although our CDOs have continued to more so.
We are confident we will continue to signicantly outperform the market, their absolute succeed in the winning of mezzanine mandates and performance has been worse than our original maintaining a good market share because of our expectations.
reliability, our geographic coverage, our commercial In mezzanine fund management we continued to exibility and the quality and size of our e475m 295m steadily invest our recent professional team.
Higher than expected repayments The Asian mezzanine market of assets held by the earlier, more mature funds, Last autumn we decided to set up a small ofce in however, led to the amount of money invested falling slightly to 250m at the year end.
Hong Kong with two experienced ICG professionals from Europe and we expect to add two further ICG and the European mezzanine market executives with suitable local knowledge and Last year, as concerns about the economy mounted experience.
We conducted detailed research over and corporate confidence fell, there was a material the previous twelve months on the prospects for reduction in the level of activity in the UK and mezzanine in the Asia Pacic market place and European buyout markets.
The value of buyouts in came to the conclusion that there are potentially the second half of 2001 was 45% less than in the interesting opportunities in selected countries corresponding period of the previous year.
Apart from ICG, there is In this environment we have seen most banks currently no dedicated provider of mezzanine in becoming less aggressive in their senior lending, that market but there are a number of major except for the larger, safer transactions.
Most of international private equity houses which are well them have also been more wary of taking on large known to us and are generally of the view that underwriting risks.
As a consequence, the demand there will be increasing opportunities for buyouts, for mezzanine finance has been quite good as it is acquisition finance and renancings.
4 Intermediate Capital Group Chairmans Statement continued As a result of opening the ofce, we should be in increase funds under management with particular a better position to assess the opportunities in the emphasis being placed on the leveraged loan market.
Asia Pacic mezzanine marketplace and, subject to In our existing high yield CDOs, improvement in this, build a leading position in the region.
performance will depend upon a recovery in the high yield market.
Management and staff There are a number of companies in our portfolio We have continued to expand our professional that are seeking a sale or otation this year and these team during the year with particular emphasis are capable of producing good capital gains.
The on continental Europe which we believe has achievement of such is, of course, dependent upon considerable growth opportunities.
Since the year the strength of the M&A and IPO markets during end we have moved into larger premises in London the year.
to accommodate our growing team.
Our portfolio continues to be well diversied The success of ICG depends primarily on the both geographically and across a wide range of abilities of its staff.
I would like to thank them on sectors but it is not immune to the effects of a your behalf for their efforts last year.
We will continue to devote much time to managing the portfolio and The Board protecting its value.
I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor as In todays changing environment, we continue to chairman, Murray Stuart, who retired last May after believe in the growth prospects of the markets in serving seven and a half years as chairman of your which we operate and look forward to the future company.
During this time he played a most important with confidence.
role in overseeing the development of the company John Manser through its otation and subsequent strong growth.
Chairman During the year the Board welcomed James Nelson as a new non-executive director.
He is 18 April 2002 a partner of Graphite Capital, formerly Foreign and Colonial Ventures.
He is a former chairman of the British Venture Capital Association and, with his many years experience of the private equity market will, I am sure, make a valuable contribution to ICGs future development.
Prospects While it remains difficult to forecast market conditions, it is our assumption in looking at the year ahead that activity levels will remain well below their peak of 2000, although we expect to see some recovery from the very depressed level of the last quarter of 2001.
In this uncertain market a more conservative approach by the banks should lead to relatively good demand for mezzanine and a reasonable number of attractive opportunities from which ICG is well placed to benefit.
We have started the new financial year well, having completed four new loans in the first two months of which nearly 60m has been invested on our balance sheet.
We would not expect this rate of investment to be continued throughout the year but do believe it is realistic to expect to be able to continue to grow our loan book.
This should lead to growth in net interest income.
During the year we will continue our effort to 5 Intermediate Capital Group
