Chairmans Statement With equity markets having recorded their sixth consecutive half year fall, culminating in the FTSE 100 index having fallen by some 43 per cent since 1 January 2000, the current environment is providing a very different as well as difficult operating environment for asset managers.
Against this background and with no signs of market returns heading back to the double digit annual growth of the 1990s, many companies in the asset management industry have been appraising their strategy and business plans and, as a consequence, their operating structure and cost base.
This is not a period for the faint hearted or for inactivity as our acquisition of Royal & SunAlliance Investment Management business RSAI during the course of the year and, indeed, our results demonstrate.
We continue to trade profitably and have made significant steps forward in terms of developing the business for the benefit of our shareholders, clients and staff.
Results Group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional costs fell from 27.0 million to 21.6 million.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional costs fell from 13.6 pence to 10.4 pence.
Any comparison between revenue or, indeed, costs for the period requires careful analysis as the transaction we completed on 1 July 2002 was both transformational in terms of the business and also in respect of our revenues and cost base.
Acquisition of RSAI The acquisition of RSAI was a major transaction, increasing our funds under management at 1 July 2002 by some 34.8 billion.
It also allowed us to change our operating structure, signicantly strengthen our personnel and move the company into the top 10 UK active fund managers.
The nature of the assets we now manage, together with the fee bases we have negotiated on significant blocks of these assets, have provided us with a degree of protection against the worst of the ravages of equity markets.
We are, however, not immune from the significant downward movement in equity markets we have experienced during the year.
Our secure revenue base, together with our operational stability, financial strength and results for the year, were all factors which were considered by the board when addressing our final dividend payment.
4 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Dividend The board is recommending a final dividend of 7.0 pence per share to give an unchanged total of 11.0 pence per share for the year.
The decision to maintain our dividend reects the companys relatively strong position, our cautious optimism for the future and a strong desire to deliver maximum shareholder value.
ISIS Asset Management During the second half of the year the board sought shareholders approval to change the name of the company from Friends Ivory & Sime to ISIS Asset Management.
This decision, which was supported by shareholders, was not taken lightly.
We were not seeking to lose our heritage but position the company, following the acquisition of RSAI, as a significant, independent asset management company with a focus on delivering value and service in a very different investment climate.
To this end our name and logo have changed but more importantly, we have commenced a major brand and values exercise with the objective of creating a leading asset management company for the needs of the 21st century.
Board & Staff As highlighted in my interim report to shareholders, following the acquisition of RSAI on 1 July 2002, Nick Criticos, Ian Paterson Brown and Robert Talbut joined the board as executive directors and Barry Sanjana stood down from the board.
On 18 December Keith Bedell-Pearce joined the board as an independent non-executive director.
His appointment not only strengthens the board by virtue of his extensive financial services industry experience but also fulls our wish to have a majority of non-executive directors on the board.
As in all fund management companies, our most important asset is our employees and the transaction provided the opportunity to not only appraise our organisational structure but also to signicantly enhance the quality of our personnel by adopting a best from both approach across the two organisations.
In relation to our investment department, we now have our own dedicated research team and a specialist risk team.
We believe both are essential ingredients to provide independent, value added, fund management services in todays marketplace.
On the ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 5 Chairmans Statement people front, of particular note is the number of investment professionals we now have in the organisation.
It is, however, fair to say that all areas of our business have been strengthened which will lead to enhanced services to our clients.
Finally, on the personnel front I would like, in what has been a particularly difficult environment, to pay tribute to all our employees.
They have not only had to face the challenges of the stock markets, but have put in a huge amount of hard work and long hours to deliver a successful integration of the two businesses.
This is progressing very well and is commented on in detail in the Chief Executives Report.
Responsible Engagement Overlay reo While this is a theme I have covered in previous reports, it is relevant to cover two areas this year as both are important developments for our business.
reo is now applied to some 16 billion of assets we manage and we are continuing to build on its leading market position with new clients requesting us to provide reo as a stand alone service.
Recent business wins include Shropshire County Council and John Lewis and we are currently in discussion with a number of other parties.
We have also this year decided for the first time to include with our annual report a Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR report unaudited which sets out further details regarding reo and the companys adherence to CSR practices.
We rmly believe that good corporate and social governance will enhance shareholder returns over the longer term.
Corporate Behaviour This has not been a year which will be remembered for good corporate governance as evidenced by a number of high prole collapses and scandals round the world.
Not only have these events had an impact on global stock markets and investor confidence, they have also accelerated changes to corporate reporting and governance.
Your company has, for a number of years, been moving toward greater disclosure, seeking to be both open and transparent in its corporate communication and reporting.
To this end the acquisition of RSAI and the operations of the business throughout the year are addressed in considerable detail in the Chief Executives Report.
6 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Outlook With stock markets at current levels, the outlook for the investment management industry is probably tougher than at any time in the last twenty years.
That said, in times like these it is most important to re-appraise business plans and strategy and assess what opportunities exist to develop the business.
At ISIS we rmly believe that not only will there be further consolidation in the industry, but also that there will be opportunities for organic growth for those asset managers who address what is a very different investment climate from that which we have experienced over the last ten years or so.
Your company is not only well positioned to achieve organic growth, particularly in the higher margin specialist areas of the market, but also to participate in industry consolidation which occurs, providing always that such activity is in line with our strategy.
While the economic and stock market climate remains uncertain, we believe we are strongly positioned to seek opportunities to build our business for the benefit of our shareholders.
Sir David Kinloch 4 March 2003 ISIS ASSET MANAGEMENT plc REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 7
