2 I am very pleased to report that Jardine Lloyd Thompson continued its unbroken record of year on year growth in 2002 with profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation increasing 21% to a record 101.8 million.
Turnover grew by 11% to 388.1 million 2001: 349.7 million and the Groups trading profit, defined as turnover less expenses and excluding goodwill amortisation, grew by 31% to 79.1 million 2001: 60.2 million.
These results should be considered both in absolute terms and in the context of the global economic and financial climate.
Most major stock markets ended 2002 down for the third year in succession and many of our clients are suffering industry-specific problems, as well as operating in weak global and local economies.
Insurers have been significantly affected by the fallout from financial markets: many have raised new capital whilst others now operate without the surpluses that had been the norm for these companies.
As expected, the hard insurance market continued throughout 2002 and we believe it will continue in this manner for at least the next two years.
For both Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits there remains enormous potential for JLT to increase market share and our track record bears testimony to our ability to deliver growth even in challenging economic or market conditions.
chairmans statement Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 3 Report & Accounts 2002 The Groups senior executives, led by Steve McGill, who became the measurement of retirement benefits and requires expanded Chief Executive at the start of 2002, kept the company focused disclosures, but does not require implementation of any change in on its core businesses during this difficult time and their success measurement approach until the year ended 31st December 2005. in this regard is detailed in the operational reviews.
The senior The relevant information is set out in note 31 to the attached management team worked hard during 2002 to develop and refine financial statements.
the operating strategy and structure of the Group and to grow the Exceptional Items business organically.
The exceptional items reflect an adjustment to property provisions The board was augmented by the appointment of three additional and the impact of disposals of non-core businesses undertaken independent non-executives in January 2002: Geoffrey Howe, during the year.
Tony Hobson and Bob Scott.
Our new colleagues have introduced Dividends fresh perspectives on JLT from their considerable and varied Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 11.0p net business experience.
per share for the year to 31st December 2002 will be paid on Group Strategy 2nd May 2003 to shareholders on the register at 4th April 2003.
At the beginning of the year the Groups operational structure This brings the total dividend for the year to 18.5p net per share, was reorganised into two business groups: Risk & Insurance and an increase of 16%.
Prospects The Risk & Insurance Group comprises JLTs worldwide Notwithstanding the uncertain economic background in the major insurance, reinsurance broking and risk services activities.
markets in which JLT operates around the world, we enter 2003 During 2002 we have continued working to maximise the potential with real confidence in our ability to deliver future growth in our benefits from synergies within the group, together with the ongoing chosen business sectors.
development of new business in each of our chosen sectors, We have a highly professional and dedicated workforce with a including the creation of specific industry focus groups to reputation for achieving effective and rapid solutions to our co-ordinate our skills and resources.
clients needs, the delivery of which is all the more important The Employee Benefits Group consists of pension administration, in these challenging times.
outsourcing, employee benefits consultancy and US group For both Risk & Insurance and Employee Benefits there remains marketing activities.
This business, which complements our enormous potential for JLT to increase market share and our Risk & Insurance activities, is characterised by long-term contracts track record bears testimony to our ability to deliver growth and is not subject to insurance market cycles.
We continue to see even in challenging economic or market conditions.
excellent potential for future growth in this area.
Pensions The transitional provisions of the accounting standard, FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, require us to disclose, by way of a note to the financial statements, the net deficit on our defined benefit pension schemes at 31st December 2002, calculated in Ken Carter accordance with the principles laid down in the standard.
Chairman As noted previously, FRS 17 adopts a market value approach to 10th March, 2003
