Chairmans Statement Nicholas Cosh CHAIRMAN balance has neither added nor detracted value.
In Investment Performance 2002 the investment managers introduced a new In 2002 your Company bore the full brunt of the policy for the management of the allocation to equity bear market and suffered a net asset value smaller companies using a formulaic approach to total return decline of 35.7% which compares with a relative valuation.
Over time this will probably lead 29.8% decline in the benchmark index total return, to a lower allocation, although any such reduction the S&P 500 Composite Index expressed in sterling will be made after a recovery in small cap growth terms.
The share price fell by 42.1% in total return company valuations.
terms as the discount widened to 7.4% by the end of the year.
In my review in the Interim Report I The performance of the Company in 2002 can only pointed out that by the end of July the U. S. equity be described as disappointing, and steps have been market had reached a level last seen in 1997 and taken to manage the asset allocation on a more that stocks were looking particularly attractive on a active basis.
valuation basis relative to bonds.
For the balance of the year the market action was highly volatile, Gearing marked by strong rallies in August and November, The investment managers have access to two while returning to its lowest levels in early October.
gearing facilities, a 50m debenture and a US$40m Continuing poor corporate earnings performance fixed loan.
The latter of these is due to be repaid in was the principal factor preventing the market from June 2003 and it is the Boards current intention not enjoying a sustained rally.
In addition the likelihood to replace this with another loan.
The effect of this of military action in Iraq did not help.
The final five repayment would, if it had happened at the yearmonths of the year saw a modest decline for end, reduce the Companys potential gearing from equities of 2.9% as measured by the S&P 500 125% to 117%.
The actual gearing ratio at the yearComposite Index expressed in US$ terms.
The repayment of the loan will therefore mainly be made from available cash The net asset value decline was exacerbated by balances.
three additional factors, the Companys gearing, the decline of the U. S. dollar by 9.6% and the The Board sets guidelines on the extent that gearing performance of the smaller companies portfolio.
In can be used i. e. the actual gearing ratio and these capital only returns the net asset value performance currently restrict such use to 20% of shareholders relative to the S&P 500 benchmark index in sterling funds.
terms was a negative 5.5 percentage points.
The Investment Policy and Investment Manager largest contributor to the underperformance was the The Companys philosophy has not changed over the gearing which made up about one third of the year and remains to invest in a diversified portfolio deficit.
Going into 2002 the investment managers of high quality US companies whose intrinsic value were not anticipating a further market decline of per share is expected to grow over time.
While such magnitude and decided to maintain the portfolio turnover is designed to be low, the existing level of gearing as a means of enhancing inherent volatility of individual stocks allows the long-term appreciation.
A further contributory factor investment manager to take advantage of valuation to the underperformance came from a disappointing disparities in both purchase and sale decisions.
The year for the smaller companies portfolio.
Over the Company invests in US companies of all sizes, past 3 years the allocation to this segment of the believing that smaller companies periodically offer market has exhibited volatile return patterns, but on JPMorgan Fleming American 1 Chairmans Statement continued higher growth at lower valuations than blue chip Directors stocks.
The expectation that equities will outperform I have decided to step down as a Director of the the Companys cost of borrowing over time is the Company, and hence as Chairman, having been on main factor behind the chosen level of long-term the Board for nearly 20 years, including 5 years as gearing.
I will remain on the Board until the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Following consultation with the Board, the manager of the Companys assets, JPMorgan Fleming Asset Hamish Buchan has agreed to accept the Management UK Limited, has appointed Garrett appointment as Chairman from that date and I wish Fish as the individual responsible for investment him, the other Directors and the Company every management on behalf of the Company, To assist success for the future.
Garrett, Timothy Parton will continue to manage the smaller companies portfolio.
Outlook A year ago I wrote that a more buoyant stock market Revenue Account and Dividends would require a recovery in corporate profits.
This year the Company recorded earnings per share Unfortunately this did not materialise in 2002, of 4.75p 2001:5.30p.
As the policy is to distribute although the consensus view is that the new year substantially all the available income the Board is should see gradual improvement.
Expectations are proposing that a dividend of 4.80 pence per share subdued because of a lack of pricing power in most 2001: 5.20p be paid on 2nd May 2003 to sectors of the economy, along with the relatively shareholders on the register on 4th April 2003. new headwinds of higher pension costs and the expensing of stock option grants for the first time.
Share Issues and Repurchases Meanwhile, inflation and interest rates are at very At the beginning of the year the Companys shares low levels and the stock market remains were trading at a premium to the net asset value undervalued relative to high quality bonds.
and this enabled 195,945 shares to be issued.
The Overshadowing these factors is the probability of average premium of these issues was 2.8% and the war.
The element of uncertainty regarding Iraq and proceeds were 1.6m.
other geopolitical events argues for a higher than From the 2nd quarter of the year onwards the shares average equity risk premium, but the current level returned to trading at a discount to the net asset seems excessive.
There is therefore a reasonable value and this enabled 2,426,000 ordinary shares to probability that a resolution of the conflict will yield be repurchased for cancellation during the year.
The a better environment for both the dollar and the average discount of these repurchases was 8.6% stockmarket.
The resulting effect of these issues and repurchases Nicholas Cosh was to enhance the net asset value by 1.1m, or an Chairman 10th March 2003 additional 0.3 percentage points of performance.
Since the year end a further 494,500 shares have been purchased and cancelled.
2 JPMorgan Fleming American... inflation and interest rates are at very low levels and the stockmarket remains undervalued relative to high quality bonds.
