4 Chairmans statement Changing the landscape The London Stock Exchange is now a fully commercial public company and well positioned to compete effectively in a global market.
In our first year as a listed company, we have delivered a strong financial performance that provides a solid platform for growth.
As a result, we look to the future with confidence.
In support of our core business, we have In Europe, we have forcefully put our case used our influence as Europes leading equity for more efficient clearing and settlement mechanisms, following the US model of market to contribute significantly to the public a single system.
policy initiatives aimed at developing a truly global capital market.
Our values have so far been significantly reflected in the early drafts of directives that The values that we promote are customer will implement a single European market in choice, flexible market structures and securities trading.
high levels of transparency, disclosure and corporate governance.
Those values We are also a keen sponsor of the continuing and the goal of creating an integrated capital work of the International Accounting Standards market in Europe, need even greater backing Board to deliver global accounting standards.
A satisfactory outcome to each of these In the UK, our campaign to remove stamp duty initiatives would lower the cost of capital for on share transactions has won broad political companies in the European Union, especially and business support, but has been hindered UK ones, and reduce trading costs for investors.
by difficulties surrounding public finances.
With a more competitive tax environment and with a greater degree of electronic We now have the commercial shareholding, the UK would potentially host and financial flexibility to the most efficient electronic market in the world, and we continue to work towards this.
continue to build the business.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 5 Listing 200th anniversary The successful listing of your companys Our Bicentennial was marked by a series shares in July on the main market of the of well-attended events in support of The London Stock Exchange has been very Trident Trust, our charitable partner.
As a fully listed company, we now were especially pleased that, in October, have the commercial and financial flexibility Her Majesty The Queen and His Royal to continue to build the business and explore Highness The Duke of Edinburgh visited the all available opportunities for growth.
Exchange to share in the celebration of our anniversary.
We raised over 200,000 for September 11 Trident and we look forward to continuing what has been a successful partnership.
Given the close ties between the London and New York financial centres, the terrorist attacks I would like to express my appreciation to the in September were especially difficult to witness.
staff of your company, who have been responsible In November, I spoke at the annual meeting of for producing a strong year of growth.
The the United States Securities Industry Association support and backing of our shareholders in Florida and passed on the condolences and has been critical to the transformation of the support of those who work and invest in UK Exchange over the last two years.
I anticipate and European financial markets.
Those attacks no let up in the year ahead as we continue to were aimed at the heart of the global capital grow the company and remain at the forefront market.
However, business continued, of a highly competitive industry.
demonstrating the growing strength and interdependence of the evolving global market.
Don Cruickshank Chairman DEVELOPING A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE
