Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 2 Chairmans Statement $4.2 billion was from private clients and the balance institutional.
Europe and Asia Pacific contributed 36% and 30% respectively of total sales, with mainly institutional sales in the Americas contributing 22% and the balance being raised in the Middle East.
We firmly believe that the growing interest in alternative investments reflects a structural shift in global asset allocations, and that this trend will continue.
Although assets in the hedge fund industry have grown at 27% per annum over the last 11 years to a level estimated to be in the region of $540 billion to $600 billion, this total represents only a small percentage of global investment funds.
As a result we would expect continued strong growth in the sector as the logic I am very pleased to report on what has been an exceptional and significant year for the Group in of including alternative investments to achieve diversification across asset classes drives demand terms of business development, profits growth and increased shareholder value.
Driven by a for these kinds of products.
One consequence of these trends becoming better understood has record level of sales in Asset Management, funds under management stood at $10.7 billion at year been the entry of many new participants into the market.
As competition has increased we have end, up some 60% on the year, with recurring net management fee income up 66%.
Assisted by a continued to benefit from our unusually long track record, conservative approach to risk and strong year in Brokerage, diluted underlying earnings per share, a measure which excludes distinctive business model which integrates money management skills, product structuring expertise variable performance related fee income, was up 50% at 45.7 pence.
Performance fee earnings and a proven distribution capability.
Going forward, our strategy will continue to focus on added 16.9 pence per share.
Diluted earnings per share on total operations was 56.8 pence and the the further development of each of these three components, both organically, and where Group recorded a 33.2% post-tax return before exceptional items on shareholders funds.
These appropriate, by the acquisition of complementary businesses.
results have enabled us to exceed two of our financial targets, delivery of significant growth in In this regard, we have today announced the underlying earnings and maintenance of a high return on capital.
They also place us ahead of the proposed acquisition of RMF Investment Group RMF, a leading Swiss-based provider of run-rate necessary to meet our third, which is to double assets under management from their level alternative products focused on the European institutional market.
RMF delivers tailored of $6.7 billion as at 31 March 2001 to $13.4 billion by 31 March 2004. structured solutions for clients across a range of strategies including hedge funds, high yield and In Asset Management, sales of $5.2 billion private equity investments, principally in a fund of funds format.
As at 31 March 2002 RMF had significantly exceeded our expectations.
This exceptional result reflects continuing investor funds under management of approximately $8.5 billion 5.9 billion of which approximately $6.7 concern about the direction of global equity markets, strong long-term performance from billion 4.6 billion were invested in hedge fund products.
The acquisition will complement both most of our products, and the attractiveness of our principal guaranteed structured products.
Man-Glenwoods strong position in the US and Japanese institutional markets and our existing Man-Glenwood and some of our other managers recorded positive performance in the year and, pre-eminent coverage of the international private client markets.
It will also broaden our product although Man-AHL, our futures fund manager, gave back gains after November 2001, we range and client service capability.
continued to benefit from the long-term outperformance and security of our product range Our Brokerage division has also had an excellent year, with pre-tax profits up 27% at 38.3 million.
opposite the equity markets, and as a consequence saw strong fundraising momentum Much of this growth has come from our institutional financial futures, foreign exchange continue through the second half of the year.
Of the $5.2 billion raised during the year, some and metals businesses.
In financial futures, in 2 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002 Man Group front WACE 13 6 02 5:10 pm Page 3 particular, we have continued to be successful at The alternative investment market continues to recruiting key producers and driving down costs.
grow rapidly, reflecting the structural shift of assets Despite the market disruption caused by the into the alternative class.
Increasingly, investors in demise of Enron, I am pleased to report that our alternatives are requiring disciplined manager energy business incurred no loss from that selection and portfolio construction processes with account and sustained its overall year on year sophisticated risk management capabilities as well contribution to the division.
In our retail business, as a good track record.
The Man Group has lower activity levels and interest rates reduced top established credentials in these areas with the line revenues, partially offset by cost cutting and consequence that our products are in high acquisitions in the UK and Australia.
Overall, we demand, particularly from the private client market.
expect the futures broking industry to continue to consolidate and anticipate that we will continue The proposed acquisition of RMF announced to grow through the acquisition of both producer today provides the combined Group with teams and businesses.
a broadened range of money management expertise, greater depth of structuring skills and The management and staff of our Brokerage a leading presence in the institutional sector of the division, led by Kevin Davis, are to be commended alternative investment market excluding real for their response to the tragic events of estate and private equity.
RMF complements our 11 September 2001 in New York.
Although our existing US-based fund of funds manager operations in the city were based in the World Man-Glenwood and adds a strong EuropeanFinancial Center and all of our staff were safely based institutional business.
The enlarged Group evacuated, many lost friends and acquaintances will have around $20 billion 14 billion of funds in the disaster.
Despite the trauma, and with under management.
We expect this powerful exceptional personal commitment, our disaster presence to generate substantial opportunity to recovery plans were effectively implemented, continue to increase value both for investors in transferring order execution and post-trade our products and our shareholders alike.
processing to a local back up site, and to our facilities in Chicago, London and Singapore.
In addition to building out the business in our areas The Group has made contributions of $1 million to of core expertise, we have continued to meet or a number of foundations and charitable funds set exceed our financial targets.
Since the year-end, up in New York following the 11 September events.
Man-Glenwood and our other smaller managers have continued to record positive performance Given the Groups performance in the year and and accordingly, although Man-AHL has given our strong financial condition, the Board proposes back some of its very strong performance in 2001, a final dividend of 13.1 pence per share, which sales of our multi-manager composite products together with the interim dividend of 5.5 pence continue to be good.
Man AP Strategic Series 1 per share amounts to 18.6 pence per share for which closed in April raised $280 million, with the the year, an increase of 20%.
follow on launch of Series 2 due to close in June.
Currently, excluding the acquisition of RMF, funds I would like to offer my congratulations and thanks under management are estimated to be $11.0 to Stanley Fink, his executive team and all of our billion 7.6 billion underpinning a significantly staff whose efforts have contributed to the Groups higher run-rate of net management fee income successful year.
Our rate of growth continues to than last year.
Our Brokerage activities have also provide challenging opportunities for many in the had a good start to the year.
Group, and we remain committed to recruiting, developing and rewarding talented people across our businesses.
At Board level, Garth Ramsay stepped down as a non-executive director in July 2001 with our thanks for his contribution to the Group since Harvey McGrath 1994.
We are pleased to welcome Dugald Eadie Chairman who joined the Board as a non-executive director on 29 January 2002 and look forward to his contribution to the development of our businesses.
3 Man Group plc Annual Report 2002
