Chairmans Statement Background At the start of the year under review it was widely expected that, following aggressive monetary easing by the US Federal Reserve throughout 2001, global economic growth would recover and thereby help to underpin rather unsettled equity markets.
Our own view was that some recovery was assured but that there were structural impediments, relating mainly to high levels of indebtedness and a very large current account deficit in the United States, that would act to constrain the eventual pace of recovery.
Nonetheless we had expected that economic recovery would generate some profits growth which might act to stabilize equity markets.
However, in the event, global equity markets saw falls ranging from 18% for Japan and Asia to almost 30% for the United States, even though the eventual outcome in terms of economic growth rates was in line with, or even ahead of, general expectations.
With hindsight, we can see that part of the problem must have lain with still high valuations at the outset, particularly in the USA, but there have also been issues relating to the true level of reported profits and, of course, the prospect of a Middle East war, with a concomitant rise in the oil price, has been a depressing factor.
As if any reminder were needed, the year 2002 also served to illustrate that, in a below trend economic growth environment, corporate profits will come under pressure and this is likely to remain a relevant factor for the year ahead.
Performance The Net Asset Value showed a total return for the year to 31 December 2002 of -21.6% compared with a return on the benchmark index of -25.3%.
The main positives from an asset allocation standpoint were the significantly underweight position in the United States and the overweight positions in Emerging Markets and in Japan.
Stock selection overall was also positive with strong relative performance, in particular, from the European and Japanese portfolios as well as the Pacific ex Japan.
Another good year for bond markets also saw a positive return from the fixed interest portfolio, which largely comprises investment grade corporate bonds and is financed by borrowings in yen.
In general terms, the subdued economic background described above meant that the more defensive areas of the market-place, such as non-cyclical consumer goods, resources and utilities, fared better than the wider market and this was a helpful factor to stock selection in the overall portfolio.
Share Buybacks The Company continued to buy back its shares in the market during the year.
At the last Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2002, Shareholders renewed the authorisation of the Company to buy back up to 14.99% of its own shares in the market.
During the year ended 31 December 2002, share repurchases totalling 2,062,000 Ordinary shares 2.3% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2001 took place at an average price of 369.1p and this benefited the Net Asset Value by 0.36%.
In addition, during the year ended 31 December 2002, 79,947 B Ordinary shares 6.7% of the issued B Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2001 were bought back at an average price of 445p.
At the Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2003 Shareholders will be asked to renew the Companys power to buy back its shares for the following twelve months.
6 Murray International Trust PLC Chairmans Statement continued Dividends The Directors are proposing, as forecast, a maintained final dividend of 5.95p per share for the year ended 31 December 2002, payable on 23 May 2003 to Shareholders on the register on 25 April 2003.
With three interims each of 3.45p already paid, this makes a total for the year of 16.3p equal to that paid for the previous year.
The equity earnings of the Company do not wholly cover this payment but the revenue reserve built up from earlier undistributed earnings is substantial, being two times the current annual dividend cost.
Your Board now proposes that three interim dividends of 3.45p per share be paid for the year to 31 December 2003, payable on 15 August 2003, 17 November 2003 and 16 February 2004.
B Ordinary Shareholders will receive a capitalisation in B Ordinary shares on 23 May 2003 amounting to 4.62299 B Ordinary shares for every hundred held at the close of business on 25 April 2003, which is equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final dividend and three interim dividends for the current year.
Your Board It was with great sadness that we learned of the death, on 26 January 2003, of our former Chairman, the Rt Hon Viscount Younger of Leckie.
Due to his ill health, he had resigned from the Board on 6 November 2002.
Viscount Younger was appointed to the Board in November 1989 and became Chairman in April 1993.
He served the Company well during his time in office and his leadership and involvement in the Companys affairs were greatly valued by the Board.
Shareholders will be aware that he was held in the highest regard by his colleagues on the Board, the City and all who had dealings with him in his many and varied interests.
Following Viscount Youngers resignation, I became Chairman and you will find my biography on page 3.
Outlook At the time of writing we are witnessing a major build up of military personnel and weaponry in preparation for a war with Iraq.
The markets have been weak reflecting the uncertainty.
Short term, this uncertainty will remain an important factor but, in the absence of some catastrophe exacerbating the squeeze on the oil price and or extending the range of the conflict, this is not the key issue confronting equity markets at present.
The key determinants remain, as ever, the rate of economic growth, the level of corporate profits which result and the level of valuation that is placed upon those profits.
Current leading indicators present a very mixed picture for the global economy with some worrying signs that the all important consumer in the US, who has sustained his levels of expenditure through mortgage refinancings and various credit mechanisms, may now be drawing in his horns.
In this event, it is unlikely that consensus forecasts for economic growth will be met and a relatively cautious approach may remain appropriate.
However, with the exception of the United States, the Board and the Manager believe that markets have now reached acceptable valuations and it may not be long before a base is reached.
The Board and the Manager will be looking to take advantage of any opportunities that might arise.
J F H Trott 19 March 2003 Chairman Murray International Trust PLC 7
