Chairmans Statement The primary source of value creation for Cairn remains In 2002 the Group India witnessed another strong The majority of the Groups operational activity during financial performance as 2002 has focused on various projects in Western well as the successful India.
We have also significantly progressed our development of the technical understanding of our deep water acreage Lakshmi gas field offshore offshore Eastern India.
As a result of this development, Cairns Gujarat production has risen to The Lakshmi gas field commenced production on current levels of approximately 30,000 boepd against 1 November 2002.
Gas sales for the four month a 2002 average of 22,057 boepd.
period from commencement of production to the end of February 2003 averaged 94 mmscfd.
The primary source of value creation for Cairn remains successful exploration in its key focus area of South A Lakshmi oil appraisal programme commenced Asia.
Whilst each of Cairns four core areas in South earlier this year to determine the commerciality of the Asia has significant growth potential, the current focus oil bearing reservoirs beneath the gas field.
The initial of our operational activity is offshore Gujarat and oil discovery well drilled in April 2002 flowed at a onshore Rajasthan, where an extensive phase of combined rate of 10,500 bopd and was followed by a exploration and appraisal drilling is underway.
successful step-out well in May 2002.
The first two Continued success in this drilling campaign has the appraisal wells drilled this year CB-A-5 and CB-A-4 potential to substantially increase the Groups oil and have further delineated the field.
The Group is also proceeding toward development of Cairns strategy of focusing on high equity positions in the neighbouring Gauri gas field as a satellite to large licence areas with significant exploration Lakshmi.
It is intended that some of the gas potential has been rewarded by a series of discoveries development wells planned on the Gauri gas field will in recent years.
As a result of its exploration success, be deepened in order to appraise underlying oil zones.
the Group has now identified a large number of additional prospects around its initial discoveries.
This An onshore seismic programme to identify future has lowered the risk previously associated with drilling exploration drilling locations is currently underway and while still providing the same potential for value drilling has recently commenced on the offshore K enhancement.
Results Rajasthan Average daily production increased 10% year on year A key milestone for Cairn during 2002 was the to 22,057 boepd 2001: 20,115 boepd.
The average acquisition of Shell Indias 50% interest in price achieved per boe was $21.05 2001: $21.05 per Block RJ-ON-90 1 onshore Rajasthan.
Group turnover before exceptional items increase to a 100% equity interest, coupled with a increased 6% year on year to 114.2m three year extension of the final exploration phase of 2001: 107.4m.
Operating profit before exceptional the block, has allowed Cairn to accelerate its drilling items and operating cash flow were 48.9m and activity on an area which is almost an entire basin 72.1m respectively 2001: 51.4m and 64.9m.
where only six wells have been drilled to date.
Whilst Profit after tax before exceptional items was down 6% we are at the early stage of exploration and appraisal, year on year to 27.9m 2001: 29.8m.
we are delighted to be fast-tracking our operations in a proven hydrocarbon generative basin with significant The exceptional items in the results relate to the exploration prospectivity.
commencement of arbitration in respect of the Ravva PSC and an adjustment pursuant to FRS 11, further A multi-well exploration drilling campaign on the block details of which are contained in the Financial Review.
commenced in Q4 2002 and has already resulted in a Profit after tax and exceptional items was 26.5m shallow oil discovery subsequently named 2001: 29.8m.
Raageshwari with the RJ-E-1 exploration well.
Cairn CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 04 successful exploration announced on 17 March that it had subsequently familiarise themselves further with the Groups completed a successful step-out well RJ-E-1ST on overseas operations and management team.
addition, Cairn hosted a site visit to Blocks CB OS-2 and RJ-ON-90 1 for analysts and investors in As a result of these two Raageshwari wells we are February 2003. also very encouraged by the potential of the shallow horizons on the rest of the block, which provide the These visits have clearly demonstrated not only the opportunity for low cost development schemes.
Cairn enthusiasm and abilities of Cairns employees, but is currently preparing for a multi-well drilling also the breadth of opportunities available in a programme on these horizons.
relatively under-explored country with significant indigenous reserve potential and an extremely large In addition, appraisal drilling has recently commenced and growing energy market.
on the existing Saraswati oil discovery.
Outlook KG Basin Cairns focus in 2003 will continue to be the During 2002, Cairn completed the detailed subsurface commercialisation of its exploration success in technical review required pursuant to its successful Western India.
In addition to the progression of the 2001 exploration programme in the KG Basin.
Work is Gauri gas development project, key objectives during now underway on cost analysis, engineering and the year will be the appraisal of the oil potential on conceptual development studies with a view to Block CB-OS 2 and of the existing discoveries on seeking a value adding partner to optimise forward Block RJ-ON-90 1, together with further exploration appraisal and potential development programmes.
Bangladesh In Eastern India, Cairns primary objective during 2003 Whilst the ability to sell substantial additional volumes will be to bring in a value adding partner to optimise of gas depends principally on a decision by the forward appraisal and development plans for the Government of Bangladesh to allow the export of gas Groups deep water acreage.
to India, the demand for gas in the domestic market continues to rise.
This is reflected by increased year Financially, Cairn continues to perform well against a on year Sangu gas sales from an average daily offtake backdrop of strong product prices and current of 138 mmscfd in 2001 to 142 mmscfd in 2002, with production levels of approximately 30,000 boepd.
These factors, together with low levels of gearing combine to provide the Group with the financial Scheme of Arrangement strength and flexibility to aggressively pursue the The scheme of arrangement to introduce a new exploration and development opportunities within its holding company to the Group became effective on portfolio.
The new holding company was originally called New Cairn Energy PLC and was Although we are reporting results at a time of renamed Cairn Energy PLC when the scheme became considerable geo-political uncertainty, the fundamental effective.
The former Cairn Energy PLC was renamed strengths of our business and Cairns forward Cairn Energy Bangladesh PLC at the same time.
exploration and appraisal programme continue to present shareholders with a robust investment case.
Employees Cairns achievements have only been made possible by the expertise and hard work of all of its employees.
I would therefore like to record the Boards appreciation of each individuals contribution and continued commitment during 2002 and to date.
Norman Murray The entire Board visited India during 2002 which Chairman, allowed the opportunity for non-executive directors to 24 March 2003 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 05
