Chairmans Statement 2 Sir John Riddell, Bt.
I am pleased to report that Northern Rock has successfully achieved its strategic targets in a year In addition to strong organic growth, that was highly competitive in both the mortgage we have also successfully integrated the mortgages, loans and savings and the savings markets.
In a buoyant housing business of the banking subsidiaries of Legal & General - a move that market, supported by historically low interest rates, illustrates our willingness to make a suitable acquisition at the right we grew our assets and profits to record levels.
Our relationship with Legal & General Group was further focus on profitable growth in our core businesses enhanced by a joint marketing of mortgages, personal credit and funding, together agreement under which we manufacture Legal & General with an industry leading level of cost efficiency, have branded mortgages, savings and loan products.
enabled us to deliver both enhanced shareholder Customer focus is one of our key value and customer satisfaction.
We have once strengths and Northern Rock remains committed to transparency again demonstrated that size and diversification are and fairness in its dealings with consumers.
Our Savings Pledge, not a prerequisite for sustained success.
Mortgage Base Rate Pledge and the many products which offer either fixed rates of interest, or rates that are linked to an external index such as Bank of England Base Rate, place us at the forefront of customer care within the banking industry.
In our first five years as a plc we have firmly established Northern Rock as a resourceful, growth oriented and forward-looking company with a growing reputation in both national and international markets.
3 Chairmans Statement continued Economic and market background slower rate of growth rather than a sudden fall seems a more reasonable An economic background of low, prospect for the country as a whole.
stable interest rates, with no change in 2002 in the Bank of England Base Our cost efficiency and ability to Rate, relatively high employment, take advantage of money market low inflation and a general shortage movements led to another good of property, has underpinned price performance in the retail deposit growth in the housing market market due to the provision of an with signs in some areas of attractive mix of savings products.
We make good use of the global securitisation markets and this We believe that house price inflation funding channel will continue to will return to more long-term play an important role in our sustainable levels, probably more in future growth plans along with line with earnings growth and that wholesale funding in the there will be a gradual deceleration international money markets.
in the rise in house prices rather than a severe downward correction.
Social responsibility Mortgage affordability and realistic Work-Life Balance, a Government credit assessment continue to backed initiative to raise the provide safeguards against awareness of employees and borrowers overstretching their employers to the importance of budgets.
A gradual return to a balancing work and personal life, together with the provision of a modern, adaptable working environment, are key elements of our vision for the future.
Our profitable business growth is reflected in the physical development of our Head Office and administrative buildings at Gosforth.
When we first moved outside the city centre of Newcastle upon Tyne in 1968 there were about 250 staff.
There are now about 2,500 and when the current 90 million Head Office expansion programme is completed there are likely to be about 3,300 staff on our Gosforth site with the capacity for a further 600.
We believe that the new buildings will be better able to take advantage of technological advances to help us meet our business aspirations, while providing a flexible, modern working environment in which to meet the needs of our customers and staff.
4 Chairmans Statement continued The Northern Rock Foundation has Dividend also outgrown its original terraced Your Board is recommending a premises and has now moved its final dividend of 13.7 pence per headquarters in Gosforth to a share making a total for the year of detached building a former 20.2 pence an increase of 18.1% Methodist Chapel now suitably on 2001. adapted to dispense grants to worthy causes.
With the Foundation Conclusion receiving 5% of the plc's pre-tax Northern Rock has delivered against profits each year, Northern Rock its strategy in 2002.
Once again I am remains among the top UK grateful to my Board colleagues, the companies in terms of business management and the staff for their giving.
The 2002 covenant of 16.3 hard work and expertise.
In an million brings the total since Northern increasingly challenging Rock's conversion in 1997 to 66.5 environment, the pursuit of business million.
In addition, the Foundation efficiency, technological has received a further 20 million as a advancement, competitive result of share buybacks in 2000. advantage, customer focus and corporate integrity will continue to Northern Rock plc remains a preoccupy us all.
These are the member of the FTSE4Good Index for foundations of our business.
Our socially responsible investors that results differentiate us from our measures corporate social competitors and if, as expected, the responsibility and provides a vehicle for investment in those companies housing market slows in the year that qualify.
Northern Rock is also ahead it will remain sufficiently large included in the FTSE4 Good UK, and robust to enable us to achieve European and Global indices.
our strategic targets without compromising on quality.
We Corporate governance believe that our business model is Events of the last year have served well placed to continue delivering to illustrate the importance, not only enhanced value to both our of claiming to subscribe to the shareholders and our customers.
highest standards of corporate governance, but actually adhering resolutely to them.
Integrity in business has never been more important and we strive to ensure that we protect the interests of our shareholders and all other stakeholders in Northern Rock.
We conform to best Corporate Governance practice in identifying and actively controlling the risks to our business.
The process is described in detail on pages 13 to 16 in this Report and Accounts.
During 2002 we were very pleased to strengthen the Board of the plc with the appointment of Sir Ian Gibson as a Non-Executive Director.
