02 Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc Chairmans Statement With significant progress in a number of areas, CAT continues to CAT has also entered into new international alliances with demonstrate its strength and inherent value.
The prospect of the well-respected pharma and biotech companies.
These collaborations TM first CAT-derived human monoclonal antibody therapeutic, Humira expand the number and breadth of licencees of CATs proprietary previously known as D2E7, being commercialised in 2003 by technologies and offer the prospect of CAT deriving significant Abbott is a strong validation of our technology as a major drug long-term value from third party development and commercialisation discovery platform.
of human monoclonal antibody drugs.
Our alliance with Chugai, one of Japans leading pharma companies, is particularly significant Alongside the news of Humira, it is important also to emphasise as it is our first collaboration in one of the worlds largest the growing strength and breadth of CATs product portfolio, which pharmaceutical markets.
is underpinned by our leading antibody display technologies and development capabilities.
This year we continued to see CATs Our offer to acquire Drug Royalty Corporation Inc. DRC of product pipeline, which will ultimately drive our commercial success, Canada in February of this year, though ultimately unsuccessful, gave make good progress.
Both CAT-152 lerdelimumab, an anti-scarring us the opportunity to buy back our royalty obligations to DRC.
agent to be used as an adjunct to surgery for glaucoma, and We exercised this right in April.
CAT-213, our human anti-eotaxin antibody treatment for allergic 1 In 2002 we saw a significant change in the senior management disorders, have shown promise.
With the entry into trials this team with the appointment of Peter Chambr as our new CEO.
year of the seventh CAT-derived human monoclonal antibody, In post since April, Peter is using his expertise to continue shaping TRAIL-R1 mAb, a potential anti-cancer treatment, CAT continues to our transition from a research-based biotechnology company to a lead the world in the development of human antibody therapeutics, profitable biopharmaceutical business.
CAT owes a huge debt of there being more CAT-derived human antibodies in clinical trials gratitude to David Chiswell, our outgoing CEO.
David co-founded than from any other company.
CAT in 1990 and served as its CEO since 1996.
His unique blend In a competitive environment for antibody product discovery it of skills, originality and enthusiasm laid the foundations for CATs is encouraging that a growing number of CATs partners elected development and helped establish CAT as the successful company to develop antibody therapeutic drug candidates exclusively with it is today.
We wish him well in his future endeavours.
CAT issued five exclusive product licences during the year, each of which was the fruit of an existing partnership.
Below 03 Peter Garland, Chairman Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc I would also like to thank Jim Foght, who has recently announced This years achievements demonstrate that CAT is fundamentally his intention to retire from CATs Board of Directors after the AGM a strong company underpinned by a talented organisation and in February 2003.
Jim has been a Non-Executive Director since exceptional science.
However, the progress made during the 1996, prior to CATs flotation, and we have benefited greatly from year has not been reflected in the share price, which has fallen his experience of the biotechnology and investment industries.
We recognise that CAT has been We are grateful to him for his valuable contribution.
as affected as other companies in the sector by the current lack of investor appetite for biotechnology stocks.
This notwithstanding, I am pleased to announce the appointment of ke Stavling we remain committed to developing therapeutic antibodies as the as a new Non-Executive Director.
ke has extensive senior best way of creating value for shareholders from our capabilities management experience, covering finance and the pharmaceutical and technologies.
industry, and most recently held the post of Executive Director at AstraZeneca PLC, with responsibility for business development, Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to CATs incorporating corporate strategy and mergers and acquisitions.
success in 2002, our staff, the Board, the Scientific Advisory Board Previously, he was Chief Financial Officer at Astra AB.
ke takes and other expert advisors, our partners and our shareholders.
up his position on 2 December 2002 and will succeed Jim Foght We look forward to another year of progress in 2003. as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Peter Garland Chairman On a sad note, we have seen this year the death of Csar Milstein, 15 November 2002 one of the Nobel Prize winning inventors of monoclonal antibodies, whose ground-breaking work is the foundation of CATs technology.
Csar served on the Scientific Advisory Board of CAT from 1990 and his insights were pivotal in helping to steer the direction of CATs technological development.
His contribution will be greatly missed by CAT and throughout the entire scientific community.
He was an inspiration to CATs scientists and we are delighted that he had agreed to our naming our new facility at Granta Park in his honour.
