1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 2 chairmans statement The year ended 30 September 2002 has seen another period Distribution and capital investment of strong growth for Paragon.
Profit before tax has increased by Since the Group recommenced lending activities in 1995, and 11.9% to 46.0 million, from 41.1 million restated from 40.5 dividend payments restarted, considerable balance sheet and million for the preceding year.
Earnings per share has increased profit growth has been achieved.
Each periods growth target by 10.7% to 32.1p from 29.0p restated from 28.5p.
has required significant capital investment and the maintenance In view of the sustained improvement in profitability, your of that growth year on year has meant that the majority of Board has declared an increased final dividend of 3.0p per share distributable reserves have been reinvested in the business.
which, when added to the interim dividend of 2.1p paid on 31 As a consequence, dividend cover has been high.
July, gives a total dividend of 5.1p per share for the year, an Whilst plans for growth across the Group remain deliberately increase of 21.4% on last years dividend of 4.2p.
This increase stretching, the level of retentions from profits generated by our is significant and reflects the level of retentions from profits businesses is now such that it is appropriate to begin increasing generated by our businesses.
Our intention is to move the dividend relative to profit with a view to reducing dividend progressively towards a dividend cover ratio more in line with cover, to bring it more in line with our sector over time.
our sector whilst remaining conscious of supporting the growth Hence, the Board has declared a dividend this year 21.4% aspirations of the Group.
higher than last, significantly ahead of the growth in profits Business review and strategy and earnings per share.
During the year we have maintained the more defensive During the course of the year we have also considered a approach to lending that I outlined in my report last year.
number of opportunities to invest shareholder funds in Consequently we have seen strong growth in our buy-to-let, acquisitions, as we remain of the view that profitable additions secured personal loan and car finance businesses.
to the Groups activities could be achieved in this way.
Thus far, we have found that price expectations of vendors have Paragon Mortgages increased advances by 47.7% to 563.6 been unrealistic, but this may change as the economic cycle million.
We continue to focus on the professional buy-to-let develops and companies consider divesting non-core activities sector, where we believe the market fundamentals remain to release capital for their own development.
We continue to favourable, a view supported by our own research data and review opportunities with a measured, value based approach.
evidenced by strong volumes since the year end.
Composition of the Board The increased lending activity in the Consumer Finance division during the year was primarily attributable to growth in secured At the half year we reported the resignation of Bill Hulton from personal loan advances up 36.6% to 151.9 million, and in car the Board owing to ill health.
Sadly, Bill passed away in June.
finance advances up 17.3% to 162.4 million.
By contrast, we Bill brought a keen intelligence and strong commercial acumen have reduced volumes in our unsecured lending area in order to during his nine years at the Board.
As a colleague and friend, rebalance the portfolio towards lower risk products.
Our thoughts are with his family.
2 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 3 Bills passing has necessitated some reorganisation of the Board.
David Hoare has assumed the role of senior non-executive and head of the remuneration committee.
In October, we were pleased to welcome Gavin Lickley to the Board.
Gavin brings to the Board considerable experience in the financial sector, further enhancing the breadth and depth of experience within the team.
Conclusion The Group has achieved much in the year, with strong lending growth now coming from a business mix commensurate with the uncertainties we still face in the UK economy.
We see no reason at present to change this and would expect to maintain our emphasis on the more defensive, secured sectors of the business over the coming year.
In each of our chosen areas we see good prospects for further growth.
Contrary to its recent poor press, we are firmly of the view that the prospects for the buy-to-let market remain good, particularly in the professional landlord sector.
In addition to organic growth, the review of potential acquisition targets remains a focus for the Group.
Our approach to any acquisition is to apply a rigorous due diligence process and any such prospect would need to be a good fit within our business model and represent value for shareholders.
Further, our expectations for future dividend growth should ensure that shareholders may look forward to greater income as the business develops.
Staff I remain indebted to the staff and my fellow directors at Paragon for their continuing hard work and professionalism.
JONATHAN P L PERRY Executive Chairman 3 16 December 2002 the paragon group of companies plc 1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 4 Paragon Mortgages increased lending by 47.7%
