Chairmans Statement This is my first statement to shareholders as Chairman of Prudential.
Since joining the Company at the beginning of December, I have been impressed with the quality of businesses we have around the world.
People often think of us as simply a UK life insurer with some overseas operations.
The reality is that we are a major international financial services group with a strong franchise, excellent people and a strategy focused on delivering value for our shareholders and policyholders over the long-term.
Seventy per cent of our new business achieved profit is now derived from overseas and our financial position is among the strongest in our peer group.
These factors enabled us to report total Group insurance and investment sales of 27.6 billion, an increase of 29 per cent, and an achieved basis operating profit of 1,133 million, up two per cent.
These results were particularly pleasing as they were achieved against the background of some of the most challenging market conditions we have seen for many years.
Clearly, we were not immune to these difficult economic and market conditions but our performance shows that we have built a good platform on which to continue delivering growth in the future.
Jonathan Bloomer, Group Chief Executive, talks in more detail about our focus on delivering value in his review on the following pages of this Report.
A commentary about our businesses in Asia, the United States and the United Kingdom can be found in the Business Review on pages 6 to 13.
The difficult market conditions affected our modified statutory profits which fell to 432 million.
The main causes of this were the lower bonuses paid by the UK Life Assurance business and the credit losses arising in our US Assurance business.
Turning to the issue of dividends, the Board announced a total dividend for 2002 of 26 pence, a small increase on the previous year.
But, looking to the future, the Board has felt that it needed, given the uncertainty in capital markets, to retain flexibility and could not recommit to the policy of progressive dividend increases from the current level.
We recognise that this has created uncertainty for shareholders and we will seek to address this when we reach the interim results in July.
Coming into the industry, one of the things on which I have spent time is the way life insurers in the United Kingdom report their financial results.
In particular, people often ask why we present these in two different ways: modified statutory basis and achieved profits basis.
Philip Broadley, Group Finance Director, talks about this in detail in his Financial Review later in this Report but I wanted to touch briefly on the issue here as it has a direct relationship with our focus on delivering value over the long term.
2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2002 We are required to account for our insurance business on the We have given thought in the Board to the Higgs Review of modified statutory basis MSB of reporting under UK accounting the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors, both as rules.
In essence, this determines our statutory profit and reserves a major company in our own right and as investor in a very large and is an indicator of the cashflow generated by continuing number of UK listed companies.
We are broadly supportive operations.
What MSB does not do, however, is provide a of the Review, although any attempt to define Best Practice measure of the value that is generated each year for shareholders quickly brings to mind a number of successful companies that by companies such as Prudential that write long-term insurance do not follow all of the principles outlined.
There is no perfect business, the profits from which arise over many years.
governance model which suits every company at each stage of its development.
For that reason we particularly welcome Therefore, along with our major UK-registered competitors, the approach of comply or explain: and our principal source we also report our results on the achieved profits AP basis.
of concern is that some may quickly seek to turn comply or This is designed to place a current value on the future projected explain into simply comply.
cashflows that will emerge over time from business written to date and to reflect the business performance during the We believe that further time and a fuller debate is required accounting period under review.
As such, it provides an indicator before some of the suggested changes to the Combined Code of the value being added by todays management in a given are made.
It is important that there is no confusion as to where accounting period.
leadership and responsibility lie and some of the proposed changes, for example to the role of the senior independent In good markets most attention concentrates on achieved director, need further thought.
profits performance: and in difficult markets more attention focuses on modified statutory profit.
Long-term shareholders Looking ahead, the industry faces many challenges in the current should look at both measures.
I appreciate that it is frustrating environment.
However, I believe that there are significant for shareholders not to have one easy earnings performance opportunities for a company which, in addition to its brand measure: but life assurance is a long-term business and not and financial strength, has a significant presence internationally.
easily captured by conventional accounting standards.
I was delighted to be asked to take on the role of Chairman.
I am cautious about the immediate outlook for the markets, Looking to the long-term development of our business, one but optimistic about the long-term outlook for Prudential.
of our greatest assets is of course our staff.
As I have visited some of our businesses around the world since joining the Group, I have been impressed with their professionalism and commitment and I would like to thank all of them for their considerable efforts.
During the year, there have been some changes to the Board.
David Clementi Sir Roger Hurn announced his intention to step down from Chairman the Board in April but agreed to stay on as Chairman until a successor had been identified and was in place.
Sir Roger made a significant contribution to the development of the Company and I know that my colleagues on the Board are very grateful for the support, advice and guidance he gave over the three years he was with the Group.
In May, Bart Becht joined as a non-executive director.
Bart, who is Chief Executive of Reckitt Benckiser plc, has a wealth of international experience and he has already made a valuable contribution to our discussions at the Board.
