28 Capita Chairman Chairmans statement s statement Capitas progress is founded not only on securing new customers, but also by consistently developing our numerous existing relationships.
We have paid particular attention to this activity during 2002 with an increased investment in both people and sales process.
These investments are already generating a payback.
29 00 Capita Capita Chairman Running Heading s statement Financial highlights Margins increased to 12% 2001: 11.2% 117m of cash generated in year, representing 109% of operating profit Pre-tax return on capital employed 18.6% 2001: 16.6% 1.1bn of new contract wins 2001: 744m 116m of new contracts won in first six weeks of 2003 Current live bid pipeline of 2.2bn Substantial underpinning of 2003 forecast revenues of 1,075m Implemented the largest congestion management scheme in the world to specification and on time Results Dividend In the year ending 31st December 2002, the Group strengthened The Board is recommending a final dividend of 2p per ordinary further its position as the UKs leading provider of business share, making a total of 3p 2001: 2.25p for the year.
This progress is reflected in our financial This represents a 33% increase on dividends paid in respect of performance where, for the fourteenth successive year as a public the 2001 financial year.
The total dividend for the year is covered company, Capita is reporting record results.
3.5 times by the earnings per ordinary share before amortisation of goodwill and before the exceptional gain.
The final dividend will Turnover increased by 30% to 898m 2001: 691m, operating be payable on 7th May 2003 to shareholders on the register at profits before goodwill amortisation and before an exceptional gain the close of business on 11th April 2003. of 5.3m, rose by 39% to 107.3m 2001: 77.1m, and net profits before taxation on a similar basis increased by 36% to Following the EGM on 12th November 2002, the Group now has 98.2m 2001: 72.1m.
Earnings per share before amortisation authority to repurchase up to 10% of its issued share capital and of goodwill and before the exceptional gain grew by 36% to 10.5p we plan to renew this authority annually.
2001: 7.7p, restated for Financial Reporting Standard 19 Creating organic growth Deferred Taxation.
Capita has built a formidable position in the UK business process Four other financial measures merit comment.
First, our operating outsourcing market through both organic and acquired growth.
margins have increased during the period from 11.2% to 12%.
We have a unique range of integrated services covering IT, human This reflects an increasing trend in the market for customers to resources, property, finance and customer contact centre capability choose service partners based on the criteria of quality and value, which mirror the back office and customer support services as opposed to price.
It is also evidence of Capitas ability to common to most organisations.
These comprehensive services be selective regarding which opportunities to pursue and the have enabled us to build a substantial presence in markets economies of scale we can bring to our customers.
covering both the public and private sectors.
Supported by scale Secondly, the underlying financial strength of Capitas business and infrastructure, this allows us to deliver innovative solutions is reflected by our excellent cash flow, with 117m generated very cost effectively and provides a platform for organic growth.
by operations in the year, excluding the exceptional gain, Progress on organic growth has been excellent.
In 2002, we representing an operating profits to cash conversion rate of secured 1.1bn of major contract wins 2001: 744m, 109%.
We anticipate that operating cash flow will strengthen substantially outperforming our internal budget.
2003 has also further in the current year.
started well with some encouraging wins, further strengthening Thirdly, capital expenditure in the year was 57m.
unusually high due to the implementation of two projects, the In February 2003, we signed a contract with the joint provisional Criminal Records Bureau CRB and Transport for Londons TfL liquidators of Independent Insurance Plc to acquire Aurora Congestion Charging Scheme.
Based upon the projects for which Corporate Services Limited, a business focused on run-off activity we are currently bidding, capital expenditure in 2003 will be in the London market.
As part of the transaction, Aurora has been significantly lower, returning to normal historic levels.
granted the exclusive right to administer the run-off of all claims Fourthly, our pre-tax return on average capital employed relating to Independent Insurance Plc.
Aurora is expected to including debt has increased again to 18.6% 2001: 16.6%.
generate at least 80m in revenue over the next five years.
This is expected to improve further in the current year.
30 Capita Chairmans statement Year in brief: February Capita signs the contract for the administration of the BBCs TV Licensing service.
Creating organic growth continued Our track record of delivery is Within the local government market, we have secured a five to eight year contract with the London Borough of Brent to deliver exceptional.
We consistently revenue collection services and a ten year contract with deliver ahead of both expectation East Renfrewshire Council to deliver a range of IT services.
These contracts have an aggregate value of 36m.
and, where relevant, previous These successes mean that the total value of major contracts won in the first six weeks of 2003 is 116m.
We also have no service levels.
material contract renewals until April 2004.
As a consequence of this and our sales performance in 2002, the Group has already secured increased revenues of some 160m for 2003.
Accordingly, a substantial proportion of our forecast revenue growth for the current year is already secured.
This underpins our estimate of turnover for 2003 of 1,075m.
Looking forward, we are encouraged by the strength of our sales pipeline.
While we continue to be highly selective about the opportunities we pursue, the Group is currently working on 16 core live bids with a total value of 2.2bn.
All our markets are active, but the Insurance and Life & Pensions markets are particularly buoyant representing the majority by value of the bids we are pursuing.
Capitas progress is founded not only on securing new customers, but also by consistently developing our numerous existing relationships.
A key part of this strategy has been the establishment of our business centre network.
Built up through the contracts that the Group has won over a number of years, this network gives the Group significant delivery flexibility and scale.
We now have 28 centres around the country, many of which are multi-skilled.
These centres deliver services ranging from insurance claim processing to pensions and payroll administration, share registration to housing benefits and council tax administration.
The centres also give the Group the ability to implement greenfield initiatives such as the Winter Fuel Payments Scheme and the Connexions Card Service without the need to build new infrastructure.
We plan to establish a further six centres over the next two years.
31 Capita Chairmans statement March April Capita expands its social care resourcing Launch of Capita Financial, following capability with the acquisition of Capitas acquisition of City Financial Resource Management Ltd, a market Group Limited for an initial payment leader in the provision of qualified of 3.6m.
The business is the largest and specialist social workers, for a independent collective fund administrator consideration of 7.1m to be satisfied in the UK providing third party in cash.
administration services to a range of unit trust management groups.
Capita signs Londons Congestion Charging Scheme contract.
Our partnership with Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council Education Authorities, over 2,000 schools and a growing number is a good illustration of what this model can achieve.
Some of not for profit organisations.
Since the acquisition, Wynchgate, 600 staff transferred from the local authority with the original now trading as Capita Absence Management Services Ltd, has contract in 2001.
Today, 1,200 staff deliver a range of services grown its revenues substantially.
to the authority and also work on BBC TV Licensing and the CRB.
In January 2003, we announced our intention to acquire The Group has extended the initial services delivered to include the administration services division comprising Northern further IT, property, personnel and recruitment and cash collection Registrars Limited, Northern Administration Limited and the services.
Similar progress has been achieved in our partnerships Connaught St. Michaels Group from BWD Securities for 18.5m.
with Cumbria County Council and Norfolk County Council.
Across The companies provide share registration, unit trust administration these three centres, additional revenues of 105m have been and ancillary services to over 500 customers.
The companies generated over the life of the contracts, equating to annualised will be integrated into Capita Registrars and Capita Financial.
Over the last year, we have successfully re-engineered these two Acquisitions businesses, mainly through the introduction of new technology and by developing add on services.
For example, our share During the period, we continued our policy of making small plan administration business has grown by 250% in 2002. acquisitions to develop our position in specific markets.
Both businesses have a high percentage of recurring revenues Six acquisitions were completed for an aggregate net purchase and are well primed for an upturn in the market.
All have been integrated into the appropriate business division and are trading in line with Going forward, our activity and expenditure on acquisitions will expectations.
The two largest transactions were the purchase of reduce as we focus our increasing resources on the numerous three human resources businesses from  opportunities available to generate strong organic growth.
PwC for a consideration of 14m and the acquisition of We would like to welcome all the employees of our newly Wynchgate Holdings, an absence management services business, acquired businesses into Capita, along with those that have for an initial consideration of 18.6m.
joined us through contract wins and direct recruitment.
More The businesses acquired from PwC strengthen Capitas HR offering than 4,000 people have joined the Group during the year.
particularly in the fields of payroll administration, employee benefit Operational performance administration, interim management and executive search and selection.
Trading as Veredus, the search and selection team has Our track record of delivery is exceptional.
We consistently deliver retained and developed its client base since joining the Group, ahead of both expectation and, where relevant, previous service including involvement with a number of prestigious public sector levels.
In the recent Comprehensive Performance Assessments appointments.
The acquisition of these businesses has enabled designed to evaluate overall local authority performance, including the Group to expand its relationships with several existing clients education services, the majority of authorities with long term and to open new relationships with others.
relationships with Capita were amongst the highest performers.
In the case of two of our strategic partners, their innovative The acquisition of three businesses from the Wynchgate Group partnerships with Capita were cited as major contributing factors strengthened further our position in HR related services and to their success, particularly in service improvements, further enhanced our service offering to the education sector.
development of operational capacity and securing wider These businesses specialise in providing absence and related cost community goals.
The principal business is the UKs leading provider of staff absence services to the education sector, typically through three year contracts.
The client base includes 42 Local 32 Capita Chairmans statement May June Capita acquires three HR businesses Capita further expands its HR Service from  for 14m.
offering by acquiring three businesses from the Wynchgate Group.
Operational performance continued Each day, Capita delivers a myriad of services to some 20,000 customers and through over 300 long term relationships.
We now interact with over 33 million people in the UK and 23 million households, placing a high level of responsibility on us to perform consistently.
Our retention rate of those customers is in the high 90s, a testament to the relationships we have and the services we deliver.
Many services are highly complex, are at the edge of change and inevitably cause debate.
A number of our recent large contracts fit into this category and have raised the overall profile of the Group.
At the CRB, the service for Standard and Enhanced Disclosures went live on Monday 11th March 2002.
The agency operates through a Public Private Partnership involving 550 of Capitas staff working alongside 400 civil servants to deliver jointly the various stages of a complex process, which also requires interaction with 43 police forces and 8,395 Registered Bodies.
The initial period of this new service was challenging, but through working in partnership with our colleagues, the output of the CRB has increased significantly and the service is now consistently good and sustainable.
The CRB has so far issued over 1.1 million Disclosures and is now averaging over 40,000 a week compared to 24,000 in August 2002.
This is more than double the number of checks issued by the police forces under pre-CRB arrangements.
On average, it now takes less than five weeks to process most applications except where there are errors or omissions in the form, with 80% of Standard Disclosures issued in three weeks and a Disclosure accuracy rate of over 99%.
Our contract to administer the TV Licensing service on behalf of the BBC went live on 1st July 2002.
Capitas task is to issue and collect payment for 23.5m TV licences per annum, focusing on increasing take up and reducing evasion.
Research shows that nearly 90% of people who contact TV Licensing with a query believe that their questions are being handled in a good or very good manner.
Over the first six months of the contract significant progress has already been made.
Our Enquiry Officers average efficiency has improved, with more effective visits resulting in an increase in licences issued.
Even with a 10% increase in calls to the contact centre, our agents have met or exceeded all their targets for grade of service.
Additionally, response rates in the 33 Capita Chairmans statement July Capita forms a unique partnership with four local authorities in Wales to launch a new joint venture Capita Gwent Consultancy.
Capita owns 51% of the practice, which delivers professional infrastructure and support services locally and across the UK.
Capita enters the UK Life & Pensions market with a ten-year 160m contract to administer nearly 1 million life policies for Lincoln.
back office have improved to less than a five day turnaround.
Our retention rate of customers Our Bristol operation, including our main contact centre, has recently been relocated to modern offices, which will aid further is in the high 90s, a testament the transformation of the service.
The BBC is very satisfied with the service standards which have been achieved since the to the relationships we have go live date.
We have developed a strong partnership together.
and the services we deliver.
On 1st August 2002, we commenced Capitas first significant Life & Pensions service on behalf of Lincoln Life, in Gloucester.
Again, we have been delighted by the manner in which this contract has been implemented.
We are already achieving all of the 30 key performance indicators agreed with our client.
We have also benefited from 500 talented individuals from the Life & Pensions industry joining Capita.
Their skills contribute greatly to developing our business in a market worth a potential 6bn.
On 17th February 2003, our project to implement TfLs Congestion Charging Scheme went fully live.
A transport management scheme of this scale and type has never previously been implemented anywhere in the world.
It has required 200 man years of implementation resource and we are indebted to both our staff and suppliers for the exceptional commitment demonstrated during this period.
We are proud to have been chosen to administer this innovative scheme.
Capita is the operational engine of the TfL scheme and we administer the scheme in accordance with the parameters laid out by TfL.
More than 35 major cities in the UK have expressed interest in the congestion charging scheme and will be watching the London solution as a way of reducing congestion and improving the quality of life in our City centres.
The fact that Capita has built a scalable, modular solution will give us a very significant first mover advantage.
We consider transport as a potential market for further significant growth for Capita.
We expect our revenues from the transport sector spanning road, rail and air to double in 2003.
34 Capita Chairmans statement September Capita acquires Mission Testing plc, provider of specialist ICT testing solutions and services for the business process software market, adding further value to Capitas major contract bid solutions and enhancing our wider IT service offering.
Our markets Estimating the addressable market for Capitas services in the UK is not easy.
The market is evolving constantly, with our customers considering new services which could potentially be outsourced on an ongoing basis.
We currently estimate our potential market in the UK to be worth 65bn per annum.
We estimate that only a small share of these services have been outsourced to date, but we believe the market will develop in a structured and orderly way over the next decade.
The 2003 Hi Europe formerly Total Romtec UK IT & Business Process Outsourcing Report places Capita overall leader in BPO in the UK, increasing our market share to 24% in 2002 from 19% in 2001.
We are market leader in local government again with an increased market share and are ranked second in Central Government.
The success of our strategy to increase our presence in the private sector is demonstrated by a market leading position in insurance and a new ranking in the finance sector excluding insurance, at fifth position.
The business drivers to outsource services in both the public and private sectors remain strong.
In the public sector, the key driver is service modernisation including the e-government agenda, as authorities strive to meet the changing needs of the citizen.
Technology will be at the heart of this change which will see a radical shift in the way services are provided, where they are delivered from and the manner in which they are transacted.
Over the next decade, many of the current structures of organisations will change radically.
Back office support services will increasingly be delivered through regional business centres.
The Government is increasing funding to encourage and support joint service centres across public sector agencies.
For companies in the private sector, particularly in financial services, change will be key to competitiveness.
A company such as Capita is increasingly seen as an essential partner to act as the catalyst and facilitator of change.
Our experience, infrastructure and knowledge are key to addressing this in a speedy way, allowing senior management of these organisations to focus on core activities.
35 Capita Chairmans statement October December Capita Hartshead appointed as one of Capita widens its portfolio of insurance the Authorised Pension Administration administration services through Centres of the Principle Civil Service acquisition of Cost Auditing Ltd, Pension Scheme.
Also appointed by the enhancing our portfolio of specialist Cabinet Office to provide Civil Service services to the Insurance Services sector.
and Judicial pensioner payroll and Cost Auditing Ltd is one of the UKs deferred pensioner services for leading providers of legal-cost auditing 810,000 members.
services for the Insurance Services sector.
Camden Council selects Academy Information Systems integrated Revenues solution to increase operational efficiency and improve service delivery to residents, in a contract worth in excess of 2m over a five-year period.
Our People For companies in the private The Board would like to offer its sincere thanks to the 17,000 sector, particularly in financial staff who contribute to the Groups progress.
We are proud of the unique culture and the strong team spirit which prevail throughout services, change will be key to the Group, and which have been key factors in the success we have enjoyed over a long period.
This style is reflected in our competitiveness.
A company relationships with clients, who often comment upon Capitas open and fair style of doing business.
such as Capita is increasingly During the year, we introduced a Capita share ownership plan to operate alongside our existing Capita sharesave scheme.
seen as an essential partner to Both schemes are open to all employees to participate.
We are act as the catalyst and facilitator delighted that our employees interests are aligned closely with those of our shareholders and that over 50% of our staff have of change.
chosen to participate in one or both of the schemes.
Prospects Capita has a simple business model which is consistent, proven, scalable and sustainable over the long term.
Our strategy remains to identify opportunities where we can enhance materially our clients operations whilst creating value for our shareholders.
Our markets in the UK continue to expand, thereby underpinning our opportunities for growth.
The Group has started 2003 strongly.
We continue to generate good profits and excellent cash flow.
We are confident that shareholders will be pleased by Capitas performance for the year as a whole.
