4 Chairmans Statement 33.1% to 38.7%, financed by a reduction in our holdings INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE of government securities liquidity from 20.2% to 15.6%.
During the year under review, world stock markets This resulted from a cautious increase in our market experienced exceptionally difficult conditions, with exposure towards the end of the year.
However, in recessionary trends accentuated by the cataclysmic events response to the uncertain outlook we believe it is prudent of September 11th.
In view of this, it is some comfort to retain an element of liquidity within the portfolio.
to be able to report that we preserved shareholders At the year end, 45.8% of the portfolio was invested capital during this turbulent period.
Protection against in the USA, 22.1% in the UK, 14.7% in Germany, 3.8% adverse market conditions was provided by our liquidity, in Canada and 3.1% in Japan, with the balance of 10.5% the diversity within the portfolio and the increased in other countries.
investment in asset classes which are less directly correlated to markets.
During the year to 31 March 2002, your Companys THE QUOTED PORTFOLIO net asset value per share increased by 0.5%, from 484.3p At the year end, 298 million, or 38.7% of the portfolio, to 486.5p before deducting the proposed dividend.
was held directly in quoted investments.
A further In contrast, over the same period, the Morgan Stanley 131.8 million, or 17.1% of the portfolio, was held Capital International Index in Sterling, the FTSE All-Share in hedge and other funds which mainly invest in Index and the Investment Trust Net Assets Index declined quoted securities.
Taking these two categories together by 6.2%, 7.0% and 9.5% respectively.
but excluding our holdings of government securities, As nearly half of the portfolio is held in investments some 56% of the portfolio was invested, either directly whose value is not directly correlated to stock markets, or indirectly, in quoted or other marketable securities.
a strict comparison with indices over the short term is Your Company has been an investor in selected hedge misleading.
Moreover, even within the quoted element of funds since its inception in 1988, in the pursuit of absolute the portfolio we have never followed a rigid geographical and relatively consistent returns.
We continue to believe asset allocation policy, based on the weighting of a that they offer our shareholders access to specialist money particular benchmark index.
Nevertheless, we aim, over managers whose funds are, in many cases, closed to time, to deliver for our shareholders increases in capital new investors.
value in excess of the relevant indices.
Since its inception in 1988, RITCP has significantly outperformed these indices, THE UNQUOTED PORTFOLIO as can be seen from the graph on page 1.
I am pleased that Your Companys exposure to unquoted investments results we have continued to do so during the period under review.
either from investments made directly by RITCPs own The most recent net asset value per share at 14 May, management, or through investments in externally managed after deducting the proposed dividend, was 486.6p.
In total, some 193.7 million, or 25.2% of the portfolio, was invested in this sector at the year end: ASSET ALLOCATION 139.9 million, or 18.2%, through our own management Set out below is our asset allocation at the year end.
and 53.8 million, or 7.0%, through our investments % of % of in limited partnerships managed by third parties.
Portfolio at Portfolio at The valuations of our unquoted investments are 31 March 31 March 2002 2001 monitored throughout the year, with a formal review, overseen by a committee of non-executive directors, at Quoted investments 38.7 33.1 the half year and year-end.
The overall valuation of our Hedge other funds 17.1 17.4 direct holdings in unquoted investments remained broadly Unquoted investments 18.2 18.8 the same over the past year.
Although we have written Private equity partnerships 7.0 6.9 down the valuations of a small number of holdings, Government securities liquidity 15.6 20.2 we have increased others to reflect marked improvements Property 3.4 3.6 in their prospects or operating performance.
Similarly, we have reviewed our investments in The main change in the asset allocation over the past year externally managed partnerships, making provisions where has been the increase in our quoted investments from appropriate.
In fact, we had already written down some RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement 5 of these holdings, in anticipation of lower valuations, Given our views, we will maintain a cautious investment during the previous financial year.
Our investments in policy, retaining an element of liquidity and a high degree externally managed partnerships are largely restricted to of diversification.
leading US private equity firms.
We have been a participant in this sector for a number of years and intend to limit any new commitments to a select group of the leading firms.
Our property investments, valued at 26.3 million, Rothschild or 3.4% of the portfolio, are concentrated in St Jamess 20 May 2002 Place, in central London, and the valuations remain largely unchanged.
SHARE BUY-BACK RITCP did not buy back any shares for cancellation during the year under review.
This was largely due to the fact that the share price remained at a relatively low discount to the underlying value for most of the relevant period.
In future, we will be prepared to use this facility in the light of market conditions and the level of the discount.
We shall therefore be seeking shareholders approval at this years AGM for the renewal of our buy-back facility.
RESULTS AND DIVIDEND The total increase in net assets for the year under review was 4.9 million, of which 3.6 million was attributable to revenue and 1.3 million to capital.
In the previous year, the total reduction in net assets was 40.1 million, of which 62.8 million related to capital, partly offset by a 22.7 million revenue profit.
These figures exclude taxation, the proposed dividend and the cost of the share buy-back.
We are proposing to pay a dividend of 3.1p per share on 5 July 2002 to shareholders on the register at 7 June 2002, the same dividend as last year.
However, shareholders should be aware that this level of dividend might not be sustainable in future years.
As always, the focus of your Company is on achieving capital growth rather than providing dividend income.
OUTLOOK Despite the recent rally, we remain sceptical about the level of world stock markets.
Valuations continue to outstrip corporate profits and underlying economic growth.
There remains the possibility that, as the major economies emerge from recession, growth will be slower than anticipated for some time.
In view of the level of political risk inherent in the current international situation, even this modest recovery may prove fragile.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
