CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2002 was a difficult year for companies in the financial services industry and SJPC was no exception.
However, we believe that our business model essentially, having our own experienced advisers providing a wide range of services to relatively affluent clients is as sound as ever and will benefit significantly from the regulatory changes known as depolarisation, which are due to come into force at the end of this year.
Financials and guaranteed annuity options our policy of retaining only those Shareholders will recall the statement that have led to these concerns: and Partners who are likely to be we made at the half-year on our profitable in the medium term and change in financial reporting.
Full It has always been the Groups policy for the difficult market conditions led to details of this and of the financial the life companies solvency reserves and an increase in the number of leavers.
results are given in the Financial free assets to be invested exclusively in However, including those retiring, Commentary, which follows this deposits and fixed interest securities.
the Partners who left in 2002 statement and the notes to the accounted for only 4% of the Groups St. Jamess Place Partnership accounts.
The Directors remain of new business in 2001. and New Business the view that the most meaningful Against the background of the sharp measure of the Companys progress is The favourable impact of fidefalls in the stock market, new given by the information on Achieved polarisation on the Partnership business for the year was down 22% Profits, including unit trusts, shown is discussed later in this statement.
compared to 2001, after allowing on pages 87 to 93. for a one-off boost in last years new Investment Management business following a change in the tax In a previous Chairmans Statement, The financial results reflect treatment of pensions contributions.
I described the unique features of the difficult trading conditions the St. Jamess Place approach to experienced in 2002 both the fall in Sales of the Groups Wealth investment management.
In view of new business referred to later and Management services continued to the pivotal place it will have in the the state of the stock markets.
These progress well with sales growing Groups ability to take full advantage conditions together with the oneevery quarter of the year.
Total wealth of the opportunities created by the off losses from our investments in management fees for the year were forthcoming regulatory changes, it is LAHC and Nascent have led to a 11.7 million 5.0 million in 2001. worth re-stating its features here.
small loss for the year on an achieved profits basis.
The size of the St. Jamess Place While the Myners Review drew Partnership decreased by 2% from attention a year or so ago to the In the context of current concerns 1,121 to 1,101 during the year, tendency of investment institutions about the financial health of some UK reflecting two factors: 1 we to shadow the share indices or the life assurance companies, we would recruited fewer advisers than in funds of other investment institutions like to emphasise that: 2001, as we stuck to our policy of the so-called herd instinct rather taking on only high-quality advisers at than to undertake genuinely active SJPCs two wholly owned life a time when many potential joiners, management, the Group decided to assurance companies specialise in unit particularly IFAs, delayed making adopt a radically different approach.
linked business and have, as a matter decisions pending the review of From the start, we did not of policy, avoided onerous financial polarisation and 2 we continued employ any investment managers guarantees such as with profits business PAGE 4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued of our own and contracted out While providing a wide range of make a change when, on the advice the investment management of all specialised funds to meet differing of Stamford Associates, it loses our funds to external investment objectives, we recommend that confidence in one manager and feels management firms.
This process has investors spread their money between that another is likely to do a better job been further refined over the past four our five Managed Funds for life, for our investors.
We have recently years through retaining independent pension or offshore business.
brought in Liontrust as the lead investment consultants, Stamford The managers of these funds have manager for one of our core Associates.
been selected not merely on our sets of Managed Funds and have assessment of their ability and skill appointed Wellington Management to The Investment Committee, with the but also to ensure a diversity of take over responsibility for our Fixed help of Stamford Associates, selects investment styles so that an Interest Funds.
Bank of Ireland Asset what we regard as the best available investment spread between the five Management have been brought in managers for our funds and thereafter Managed Funds gives investors very to handle our European Funds.
continually monitors the management wide diversification of risk.
Where we feel it is policy of encouraging investors to As a result of the strong emphasis we necessary, we change any of the spread their money amongst five place on the quality of our investment managers and select other managers Managed Funds also enables us process, we have avoided the flavourto take over the running of these to select managers who adopt a of-the-year products that have caused funds: since the investor remains genuinely active investment approach problems for other groups over the invested in the same fund, the change so as to offer scope for significant past few years, such as technology of manager is seamless from the added value.
funds, split-capital trusts, derivativeinvestors point of view, with no based High Income funds and, more charges or tax consequences.
Although managers are selected in recently, High Yield Corporate the hope that they will remain in place Bond funds which depend on nonOur approach offers another for a long time, our Investment investment grade holdings.
Committee does not hesitate to PAGE 5 We believe that, in the current Funds would have come 5th out of awards received included the THSP climate, there will inevitably be 113 funds in the sector Source: Managed Pension Fund, which came greater interest in income-based Standard & Poors Micropal.
1st over ten years, and the Far East products, where we offer a Life and Pension Funds, which were Corporate Bond Fund consisting of Although investment performance awarded 1st place over one and high-quality holdings, as well as should be assessed over the longer five years respectively.
income-oriented equity Funds that term, it is pleasing to note that, once have proved significantly more again, most of our funds performed In addition, five out of our eleven resilient over the past few years.
well relative to the competition in Unit Trusts were ranked by the difficult conditions of 2002.
Micropal in the top quartile of We are also working on other In the authoritative CAPS Survey their classes, with two more in the products that provide diversification of Pension Funds, three of our five second quartile.
Managed Funds occupied 6th, 7th and 8th place out of the 85 Funds in Partners and Staff We have recently announced that this Survey for the year 2002.
In reviewing the year, it is a great medium-sized pension funds can now Particular mention should be made pleasure, on behalf of the Directors, invest in a range of multi-manager of the Pension Managed Fund looked to thank the members of the funds through members of the after for us by Taube Hodson Stonex Partnership and the staff of the Partnership.
Each of these funds is Partners THSP, which was ranked Group for their efforts during the managed by a number of active in 1st place over both 5 years and year.
In a challenging business managers selected and monitored on 10 years, as well as 6th over 3 years.
environment, I am sure shareholders the advice of Stamford Associates.
would like to join me in expressing It is also extremely pleasing when my thanks to both Partners and staff Although our funds have inevitably our investment performance is for their continued enthusiasm and shared the pain inflicted by recognised independently.
On behalf of the Board, falling stock markets, most of our annual Standard and Poors Fund I would also like to thank John funds have continued to produce Awards was, once again, a successful Newman and Jim Spowart, who performance superior to that of our time for St. Jamess Place with the will be leaving the board at the next competitors.
Investors who spread St. Jamess Place Unit Trust Group Annual General Meeting, for all their their money equally between our winning the award for the best efforts for the Company over the core Life or Pension Managed Funds smaller unit trust group over both years.
I would also like to welcome when we started business 11 years five and ten years.
This is the sixth Grenville Turner and Ian Gascoigne ago have enjoyed top quartile returns year this particular award has been who joined the Board at the start of relative to the average performance won since 1992.
of competitor funds over the period: awarded the best smaller UK pension an equal investment in our Pension group over the one year.
Other PAGE 6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued We engage only experienced advisers with a proven track record: the members of the Partnership have an average of 14 years experience in financial services.
The Future enabled us to ensure the quality of respective fields.
Without moving While the difficult market conditions people presenting our products to beyond the focus of our own have depressed sales and profits, the public.
experience, we have been able to what matters for the future of the bring in facilities such as the Company is the soundness of our We engage only experienced advisers St. Jamess Place  model.
At the heart of with a proven track record: the internet Bank based on the this is the policy of marketing members of the Partnership have an Halifax Intelligent Finance platform : a wide range of products and average of 14 years experience in a bespoke General Insurance service services through our own team financial services.
This has enabled through an alliance with a Lloyds of high-quality advisers, the the Group to build up a reputation Broker: and our Mortgage Panel St. Jamess Place Partnership.
for providing a high standard of where clients mortgages are placed We believe that this approach service, with the added advantage with the best available provider.
will benefit significantly from the to the Company of high productivity regulatory changes known as and, therefore, cost-efficiency relative Taking advantage of the exemption depolarisation due at the end of to the industry.
of term life and critical illness plans this year.
from the polarisation rules, we We were able to mitigate the recently announced the creation of a In view of the impact these changes restrictions of polarisation by the Protection Panel under which the will have on the market, it is worth Groups ground-breaking approach to Partners are able to offer term analysing in detail both the investment management referred to protection plans from five other regulatory changes and our earlier in this Statement.
Instead of leading life offices Prudential, responses to them.
limiting our clients to a single team Norwich Union, Scottish Equitable, of in-house investment managers, Scottish Provident and BUPA, as well Polarisation, dating back to they are able to benefit from our as an Annuity Panel which acts regulations introduced in 1988, approach of seeking best-ofas a broker to find the best available divides those who give advice on breed external managers as well annuity for clients introduced regulated financial products into 1 as from diversification.
those who are wholly independent, at least in theory and 2 those The polarisation regulations do not The proposed regulations recently who advise on the products of a apply to the new types of services we announced by the Financial Services single group.
have introduced over the past two Authority will put an end to years in the course of expanding into polarisation, probably with effect From its inception in 1992, the Wealth Management and in each case from the end of this year.
We expect St. Jamess Place Group decided to we have contracted out these to derive two broad sets of advantages distribute its products and services services to third-party providers with from this deregulation: only through its own advisers, as this expertise and experience in the PAGE 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued a Since experienced advisers wish as onshore and offshore trustee the country, there are a to provide a comprehensive services.
We believe that these number of Partners with a service to their clients, will enable us to make further specialised knowledge of each polarisation made it necessary inroads into the High Net Worth class of business such as for us to manufacture a market, including facilities for investment, inheritance tax very broad range of regulated non-residents with UK links.
We will now be able case of a professional practice, to withdraw from manufacturing Although the Group will benefit the Partners in an office work classes of product where we from buying in products at a together to make the benefit of do not wish to compete by wholesale price, the margins on their respective specialisations contracting in products from these products are likely to available to each others clients.
This will be lower than on our As we broaden our range of enable our Partners to provide a own manufactured products.
services and move up the income complete range of best of breed However we believe that this scale, we are taking active steps products in those fields, while will be compensated by to increase the range and depth continuing to offer a diversified attracting a larger volume of of this specialisation through and specialised range of business from each client and training and support.
investment products through increasing the productivity of our approach to investment the Partners.
b With the abolition of management described earlier.
polarisation in prospect, many Over the years an increasing IFAs are reconsidering their We are also working on number of our Partners have career options and a significant introducing, throughjointventure specialised in one class of number are likely to go for some relationships, accounting, legal business or service so that, within form of multi-tie.
Unlike the services and tax services as well each of our offices throughout old-established life assurance PAGE 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued groups, St. Jamess Place has companies will be seeking to nothing to lose from this process, secure tied distribution to as it has never distributed replace the loss of IFA business.
With the advent of depolarisation On the contrary, we can and the growth in the number expect to be one of the of services we contract in from chief beneficiaries of decisions external providers, the ability to pull by experienced IFAs to change together information from different We have, in our Partners, what we their status: not only is the sources has become an important regard as the best distribution team St. Jamess Place Partnership element of administration and client in the country as well as a wide recognised as the highest quality service.
We are therefore working on and increasing range of products team of advisers to join, but the the development of technology, and services.
new open architecture we will be which will pull together information adopting by contracting in other from our various providers, both This places us, we believe, in a strong companies products, and the long internally within SJPC and position to benefit from both the established open architecture externally from outside providers.
changes in regulation that will come of our investment approach Initially the system will provide a into force over the next year and any will make St. Jamess Place a common front end for processing recovery in markets.
particularly attractive home for applications, with the intention in these IFAs.
due course to bring together all of Final Dividend a clients holdings throughout the Subject to the approval of We also offer a practice buySJPC Group in the form of shareholders at the Annual General out facility on retirement, a consolidated wealth statement.
Meeting a final dividend of 1.5p per which addresses the longGiven the strong relationship share will be paid to shareholders on established problem that IFAs between the Partners and their the register on 11 April, making a find it difficult to capitalise their clients, there is the potential for total of 2.75p for the full year.
Partners to obtain a substantial proposed dividend payment date is increase in funds under management 16 May.
It is interesting to note that, at from their existing client bases.
thesame timethat St. Jamess Place will be offering best-ofThe members of the Partnership breed product choices through believe that being with St. Jamess the Partnership, the older Place is the best option for them and, very importantly, that it puts them Sir Mark Weinberg in a position to offer the best service 24 February 2003 to their clients.
As a result, despite the difficult market conditions, the morale of the Partners is high.
