Chairmans Statement We are recommending a final dividend of 32.9 cents per share, compared with 29.10 cents in 2001.
This gives a total dividend of 47.0 cents, an increase of 12.1 per cent over 2001.
The dividend is covered 1.4 times.
The sterling amount will be set in April.
A Turbulent World In the past two years the world economy has suffered a succession of economic, financial and terrorist shocks.
We witnessed economic collapse in Argentina, war in Afghanistan, corporate governance issues in the United States and the continued bear market for equities.
Yet, despite all this, world economies continued to grow and, in most of Asia, economic growth was good.
Resilient consumer demand in the United States and the increasing regional We have delivered a strong importance of China as a consumer performance with a good increase market, boosted exports in Asia.
Domestic in trading profit, despite turbulent demand was stronger too.
The need to economic conditions.
We have reduced compete with China is forcing economies our costs and brought down our bad like Hong Kong and Singapore to move debt charge.
up the value chain, leading to a painful near-term transition.
2002 Results Pre-tax profits rose 16 per cent The Hong Kong economy remains weak.
to $1,262 million, compared with Unemployment is high and there are still $1,089 million in the previous year.
Although we Net revenue increased to remain cautious on the near-term outlook, $4,539 million, up three per cent.
we believe the current pessimism on Costs were reduced and the cost the longer-term prospects is overdone.
income ratio came down from The Middle East enjoyed healthy economic 56 per cent to 54 per cent.
growth, despite the uncertainties Debt charge down by $19 million, associated with Iraq.
The combination at $712 million, despite the bankruptcy of rm oil prices and healthy government issue in Hong Kong, and Argentina.
Normalised earnings per share was 74.9 cents, as against 66.3 cents in 2001.
Normalised return on equity increased to 13.4 per cent.
4 Standard Chartered This is an exciting year for us as we celebrate 150 years of Standard Chartered.
There are very few companies who can say the same.
We have come a long way from serving customers Our unique 150-year history gives in a tent to modern, well-designed branches around the world that reect our new brand.
us a deep understanding of our We have a deep understanding of our core markets, which enables us to work closely markets, our customers and with our customers and communities and develop strong, lasting relationships.
the local communities in which We will be celebrating these relationships throughout the year, sharing our pride we operate.
It is a strong platform in our history and confidence in our future.
5 Chairmans Statement Continued Africa benefited from an improved Asia has been a net exporter of capital The Nakornthon acquisition in1999 began economic environment, with a softer since the 1997 crisis but may now see to deliver profits this year.
This is another dollar, higher commodity prices and a return of investment ows to the region example of our ability to take on an existing continued economic reform.
Last year as the world economy shifts its focus.
China organisation and integrate it profitably nished with a successful election has already become the worlds biggest with ours.
in Kenya, highlighting the positive recipient of foreign direct investment.
political change in parts of the region.
Hong Kong Listing There is a shift in the service sector too, The biggest exception was Zimbabwe In October 2002, we became the first with India a big beneciary, as international where deteriorating economic conditions major FTSE listed company to launch rms move service centres, software and have reduced our profits by $50 million.
a dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
back ofce functions to take advantage We are one of the three note-issuing of lower costs and a high skill base.
Prospects for 2003 banks in Hong Kong and listing on Last year three key economic themes China and India are future economic the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong was a dominated.
We expect these three powerhouses.
Both are central to our further demonstration of our commitment themes to dominate again in 2003: strategy and success.
The listing will help us to expand our base of Asian First, modest growth: Investments and Acquisitions institutional and retail investors.
The offer second, low ination with low In July, we took a $50 million stake in the was comfortably over-subscribed.
interest rates: and initial public offering of BOC Hong Kong third, investors searching for Holdings Limited on the Stock Exchange Move to Manhattan higher yields and safer havens.
It is a subsidiary of Bank Our New York ofce was one of many This has favoured Asia over Latin America, of China, one of the largest state-owned that were destroyed on that terrible day, bonds over equities and is continuing commercial banks.
After a year to contribute to higher commodity prices a Memorandum of Understanding of operating from temporary ofces our and a softer dollar.
We have identied colleagues moved back to Manhattan.
eight areas for alliances on product The move signied the end of a difficult The start to this year shows that and distribution on the mainland and emotional year.
I wish our United we continue to live in uncertain times.
States colleagues well in their new ofce.
Oil prices have risen sharply and the Iraq situation has contributed to weak We completed the integration of Grindlays Board Changes business confidence around the globe, in Middle East and South Asia and India I will be retiring in May 2003 after including Asia.
Today we are the largest foreign ten years as Chairman.
It is with great bank across much of the region and Given this environment, policy makers pleasure that I welcome Bryan Sanderson in India.
Both India and the United Arab are taking measures to boost growth, as my successor.
He is currently Chairman Emirates now contribute more than with relaxed scal policies and low interest of BUPA and was BPs director responsible $100 million in trading profit per year.
As a result we expect continued for Asia until 2000. moderate growth, providing the United States economy continues to grow.
It is an internet platform, which speeds up and reduces the cost of international trade.
6 Standard Chartered He is also Chairman of the Learning We are part of the fabric of the communities In addition, we have increased our and Skills Council.
Bryan Sanderson in which we operate around the world.
joined Standard Chartered as a We are using our 150th year to launch a This is where the greatest opportunities non-executive director in December 2002. number of initiatives that enable us to put lie as the middle income earners increase Under his guidance, Standard Chartered something back into these communities.
in size and prosperity in all our markets.
will continue to grow as a performance In 2002 we started to take our award In 1993 Consumer Banking accounted driven organisation.
winning HIV AIDS staff awareness for about 33 per cent of our revenues, programme world-wide.
In February now it is 53 per cent.
There were also two other new members 2003, we launched Seeing Is Believing, One of the changes over the past of the Board.
Peter Sands joined us a joint initiative with Sight Savers ten years that has given me the most in May 2002 as Finance Director, from International, aimed at raising enough pleasure is that we have become a truly McKinsey & Co.
funds to restore the sight of 28,000 multi-cultural organisation that offers Richard Meddings joined us in November people around the world.
opportunities to good managers whatever 2002 as Director of Risk, from Barclays In ten years as Chairman I have been their ethnic background.
In addition Gareth Bullock and Peter proud of the way Standard Chartered has of our senior managers are from non-OECD Wong became directors of Standard responded to the challenges it has faced, countries.
That gure will continue to grow.
Chartered Bank our main operating from the difficulties of the early 1990s subsidiary.
All these appointments have I leave the business in good shape to the growth opportunities of the present signicantly strengthened our top team.
with an experienced new Chairman day.
Total shareholder return has grown who knows Asia well and a dynamic more than seven times.
I would like to thank Keith Mackrell, who management team led by Group Chief retired from the Board during 2002, and In writing my first Chairmans Statement Executive Mervyn Davies.
Cob Stenham, who will be retiring in May in 1993, I referred to the opportunities Finally, I would like to thank our people, after nearly twelve years.
I have valued that lay ahead with the emergence without whom my years as Chairman their contributions to the Board.
We have grasped would not have been half as rewarding.
Today we are one of The enthusiasm with which they run 150th Anniversary the most profitable multinationals in India this great business is truly outstanding.
In 2003, we celebrate our 150th year as and we are very well positioned in China.
Their commitment to do whats right a company.
This longevity says a lot about for our customers and shareholders We have increased our focus on markets our strengths and the market positions will enable Standard Chartered to rise where we have a competitive advantage we hold.
However, the anniversary is to the tremendous opportunities ahead.
and reduced our business in Organisation a time to look forward, not back.
There for Economic Co-operation and is an opportunity to deliver a step change Development OECD countries.
We have in performance by continuing to be also achieved a better geographic balance.
innovative and aggressive in our markets and remaining focused on moves that Sir Patrick Gillam, Chairman will improve shareholder returns.
19 February 2003 Sir Patrick Gillam speaking at an event to mark the launch of our dual primary listing in Hong Kong.
Standard Chartered sponsors the Hong Kong International Cricket Sixes, which is broadcast across Asia.
