Chairmans statement provide growing income combined with growth in capital, principally through investment in a portfolio of UK equities.
We remain of the view that this objective is appropriate and, while it is disappointing to report a fall in net assets, the severity of the market turbulence during the year made it impossible to do otherwise.
It is small comfort, but your Companys performance over the year has, in a relative sense, been good compared with its peer group.
The twelve months ended 31 December 2002 will be remembered as one of the most difficult periods for equity investing.
Not only was this the third consecutive year of equity market declines, but the period encompassed bouts of extreme volatility, with particularly sharp falls in July and September.
Whereas in the previous two years the Companys RESULTS AND DIVIDEND emphasis on investments that offered fundamental While equity markets were fairly stable in the first value led to strong outperformance compared with four months of 2002, the remainder of the year the overall stock market, the trend favouring exhibited much greater volatility, which saw value over growth was less marked in the year substantial falls both in the United Kingdom and just ended, although the relative defensive throughout much of the world.
Your Company was characteristics of the portfolio were still evident.
not exempt from these movements.
Nevertheless, Investor concerns about the economic outlook and post tax revenues increased marginally compared the effect of continuing overcapacity in many with the previous year, partly as a result of lower industries were exacerbated by corporate management fees.
Gross revenue was unchanged, accounting scandals and, more recently, the threat although this masks a different mix, with an of hostilities in Iraq, leading to a general fide-rating increased level of income from dividends generated of equities.
Further comment on the economic and by the equity portfolio offsetting a reduction in investment background is contained in the interest receipts which were well down on those of Managers report on page 10. the previous year through lower interest rates.
DEBT Your Board is recommending a 3% increase in the Shareholders will be aware that the Company final dividend, which will amount to 17.37p per employs a relatively modest amount of gearing in share and follows a similar 3% increase in the the form of debentures, with a total nominal value interim dividend.
Although rising in line with of 63m or 18% of gross assets.
There has been inflation, the increase in the final dividend is more considerable publicity concerning the dangers of modest than in recent years.
The dividend will be gearing in a bear market, but I am pleased to report payable on 31 March 2003 to those shareholders that Temple Bars relative asset performance has on the register of members as at 14 March 2003. held up well despite the presence of debt.
It should The total return on net assets was 19.1%, similar be noted that, for part of the period, the debt has to the share price total return since, at the year largely been balanced by holding cash and bonds end, the small discount to net asset value was emphasising the point that, whilst gearing can be a unchanged from 2001.
This compares with a total major advantage for investment trusts over the return of 22.7% for the FTSE All Share Index and longer term, this is dependent on sensible tactical 16.4% for the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index.
Temple Bars debt is long term with 25m falling due for payment in 2017 and Your Board keeps under regular review the 38m in 2021. investment objective of the Company which is to Temple Bar Investment Trust 7 Chairmans statement continued FUND MANAGER CHAIRMAN The Board would like to express its appreciation of It has been a great privilege to have been Chairman Chris Burvills service to the Company as of the Company for the past four years and in this investment manager over a number of years.
Chris role I have been enormously supported by a strong resigned from the Manager in July of last year and team of Directors.
However, I have for some time we wish him well for the future.
been reducing my business commitments and I have indicated to my colleagues that I will retire as We are pleased to have appointed Alastair Mundy a Director at the conclusion of the Annual General to succeed Chris Burvill in the day to day Meeting.
I am glad to say that my successor will be management of the portfolio after assisting him for John Reeve.
He brings a wealth of business the past two years.
He is supported in this role by Peter Lowery and other members of the Investec experience to the position and with the support of team.
an excellent Board I am sure that the Company will maintain its strength and continue to be one of the OUTLOOK most highly regarded investment trusts.
Putting aside what we hope will be shorter term concerns as regards hostilities in Iraq, the medium term prospects for equities will depend on a 18 February 2003 recovery in corporate profitability.
If the global Ronald Scott Brown economy experiences a period of sustained deflation then it will be hard for equities to make significant progress.
On balance we think that there I am delighted to have been selected by my fellow is sufficient will in the US to reflate that economy directors to succeed Ronald Scott Brown as which will lead to a modest global recovery.
We do Chairman of Temple Bar Investment Trust.
believe that, relative to other developed markets, the UK equity market represents good value, not Ronnie had led and guided the Board as Chairman least because it has been particularly hard hit by the for four years and has served as a director with forced selling of equities by insurance companies great distinction for 25 years.
During that time the anxious to meet their solvency requirements.
In Trust has become widely recognised as one of the addition, yields from UK equities are now best performing investment trusts in its sector.
Ronnies legal background has enabled him over the years to bring great experience and wisdom to ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 the overseeing of Temple Bars affairs.
These a. m. on Monday 31 March 2003 at 2 Gresham qualities, coupled with an engaging personality, Street, London EC2V 7QP.
I look forward to have ensured that Ronnie has been a wonderful meeting as many shareholders as are able to attend.
He has added much value to Board discussions on a wide range of subjects.
We all wish Ronnie the very best of luck for the future.
John Reeve Temple Bar Investment Trust 8
