Chairmans Statement Background There has been another massive decline in the market value of equities worldwide this year, which, when taken cumulatively Lord Faringdon with the equity returns of the previous two and a half years, has halved the value of corporate worth along with everyones hardearned savings in them.
Equity Risk Overview There is no consensus even among individuals in the same rm This is the third year in a row I have to report a fall in our asset as to how much or little equity sail we should be carrying, value and underperformance of our benchmark.
Even if one goes although I have noticed the old are considerably less optimistic back four years, which includes a frothy 32.3% rise in net asset than the young.
Many economists and politicians appear to be value per share in 1999, our investment results still show a totally oblivious to the effects that the halving of equity values depressing fall of 27.2%, but they are better than our benchmark is likely to have, and individuals have been comforted by the over that period.
The common thread that runs throughout these escalation in value of their houses which has blinded them periods is the gyrations seen in the market value placed on smaller temporarily to the seriousness of the situation.
companies, and the adverse effect since the end of 1999 of our own modest gearing.
Our mainstream investments in well As you know, by the end of the year 2000 the Board felt there managed large multinational companies have for the most part was likely to be a market correction in values of about 25% but beaten their various indices, in spite of some unwelcome surprises.
that it would be of relatively short duration.
We took steps to That outperformance has been spirited away by the abysmal protect our dividend: we took powers to buy back stock and to showing of our smaller companies and by our gearing in spite of continue our marketing campaign to protect the discount: we the fact that we have never invested more than 10% of our assets took holdings in absolute return funds and weeded out our own into smaller companies and our gearing has never reached 10%.
The turning circle looked too tight to go for liquidity and back again but, to paraphrase Mr Warren Buffett, predicting Performance Analysis 1 year 4 years rain is not the same thing as building an ark.
%% Witan Capital Return 27.5 27.2 The point I am trying to bring home is that our mission Benchmark Return 26.4 27.8 cc statement has been adhered to, but the blend of large and small Relative Performance 1.1 0.6 cc companies in our portfolio with modest and limited gearing Attribution: has not withstood, in the last three years, the onslaught meted Stock Selection out to young companies.
Yet, in the past, they have been a key UK Mainstream 3.8 10.6 UK Specialist Growth 2.6 5.0 feature of our outperformance.
We have been criticised by some North America 0.6 2.5 shareholders for owning another investment trust in the Europe excluding UK 2.8 Henderson stable which holds a global portfolio of smaller Japan 0.2 1.2 companies Henderson Strata as they believed it somehow Pacic excluding Japan 0.2 0.3 conferred more benefit on Henderson in terms of fees than on Emerging Markets cc Witan in terms of an investment.
Whilst they are patently 0.2 6.8 wrong as far as fees are concerned as Henderson Strata is a Geographical Asset Allocation 1.0 2.1 quoted closed-ended company, they are right in saying it has Net Gearing Effect 2.3 4.1 cc underperformed the international smaller companies indices, 1.1 0.6 although it has performed better than our directly-owned mm Source: WM before expenses and management fees smaller company holdings.
We have brought the ownership 4 of Henderson Strata under the aegis of our UK manager, Job Charitable Donations Curtis, and given Neil Hermon the management responsibility In the past it has been our custom, in keeping with responsible for any separate UK smaller companies we may hold.
corporate citizenship and tax efcacy and with the approval of the shareholders, to give each year a relatively modest sum of As we all know, it is pretty important for the photographer to 35,000 on their behalf to a mixture of good charitable causes, appear at the right moment: you dont want the sun in your as set out in respect of this year on page 26.
For various reasons, eyes or a gale at your back to look your best.
Equally, if you are our scope to offset charitable donations against corporation tax going to ddle with the camera it is important to get the settings has now disappeared and it would therefore be sensible in the right.
Your Board continues to believe that, taking the long view, future to include this sum in the amount available for dividend our focus and mix are about right, but, for the moment, we have distribution and for shareholders to spend it how they like.
reduced the size of our smaller companies aperture over and above market attrition and capped our gearing.
Where volatility Board Changes in selected stocks is viewed as unjustifiably high, we have started In the place of Robin Inchyra, who retired at our last AGM, we selling option premia in a very controlled way.
For some time we are delighted to have appointed Andrew Bruce who brings to the have not been invested in emerging markets excluding Asia Board a wealth of experience in banking and financial services and our unquoted portfolio is very small.
and we warmly welcome him.
I will be retiring as a director at the forthcoming AGM, having carried a lot of incorrect These moves may not be enough to protect your capital in the regulatory baggage for quite a long stint.
In spite of this I would short term: institutional re sales are likely to continue and like to think I have always put shareholders interests first.
recovery could be slow and painful.
At current levels, however, Whilst I am unhappy not to be leaving with a better story to tell there are some signs of consolidation in markets, as the dividend them, I am pleased that Harry Henderson will be coming in to yield curve rises through the gilt yield slope, but the big bat for us when, hopefully, most of the spin is out of the wicket.
unknown is still how strong is the consumer going to be?
I would not like to depart without thanking all those people in Management Fees the Henderson back ofce who have produced these reports in As a token of goodwill our investment managers Henderson such an exemplary fashion and so promptly over the last 24 years.
Global Investors have waived their entitlement to any ination adjusted increase in their annual fee which might be due to them for the year 2002.
The Board is very appreciative of this gesture.
Dividends In line with our declared dividend policy of making progressive increases when possible, it is our intention to pay, subject to shareholders approval, a final dividend of 4.45 pence per share Lord Faringdon to make a total distribution for the year of 8.10 pence 2001: 3 February 2003 7.95 pence out of the earnings per share of 8.92 pence.
On the face of it the increase looks rather parsimonious, but, in the present hostile economic climate, it is possible that dividends could come under increasing pressure, particularly in the UK where the bulk of our income is derived.
