Chairmans statement Our strong brands, enhanced customer insight and asset management expertise will continue to enable us to create value for customers and shareholders.
During 2002, Centrica continued to Dividend We recognise make progress towards our vision The board of directors is proposing that creating of taking care of the essentials for a final dividend of 2.6 pence per customers in our chosen markets.
share to be paid in June 2003. sustainable We have done this by concentrating When combined with the interim shareholder value on what our customers want.
This dividend of 1.4 pence per share has led to top-line growth across paid in November 2002, the depends on a our business units and helped drive total dividend for 2002 would full understanding adjusted earnings per share up be 4.0 pence per share.
This 26% before exceptional items represents an increase of 29% of our impact and goodwill amortisation.
on the previous year and reflects on society.
our positive medium term outlook We took significant steps to for both earnings and cash flow.
ensure that British Gas remains The future the market leader in residential The board of directors Centrica remains well placed energy and continues to improve We announced a number of to compete in an increasingly its performance in other home changes to the board during the international energy marketplace services.
Sir Sydney Lipworth retired where we expect further of solid performance as we at the annual general meeting consolidation.
Our strong brands, repositioned the AA brand to in May and we are most grateful enhanced customer insight and increase awareness of the wide for the significant contribution asset management expertise, range of products and services he made to the development combined with our financial and available to motorists.
In September we operational scale, will continue American business has made announced the appointment to enable us to create value for progress despite a challenging of Helen Alexander and in customers and shareholders alike.
October the appointment of Robert Tobin as non-executive The collective efforts of all Centrica directors with effect from employees have ensured that Centrica remains 1 January 2003.
I am delighted we have made further progress well placed that Helen and Robert have joined towards our vision during 2002. us.
Their considerable experience I would like to thank them for their to compete in will further strengthen the board.
commitment and I look forward an increasingly to working with them to deliver the Corporate responsibility business performance, which will international energy We recognise that creating provide our customers with the marketplace where sustainable shareholder value service that they want and reward depends on a full understanding our shareholders appropriately.
we expect further of our impact on society and consolidation.
the responsible management of our business in a manner In the UK, the measures to consistent with our values underpin a competitive energy and principles.
To this end, market enable us to continue we established a corporate to deliver benefits to customers.
responsibility committee Sir Michael Perry GBE In the wider European context, which sets the framework for Chairman good progress was made developing and reporting our towards agreeing a framework efforts in this area.
Our approach for introducing competition was recognised by our inclusion to the entire energy market.
in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones In addition a number of important Sustainability indices.
improvements were made to the competitive conditions in the UK telecoms market but there is still further work to be done.
