AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F 2002 Chairmans Statement www.
com 04 Chairmans Statement 2002 was a year of both The AstraZeneca Board sets the Companys the long term needs of patients in both developed and developing countries can be met strategy and policies and monitors progress opportunity and challenge for by research based companies such as ours.
towards meeting our various objectives.
2002 AstraZeneca and the was a busy year involving strategic reviews of pharmaceutical industry in More details about our CR policies, markets, development and key technologies general.
commitment and performance are available in as well as the full range of corporate the separate 2002 Corporate Responsibility governance matters including a review of the The demand for modern medicines continues Summary Report.
functioning of the Board itself.
to grow, driven by demographic changes, expanded geographic markets and new During the year, Lars Ramqvist retired from his AstraZeneca has always taken corporate technologies.
To some extent, these positive role as Non-Executive Director of governance very seriously and this positions drivers are being offset by pressure on prices, AstraZeneca and we welcomed John us well in todays demanding environment.
escalating R&D and marketing costs, Buchanan as a new Non-Executive Director.
The new US Sarbanes-Oxley legislation and increased regulatory demands and uncertain In June, Claes Wilhelmsson retired as an other similar initiatives are requiring changes financial markets.
Executive Director of AstraZeneca and ke to corporate governance processes in a Stavling stepped down as an Executive number of areas, which will further reinforce After a successful merger, it has been Director at the end of January 2003.
AstraZeneca has a good important for AstraZeneca to continue and ke played important roles in the reputation and track record and we are productivity improvements throughout the formation and integration of AstraZeneca and committed to maintaining this, supported by Company in R&D, production, sales and our Code of Conduct, internal auditing to undertook key responsibilities for R&D and administration.
This continuous process of ensure group-wide compliance and clear and Business Development respectively.
My increasing productivity will safeguard a transparent financial reporting.
In addition, the Board colleagues and I thank them and Lars competitive position in coming years.
2002 Board has nominated Sir Peter Bonfield as warmly for their contribution to the Company.
has also been a year of increased the senior Non-Executive Director contact for investments in certain developing countries.
investors wishing to raise any potential I would also like to thank my colleagues on A stronger market position in these fastcorporate governance issues.
the Board for their excellent contribution.
growing countries will support AstraZenecas Everyone at AstraZeneca was delighted to long term growth ambition.
Finally, and most During the year, we made good progress in learn of the knighthood bestowed on our importantly, the Company has maintained further developing our overall corporate Chief Executive, Tom McKillop in the Queens a high innovation rate with a resulting strong responsibility CR programme.
This included 2002 Birthday Honours for services to the product portfolio on the market today and publication and wide communication of our pharmaceutical industry.
I would also like to in the pipeline.
CR Policy and Management Standards.
This pay tribute to AstraZeneca employees work is led by a cross-functional, crossworldwide who contributed to our success The year has seen much progress.
Sales territorial CR Committee which reports to through their creativity, commitment and hard increased 9% and earnings per share before Dame Bridget Ogilvie, the Non-Executive work.
The ordinary Director with responsibility for overseeing CR dividend to shareholders recommended by within AstraZeneca.
I am pleased to report In 2003, we will continue to implement our the Board was maintained in dollar terms, that our continued progress in 2002 was product portfolio transformation strategy and with a second interim dividend of $0.47 recognised by our inclusion for the second initiatives to improve our overall efficiency and 28.5 pence, SEK 3.99 per Ordinary Share year running in the Dow Jones World thereby address the growing competitive to be paid in April 2003 bringing the total Sustainability Index, with an improved rating pressures.
It will be another challenging year, dividend for the year to $0.70 43.2 pence, over 2001 and for the first time in their but one we face with confidence.
The share re-purchase European Index.
Despite these achievements, in todays difficult financial AstraZeneca has contributed fully to national Percy Barnevik markets, the share price performance has and international proposals for improving Chairman been disappointing for both shareholders access to medicines in developing countries.
These proposed policies strive to ensure that AstraZeneca relative share performance Abbott Labs, AHP, Aventis, BMS, Eli Lilly, GSK, JNJ, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Pharmacia, Roche, 31 December 1999 31 December 2002 Sanofi-Synthelabo, Schering and Schering-Plough AstraZeneca Major international pharmaceutical companies Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 200 165 130 95 60 Dec 99 Jul 00 Feb 01 Sep 01 Apr 02 Dec 02
