chairmans statement As we looked ahead at the beginning of 2002, we shared effects.
Profit before tax at 400m was essentially the same the widespread optimism that we would see a recovery as in 2001 and earnings per share for 2002 were 23.7p, both in the major economies around the globe, stronger stock quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
markets and rising consumer confidence.
Instead, as the The dividend for the year was 7.5p.
year progressed, it became clear that 2002 would be As we look to 2003, we believe it would be prudent to another very challenging year for business.
The majority assume that the competitive environment will continue to be of our major markets, with the notable exception of China, challenging and that high levels of customer satisfaction will experienced little or no economic growth and fragile require the very highest levels of quality, value and technology.
This standard of performance must be achieved with worldThe weakness in global stock markets and the effect on class productivity and overall business efficiency to achieve individual and household net worth and consumer sentiment satisfactory financial results.
gave cause for widespread concern, as did the continuing The ICI team is dedicated to achieving these imperatives.
anxiety over the threat of terrorism and, particularly in the We have a highly skilled and motivated management and latter half of the year, the increased threat to global security.
workforce and immense technological capability.
Our products When one adds to this mix of negative factors, the shocking number in the tens of thousands and we compete in a wide revelations of corporate malfeasance and large corporate range of market segments, including food, personal care, failures, principally in the United States, during the year, it is home improvement and adhesives.
We believe that our perhaps surprising that consumer behaviour was not even extensive product and technology base provides us with a more seriously affected.
solid foundation on which to build.
As in 2002, the efficient use of capital will be of the highest priority.
We will continue With this as the geo-political and economic backdrop, I to compete vigorously in all of the worlds major market am pleased to record that ICI finished the year in sounder places and will place particular emphasis on the high shape, financially, than it was a year earlier.
Thanks to strong growth countries.
shareholder support for the Rights Issue in the first quarter, combined with the proceeds from the sale of assets and And finally, a comment on governance.
ICI has a long history tightly focused management of working capital, your Companys of adhering to a strong ethical code.
It is a tradition of which balance sheet has been substantially strengthened.
These we are proud and, as custodians of that tradition, we are actions to reduce Group debt were successful in protecting deeply conscious of the trust that you have placed in us.
With the actions taken during 2002 behind want to assure you that your Board of Directors continues us, the shape and structure of the Group is now essentially to be dedicated to the highest standards of corporate set and our primary focus for the future will be on the growth governance, financial control and reporting.
and development of our International Businesses.
I would like to thank you again for your support for the Rights Despite the weak economic environment, the International Issue in early 2002 and, on behalf of the entire ICI team, give Businesses turned in a creditable performance.
The Group you our pledge that we will continue to do all in our power to achieved sales of 6,125m in 2002, 5% lower than in 2001, deliver value to you, our shareholders.
mainly due to business disposals and exchange translation Lord Trotman Chairman 7
