Chairmans Statement 1 Chairmans Statement THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 9 Chairmans Statement n the year to 31 March 2002, British Land earned Swindon Orbital Shopping Park was purchased for record pre-tax profits of 171.3 million and net assets an anticipated total of 53 million.
Total property rose to the record level of 833p per share and 803p purchases were 608 million and property sales fully diluted.
After the convertible buy-back announced in the year were 378 million.
I on 16 May, the NAV per share on a fully diluted basis would rise to 814p.
The Portfolio Rents are the principal source of our revenue and, After strong growth in the previous year, this latest for the first time, gross rents exceeded half a billion year has produced more modest gains in the portfolio, pounds at 514 million, with net rents at 477 million.
which has risen 0.8% 2001: 6.7%, in money terms Joint ventures brought in 36 million and sale of fixed a rise of 72 million.
assets, including the Haslemere shares, produced City of London offices, having risen 19.7% in the 37 million.
The 26th successive year of property previous year, relinquished some of that increase with trading profits this time contributed 6.8 million.
In the light of these results the Board is Supermarkets were up 6.5%, retail warehouses up recommending a final dividend up 8.9% to 8.6p 3.8%, shops up 3.4%.
Our continuing investment in per share, making a distribution for the year of 12.4p the residential sector again had good growth, being per share, and the 23rd successive year of increasing up 6.3%.
With rental reversions to come of some We remain entirely confident that our prime assets, 88.5 million we expect to sustain a higher rate of Broadgate and Meadowhall, will bring further rewards dividend growth.
Value does not accrue evenly in the property business, and high transaction costs, Notable Events in the Year particularly Stamp Duty, inhibit and penalise rapid The 323 million 6.5% Convertible Bonds 2007 are changes of direction.
We believe that our selected being redeemed, removing the potentially dilutive mix of assets can collect the best of the upwards issue of 48.1 million shares.
A 575 million securitisation trend now under way.
We multiply actual property was completed on 35 Sainsbury supermarkets at performance by employing debt to add growth to 6.8% with an average term of 17 years and an shareholders funds, so that with the benefit of 825 million securitisation on Meadowhall, at 5.5% retained profits, a portfolio rise of under 1% has with an average term of 21 years.
translated into a net asset per share rise of 3.7%.
The 543,000 sq ft development at Plantation The business continues to suffer the consequences Place, London EC3 is now under construction with a of UK fiscal policy for property companies, notably 375,000 sq ft pre-let to Accenture.
Planning consent in the potential burden of Stamp Duty and contingent was obtained for a 162,400 sq ft office building at tax.
However these two items together do provide 10 Exchange Square formerly 83,000 sq ft Hamilton about 800 million of free funding to shareholders, House at Broadgate, London EC2.
Abbey Nationals who have the use of this amount only on the basis new 200,000 sq ft headquarters was completed at of the Companys continuance.
The mark to market Regents Place, London NW1.
element of our debt, with other early repayment costs, A new joint venture, BL Davidson, was formed to amounts to a further 304 million of extra funding own the 488 million Asda Property Holdings which which also is dependent on the business being has a portfolio of offices and retail warehouses.
It is salutary that prospective Stamp Duty now Children selected for the Royal Ballet School need to show not accounts for no less than 370 million as a deduction just a gift for dance but also a physique suitable for classical ballet from our latest valuation.
This is a retrospective antiand the motivation to perform in a highly competitive environment.
savers tax we are mostly owned by institutions Younger students ages 11-16 are taught at White Lodge, looking after small investors money and uncertain, Richmond: the Upper School 16-18 is soon to move to new because it can be raised at any time.
Government is studios in Floral Street, Covent Garden.
savaging liquidity in property with little or no reward to show for it.
The human body does not assume these forms by accident.
It is worked on and worked on.
Several centuries of fine tuning have gone into making classical ballet what it is today.
Chairmans Statement THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 11 Managing Property coupled with design, all before actual construction In addition to British Lands own portfolio, major British can start.
Over 1.2 million sq ft of developments were companies such as Tesco, Scottish & Newcastle, completed during last year, with an estimated rental House of Fraser and GUS have entrusted 3.2 billion value of 25 million at a total construction cost of of their property assets to British Lands property 188 million.
The main projects were 350 Euston management skills through joint ventures.
We manage Road, London NW1, where lettings are well advanced, the continuing expansion of 15 current joint ventures and the new headquarters for the Abbey National at and expect to add more of these useful fee-earners 2 3 Triton Square, London NW1.
The current development programme now stands Broadgate Estates, our own specialist building at 8.3 million sq ft with total construction costs of and estate management company, provides its 1.6 billion in 26 projects.
Development is lucrative services to British Land and to more than 60 clients but not quickly accomplished.
We have to have in Greater London.
Over half its profits arise from committed money available to meet development outside the Group.
costs and to service related loans and without We continue to investigate and promulgate endangering our ability to pay and raise dividends technology opportunities for property.
Current throughout the non-earning, pre-construction stages projects include Asite on-line construction and during building.
procurement, Go Shop Meadowhall loyalty card, Pisces standardised information exchange, Propex Managing Finance on-line property market and HSO high speed Property investment, management, trading and cabling for offices, jointly with other landlords.
development are only part of our job.
Optimising the Our policy remains cautious, but we have the scope liability side of our balance sheet is just as important.
for economies of scale afforded by portfolio size.
The Royal Ballet School maintains strong links with directors We are not afraid to put our resources and energies of ballet companies from all over the world.
In 2001, a record to good use, especially now that the technology 85% of graduate students won contracts with leading national sector has been subjected to such heavy rationalisation.
The Royal Ballet and Birmingham Developments take many years from concept to Royal Ballet take most of their corps fide ballet entrants from completion, particularly as they often involve at the School.
the outset site assembly, negotiations with existing tenants, and then of course the planning process They make it look so easy and natural.
Its not 12 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC A range of financing techniques has enabled the Strategic Management Company to sustain its 9.3 billion portfolio on an Management at British Land has established a equity base of only 4.3 billion.
Since 1980, this clearly entrepreneurial but risk-averse strategy: capital base has expanded from 119 million to over To focus on prime assets in the office and retail 4 billion with only 24% of that expansion subscribed sectors.
The remainder, 3.2 billion, has To create exceptional long-term investments with been generated by management from asset and strong covenants, long lease profiles and growth profit growth within the business.
Securitisations during the last three years on To enhance property returns through active Broadgate, on 35 Sainsbury superstores and on management and development.
the Meadowhall Shopping Centre, have tapped an To maximise equity returns through optimal entirely new source of funding for 2.9 billion, and financing and joint ventures.
we will be able to extract more on these assets.
To that may be added an opportunistic approach to The Company has also retained access to unsecured a deal through a willingness to pursue real estate bank facilities totalling 1.9 billion, all on uniform investments in other forms, such as the share stakes loan documentation.
in Haslemere and Selfridges, which together have We run our debt and bank facilities so that, without brought in realised gains of over 64 million over impairing essential liquidity, we were able to afford the last two years.
to fund from our own resources early repayment of Property is a long-term business.
With investment some 725 million in Unsecured Bonds and 6.5% properties there will often be a holding period before Convertible Bonds to reduce debt servicing costs.
purchase and improvement costs are absorbed, and With the Convertible, which had a call provision built the rewards of quality discerned at the outset can in some 5 years ago, we were able to cut interest be turned into higher value.
And higher value there charges and also to remove the dilutive effect of will be: we have not lost our touch.
the potential issue of 48.1 million shares arising Companies which have been tempted by short-term from conversion.
prospects in unproven, fashionable activities elsewhere Debt management in British Land is planned have lost a lot of money.
By contrast, well located on a strategic and cautious approach with regard modern properties let on long leases to reliable to variable interest rates.
95% is at fixed or capped tenants bring strong downside protection to the rates, and wherever possible our finance is long-term: balance sheet, and if well chosen and imaginatively the weighted average debt maturity is now 19.8 years managed, have excellent upside potential.
and the average interest rate is 6.62%, falling to 6.5% Broadgate is a case in point.
We acquired it in when the Convertible is redeemed.
tranches in 1982, 1991, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998 In our counter-cyclical business the most and 1999, initially through unravelling a highly intricate advantageous purchases become available at corporate situation.
Broadgate cost 1.9 billion and unpropitious times when sentiment is against is now producing an annual income of 156 million, property investment.
We need accessible funding with a current estimated rental value of 191 million.
to protect shareholders and to pick up bargains It has been financed through securitisations to the for them.
It is in the nature of all markets that growth extent of 1.68 billion with scope for more and has occurs irregularly in spurts and spikes, and in ours risen in value by 900 million.
The public and retail neither rental shifts nor yield changes arise in smooth All students are boarders.
At White Lodge, the daily two-hour ballet progression.
Our best acquisitions can take time to class is sandwiched by four hours of academic study leading up prove their merits through periods of fluctuation in to GCSE.
In 2001, the School enjoyed a 94.4% pass rate, averaging tenant and investor demand, and through perceived eight passes per student.
In the college-like atmosphere of the Upper demographic shifts.
British Lands size and financial School, ballet training is balanced with A-level studies.
Students muscle allow it to grasp the opportunities and hold achieved a 100% pass rate in 2001. assets through the germination period.
As a performer you have to take control of the stage and draw the audience to you.
Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement 15 spaces of this 32 acre site are going through a major 40 million enhancement programme.
Hamilton House 83,000 sq ft is being demolished and rebuilt as 10 Exchange Square to provide 162,400 sq ft, and in other perimeter areas we are able to add even more extra space.
A similarly active approach has been adopted at Regents Place, where initial corporate purchases in 1984 and 1987 were followed by extensive demolition and redevelopment of the 1960s offices and shops, and their continuing replacement, providing to date 1 million sq ft of new buildings with attractive public spaces and modern facilities.
There is potential for considerably more.
Throughout our period of ownership there has been capital growth.
The rental growth has serviced our investment without deficit.
Share Buy-Backs Further to the comments in my Chairmans Statement last year, I want to emphasise again and expand upon our policy towards share buy-backs.
Our function is to maximise long-term returns for all shareholders.
In achieving this objective, we believe there are two circumstances where share buy-backs should be considered, and I would like to make the Boards views on both absolutely clear.
The first is if we have surplus capital.
In this circumstance, we are totally committed to return such capital to shareholders by the most effective means available at the time.
The second is when the share price is at a level that offers a good, low risk investment opportunity.
Here we are committed to buy back shares if at any time we feel that net asset and earnings per share enhancing buy-backs offer better returns than new property investment.
Funds are available, or can be made available, for instance by asset sales.
Because of the stresses that classical ballet places on the body, fitness and body conditioning are vitally important at every stage.
In the final years of their training, male students will be working on developing their upper-body strength so they can excel in the pas fide deux.
You can feel the strength in the muscles.
There is a fine balance in classical ballet between wafer-thin delicacy and sheer athletic power.
16 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC The other aspect to our share buy-back policy is our said before, well placed to get the best of whatever policy on share issuance.
So I want to be absolutely growth is going.
clear here too, that we do not presently foresee any requirement for extra equity in the business.
Board and Management Cyril Metliss will be standing down from the Board at Corporate and Social Responsibilities the 2003 Annual General Meeting and I am glad that We devote considerable attention to the management he will remain a director of a number of subsidiaries.
of environmental matters and the wider aspects of Graham Roberts, who joined us at the start of the our corporate and social responsibilities.
It is pleasing year, became Finance Director on 31 March 2002. to be able to report that British Land was placed first His extensive professional experience covered a variety among the property sector in both the Business in of property interests, and we are glad to have him as the Community and the Property and Environment a senior member of our executive management.
We aim for the highest We are pleased that we are retaining the standards through our ongoing rolling programme.
experience and expertise of his predecessor, John It is now time that the various constituents of Weston Smith, who remains an executive director and the environmental lobby reach agreement over the Chief Operating Officer.
questions to which they seek answers.
Government My thanks go to them and my other colleagues, has given a lead on this.
At the moment we receive executive and non-executive, on the Board and on the a proliferation of questionnaires, each just a bit Boards of our management subsidiaries.
Our teams different, from a multiplicity of bodies.
This should at Head Office and at Broadgate, Meadowhall and be codified and then we could all put the responses our other outposts have made a major contribution on our websites in an environmentally friendly way.
this year, as have all the outsourced professionals Environmentalists must practise green policies in their and agents on whom we extensively rely.
I thank own endeavours as well as preach.
chance for them to show that more could be less.
This year we have again sponsored the British Land UK Chess Challenge for 56,000 schoolchildren, and British Skiing, which had its best ever Olympic performance.
For London Zoo we designed and John Ritblat Chairman printed an educational broadsheet and sent it to 28 May 2002 30,000 primary schools, where it has been well received by children and teachers.
Prospects I cannot recall a time since the late 80s when there was greater enthusiasm for investing in property.
Good property assets are in short supply in the market.
Though there has been some weakness in rents, the investment side has remained firm in the expectation that yields will fall and that further capital appreciation will thus arise in addition to normal growth.
British Land has a blended portfolio of high quality, divided primarily between the office and retail sectors, a wise choice for shareholders.
We remain, as I have I just put my feet in the air and move them around.
