CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Despite an uncertain economic environment, I am pleased to be able to report a year of healthy growth and significant progress.
We remain committed to growing our business At the end of the year, it was with regret that both with our existing customers, and by building our Chief Operating officer, Ian McKenzie, left new customer relationships in our clearly dened the Company.
I would like to thank him for his markets.
We derive great strength from the contribution and wish him well for the future.
breadth and scope of our service portfolio, enabling us to work closely with customers We have operated in a challenging environment to provide high quality end to end solutions over the last twelve months an environment that meet their business needs.
where we do not foresee any imminent change in market sentiment.
This, coupled with the careful management of our costs and capital expenditure, will We understand and empathise with the concerns continue to generate sustainable growth.
of our investors, and thank them for their continued support.
We remain confident that our We have organised ourselves to focus on our focused strategy and robust financial position customers and have now integrated Milgo equip us to capitalise swiftly and decisively when Solutions, acquired at the end of the last sentiment improves.
financial year, into our largest customer facing division, Kingston inbusiness.
For this year, your Board has decided not to recommend a dividend.
We will instead continue In an industry beset by mass redundancy, to invest our funds prudently in the future growth we have continued to be a net recruiter in of the business, in full confidence that it remains particular to strengthen our sales and service rmly on the path to profitability.
capabilities in the business to business arena.
We have a strong Group-wide management team, and the growth we have achieved in such adifcult economic climate is testament to their skills and also to the hard work and dedication of all our people.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in the Kingston Michael Abrahams CBE DL Communications Group for their efforts.
Chairman Kingston Communications HULL PLC Report and accounts 2001 2002 5
