In 2002, Aegis grew profit and revenue and took market share from its rivals in challenging trading conditions.
Revenue growth was particularly strong in specialised media, communication services and market research, reecting earlier investment and operational improvement.
2002 Change % 2001 REVENUE 591.9m 11.9% 529.0m GROSS MARGIN 8.3% n a 7.6% UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 71.4m 12.8% 63.3m UNDERLYING BASIC EPS 4.4p 15.8% 3.8p DIVIDEND 1.25p 4.2% 1.2p Underlying results exclude exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
2 Lord Sharman, Chairman Letter to Shareholders Dear Shareholder products and solutions.
These efforts are commercially sound.
They will have the effect of improving client 2002 saw a second year of global recession in retention and profitability and reducing costs.
In the US, the market decline levelled out in the third quarter of 2002 If one looks at the skills required to run an effective and has subsequently shown signs of recovery.
advertising campaign, media planning and market These depressed market conditions were largely as research provide the key to understanding what the Group had forecast but it is pleasing to note that motivates consumers and how to effectively target our business continued to win substantial new them.
These two areas rely on sophisticated tools business and grow revenues.
and processes to provide clients with an objective assessment of how to get the best bang from their Revenue was up 11.9% to 591.9 million 2001: 529.0 marketing buck.
At a time when marketers are under million.
Taking out the effect of acquisitions, organic increasing pressure to provide real and measurable revenue growth was 3.4%.
Gross margin improved to results from their marketing spend, these skills are 8.3% 2001: 7.6% reflecting the increasing mix of increasingly in demand.
higher margin services that we can provide.
Underlying profit before tax was up 12.8% to 71.4 million 2001: The Groups strategy, therefore, is to build 63.3 million before exceptional items of 13.5 million highly valuable businesses with leading 2001: 18.6 million.
Underlying diluted EPS increased positions in media and market research and to to 4.3p 2001: 3.8p.
The Board is recommending a this end we are making good progress.
final dividend of 0.75p per ordinary share, making Although these businesses answer different 1.25p per ordinary share for the full year.
marketing questions we are now seeing benefits from the two businesses working more Our financial results demonstrate a marked closely together.
This is apparent on projects improvement in the performance of Aegis and reflect demanding ever-higher accuracy in identifying managements efforts to both improve revenue and targeting consumers.
We are now generation and run our worldwide operations developing integrated products and solutions more efficiently.
that will extend this capability.
In the past 4 years we have seen our business During the year, Carat extended its service transform from a European media agency into twin offering into related areas such as sponsorship, global media and market research networks.
In Carat direct marketing, PR and market modelling.
we have one of the largest and most respected media We operate these services within the media services companies in the world whilst Synovate is an business as we believe that a holistic approach exciting new global research brand with operations in provides more opportunity to market multiple 46 countries and growing.
services to clients whilst providing them with greater accountability and control over their We have built these networks prudently both through marketing spend.
internal investment and a buy-and-build approach and we are developing them into truly outstanding global networks with integrated portfolios of first class products and services.
The Group continued to make acquisitions in 2002 that were carefully targeted to meet our strategic objectives.
They were aimed at entering new geographic markets in research or media: they added to the development of communication services in established markets: or they extended our capability in specialist media.
We are conscious that such acquisitions should be the right fit for our business and we apply careful thought to their evaluation, management and integration.
With the Groups continuing expansion, aligning employees to our goals and aspirations is imperative.
In September, we launched our Vision & Values programme which communicated these objectives to staff worldwide and prescribed a way of working that will help us to attain our goals.
Developing a consistent global approach to business means that we pay attention to the transfer of best practice around the Group both operationally and in areas such as commercial engagement, client service, 3 Doug Flynn, Chief Executive Officer Letter to Shareholders We also believe that there are a market comprising relatively few 2002 saw a slight easing opportunities to enhance further large media agencies and it is our the level of service to clients by belief that this has resulted in a providing global specialist media lack of choice for marketers.
of the difficult market capabilities in both outdoor and Other than Carat there are now no interactive media.
These two areas, independent international media conditions that we communication services and agencies.
Vizeum will provide specialist media, represent a marketers an opportunity to work significant and growing share of with a new independent media experienced in 2001. our media revenue.
network with access to world-class systems and the negotiating power Our planning for 2003 Although our global media of the Aegis Group.
We are business had to endure a second confident that this will improve year of tough markets, we entered revenue growth and lead to higher has been built around 2002 in the knowledge that it shareholder value.
Indeed, further gradual market the quiet global media market saw The research side of our business the number of new business made good progress on all fronts pitches down by around 30%.
against a large and difficult agenda.
improvement and we Its management were tasked with Carat Europe spent much of the integrating a disparate group of expect to see further year operating in a market in newly acquired research companies: recession.
Given the difficult developing a suite of proprietary progress and a business backdrop our management research solutions: creating a throughout the European operations global capability to service did an outstanding job.
Carat US international clients: developing satisfactory year for the delivered a strong new business specialist capabilities in selected performance and, as a result of industry sectors and driving up Group in 2003. restructuring, delivered a sharp revenue and profitability.
In Asia Pacific we saw our nascent Against that agenda the management operation grow from strength to team made good progress: the strength with an excellent tally of development and global rollout of new business wins.
a number of key proprietary solutions was completed: a In addition to the Carat network, regional and global management the Group has a significant number structure was put in place: of strong regional media integration of new businesses was operations.
In March 2003 we progressed at several levels: new announced our intention to bring geographic markets were entered these together, by the third quarter and good progress in the of 2003, under the Vizeum brand, development of healthcare and to form a new media network.
Recent media industry In addition they developed new consolidation has led to business areas, closely linked to 4 the core research capability The prospects for the business in including expert panels, CRM 2003 will inevitably be affected by management, business intelligence, market forces.
For 2002 our forecasting, mystery shopping and financial planning assumed that the call centre monitoring.
Most global adspend market would be importantly our research division flat and our assumption proved was consolidated under a new broadly correct.
Our planning for global brand name, Synovate, 2003 has been built around some in January 2003. gradual improvement in global adspend levels that are likely The financial performance of the to return to positive growth of research business improved, around 3.1%.
particularly in the second half of the year.
Although there is still The actions that we have taken and much to be done to achieve an our ability to win new business and acceptable return on the funds grow revenues lead us to be employed in research, the Board is positive about the prospects for confident that it has established a the company.
Staff throughout the long term, growing and satisfactory Group responded well to the last business asset.
two difficult years and the support and cooperation between the The current network size and businesses has been outstanding.
capability means that major We thank them for their effort international clients can now begin and commitment.
to be serviced competitively, however, the Group still expects to make further research acquisitions in 2003.
Lord Sharman Chairman 2002 demonstrated the relative Doug Flynn resilience of our business models Chief Executive Officer the mostly commission based media business and the mostly project based custom market research business.
Both businesses were hit early in the downturn but both now appear to be recovering well.
The second half of 2002 saw new bookings in research rising and we would expect the research market to show modest improvement in 2003.
