Over two years ago we set out a clear strategy aimed at securing enhanced returns from property.
Since that time, the Group has made significant progress towards implementing this strategy by refocusing the investment portfolio, expanding the development programme and winning new property outsourcing contracts.
The Groups sound performance over a number of years is compelling evidence of the value of a long-term approach to property.
Our dividends have grown by an average of 4.5% per annum since 1992, compared to inflation of 2.6% per annum.
Over the same period, our net assets per Peter G Birch share have increased by 7.6% per annum.
These figures have underpinned Chairman our average total shareholder return of 13.8% over this period.
The recent fall-out from the technology sector and other high-profile corporate The Group has been particularly active and has sold over 0.5bn of failures has brought into sharp relief the benefits of concentrating on sustainable properties, invested 0.5bn in its portfolio and development activities, growth over the long term.
The Board has long recognised this and while 146.4m in the Telereal joint venture and 70.0m in Kent Thameside.
restructuring the business it has been mindful not to compromise the Groups reputation for dependability and its enviable financial position.
The Board recommends a final dividend of 24.95p per share, making a total distribution for the year of 34.0p, an increase of 4.6%.
The dividends paid Nevertheless, the performance of asset-backed businesses like ours is and proposed will be covered 1.52 times after excluding the effect of property inextricably linked to the Groups capital structure and we have been reviewing sales, bid costs and additional deferred tax arising on adoption of FRS19.
Our starting point has been a belief that there are good business The dividend will be paid on 22 July 2002 to shareholders on the register on reasons for retaining a strong balance sheet.
As part of this review we have 28 June 2002. concluded that around 500m of our capital is currently surplus to our requirements and are therefore proposing to return this surplus to shareholders.
Valuation In assessing the appropriate amount, we have considered future capital Since September 2001 there has been considerable uncertainty and a degree of requirements of the individual business units.
instability in global economies and financial markets.
Against this background we are pleased that the valuation of our portfolio has exhibited relative stability We expect the return, which is likely to be on a structured pro rata basis to all despite being adversely impacted by the decrease in value of our Central London shareholders, to be achieved by the autumn.
More details of the capital return development projects.
are contained in the Financial Review which follows.
Board and Senior Executive Group changes Results In order to ensure the effective delivery of our strategy we have made changes During the year revenue profit increased by 41.4m to 364.8m.
The pre-tax to the Board and Senior Executive Group.
We believe that we now have one of profit of 363.5m, an increase of 11.9%, was assisted by a full years the strongest senior management teams in the sector, with substantial financial, contribution from Land Securities Trillium.
Adjusted earnings per share are up property and management expertise.
Succession planning at all levels within the 13.7% to 51.61p per share 2001 45.38p per share.
Adjusted diluted net assets organisation also remains firmly on the Boards agenda.
per share remained steady at 1155p per share.
In October 2001, Andrew Macfarlane was appointed to the Board as group finance director, joining from Six Continents PLC.
In January this year, Peter Freeman, non-executive director of Argent Group plc and chairman of 4|5 Freeman Publishing plc, was appointed a non-executive director.
In April 2002, Outlook David Rough, previously Group Director Investments of Legal & General Plc, The recovery of global economies following the events of 11 September also joined as a non-executive director.
remains fragile: there is still a risk of further instability in the international markets and the uncertainty over oil prices remains.
However, the UK economy After a successful 20-year career at Land Securities Jim Murray retired in June.
remains relatively robust and consumer confidence appears undiminished We would also like to pass on our thanks to Peter Walicknowski and Manish following the tax increases outlined in the recent Budget.
With our focus on the Chande who resigned during the year.
UK property markets, we have good reason to be positive about the future prospects for the Group.
Ian Ellis, chief executive, and David Godden, chief operating officer, of our total property outsourcing business, joined the Senior Executive Group in January.
The advantage of property as an investment is highlighted by the fact that UK Ian and David joined Land Securities when we acquired Trillium in November direct commercial property returns continue to exceed those of the equity 2000 and have been instrumental in the development of this business.
Over a five-year period the FTSE-All Share has produced average annual total returns of 6.7%, compared with 11.9% for property.
Over a ten-year Following the year-end, in April, we announced that, after a successful period the returns have been broadly similar at 11.9% for the FTSE All-Share 29-year career at Land Securities, Mike Griffiths would be stepping down.
Demand for UK commercial property will, we believe, Francis Salway will move to the development business unit as chief executive continue to increase as pension funds switch from equities to less risky and we have recruited Mark Collins from GE Capital Real Estate as chief investments in order to meet future funding requirements.
executive of portfolio management and a member of the Senior Executive Group.
After ten years as a non-executive director Peter Hardy has also We will continue to pursue our core principles of acquiring and owning real indicated that he will be stepping down prior to this years AGM.
I would estate and optimising returns.
Land Securities has a unique portfolio and has put like to thank both Mike and Peter for their valued contribution to the Group.
in place a compelling strategy, the right team and the right structure for the future.
The new generation of management relishes the challenge of building on I welcome the staff who transferred to the Group when we concluded the BBC our long-term record and continuing to generate value for shareholders.
We have all been through a period of substantial change and I am impressed by the enthusiasm demonstrated by our employees, both old and new, and the positive way in which they are approaching new challenges.
I should like to thank them for all they have achieved over the past year.
