Chairmans statement TEMPLER AVENUE, FARNBOROUGH BUSINESS PARK 2002 WAS ONE OF THE MOST CHALLENGING years Adjusted basic earnings per share was 28.8p, 4.3 per for business that I can remember.
Nevertheless Slough cent better than the 27.6p of 2001.
After providing for Estates produced an improved profit before tax and deferred tax, earnings per share were 20.8p, a 28.3 per exceptional items of 143.5 million and the Groups cent reduction.
The underlying effective current tax rate before exceptional items was 8.2 per cent in 2002, diluted net assets per share before FRS19 deferred tax down from 9.2 per cent in 2001.
The overall effective were increased by 1.4 per cent to 519p per share.
tax rate including deferred tax but excluding exceptional Business conditions in all the markets in which we items remains largely unchanged from a restated 33.4 operated were difficult as fears of international turmoil per cent in 2001 to 31.3 per cent in 2002. grew, economic growth deteriorated and many Diluted net assets per share of 519p were 1.4 per cent business sectors suffered from over-expansion.
higher than the prior years 512p before application of Confidence was weak and consequently occupational FRS19 deferred tax, or 0.2 per cent up to 480p after demand suffered, particularly in the office markets.
provision for deferred tax and the consequent The Groups resilient strength lies in its well-distributed restatement of the 2001 year-end accounts.
and balanced portfolio which has generated a core property income growth of 3.8 per cent.
Our strong Dividend management, our focus on superior locations and the Your Board recommends the payment of a final benefits of a well-researched development programme dividend of 8.55p per share which, together with the have to a large extent protected us from an overinterim dividend of 5.45p per share, represents an concentration on the more exposed property sectors.
aggregate distribution of 14.0p per share, an increase of Conversely, as interest rates remained low and stock 6.9 per cent for the year.
markets further declined, the positive characteristics of property as an investment class became more evident Summary of the Year with a 2002 total return of 9.7 per cent which compares The Chief Executives Review is on pages 12 to 19. with a negative total return of 22.3 per cent for equities.
The main features of the year were that: Occupancy has declined from 91.6 per cent to 89.6 Results per cent but, when new pre-leased construction is Profit before tax and exceptional items for 2002 included, occupancy is stable.
amounted to 143.5 million, an increase of 4.5 per cent The current reduced construction programme of over the 137.3 million of the prior year.
m. is 80.6 per cent pre-leased together with after exceptional items of 143.4 million was 76.1 recent completions and is expected to generate 48.8 million higher than 2001s 67.3 million.
The 2001 million of additional rent.
results were adversely affected by the exceptional write-down of 60.2 million in the book value of the The Groups strength utilities plant at Slough and by the exceptional loss of 9.8 million on disposal of investment properties, lies in its well-distributed compared to a loss in 2002 of 0.1 million in respect of and balanced portfolio the latter.
which has generated The Group has adopted FRS19 Deferred Tax for the first time this year.
This new accounting standard has a core income growth had a significant effect on both earnings and assets per of 3.8 per cent share.
The full details of the impact and prior year restatements are given in note 1 to the accounts and are explained more fully in the Financial Review on page 28.
We are in agreement with other UK property companies and sector analysts that most of the FRS19 provision for deferred tax is unlikely to crystallize.
We have consequently decided to report key financial figures adjusted to exclude the effects of FRS19.
5 Chairmans Statement In Belgium occupancy has improved to 93 per cent The Groups Strategy from 84 per cent and in France the refurbished office With the appointment of Ian Coull as Chief Executive building in Place dIena was let and sold.
from 1 January, the opportunity is being taken to review In the United States gross rental income increased fully the Groups strategy.
by 27.2 per cent to 44.9 million as a result of new The current strategic principles have, however, construction and acquisitions.
continued to be as robust and resilient in challenging In total some 175,000 sq.
m. of new and existing conditions as they have been in more favourable times.
space was leased in the UK and overseas.
These principles are as follows: We should create, own and develop a selection of Valuation business parks, industrial and logistics estates and retail The value of investment properties, taking into account centres in international prime business centres that will the year-end valuation, construction in progress at cost be adaptable and resilient to changing conditions - and prevailing exchange rates at 31 December 2002, locations with an appeal to customers and investors.
The business space we develop should be flexible The Groups investment property portfolio was valued and economic and must respond to changing externally by the valuers, listed on page 66, on the basis occupational needs.
An active programme of new of open market value in accordance with the requireconstruction and regeneration will be maintained, ments of appropriate professional bodies in each country.
In aggregate the revaluation gave rise to a deficit for the year of 20.3 million or 0.6 per cent.
We will manage our property portfolio to enhance customer satisfaction and wherever possible work with In the United Kingdom, the valuation deficit of 33.1 million 1.2 per cent reflects lower rental growth our customers to help them to prosper.
prospects offset by strong investor demand.
Weaker We will aim to maximize occupancy, cashflows and customer demand in the M3 and M4 corridors resulted earnings from good property management and to in office values declining by 8.6 per cent.
Industrial improve the long-term security of income.
values were more stable, reflecting slight continuing We will dispose of any properties that appear not rental growth, and increased by 1.3 per cent.
to be able to add material value to the portfolio.
Retail property, however, showed a positive improvement In fulfilling these principles, we will exercise of 6.7 per cent.
Land held for development, which corporate responsibility in maintaining environmental represented 7.0 per cent of the UK portfolio value, sustainability and stewardship, good employment declined by 13.4 per cent reflecting the adverse market conditions and community accountability.
Our management teams in the UK and overseas are The UK occupied portfolio is reversionary by 11.5 experienced and professional and they have total million or 7.1 per cent.
familiarity with the markets in which they operate.
In North America, the US portfolio showed an increase The Group actively assesses and manages financial and in value of 7.4 million or 1.2 per cent.
The US values business risks.
Risk is spread effectively through the benefited from the continuing development programme and the quality of the locations.
In Canada, values property portfolios diversity of superior locations, business sectors and products which appeal to a variety declined by 2.2 million or 7.8 per cent, reflecting the continuing weakness of the Vancouver market.
Specifically in 2002 the Group took a decision to reduce speculative development in response In Europe investment properties have gained 4.0 per to the more difficult market conditions.
Whereas a year cent in Belgium and 1.2 per cent in France, the ago some 60 per cent of new construction was aggregate increase being 7.6 million.
The German speculative, today the figure is less than 20 per cent.
interests are developed for sale and are therefore Further, these pre-let developments are concentrated in carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
locations and business sectors that are showing a The underlying assets held in property joint ventures continuing resilience, a consequence of Slough Estates were also valued externally and resulted in a surplus of strategy to focus on strong businesses in prime 14.6 million or 6.6 per cent.
Diluted net assets per share excluding FRS19 Deferred Tax were 519p compared to 522p at 30 June and 512p We consider that by continuing our consistent and at the end of 2001. coherent policies of focusing on these development 6 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 PEGASUS PARK, BRUSSELS Chairmans Statement criteria and by adopting good management and performance, productivity and competitiveness.
To financial disciplines, we will continue to deliver good achieve this there has to be renewed emphasis on new investment which has been lagging and this will in turn shareholder value and a sustained improvement in dividends.
restore demand for business space.
The Groups strategy is clearly focused on creating, Market Conditions owning and developing business space which is designed to be flexible and adaptable to accommodate Market conditions during the past year have been a wide range of needs.
Modern businesses need good, difficult.
Prior to the beginning of the year, world well-located buildings to improve productivity, economies were slowing down and stock markets have been falling for the past three years.
The terrorist competitiveness and efficiency.
We are committed to attacks of 11 September 2001, the subsequent counterprovide such buildings which are also good to work in, terrorism measures, and the renewed concerns over economic in use, energy-efficient and environmentally Iraq have all damaged confidence.
In the USA there sustainable.
have been examples of gross mis-governance by some There is no doubt that throughout the developed world businesses.
In Europe some businesses and the German government policies are becoming more influential and economy, the largest in Europe, are showing intrusive in business decisions and government is looking considerable signs of weakness.
Here in the UK, whilst increasingly to business to pay more taxes, levies and the domestic economy appears to be more resilient, other charges - stealth taxes.
Unfortunately these imposts businesses have been impacted by weaker world are introduced without any real appreciation of their markets, particularly for manufactured products and long-term impacts, particularly on investment.
In spite of all the Governments protestations, it is The consequences of these conditions have been a increasing taxation both overtly and by stealth and also general contraction in occupier demand for property.
The result of this trend can This has in turn dampened rental growth, increased only be to damage the UKs competitive advantage market vacancy and reduced development opportunity and its reputation for market transparency and labour across the portfolio.
In general, with very little new development being All governments need to realize that the prospects for undertaken, there is no great imbalance in supply and recovery are fragile and new investment will not be demand.
Therefore when demand does return recovery helped by indecision, inconsistent policies, more in the best locations should be very positive.
intrusive regulation and increased levies.
Business needs Conversely, despite the fall in occupational demand, the to be encouraged not hindered by public policy.
property investment market has been more resilient as investors recognize the more stable characteristics of The Year Ahead direct property investment based as it is on long-term Never in my forty years business experience has it been contracted income-flows, low interest rates and so difficult to predict how the year ahead will develop.
Consequently values have Geopolitical influences and economic forecasts all appear been sustained broadly at 2001 year-end values except to suggest a very challenging and uncertain 2003. where there is an immediate over-supply situation.
The resilience of the Group is reflected in a strong core income stream, a strong balance sheet and a wellThe Way Forward leased development programme.
I remain confident that Looking to the future, we remain confident that our these strengths will ensure that the Groups prospects policies of recent years have focused our investment in are sustainable.
Corporate investment will recover and the demand for quality business space will Corporate Governance strengthen in those premier locations where the Group The Group has always believed in adopting good is already located.
This demand will re-emerge most corporate governance and our policy guidelines have strongly from knowledge-based businesses in the computer, communications and pharmaceutical been included in previous reports.
The Higgs Review has now been published and, whilst we are pleased to note sectors.
Throughout the developed world, modern government and business is increasingly dependent that Derek Higgs has reaffirmed the basic principles of upon knowledge and technology to improve good practice which we already observe, we are concerned 8 SLOUGH ESTATES Annual Report 2002 TORREY PINES SCIENCE CENTER, SAN DIEGO 200 BATH ROAD, SLOUGH Chairmans Statement that many of his consequent recommendations do, we involved in a wide range of local and national voluntary believe, subordinate the judgement of the board, create service which we encourage and support.
a box-ticking environment and impose unrealistic burdens upon non-executive directors.
The Board Higgs suggests that his recommendations depend upon I welcome the appointment of Mr. Ian Coull as a the principle comply or explain.
It must therefore be director and Chief Executive with effect from 1 January understood and accepted that variations from the 2003.
Ian Coull, who is a chartered surveyor, was for the norm may well be a matter for praise and not always a past fourteen years a director of J. Sainsbury plc with point of criticism.
responsibility for their extensive property and environmental activities.
He has a wide knowledge of Good corporate governance does depend upon there property development and its ownership and his being a constructive dialogue as between the company experience will be of very great value to the Group.
It must, however, be a two-way process.
Major investors need to play their part by Ian Coull succeeds Derek Wilson who retired from the contributing to a meaningful discussion about their Board towards the end of 2002 after sixteen years with expectations and the companys positioning.
the Group, first as Finance Director but as Chief Executive for the past six years.
Derek made a notable Corporate Social Responsibility contribution to the refocusing of our North American business and to the implementation of our prime Businesses are rightly being asked to report on their business centre strategy.
In October David Simons corporate social responsibility CSR performance.
This retired from the Board after nearly thirty years with the year we have included a report on the subject in Group, being responsible for our growing European addition to the section on environmental policy and activities.
I wish to thank them both for their very performance.
considerable contribution to the growth of the business As a company which has a long history of observing and wish them well in retirement.
good corporate social responsibility policies, we are As previously advised, Sir Gordon Jewkes retired as a pleased to provide this information.
We believe that our non-executive director at the conclusion of the last record is excellent and relevant to our business and to Annual General Meeting.
Again I would like to express the communities within which we primarily operate.
my appreciation to him for his wise counsel and We are, however, concerned that the best objectives of support.
such policies are at risk of being hijacked by the complexity and length of questionnaires being At the Annual General Meeting, the following directors circulated by self-appointed rating agencies whose own will retire by rotation and offer themselves for reaccountability is not transparent and whose election - Paul Orchard-Lisle, John Heawood and judgements can be at best only subjective.
In addition, Mr. Ian Coull will be very real threat of questionnaire fatigue.
During the past year, the Groups CSR committee under Brief biographical notes for all Board members are set my chairmanship has met regularly and our out on pages 44 and 45. employment policies, including health and safety, have been reviewed and updated where appropriate.
We also Management and Staff continually review how our other policies can be 2002 has been a very challenging year for everybody further improved.
and has called upon the professional skills, experience We continue to maintain our policy of providing and resilience of all our people in the UK and overseas.
charitable support to the extent of 1 per cent of All of them deserve to be congratulated and thanked dividends paid to a wide range of educational, for their very significant contribution throughout the environmental and welfare organizations within the past year.
This support, which in 2002 amounted to 380,000, takes the form of financial donations and Nigel Mobbs management support.
Many employees also become Chairman 11
