02 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement Chairmans statement The results for the year demonstrate the resilience of our core business and the wisdom of concentrating our efforts on the Personal and Health Care sectors which are demonstrating their ability to withstand the pressures affecting more cyclical markets.
I am particularly glad that again we are able to report a very We have often said that product development in partnership satisfactory cash position, showing rigorous control at both with our customers is the key to our future.
Although the central and local level.
Health Care sector inevitably has long development cycles, our pipeline continues to look promising.
In the meantime At 38.3 million, pre-tax profits of continuing operations research and development continues with a number of new before exceptional items were 23 per cent above last year on patent filings in 2002. turnover up by 3 per cent at 295 million.
The Oleochemicals trading margin has returned to a normal level of over 16 per The tax charge at 35.8 per cent is as expected giving earnings cent following the dip in 2001. per share before exceptional items of 17.7 pence and a loss per share after exceptional items of 0.5 pence.
In line with our Our UK oleochemicals business achieved good growth in stated objective of increasing our dividend cover over the 2002.
The active ingredients businesses in France, Sederma and next few years your Board is proposing a final dividend of Crodarom, showed significant growth in both sales and profits.
7.59 pence making 11.5 pence 2001: 11.3 pence for the year.
US oleochemical sales were 9 per cent higher in Sterling terms and about 14 per cent higher in local currency, and FINANCE margins also increased.
In fact, despite the currency turmoil in Last year I paid tribute to the efforts that had gone into South America, sales increased in the Americas by over 6 per improving our working capital.
It is therefore impressive that we cent in Sterling terms.
should have achieved further improvements this year.
Net debt has been reduced by a further 11.5 million to 52.1 million so that year end gearing has fallen to 32 per cent with interest cover at 10 times.
03 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement ANTONY BEEVOR Chairman RESTRUCTURING SAFETY, HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT Our oleochemicals businesses in the UK and Europe were In my last Statement I wrote at some length about the reorganised with effect from the start of 2003.
Croda importance we attach to issues related to Health, Safety and Chemicals Europe incorporates the UK oleochemicals the Environment.
It is an unusual and unwise manufacturer manufacturing sites and all the UK and mainland European nowadays that does not do so and we continue to give these sales operations in a single market driven structure under areas high priority, not only in this country but also globally.
The new structure is to ensure enhanced focus on growth in our core markets and firmly places the PEOPLE onus on the Product Development and Marketing teams to The Croda culture is one of notable loyalty to the company develop our businesses in those markets with the and a surprisingly large number of individuals have worked in manufacturing facilities in the UK to support them.
the Group for the majority of their working lives.
This culture is of great value and I would like on your behalf to thank our Due to adverse market conditions and consistent with our team for their loyalty over the years as well as for their strategy, it was necessary to sell or close a number of our less efforts during 2002. successful activities.
This included a major part of our gelatin business, the textile chemical business, Brookstone, and the OUTLOOK sale of our solvent recovery business.
These units were not We cannot entirely escape the consequences of what is going core and could not, in the Boards belief, achieve satisfactory on around us in the financial world and in common with many returns.
We are determined to focus our resources and others face increased cost pressures.
Nevertheless, we believe management on those areas which have the strongest and that in 2003, organic growth, new product deliveries and the most certain prospects for growth.
This is in the best interests exit from low return businesses will mean we are well placed of all of our stakeholders.
Nevertheless, your Board for further progress.
acknowledges the difficulties for those directly affected as well as for those with responsibility for managing the process.
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING I am glad to report that the roll out across the Group of our SAP enterprise resource planning system continues to go well, thanks to the great amount of effort invested in preparation and training at each unit due to be brought on to the system.
In 2002 the installation was successfully completed at our sales operations in France, Italy and Germany.
The system has now been in operation long enough at sufficient locations for us to be convinced of the benefits of this investment and it will be Antony Beevor installed in Brazil in 2003.
