chairmans statement The market has changed substantially and Our operational focus therefore is to business.
After extensive independent and it has become crucial to align and provide integrated solutions and services internal research, we have put a global invigorate our business to succeed in that exploit our unique capability in performance-based transformation difficult conditions.
Our evaluation has designing, integrating and operating programme into action, which we have translated into a programme of tangible Application Networks.
It is an all-embracing change, designed to have a direct impact initiative driven from Board level by on our delivery.
At our year end, we announced significant dedicated staff.
changes to our Board of Directors and Despite the challenges, we have management team to ensure that we have The DD Way focuses on boosting Group increased our global client base due to the right structure to sustain the execution turnover and margins and enhancing the our broad, integrated offering and of our strategy.
Our Board has been value of our proprietary technology and increased brand recognition.
We have also reduced to four executive and six nonbrands.
At its heart is a stringent focus on managed to grow our annuity-based executive directors.
improving people management and income through increased interest in and strengthening our client relationships.
In take-up of our GSOA Global Services In addition, we have created an Executive all cases, these changes are guided by Operating Architecture operational Committee comprising existing senior global best practice.
The stronger uptake resulted management and new senior managers from a better customer understanding of with international experience.
The The DD Way is now being implemented our offering, greater awareness of the Executive Committee is responsible for throughout the Group.
We are rolling it out benefits, the trend towards outsourcing running operations and the formulation through a process of working sessions this type of service, and a sales force that and execution of Group strategy.
We have strengthened is better equipped to sell these services.
our human resources processes to ensure We have also made senior appointments this programme is closely linked to the For information on the financial to focus specifically on the provision of incentivisation and measurement of our performance of the Group, refer to the integrated solutions and services to our people.
All staff are accountable to ensure Financial Review.
Furthermore, we have significantly these substantial changes translate into broadened our base of international sustainable financial deliverables.
Structuring for delivery expertise to supplement that of our Dimension Data has spent the last few existing senior management.
I believe this Focused for the future years building a global business.
We are new management team has the depth and We have established a Group with a now focused on integrating our breadth to meet the global challenge in a global reach that spans more than 30 businesses across different regions to proactive way.
Overall, our current talent countries on five continents.
We have ensure we can offer a world-class service base is the strongest in our history and we experienced teams across this footprint in all our regions.
will continue to promote from within and can cross-utilise skills from different wherever possible.
regions to offer the most efficient and To become world leaders in the provision cost-effective solutions to our clients.
and management of Application Network Driving change throughout our business solutions, we must assist our clients to has not only been about putting the right By reconfiguring our management unlock value by enabling them to interact people in the right positions.
We are also structure, and with the focused approach and communicate seamlessly and flexibly.
transforming the way we conduct our that is brought to bear by the DD Way, ANNUAL REPORT 2002 13 we now have the dedicated resources to growth in our international client base Chief Operating Officer, Brett Dawson, accelerate the rollout of proprietary supports an increasing realisation amongst and the Executive Committee to execute solutions and services to our global our customers that an IT partner offering Group strategy.
A special welcome to client base.
global solutions provides the opportunity Adam Craker who will work closely with for maximum return on investment.
Brett as the Group Sales Director and These solutions centre on addressing Denis Hocking, the CEO Global Services, those areas in a clients IT infrastructure It was announced on 5 November 2002 who will focus on growing and delivering where there is greatest duplication and that, subject to shareholder approval at world-class services for the Group.
inefficiency, thereby creating the an Extraordinary General Meeting on 13 opportunity for significant and immediate December 2002, the Group would issue a Raul Fernandez and Peter Harrison have return on investment.
Our go-to-market US$100 million convertible bond to also resigned from the Board but will focus areas include security, IP VenFin Ltd or its nominee.
This will remain on the US and European regional convergence, customer interactive allow greater flexibility in the management boards, respectively.
solutions CIS, and service provider of cash resources post the redemption of solutions SPS.
Research indicates that the existing convertible debenture.
I am very pleased to welcome Moss solutions in these areas are in high Ngoasheng as a new non-executive demand and represent above-average We continue to be challenged by difficult director to our Board.
Moss will no doubt growth opportunities over the medium market conditions, but we believe the add tremendous value and play an term.
Offering value-added solutions in management changes, cost containments important role in advising on our black these areas should generate significant and the focus on delivery through the DD empowerment initiatives, which we see as annuity income.
Way have placed us in the strongest crucial to our future success.
possible position to meet these challenges.
Multi-sourcing is a means for us to Gordon Waddell has been appointed as capitalise on world-class teams and Thank you senior non-executive director.
Gordon has solutions IP in low-cost geographies to win I would like to thank the management of been invaluable to us in the past and we and deliver business in regions where we Dimension Data for their contribution to the look forward to continuing to tap his either lack delivery capability or can restructuring of this business for the future.
benefit from the cost differential.
Initially A special thank you to Dirk Ackerman, who we will be focusing on leveraging has resigned as an executive director of To our clients, thank you for your experience from South Africa, Australia the Board to pursue an alternative career.
and India where we have a proven track Dirk will continue to consult to the Group record in delivering complex Application and remains as non-executive chairman of And lastly, to the entire Dimension Data Network solutions into other regions.
team, it has not been an easy time and I want to thank each and every person for With the growing convergence between Richard Came, Ronald Cattell, Peter Hird, their contribution.
The substantial change devices, software applications and Ettienne Reinecke, Donovan Smyth, completed this year could not have been protocols, it is essential to have a broad Robert Taylor and Bruce Watson have successfully effected without the knowledge and skills base.
This flexibility also resigned from the Board to join the dedication and passion of all.
and focus on multi-sourcing solutions has newly formed Executive Committee.
thank them for their contribution as Board members and I look forward to their In the period under review, we managed to continued input.
I welcome all the new Jeremy Ord secure several high-profile contracts.
The team members who will work with our new Executive Chairman 14 DIMENSION DATA
