4 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 Many factors underpin our success, which so many of our staff devote to Chairmans statement most recently the Groups expansion raising funds for numerous charities.
into large-scale mixed electrical retailing I am pleased to report and PC superstores across a number of This year has seen some changes to European markets.
We welcomed a new finance on another year of director, Jeremy Darroch, as well as considerable progress Our success in launching new brands a new non-executive director, Count and achievement for the and in maintaining the vigour of our Emmanuel dAndr, who complements established names reects the Groups our team with his wide and valuable Group.
We again recorded unfailing focus on its markets, on keeping international retail experience.
Our double-digit growth in close to its customers, on anticipating former finance director, Ian Livingston, earnings per share, despite their needs and desires and moving left to join BT where we wish him swiftly to meet them.
That focus is as continued success.
intense pressure in the vital in our newest stores from Ayr, to mobile phone and PC Budapest and Zaragoza as it was in our Optimism, a measure of skill and first Dixons in Edgware.
responsible opinions are among markets.
The Board has the many requisites of a company recommended payment We maintain that focus despite the chairman.
Obstacles and ill-considered of a final dividend of distraction of mounting external Government policies are problems to interference.
My optimism in the Groups 4.675 pence per share, at the tide of superuous and impractical prospects has been constant since making total dividends for regulation which increasingly impacts I joined my fathers photography shop the period of 6.05 pence on every business.
The notorious fridge in Edgware in 1948.
Although not given mountain is a prime example of the to self-satisfaction, I am reasonably per share 5.5 pence, an consequences of ill-considered regulation.
The so-called Enterprise Bill will vest enforcers with draconian powers, just Today, 40 years since Dixons became a two years after competition law was public company, I sign my final Chairmans dramatically overhauled.
It is in effect statement.
Sir John Collins, my successor, an anti-enterprise measure.
and I share many of the same values and the transfer of authority has been seamless.
Both examples indicate that business has insufficiently impressed on Whitehall John Clare, the Group Chief Executive, and Brussels how debilitating to our and I have worked in harmony for entrepreneurial base is the relentless 17 years.
We have agreed the Groups urge to interfere with the value strategies and plans and taken pleasure creation process.
I have worked as closely with the senior management of Yet, where political action is patently the Group over the years.
We have won necessary, its impact is less visible.
a reputation for developing first-class The rising level of crime is now among managers and I am pleased to pass the our most serious problems.
Losses baton to a talented team, each member rise inexorably with little discernible of which shares a determination to reaction from the authorities.
We have continue to grow the Company in no alternative but to invest substantially the interests of our customers, our in prevention.
The issue is now little short employees and our shareholders.
of a crisis and demands a commensurate focus from Government.
The Dixons Group trades in a key industry.
Once the products we sold And there is a further political threat were considered luxuries.
Today most to our national success.
That is the are core necessities for the twenty-first extraordinary proposal to substitute century consumer.
Our manufacturers, the euro for the pound.
Despite any many of the worlds leading industrial short-term convenience for holidaymakers, companies, invest massively in their I am confident that a majority of products.
The professionalism with citizens believe such a change would be which we bring them to the customer economically and politically disastrous.
It is a robust formula, Fortunately the choice will be ours when sustained by every member of our a referendum is announced.
Business has an integral responsibility The foundations of this business to the communities around it.
I am integrity and value are ingrained as pleased that the active role we play is strongly as ever in the Group.
I leave delivering several satisfying outcomes.
the arena of battle full of confidence Our funding of Kings College Human in its future.
Islet Project shows promising prospects and the Dixons City Technology College in Bradford goes from strength to strength in its mission to Create Talented Citizens.
We have established University Chairs in the elds of New Media, Sir Stanley Kalms Entrepreneurialism and Business Ethics.
Chairman Left: Sir Stanley Kalms with Sir John Collins.
I am proud of the time and commitment 26 June 2002 5 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 54 years of excellence 1948... As he leaves the role of Chairman, these pages celebrate the history of Dixons under the outstanding leadership of Sir Stanley Kalms over the past 54 years.
To be forward-looking is the very essence Our contribution is the strength of our 1972 With 110 stores of Dixons, but there are occasions when international buying and marketing and Dixons was now a little nostalgia, as captured in this our ability to turn complex technology a leading player photographic montage, may be excused.
into attractive, consumer-friendly in hiand cameras.
Own brand Prinzsound Our roots in 1948 were so modest.
offered hiperfection A small suburban store selling cameras.
while Chinon delivered Yet fortune smiled with opportunity.
Our strength lies also in the quality superb cine-camera It was the right industry at the right of our staff and the service they offer value.
I was 16 when I became manager from point of purchase to post sale.
Our of my fathers store, with all the energy stores are attractive and inviting and we and enthusiasm of that age.
continuously reinvent our offerings to meet the expectations of increasingly 1984 The Group became New technology met a rising level of savvy and demanding customers.
the white goods customer expectation and we were a market leader with diligent supplier.
Information technology has always been its acquisition of the a major investment and we try to be at 613 store century-old Currys chain and But it is important to understand why the cutting edge.
Mastercare, its the Group has been uniquely successful nationwide service in a relatively short timescale, and against Integrity, value and social responsibility organisation.
the background, until the mid 1980s, are not buzz words.
They represent core of extremely difficult economic and values and have done since Day One in social distractions.
Of course we make mistakes and, was truly an obstacle race.
The revolution occasionally, poor judgements.
If we slip of Margaret Thatchers support for the below our standards at times, that is market economy freed the talent and the nature of man.
But our fallibility resources of the Group.
We revelled in is always a spur to improvement.
the increased competition in our market.
It honed our skills and invigorated our Above all, an intensely competitive spirit young management.
pervades the Group at every level, in every country.
The strength of the Group lies rmly in the dynamism of our industry: optics, At times we may be accused of electronics, domestic appliances.
That, perhaps, is the price We benefit from the classic virtuous of sharing one overriding corporate 1999 The acquisition of the circle: technological advances regularly objective: to be number one in every Nordic market leader, creating consumer-orientated products one of our markets, never outvalued, Elkjp, marked the which, combined with price deation, and never outmanoeuvred.
I believe start of a wave of open our markets to an ever-widening all these values to be my legacy.
Stanley Kalms 6 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02 1948 1950 A keen 16 year old Early advertising Dixon Studios Stanley Kalms, newly targeted the families received its largest entrusted with the of servicemen who order for 1,000 copies management of his wanted a memento of a photograph of fathers photographic of the loved ones St Catherine Laboure, studio, persuades theyd left at home who created him that the way while they were in Catholicisms most to profit from the the forces.
popular icon, the new enthusiasm for Miraculous Medal.
photography is to sell cameras and accessories.
1954 1959 Despite tight 185 Station Road, Dixons pioneering management costs Edgware, the first marketing included the have risen.
In 1954 store and the nerve creation of Stanley the advertising budget centre of the business.
His expert was just 5,152, our advice inspired novice salary bill just 7,243. customers to make the In 2001 02 the salary most of their cameras, bill was 490 million.
exposure meters and to use new techniques such as Electronic Flash Photography.
1962 1967 With 16 branches and The acquisition of sales of 1.4 million, Bennett Cameras in Dixons was listed on 1964 and the success the Stock Exchange.
of own brands like Acquisitions in the Prinz & Pyramid, gave same year added Dixons 90 stores 42 stores including a commanding Londons Oxford Street lead in the UKs branch, claimed as photographic market.
1974 1982 Dixons opened Saisho made its debut.
its 163,000 sq ft Hailed as one of the distribution centre UKs most successful in Stevenage, at the own brand launches it time the largest reected an upmarket computerised high tech image for warehouse in Europe.
Today its 21 acre site provides 380,000 sq ft of warehouse space.
1987 1988 The annual report John Clare was looked 20 years ahead appointed Managing to the gadgets that Director of the newly could furnish the home formed Dixons Stores of 2007.
Needless Group, creating a to say most of the common infrastructure gadgets illustrated to support the Dixons were available in and Currys brands.
1990 1994 1998 A winning team for With the roll out of Launched in more than 30 years, PC World and The Link, September 1998 the then Group the Group launched Freeserve, the UKs Managing Director, a new phase of first nationwide Mark Souhami and expansion into content-rich internet Sir Stanley reveal the two rapidly growing service achieved one latest technology at specialist markets.
million customers the 1990 annual in its first six months.
Freeserve joined the FTSE 100 in March 2000.
2000 2002 2002... Spain and France were From one store the target markets for to Europes market the launch of PC City, leading specialist a new generation electricals retailer with of the successful stores in 11 countries PC World format.
serving tens of millions every year.
The man who drove its creation hands on a record beating business.
7 Dixons Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2001 02
