FOODSERVICE GROUP n 2002 we made excellent through Belshaws routes to progress in our objective to market.
The Euro 55 million Icreate a strong international acquisition of Bongard in October business in our chosen consumer was a breakthrough for the Group and foodservice markets.
Trading as it is Europes leading bakery performance showed the benefits equipment supplier to in-store of the systematic approach to our supermarket and artisan bakeries development plans.
Turnover, and it provides the base for operating profit before tax and expansion in Continental Europe earnings per share were all well for the full range of foodservice up.
Our financial position remains equipment operations.
robust and we retain a strong net Taken together these steps The corporate team outside their new head office in Solihull.
have created a business that in The acquisition in March of Domain, We now have a well-balanced range 2002 split 54 per cent in consumer and the East Coast furniture retailer, has of consumer and foodservice products 46 per cent in foodservice and had twoproved successful in its own right and and a distribution structure in place to thirds of turnover in the UK and the has provided a catalyst for Agas US expand our sales in both North America remainder split between North America consumer activities.
Grange, in which and Continental Europe.
We have created and Continental Europe.
we now have a 40.7 per cent interest, the framework we envisaged when the Strategy gives us strong links to a well-developed Group disposed of its Pipe Systems operdistribution structure to sell our products A consistent, methodical approach to ations in early 2001 and from this base on the continent and is now at the core implementing our strategy has been a we can now look forward to achieving of marketing Aga in France.
While feature of the last two years.
focused initially on the Aga range, our continue to make acquisitions and are Developing the Group cooker sales in the US and Europe will, assessing the opportunities to expand For our consumer operations, having existing operations and to acquire in future, include Rangemaster products.
made Aga the centre stage business, the In foodservice, two important acquisbusinesses which are both strong in their next requirement was to broaden the itions made in 2002 helped implement own right and which will bring new product range, make acquisitions of the stated strategy of becoming a leader opportunities to others already within empathetic brands and to strengthen internationally in selected niche marthe Group.
The $24 million acquisition in April The retail dimension has grown in achieved.
Products like Aga Masterchef of Belshaw, the world leader in doughnut importance in the Group and we now and the Aga Six-Four Series have been making equipment, has provided the have an exciting range of products to instrumental in taking Aga branded opportunity to take European manuappeal to our targeted customer base, cooker sales over 9,000 for the first factured bakery equipment to the US which we can reach not just in the UK time and the progressive development but also in the US and Europe.
In of Rangemaster, our range cooker foodservice we are working to ensure brand, gives us a strong portfolio of that the full range of our products premium cookers.
Our owned and is marketed well in all of our key distributor managed retail operations geographical markets.
Against this backhave performed well and have been ground we have assessed the best use bolstered by new openings, including 6 of the cash and financial capacity inspirational stores, in which both Aga available to the Group.
We intend to and Fired Earth products are featured.
continue with the strategy we have in Internationalising our consumer place and not make an early return businesses is central to our strategy.
We have, Baking with Bongard.
2 Chairmans Statement however, decided to maintain a proProspects Aga Foodservice gressive dividend policy and to increase By selective increase in the range of the dividend for the year from 5 pence now has in place products and increased geographical per share to 6 pence, a 20 per cent reach, we continue to add to the increase.
We have the scope to sustain the framework potential of the Group.
Alongside work a period of dividend growth.
we set out to on acquisitions, resources are being People committed in each of our product areas create two to enable us to drive sales growth within With the acquisitions the number of our the existing portfolio, looking at the infraemployees increased to over 4,700 at years ago.
structure we have on a country-bythe year end and we should like to thank country basis and making broader ranges them all for their achievements in the of Group products available through it.
We have seen some notable The year as a whole will benefit from changes around the board with Beverley a full year contribution from our recent Nielsen moving from being a nonacquisitions, notably Bongard.
executive Group director to be managing The current year has started satisdirector at Fired Earth and Deryck factorily with the foodservice operations Solomon standing down as company obtaining important new orders.
We should like to thank them there are clear reasons for concern for their distinctive contributions.
We about consumer markets, we have a have made two new non-executive distinctive approach which is winning appointments.
John Lovering, who has new customers.
wide experience in the retail sector The political and economic and was chairman of Homebase uncertainties may yet affect us until its recent sale to GUS, and materially but we do have, for our Helen Mahy, company secretary own part, grounds for optimism of National Grid Transco.
In addfor 2003. ition, Judy George, the chief executive of Domain, who is leading the work to take Aga to the US, will join the C J Farrow board on 1st July as head Chairman of our US retail operations.
