Chairmans Statement Antony Hichens From its outset, we viewed 2001 02 The Groups strategy continues to be the as a testing year due to the deteriorating operational improvement and further European economy.
In the event, trading development of our two principal activities conditions worsened more than we had Packaging and Office Products Wholesaling.
anticipated, particularly following the We are developing these businesses events of 11 September.
I am, therefore, in parallel while remaining focused on particularly pleased to report that our largest maximising shareholder value.
activity, Packaging, made progress despite these tough external conditions.
This was The name of the Company was changed to due in large part to the ongoing drive DS Smith Plc at the Annual General Meeting for operational improvement, our strong last September.
This simplication of the market positions and benets from name has helped us to present a more recent investments.
Disappointingly, the cohesive image across the whole spectrum improvement in Packaging was more than of the Groups activities.
offset by a fall in operating profit in Office Products, principally due to the effects Tony Thorne, who joined us as Group Chief of a sharp market slow-down, additional Operating Officer in January 2001 after six costs put in place to support projected years in a senior role with a major packaging expansion and some short-term operational competitor, was appointed Group Chief difficulties.
We took decisive action to Executive in December 2001.
Peter Williams, improve performance and expect a measure who stepped down after a decade as of recovery in 2002 03.
Chief Executive, became Deputy Chairman and will retire from the Board at the AGM in The Groups adjusted earnings per share, September 2002.
We owe him a great debt before exceptionals and amortisation of gratitude for his courageous development of intangibles, were 14.0p compared with of the DS Smith Group in good times and 15.1p in the previous year.
The basic bad during his long period at the helm.
Cash inow after payment of the dividend but before I would also like to thank our 10,900 acquisitions was 43.0 million.
employees worldwide for their enthusiastic commitment to improving the Groups Your Board attaches considerable performance during the year.
The relentless importance to the Groups capacity to pay quest for greater productivity has had their its shareholders a reliable and significant understanding support.
This year, in view of the reduced profits, the Board is recommending Conditions in many of our markets remain an unchanged final dividend of 6.0p per uncertain and, in particular, rising recovered ordinary share which, together with the paper prices are currently squeezing paper interim dividend of 2.8p, will make margins.
Nevertheless, I am confident that a maintained total dividend for the year the steps we have taken to raise operational of 8.8p per ordinary share.
performance across the Group provide a sound basis for progress in the coming year.
During the past year we progressed a number of strategic capital projects and made six acquisitions which strengthened our competitiveness in selected sectors, most particularly in corrugated packaging in the United Kingdom and in our international liquid packaging business.
In Office Products Wholesaling, we Antony Hichens continued to expand geographically, Chairman opening our second distribution centre in Germany and our first in Spain.
03 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002
