easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Chairmans statement One wet and windy November morning, a little over seven years ago, just before the crack of dawn I sat in the jump seat of a wet-leased Boeing 737-200 about to take off from Luton airport bound for Glasgow.
I used the public th address system to welcome the full load of passengers to the inaugural flight of my airline!
It was 7am on the 10 of November 1995, and as they say the rest is history.
Today my baby is officially becoming an adult.
This is the last set of results that I will announce as the Companys Chairman.
And I couldnt have hoped for a better send-off!
Profits before exceptional items, provision for the investment in The Airline Group Limited, goodwill amortisation and before tax are up 86 per cent year-on-year to 82 million.
Profits before tax are up 78 per cent year-onyear to 72 million and the profit after tax has increased 29 per cent to 49 million.
During the year we acquired the most promising of our competitors, Go Fly, creating Europes largest low cost airline by passengers and the one that measures up with most of the continents flag-carriers and there are still too many of those left.
The fleet comprises 64 aircraft with another 14 brand new Boeings to be delivered by May 2004.
Moreover, in what could be the deal of the century, we are close to ordering 120 Airbus A319 aircraft, with options for a further 120 aircraft.
I believe the last remaining competitive advantage of the flag-carriers - buying cheaper aircraft than the up-starts - has just been demolished.
In the meantime we have built one of the strongest balance sheets in the industry with cash reserves of 428 million, which equates to almost one years worth of operating expenses.
Sustainable companies should exist without the constant care and attention of the founders.
I must note that in this day and age it is highly unusual to find an outgoing Chairman Founder of a substantial Company who is able to claim that he has never drawn a salary nor claimed a single penny in expenses.
I even pay for my own easyJet flights!
I believe in the highest standards of corporate governance and in accordance with those I am delighted to hand over the Chair of the Board to the safe pair of hands of Sir Colin Chandler.
Sir Colin with his long city experience and Ray Webster, the Chief Executive, who has been with easyJet almost from the beginning, in effect running the company, make an ideal combination to lead the company forward.
Given my 22 per cent shareholding and brand licence agreement between easyGroup and easyJet, easyJet will never be far from my mind.
I will have my hands full with other easyGroup activity, but will continue to watch from afar with a close and fond interest.
At the same time, I will concentrate on what I think I do best - turning dreams into reality.
I intend to work diligently to create more sustainable and valuable companies that use the easy brand in order to help make it one of the most famous and valuable in the world for the benefit of all the easy companies.
The challenges for the year ahead include the completion of the integration of Go Fly, which is well under way, the decision as to whether to exercise the option to acquire Deutsche BA and the introduction of the Airbus into the fleet.
On this last point, I have to say that, given the price difference between Airbus and Boeing, there is enough benefit in the price discount to compensate for any introduction risk.
th We have come an awful long way since the first flight on the 10 of November 1995 and it has been a true pleasure and an honour to work with all of the 3,100 members of the easyJet family.
A big thank you to all of you and keep up the good work!
