02 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 Chairmans statement Repositioned for the future Overview The year to 28 September Financial Despite the difficult 2002 has seen further significant trading and economic background, progress with net debt substantially we successfully restructured our reduced, refinancing completed and debt and increased our capital improved operating performance in base during the year.
Food Service Equipment North The principal elements of the America on a like-for-like basis refinancing were a 3 for 5 Rights i. e. after adjusting for the impact Issue that raised 70.3m net, 3 of disposals and foreign exchange the issuance of 100m 10 8% rate movements.
Senior Subordinated Notes and Our new executive team has the negotiation of new Senior come together well and made Credit Facilities.
We have developed The entire refinancing a clear strategy for the future programme required a significant which has achieved a high level amount of management input of buy-in from around the Group.
in the first half of the year but as All of this has been achieved a result Enodis has now emerged against a difficult trading background with an appropriate capital structure with a decline in markets in for the immediate future.
both North America and Europe.
During the year a number of The level of Food Service non-core businesses were sold.
Equipment purchases by our The disposal of these businesses customers has declined, which Sammic, Belshaw, Austral, Aladdin we believe was due to economic Temp-rite and Prolon together uncertainty and reduced confidence.
with further receipts arising in At the same time as reflecting connection with the sale last year progress in repositioning the Group, of our Business and Consumer our results show a substantial loss Products Division, raised 88.6m.
before tax of 85.8m including These disposals resulted in a net 114.0m of goodwill write-offs as a loss of 38.1m but were an result of disposals and an important step in the refocusing of impairment of Kysor Warren our business and contributed to the goodwill.
We believe our strategy reduction in debt.
will result in significantly enhanced Our closing net debt of 186.1m performance over time and the almost halved from the 365.9m Board and our management team is at the previous year end and is committed to delivering improved over 300m lower than the net results and thus re-building debt at March 2001.
This is an shareholder value.
achievement in which we can The steps taken this year have take pride.
been necessary to reposition the Company and to assist us to deliver on this commitment.
03 03 Enodis annual report and accounts 20 Enodis annual report and accounts 2002 02 Chairmans statement THE YEAR HAS SEEN FURTHER SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS ResultsTrading in our core Global Dave Odum, former President We are confident that the current Food Service Equipment business of the Food Retail Equipment year will see Enodis delivering was generally robust given the business, resigned from the further market share gains and difficult market conditions, although Board in May 2002. improved financial performance there were some disappointments Our staff, throughout the even if, as we expect, conditions particularly at two UK units.
organisation, have worked tirelessly, in our key North American Within the Food Retail often in difficult circumstances, markets show no improvement.
Equipment division, Kysor Panel to deliver our goals and take the Year on year quarterly performance Systems improved profits but actions necessary to successfully comparisons are expected to Kysor Warren produced losses.
I would improve as the year progresses.
A new management team has like to take this opportunity to Conclusion Our vision is to recently been appointed at thank all our employees for their become the clear world leader in Kysor Warren.
A turnaround hard work and support during Food Service Equipment through programme is well underway the last year.
and early signs are encouraging.
Current trading and outlook We are determined to restore Returning this business to Our expectations of the full year shareholder value and ensure a profitability is a key priority of results for the current year are return to after-tax profit.
unchanged from the time of our forward to delivering on what we Profit before tax, goodwill third quarter results announcement.
believe is an exciting strategy and amortisation and exceptional The results for October and to seeing our efforts rewarded by items was 38.0m 2001: 63.8m.
forecast for November are in line a recovery in the share price.
Dividends No dividend is to be with our expectations.
for-like basis, Global Food Service Equipment is ahead of last year People A number of Board and and Food Retail Equipment behind senior management changes due to the losses at Kysor Warren.
were announced during the year.
Peter Brooks Our current year results will Dave McCulloch, formerly Chairman reflect the absence of operating President, Global Food Service profits from businesses sold last Equipment, joined the Board and year.
Losses at Kysor Warren subsequently became Chief should be significantly lower than Operating Officer.
Dave Wrench those incurred last year.
Chief Financial Officer and The interest charge will benefit Bob Eimers Executive Vice President from lower debt levels.
The impact Global Human Resources also of exchange movements will be became Executive Directors.
negative if the present US$ rate is maintained.
