Chairmans Statement Highlights 2002 2001 change Turnover 179.7m 204.8m -12% Operating profit 29.1m 28.1m 4% Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items 25.2m 22.9m 10% Profit before tax 20.6m 13.7m 50% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 24.3p 20.1p 21% Dividend 14.75p 14.75p Net debt 62.8m 73.2m -14% Before goodwill amortization and exceptional items our company increased profits before tax, goodwill and exceptional items by 10% to Y25.2 million in the year to September 30 in spite of a 12% drop in revenues to 179.7 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 9.75p, making a total for the year of 14.75p, the same as the previous year.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share increased by 21% to 24.3p, helped by a lower tax charge.
The dividend cover rose from 1.4 times to 1.6 times.
The results benefited from a series of reorganization initiatives begun during the previous year, and from strong controls on costs, against a background of some of the worst trading conditions in the companys history.
Around two-thirds of group revenues arise from the financial sector.
Its financial publishing and training businesses were hit by cost cuts at global investment banks and by the drop in the number of delegates travelling to attend training courses following September 11.
Advertising revenues fell by 11% across the group, and advertising in the financial titles fell by a fifth.
The US was particularly affected, with advertising in Institutional Investor falling by 30%, against a fall of 22% at Euromoney.
The companys priority during the year was to remain as profitable as possible and to continue to position the group for future growth.
In spite of cutbacks by some financial institutions, ISI, the emerging markets information service, which is subscription-based, continued to gain clients, particularly in the public sector, and increased its revenues by 8% during the year.
It made its first monthly profit in September, and its cash flow was positive from January onwards.
A further encouraging sign for the group was a drop in debt of 10.4 million, helped by a weaker dollar, to 62.8 million at year-end, increasing the capacity of the company to make further acquisitions.
Training revenues fell a fifth to 22.4 million.
In sharp contrast, advertising into business titles increased by 2% to 27 million, helped by the full year inclusion of Gulf Publishing acquired in August 2001.
The groups continued focus on subscription products, such as ISI, is highlighted by the fact that subscription revenues excluding titles closed at the beginning of the year fell by just 1%.
Event sponsorship was the strongest revenue stream, increasing 5% to 12.9 million.
A rigorous cost reduction programme was implemented during the first half, following the closure of certain loss-making businesses at the end of last year, the restructuring of under performing businesses and the elimination of loss-making and low margin products.
These actions contributed savings of 2.7 million.
Headcount was reduced from 1,684 at the beginning of the year to 1,358 at the end of September, giving rise to one-off costs of nearly 1 million.
Most of this reduction in headcount was completed during the first half.
Space commitments were cut and other costs were reduced through renegotiations with suppliers.
Operating profits before goodwill increased 1 million to 29.1 million.
The operating margin improved from 13.7% to 16.2%.
Profits from financial publishing fell from 20.1 million to 13.9 million, but even in these tough conditions, titles such as Euroweek, Global Investor and Project Finance managed to increase their profits.
Business publishing, which mainly covers the legal, energy, pharmaceutical and travel sectors, performed relatively well, with profits increasing by 6% to 6.3 million.
Both Legal Publishing and Engel Publishing, the pharmaceutical publishing business, increased second half profits after a difficult start to the year.
Gulf Publishing contributed a profit of 200,000 after a first half loss.
The Business Traveller group of titles recovered well from the impact of September 11 and also increased profits.
Page 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Chairmans Statement continued Training businesses are particularly sensitive to delegate numbers.
Travel concerns, budget cuts and headcount reductions badly affected course numbers at the financial and audit and IT security training businesses.
As a result, training profits fell 2.3 million to 4.4 million.
Conferences and seminars was the best performing part of the group.
Profits increased 2.4 million to 8.4 million, most of the improvement coming in the first half when the group runs four of its five largest events including Vinisud, the biennial wine exhibition in France.
Many of the groups conferences rely on sponsorship fees rather than paying delegates.
Sponsorship proved to be a robust revenue stream, reflecting in part the quality of large annual repeat events such as the Euromoney Bond Investors Congress, the Euromoney Global Borrowers & Investors Forum and the Coaltrans annual coal conference, although financial conference sponsorship revenues now show signs of weakness.
In the past couple of years the company has invested in two new event streams, business meetings and awards dinners, and both of these achieved strong revenue growth.
Databases and information services contributed a profit of 1.8 million against a loss of 2.7 million.
Most of the improvement came from ISI, which reduced its losses by 3.7 million, but Capital Data and Capital Net also did well.
The performance at ISI in the second half was much stronger than in the first.
Government agencies and corporates have been the main source of growth, and financial customers now only account for 43% of revenues.
The cost base of ISI is relatively fixed and the infrastructure is in place to develop new revenue streams.
Group profit before tax increased from 13.7 million to 20.6 million after lower financing charges and exceptional profits of 1.5 million following the first half receipt of the final proceeds from the sale of the 100% Design exhibition in 1999.
The previous years results included an exceptional charge of 3.3 million to cover the cost of closing three loss-making businesses.
There was an exceptional tax credit of 6.8 million, which arose from the release of prior year tax provisions for items now agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
The full year effective tax rate, before goodwill and exceptional items, is 16% against 22% in 2001, partly as a result of the full adoption in the year of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation.
During the year the group received 1.8 million from the final tranche of proceeds from the sale of 100% Design.
In November 2001 the group spent 300,000 acquiring the assets of Tempest Consulting and further investments were made in ISI.
A start-up loan of 400,000 to the associate entity, Capital Net, was repaid from the cash flows from the successful database products it has launched.
Net financing costs fell by 1.2 million to 4.2 million due to a combination of lower interest rates, favourable exchange rates, and strong cash flows.
Capital expenditure included fitting out costs of 5.4 million for Institutional Investor, which moved to new offices in April.
The recession in financial markets has continued into the current year, particularly in the US, and group profits are likely to be lower in the first quarter.
Revenues in some businesses, including Euromoney, show some signs of recovery.
The first half should continue to benefit from last years reorganization and cost reductions.
The group believes that it will emerge strongly when the financial cycle begins an upswing and, as a result, plans to increase spending on subscription marketing.
It continues to focus on new business investment and to seek acquisitions, particularly in business publishing.
We were delighted to welcome Michael Carroll, Editor of Institutional Investor, to the board of the company in May.
Our people did very well to achieve such a good result in very tough conditions.
I thank them, on your behalf and mine, for their commitment, and I am confident they will do everything they can to produce the best results from the best products.
Padraic Fallon Chairman November 20 2002 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Page 3
