Executive Chairmans Statement Financial results Sales for the year ended 31 May 2002 were 280.5m 2001 297.4m.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional goodwill and tangible fixed asset impairment and share compensation costs was 17.8m 2001 12.2m, an increase of 46% over last financial year.
After charging non-cash items of 30.9m and net interest and financing currency costs of 12.4m, the loss before tax was 25.5m 2001 21.2m.
After tax this increased to 29.0m 2001 22.8m, resulting in a basic loss per share of 39.31p 2001 31.24p basic loss, which is the same on a diluted basis 2001 31.24p loss.
The non-cash items can be analysed as follows: m Normal annual goodwill amortisation 5.4 Exceptional goodwill impairment at Sigtek and Filtronic Solid State 16.0 Exceptional tangible fixed asset impairment at Filtronic Solid State 7.9 Share compensation 1.6 Total 30.9 Cash During the last financial year, the company generated 39.6m of net cash.
This included the fee received from BAE SYSTEMS Avionics Limited BAE, none of which is included in the Profit and Loss Account.
22.0m was applied in paying down long term debt, including buying in $29.25m of 10% Senior Notes.
The net increase in cash of 17.9m compares with a cash consumption of 48.5m in 2001. Dividend The Board is proposing to maintain the final dividend of 1.8p 2001 1.8p payable on 1 November 2002 to shareholders on the register at 16 August 2002.
World market environment Worldwide demand for the supply of telecommunications products has declined significantly during the last year with few signs of an imminent upturn.
Within this environment, Filtronic has increased and consolidated its position as the leading independent supplier of both transmit receive modules for mobile base stations and antennas for handsets.
Additionally, the company has developed several new processes including those for high power microwave transistors, the key technology for the companys high performance power amplifier modules.
Technology hardware demonstrations of these modules have taken place with three leading Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs.
These have been well received and further development work for these potential customers is underway, including the provision of sample modules.
The objective remains to become qualified into 3G WCDMA programmes with one or more of these customers.
Agreement with Powerwave Technologies, Inc. To provide a potential sales channel through the merchant market, Filtronic has signed a Product Development and Marketing Alliance Agreement with Powerwave Technologies, Inc. Powerwave, based in Santa Ana, California.
Powerwave, which is listed on NASDAQ in the USA, is the leading independent supplier of power amplifiers for mobile communications base stations, with annual sales in excess of $400m.
Powerwaves principal OEM customers include Nortel, Nokia and Lucent.
2 Annual Report 2002 Executive Chairmans Statement This agreement will enable Powerwaves power amplifiers to be integrated with Filtronics transmit receive filter modules to provide an integrated solution for both OEMs and network operators where appropriate.
Following the demonstration of Filtronics proprietary gallium arsenide based power amplifier modules, which Powerwave are currently evaluating, the agreement provides for a potential future agreement for the inclusion of such modules into the joint integrated solution and into selected future Powerwave products.
Operations The segmental analysis of the business is as follows: Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and impairment, and share Sales compensation Year ended 31 May 2002 2001 2002 2001 m m m m Wireless infrastructure 188.6 207.8 31.8 27.2 Cellular handset products 48.8 42.2 11.6 6.9 Electronic warfare 27.0 25.7 1.4 0.4 Broadband access 12.5 11.3 3.0 2.8 Inter segment 3.9 0.8 - - Central costs 5.0 3.8 Excluding Compound semiconductors 273.0 286.2 34.0 27.1 Compound semiconductors 7.5 11.2 16.2 14.9 280.5 297.4 17.8 12.2 Wireless Infrastructure Filtronics Wireless Infrastructure business is the number one independent supplier of its type in the world with a market share estimated at 35%.
During the last two years, this share has grown, although the overall market has declined as wireless operators have restricted capital expenditure.
Each of the Wireless Infrastructure operations in the UK, Finland, USA and Australia was profitable with only China, which is at an early stage of production volumes, incurring losses.
Continued focus on customer support, cost reductions and operating efficiency has been the key to a further very successful year for Filtronics principal business.
Cellular Handset Products The Cellular Handset Products business has also had an outstanding year, further increasing its market share as the worlds leading manufacturer of handset antennas.
During financial year 2001 02, Filtronic supplied 86m handset antennas, almost all of which were internal antennas, an increase of 21% over the previous financial year.
This was achieved against a background of lower world sales for cellular handsets during this period.
Demand for ceramic diplexers for US TDMA mobile handsets continued throughout the last financial year at a higher level than expected, helping to improve overall operating margins, however, demand for this product has now reduced.
Ceramic diplexer sales are not expected to increase until volume production of WCDMA handsets begins.
Electronic Warfare Sales in the Electronic Warfare business segment have improved slightly on last year as the European Fighter Aircraft programme has now started in initial production quantities.
This business moved into Annual Report 2002 3 Executive Chairmans Statement profitability in the second half of the financial year and is expected to improve its financial performance as EFA production volumes increase.
Broadband Access The Broadband Access business has suffered from very low levels of demand for its current point to point transceiver products in the second half of the financial year resulting in continuing losses.
Market conditions are such that major improvements in the trading performance of this business are unlikely in the next financial year.
Compound Semiconductors The strategy for the investment in the compound semiconductor facility at Newton Aycliffe remains unaltered but with an additional range of products.
The Supply and Development Agreement with BAE has resulted in a substantial cash receipt during the second half of last financial year, although none of this has been recognised in the profit and loss account this year.
Business opportunities for compound semiconductor products are arising from the strengthening relationship with BAE.
These opportunities have been enhanced by new restrictions on the export of strategic compound semiconductor products from the USA for military applications.
The first sales to M A-COM, Inc. have now been recorded although currently they are at modest levels.
As outlined in my statement on 20 May 2002, the rate of increase in and the ultimate level of the business with M A-COM is dependent on their success in the related end markets, the principal one of which is the cellular handset market.
It is probable that handset switches will now form the majority of the products to be supplied to M A-COM.
Presently, it is difficult for any company in this market to have good forward demand visibility.
Moreover, there are four specific switch opportunities, among several, which, were M A-COM to be successful in winning the business, should provide volume wafer throughput for Newton Aycliffe such that the monthly run rate of wafers being processed would be at an approximate break even level by May 2003.
This was the original objective of the M A-COM agreement.
The benefit of this potential business would fall initially in the second half of this financial year.
Were M A-COM not to be successful with these opportunities, then losses at Newton Aycliffe would not be expected to be materially less than 1m per month for the rest of the 2002 03 financial year, since most of the other revenue opportunities will only contribute materially after 31 May 2003.
The main objective of Newton Aycliffe remains the production of high quality compound semiconductor devices for integration into higher added value Filtronic products.
The first major product of this type is the power amplifier gain block, the development of which continues to progress.
Filtronic Solid State, California The Board announces the closing of the fabrication facility for compound semiconductors at Filtronic Solid State, Santa Clara, California.
"Although the acquisition of this 3"" wafer facility 4 years ago enabled the company to enter the compound semiconductor market and subsequently develop the Newton Aycliffe facility, substantial investment would now be required if the Santa Clara facility were to become a viable operation."
10.4m of the exceptional goodwill impairment relates to this operation and an exceptional tangible fixed asset impairment charge of 7.9m has also been applied.
Further closure costs estimated to be 2.5m will be incurred during the financial year ending 31 May 2003.
Filtronic Solid State will operate a fabless compound semiconductor business using the manufacturing capability at Newton Aycliffe.
4 Annual Report 2002 Executive Chairmans Statement Financing At 31 May 2002, Filtronic had a cash balance of 9.1m, Filtronics remaining debt was $140.75m 96.2m of 10% Senior Notes.
Additionally, the company continues to have bank borrowing facilities totalling 31.0m, none of which was being utilised at the year end.
Net gearing was 81%, compared to 97% at 31 May 2001.
The directors expect the company to continue to generate cash during financial year 2002 03.
Outlook Uncertain short term global market conditions remain for both the Wireless Infrastructure and Cellular Handset Products businesses.
The same underlying uncertainties affect Broadband Access and the prospects for the M A-COM products at Newton Aycliffe.
Currently, demand for 2.5G GSM products remains strong, underpinned by the deployment of these systems in the United States of America.
However, demand for CDMA 2000 transmit receive modules has recently weakened and future requirements are uncertain.
Growth in each of the major businesses remains dependent upon the timing and extent of the roll out of 3G WCDMA systems.
Filtronic is exceptionally well positioned to support customers needs for base station transmit receive modules, tower top amplifiers, handset antennas and ceramic diplexers and high efficiency compound semiconductor based power amplifier modules for the 3G WCDMA wireless infrastructure market.
The importance of compound semiconductors to wireless communications will grow over the next decade in much the same way as silicon did for the electronics industry in the last 25 years.
The high efficiency power amplifier modules are the first of what will be many leading edge products based on compound semiconductor technology to be produced at Newton Aycliffe.
The marketing strategy is to support OEMs directly with these modules and the merchant market through Powerwave.
The proprietary design concepts used rely upon the availability of the high power, high gain field effect transistors, which have been developed over the last year and can be produced cost effectively.
Shareholder value At this time last year, I stated that the Board of Filtronic had recognised the significant loss of shareholder value which had occurred during the 2000 01 financial year.
Today, Filtronic is much stronger than it was one year ago, both financially and operationally.
Filtronic holds the number one independent supplier position in its two major businesses.
Both cash flow and operating margins in those businesses are strong.
Actions have been taken to improve trading performance in our smaller businesses.
The company has been and continues to be cash generative.
Since 31 May 2001, total debt has been reduced by 37.7m from 131.5m to 93.8m and cash balances have increased by 3.5m.
While global market conditions remain challenging and the short term outlook is unclear, Filtronic will continue to improve the efficiency of its businesses and reduce its debt when practical.
The development of compound semiconductor based products and investment in the related technologies will remain the principal technical focus.
The Board believes that this strategy will deliver financial stability, business growth and shareholder value in the medium to longer term.
Professor J D Rhodes CBE FRS FREng Executive Chairman 29 July 2002 Annual Report 2002 5
