Chairmans Statement Forth Ports PLC 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans Statement 2002 has been another successful year.
Turnover Property increased by 4% to 140 million and profit before The property division improved its profits significantly tax amounted to 43.7 million, up 12% over the as the programme of controlled assembly and previous record of 39.1 million.
Underlying earnings release of land for waterfront development gathers per share increased by nearly 7% to 65.6p per share momentum.
in Forth Property Holdings Limited to Bellhouse Joseph Leith Limited BJL, a property developer.
Dividend BJL has provided professional support and strategic The Directors propose a final dividend of 22p per input to our property team.
share, giving a total dividend for the year of 33p per share 2001-30p, an overall increase of 10%.
The Much work has been carried out on our two major final dividend, if approved by the shareholders at the developments at Western Harbour Leith and Granton.
Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 16th May 2003 We received Design Guide approval from City of to all shareholders on the register at 22nd April 2003.
Edinburgh Council for the first three residential plots at Western Harbour Leith.
Our outline planning Ports application for the major development at Granton is The ports business was affected in the first half expected to be determined in the near future.
In spite principally by poor grain export tonnages and lower of a slow retail market, the Ocean Terminal Shopping Far Eastern import tonnages at Tilbury.
However, Centre continues to attract new tenants with several both these commodities improved significantly in important lettings concluded since the year end.
With new customers at Tilbury, the new ferry service and coal contract at Rosyth, more People containers through Grangemouth and an improved We are extremely grateful to all who work for pipe load out programme at Leith, the ports business Forth Ports for their efforts and contributions returned to growth in the second half.
The Scottish ports were brought together The Companys employee Save as You Earn Scheme under the newly appointed Director Scottish the SAYE Scheme ended in November last year.
Ports and a strengthened senior management In order to satisfy the requirement for shares and team.
The accounting function in Scotland was the Directors share options, nearly 500,000 shares centralised at Grangemouth.
An increased focus were purchased on-market by the Company.
It was on improving market share in Scotland is beginning decided to issue 590,000 shares to the newly set to yield results.
In addition, the plant engineering up Forth Ports Qualifying Employee Share Trust function was outsourced at Tilbury.
the QUEST in order to satisfy the balance of the requirements of the SAYE Scheme.
During the year we sold our small container shipping business, Forthline, to the Simon Group.
Outlook We purchased Grainfax Limited, a tenant at Dundee, Trading conditions improved in the second half which contributed a profit to the Group in its first of 2002 and this has been maintained in the first five months.
The economic climate is uncertain.
However, we are cautiously optimistic that 2003 will be successful for both the ports and property businesses.
Tonnage Related Turnover Analysis Year ended 31st December 2002 Pipe Loadout Three new pipe-laying contracts for Bredero Shaw Limited 000 G A Christopher Collins F APiped 17,647 Chairman B Containers 13,558 E C Paper and Pulp 14,194 D Other Forest Products 6,354 D E Agricultural Bulks 8,960 B F Other Dry Bulks 4,159 C G Other Cargo 9,901 Title Forth Ports PLC 3 Annual Report & Accounts 2002
