702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 02 02 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement We are delivering our strategy of selective growth through both organic and acquisition investment.
The marketplace for our businesses remains positive.
Customer satisfaction remains a high priority and we are committed to those customers who seek real value added services.
The last year has seen Alfred These policies have enabled McAlpine strengthen its position continuation of the Groups strong as a construction, infrastructure financial performance and resulted and business services group.
The in a resilient business which has acquisitions of Stiell Facilities, Stiell good prospects for 2003 and Networks, Eastern Contracting and beyond both through organic Inframan during the year have growth and selected acquisitions.
widened the scope of services which we offer to our clients and Financial results have already brought opportunities Continuing operations for collaboration between our Group profit from continuing business streams.
The acquired operations rose by 30% to 30.2m companies have been successfully 2001: 23.3m before tax and integrated into the Group and are goodwill.
Turnover from these delivering the expected benefits.
Continuing We continue with our key operations earnings per share operating policies of targeting before goodwill amortisation were margin over volume, consistency 20.7p 2001: 16.3p.
2001 profits and quality of earnings growth have been restated to reflect the over short term performance introduction of UITF 34 pre-contract whilst minimising operational risk.
Statutory results In 2001, the Group sold its Homes business.
The Groups total results for 2001, including the Homes effect, were profit before tax and goodwill amortisation of 46.1m on turnover of 859.7m.
The statutory profit before tax for 2002, after amortising goodwill and taking into account the 2.3m exceptional charge described below, was 21.7m 2001: 43.9m.
702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 03 03 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Cashflows established has been further considerations underlying its Our services capabilities have been The Group generated an operating strengthened by organic investment decision not to complete the further enlarged by the acquisition cash inflow of 26.6m 2001: and development.
The Board return of capital outlined in of Stiell Facilities, a leading facilities 34.5m outflow, including that of continues to target operating August 2001, it recognises the management provider and Stiell the Homes business.
This inflow margins of at least 5-6% from these importance of retaining flexibility Networks, an IT networks and was before investing 92.3m in business sectors and believes these to repurchase shares during the management business for a total acquisitions, 23.4m on are achievable and sustainable.
As a result we enterprise value of 83.2m in repurchasing shares and receiving will, as you can see from the March 2002.
In September, we the final proceeds of 262.6m from As outlined in the Groups trading proposed resolution at the AGM, purchased Eastern Contracting for George Wimpey PLC for the sale of update in January 2003, McAlpine seek approval to renew our an enterprise value of 13.5m McAlpine Homes.
Net cash at the has continued to win major new authority to repurchase up to which added full asset replacement year end totalled 114.1m 2001: contracts and achieve anticipated 10% of our current issued share capability for the Regional Electricity 9.5m debt.
As we Companies to our Utilities business.
have done in previous years, we In December 2002, we purchased Exceptional charge Since the Boards announcement intend to use this authority during the business and assets of Inframan The 2002 results are shown after in August 2001 of its intention the course of the year to for 4.6m.
Having integrated this taking account of the exceptional to make a return of capital to repurchase shares as appropriate.
acquisition into Stiell Facilities, it charge of 2.3m announced on shareholders, there have been a This utilises the financial strength strengthens our geographic 22nd January, 2003, settling the number of fundamental changes of the business and its cash coverage in South Wales and the final significant commercial dispute to financial markets.
Against this flows in a prudent and flexible way, South of England and also gives relating to the long-closed building background, the Board believes thereby enhancing the returns to us access to public sector customers business.
During 2002, a cash that long term shareholder value be delivered to shareholders from including local government and the payment of 16.8m was made in will be better enhanced by strong operational performance Ministry of Defence.
retaining a strong and secure with a cash backed balance sheet.
Capital Projects Return of capital Dividend This business has again delivered Over the last twelve months, With the markets we serve As previously indicated, the Board solid results with operating profits McAlpine has spent 23.4m remaining robust, the Board further is maintaining the current level of of 17.0m 2001: 17.8m.
After through share repurchases and believes there will be sufficient ordinary dividend at 10p per share, interest earned, the profit before 11m through dividend payments.
opportunities over the medium reflecting its confidence in the tax of 20.6m 2001: 22.8m This follows share repurchases of term to achieve value enhancing prospect for rebuilding earnings represents a margin of 5.7%.
This 37m made in 1998 99. returns from both organic and to the levels achieved before the remains well ahead of its peers in acquisition led investment.
We During the past two years, McAlpine Accordingly, the Board is pleased continue to target margin before has invested approximately 200m In respect of the Boards position to propose a final dividend of 5.9p, turnover and recognise that in its Support Services and concerning return of capital, I was payable on 30th May, 2003 to turnover will reflect the timing of Investments businesses.
The very disappointed by the reaction at shareholders on the register on the execution of orders for the civil Groups return on invested capital the time of our preliminary 9th May, 2003, making a total engineering business that were in Support Services & Investments announcement and the apparent dividend of 10p for the year.
9% already exceeds our cost misunderstanding as to the Boards of capital.
Trading overview Support Services & Investments We are delivering our strategy of Created in 2001, this business has The outlook for returns from the Whilst the Board continues to growth through both organic and grown via a mix of organic growth strategic positions McAlpine has believe in the fundamental acquisition investment.
and acquisitions, and now 702350 pp01-pp35 22 4 03 6:40 pm Page 04 04 Alfred McAlpine PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Chairmans statement continued represents almost half of Group in the second half of this year.
On trained, better motivated and Prospects profits.
Operating profit before the FRS 17 basis, there is a shortfall higher performing employees The Group has a secured forward goodwill increased from 7.5m to of 44.7m in the McAlpine pension enables us to consistently deliver order book of 2.6bn, up 30% 17.8m, including 5.0m plan.
There are also shortfalls best value solutions.
from June 2002 of which 0.7bn contributed by 2002 acquisitions.
totalling 7.5m relating to the is in Capital Projects and 1.9bn Profit before tax and amortisation schemes acquired in 2002.
These The Board in Support Services & Investments.
shortfalls were taken into account As indicated in last years interim in the consideration paid for those report, I will be stepping down as The marketplace for McAlpine All the acquisitions have been businesses.
Chief Executive in August this year remains positive with good successfully integrated, with results and remaining as Non-Executive opportunities in Facilities in line with or ahead of our Group structure Chairman.
I am very pleased to Management and the Utilities expectations.
Opportunities for From January 2003, our operations announce that on 13th March, sectors.
Opportunities in the public realising cost synergies have been have been structured into three 2003 the Board appointed sector are improving which is taken but without diluting the business streams to better reflect Ian Grice as Chief Executive benefiting our Civil Engineering underlying strengths of the our market sectors and the areas of Designate to succeed me as Chief business.
The building market acquired business.
These are Infrastructure Executive in August.
During the remains somewhat depressed and the business has been considerably Services for utility and highway past seven years, Ian has been this will have an impact on our enlarged during the year as a result maintenance, Capital Projects for involved in most parts of our Special Projects business through of the acquisitions made.
Equally, building and civil engineering Group and latterly as the executive delays to the start of new contracts the geographic footprint of the projects and Business Services for director responsible for the creation and our determination to maintain business has also been widened.
the management of buildings, IT of our Support Services & margin rather than volume.
Our PFI strategy is to continue to networks and provision of plant Investments businesses.
These have Customer satisfaction remains a bid for selected projects, primarily and fleet management.
already grown very considerably high priority and we are committed in accommodation and roads.
We and have been separated into to those customers who seek real continue to adopt a conservative Safety, health and the Infrastructure Services and Business value added services and recognize approach in their bidding and environment Services from January 2003.
They us as the provider of choice for management and PFI only We firmly believe that whilst our are managed by Peter Carolan and those services.
represents a small part of our SHE policies and practices are Billy Allen respectively who are overall business.
Alba management amongst the best in the market now members of the Group McAlpine is a prudently run, consultants, which was acquired as there is always room for Executive Committee.
resilient organisation with a strong part of the Stiell transaction, is improvement.
These policies and management team and a proven focusing on developing the PFI practices are an essential and The appointment of two new track record.
A strong cash backed model for the corporate sector.
increasingly integral part of the Non-Executive Directors was balance sheet provides the flexibility management of our business.
announced on 13th March, 2003. and the resources to create further Slate Phillip Swatman, a board member shareholder value.
We cannot Our Slate business has continued Our people of N M Rothschild & Sons Limited ignore that financial markets are its improved performance with We continue to invest in our and Robert Hough who is Deputy experiencing their toughest times operating profit increasing 13% employees, in developing their Chairman of Peel Holdings plc.
We believe over the previous year to 2.7m.
skills, measuring and improving They bring further strength to that this will not prevent us from performance, and in ensuring good the Board as both of them have creating opportunities for continued Pensions two way communication extensive experience in solid growth for McAlpine.
The three year actuarial valuation throughout the company.
Genesis, businesses relevant to our growth of the McAlpine pension plan is our cultural change programme, is plans.
Andrew Robb, who joined currently being carried out and now in its sixth year and the Board as a Non-Executive Oliver Whitehead if this review confirms our emphasises the importance of Director in 1993 has made a Chairman expectations, we would expect to communication, motivation, major contribution to the Group contribute an additional 3.4m per planning, measuring and serving and will be retiring at the annum.
Consequently, we would our customers.
Our commitment forthcoming annual general make a further payment of 1.7m to deliver to our customers better meeting in May.
