06 GKN plc 2002 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ENHANCEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE REMAINS THE TOP PRIORITY FOR THE BOARD.
GKN A global engineering company In August 2001 the demerger of our Industrial Services businesses and their subsequent merger with Brambles Industries Limited was completed.
For the first time for at least three decades GKNs business now entirely comprises engineering activities and, given its international spread, the description of GKN as a global engineering company is exactly correct.
2002 has been the first full year when this has been the appropriate description and the results, as described below, are certainly an encouraging start for the Company as it embarks on the next phase in its development.
Results Pre-tax profits for the year were 267 million 2001 245 million and earnings per share were also higher at 25.2p 2001 24.0p.
Cash inflow from operating activities was 367 million 2001 452 million but with expenditure on capital projects and acquisitions below that of the previous year, net debt at 834 million was 51 million lower than at the end of 2001.
Interest cover improved to 6.6 times 2001 5.0 times.
The Chief Executive in his review refers to the diverse range of challenges that faced the management team in 2002.
To have delivered results at the top end of market expectations and well ahead of what both we and the market expected at the start of last year is a creditable achievement.
Dividend In my statement in last years annual report I said that the Board expected to pursue a progressive dividend policy subject always to prevailing economic conditions.
That policy remains unchanged and, although the global economic outlook is uncertain, the Board has recommended that the dividend for 2002 should be increased from 11.0p last year on a pro forma basis to 11.3p thus maintaining its value in real terms.
The Board Marcus Beresford, who became a Director in 1992, retired at the end of 2002.
He was appointed Chief Executive in August 2001 following the demerger of the Industrial Services businesses and has performed a valuable role in the repositioning of GKN.
The Board is most grateful to him for his significant contribution to the Company both in his earlier and more recent roles.
Marcus has been succeeded as Chief Executive by Kevin Smith, who became a Director in 1999.
Kevin was formerly Managing Director of GKN Aerospace and has been succeeded in that position by Neal Keating who joined the Board last August from Rockwell Collins in the US.
Sir John Parker retired from the Board as a non-executive Director in May 2002 having been appointed in 1993.
As an independent non-executive Director, John has made a major contribution to the Board for which he fully deserves the thanks of his colleagues.
In his 07 GKN plc 2002 place Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Corporate governance Director in June 2002.
Ian is a former Senior Vice President of Nissan The Board has practised high standards of corporate governance for Motor Company Japan and brings to the Board considerable many years and fully recognises its importance.
Pages 78 to 89 of the international automotive experience.
annual report, which include a report on Directors remuneration, describe GKNs approach to thissubject.
The Combined Code on Life President Corporate Governance is to be significantly amended following the The death of Lord Brookes in July 2002 at the age of 93 is recorded reports by Derek Higgs on the role and effectiveness of non-executive with sadness.
He joined the Board of GKN in 1953 and was Chairman directors and Sir Robert Smith on audit committees.
Both these reports from 1965 until his retirement in 1974 when he became Life President.
require detailed consideration by the Board which is now taking place.
Social responsibility However, the Board believes that certain of the recommendations The Social Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 33 of the annual report of the Higgs Report should be reconsidered.
Representations have sets out our approach to sustainable development covering the range therefore been made to the Financial Reporting Council who have of issues that are embraced by this heading.
Pages 31 and 32 cover responsibility for issuing the revised Combined Code in its final the management of health and safety and set out some performance form.
The essence of those representations is to emphasise the point figures which continue to show improvement.
Subsequent pages that, while an increase in prescription will almost certainly involve address environmental issues.
The performance graphs here show increased cost, it will not necessarily guarantee higher standards of a mixed pattern of success although the narrative offers some corporate governance.
It is too easyto be compliant in terms of the explanations for what may appear to be a lack of progress in some letter of the law but to be non-compliant in terms of its spirit.
Continuous improvement of environmental management is standards of corporate governance can only be guaranteed if, in an important issue for the Board and one particularly encouraging particular, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors see that statistic is the accreditation in 2002 of 50 sites to ISO 14001, 30 more as an important objective, which is the case in GKN.
The future Post-retirement benefits GKN is one of only three companies that is a survivor of the original In common with a number of long established UK companies, GKNs FT 30 Share Index, first put together in the early 1930s.
That survival UK pension scheme has a large number of members, 54,000 out of has been possible because of the Companys ability to reinvent 60,000, who are no longer in service.
As described in the Financial itself to meet the challenges of new markets, new products, and Review on page 39, based on FRS 17 the accounting standard currently new competition.
To some extent 2002 was the start of a further scheduled to come into force in January 2005 the UK pension scheme phase in GKNs development, the foundations for which at this had a gross deficit at the end of 2002 of 551 million.
After taking time look very firm.
into account overseas post-retirement schemes, deferred taxation and net liabilities already provided for on the balance sheet, the More immediately, the prospect of war in Iraq and heightened political overall reduction in shareholders equity at the end of 2002 would have uncertainty in other parts of the world are making economic forecasts been 527 million compared with 169 million at the end of 2001. even more difficult than usual.
This leads to the risk that business planning time horizons become increasingly short term.
For GKN the This adverse movement reflects the significant fall in world stock need to control costs and manage cash is as important today as it has markets in the last year together with the reduction in the discount ever been, although this is complementary rather than an alternative rate used to calculate the liabilities of the various schemes.
As is to the focus on longer-term strategy and the enhancement of well known, the FRS 17 valuation reflects the position as at one date shareholder value.
That remains the top priority for the Board.
and does not take account of the long-term nature of post-retirement benefit schemes.
As a result there can be considerable volatility from year to year in the deficit and surplus figures.
Post-retirement benefit scheme deficits are obviously a matter of concern to shareholders and can be a cause of considerable anxiety to pension scheme members.
It is therefore worth stating that the Board fully recognises its responsibilities to those members and in 2003 plans to increase its contribution to the UK pension scheme to not less than 50 million.
This is some 50% higher than the contribution for 2002 and more than double the figure for 2001.
Sir David Lees 28 February 2003 08 GKN plc 2002
