CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Pub Company Publican awards Our managed house division had an excellent year both in its The professionalism and dynamism of our business received trading performance and its strategic progress.
By adopting a national recognition when both Pub Company and Pub policy which encourages individual house manager initiatives Partners were named the managed and tenanted pub with strong operational disciplines, and which focuses on companies of the year in the Publican newspaper awards in developing the skills of our people within high quality March 2002.
This success was further distinguished by Pub properties, we intend to operate the best managed pub estate Partners becoming the first business to win its award in in the market.
The winning of these awards not only boosts employee morale, but also delivers a tangible business This business now has a robust market position, comprising benefit by improving our ability to attract the best employees mostly freehold properties in excellent trading locations, a and licensees into our business.
vibrant and expanding pub brand in Hungry Horse, two Prospects premium food-orientated brands with exciting prospects in Old English Inns and Appletons, and a strong foundation of Our start to the new financial year has been positive, with successful and progressive unbranded pubs focused on their sales in our pub divisions running ahead of last year and our own local markets.
This balance of complementary businesses beer brands continuing their sales and market share growth.
gives Pub Company a unique combination of potential profit We intend to drive as much profit growth as we can from our growth and operational resilience for the future.
core business and will be continuing to integrate, and improve, the Old English and the Morrells outlets we have Pub Partners acquired.
The company is well positioned to generate Our tenanted and leased pub division also combined strong consistent shareholder value in the future.
financial results with further operational success, which was the People result of Pub Partners determination to recruit the best licensees and to adopt the highest operating standards in the market.
The quality and motivation of our people is our ultimate competitive advantage and the company undertakes a wide We achieved increases in the average sales of all drinks range of initiatives to improve skills and calibre.
The success categories per pub, bucking the national market trend, and a of this strategy is measured by the results of our annual further rise in the business return on capital.
During the year, employee attitude survey, which most recently indicated that we transferred 18 outlets from management to tenancy and no less than 91 per cent of our employees enjoy their job.
further trimmed the tail by the sale of 15 sites, as we continued our policy of raising the average pub quality of the estate.
The continuing rapid pace of progress in all areas of the company has posed them a significant challenge, and the Brewing & Brands strength of these results testifies to their commitment and Our brewing and wholesaling division pursued its strategy of ability to embrace change in order that the company can increasing the sales and distribution of our four key beer compete so successfully.
I wish to thank every one of them brands Greene King IPA, Abbot Ale, Old Speckled Hen and for all their hard work.
Ruddles County to secure clear leadership in the traditional beer category, and has been providing customers with excellent, cost effective service.
New marketing initiatives and sustained media investment saw all four brands increase sales strongly, growing volume and market share, while further service level and cost David McCall improvement initiatives enabled the business to out-perform Chairman the market in all distribution channels and to increase both profits and capital returns to record levels.
4 July 2002 OLD MILL HOTEL, TOWN PATH, HARNHAM, SALISBURY, WILTSHIRE Old English Inns exceptional sites provide excellent opportunities for future profit growth.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT | 2001 2002 6 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The year saw further success Like-for-like turnover performance was very strong, derived from our strategy of registering a 3.6 per cent increase on the prior year in the 267 consistently investing to improve pubs receiving less than 20k of capital expenditure in the the quality of all facets of our year.
This was one of the best results in the sector and operations, while focusing on reflects the continuing improvement in management and achieving increases in the returns retailing skills within the business.
we derive from the capital invested, and using the strength Number Number of outlets at of outlets at of our balance sheet to make complementary acquisitions.
29 April 2001 4 May 2002 Hungry Larger branded pubs with a great The company is structured to support this growth strategy, Horse value food business, appealing to both 117 131 balancing the need for empowered management within the the local community and customers travelling from a wider area operating divisions, to give them the freedom and resources Real Pubs Community pubs primarily serving to compete successfully against their competitors, with that local customers, with an emphasis on 152 151 of ensuring that we achieve our corporate synergies and local trade building activities increase shareholder value.
High City, town and suburban centre Street pubs with a complex mix of 156 145 consumers including shoppers and business people at lunch or early Our structure of three different, but complementary, businesses evening, and a younger profile later produces demonstrable benefits in terms of strategic flexibility, in the evening cost synergies and corporate branding, which help each to be a Old Traditional inns and hotels offering a stronger player within their particular markets.
English mix of high quality food, liquor and -95 Inns accommodation in attractive, scenic sites appealing to more affluent customers Pub Company Inns Traditional pubs in rural or edge of Our managed pubs division operates larger outlets which offer town locations with a range of 71 79 quality food offers drawing greater profit potential under direct management.
Comprising customers from a wide area a balanced mix of individual businesses, Pub Company is organised into five operating segments focused on particular Total 496 601 markets, following the integration of Old English Inns as a new sub-division and the merger of the town local and circuit bar businesses into the new high street segment during the year.
Excluding outlets acquired with Old English Inns, the Old Speckled Hen number of pubs operated by Pub Company rose to 503 at the is now the year end as the site acquisition programme out-paced the number one continuing rationalisation of those outlets which we did not consider to be more profitable under management.
Adjusted premium bottled for the relative timings of purchases and disposals, the ale brand and is average number of pubs in the core estate fell by 9 to 495. up 41 per cent since 2000 Turnover for the 53 weeks to 4 May 2002 rose 6 per cent to 270.6 million and trading profit was 5 per cent ahead at 48.0 million.
On an individual pub basis adjusted for a 53 week year, turnover and trading profit rose 6 and 5 per cent respectively due to the improvement in the quality of the average pub.
The trading margin declined slightly to 17.7 per cent, partly because of the additional costs caused by the significant increase in minimum wage costs and partly through a further increase in the proportion of food sales to 29 per cent, arising WARWICK ARMS, KINGS ROAD, READING, BERKSHIRE primarily from the continued success of the Hungry Horse We believe the Warwick to be quite simply the best real pub in the brand.
Underlying gross margin performance was excellent, driven by improvements in purchasing terms and city centre and our customers seem to agree management of the sales mix within the estate.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT | 2001 2002 8 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We undertook an increased capital development programme, 3.
The development of a second pub brand resulting partly from: We identified a gap in the market for a food-led pub offer at a higher specification than Hungry Horse, but providing much an increase in the number of individual site purchases higher levels of value than potential competitors.
Successful to 15, with 14 being for conversion to Hungry Horse trials of the Appletons concept were refined and extended to five site conversions to the Appletons brand, which six sites by the year end.
Although much still needs to be offers quality, fresh food at attractive price points in an done before the brand can be grown significantly, we are excellent traditional pub environment, and increasingly confident that Appletons has the potential to some further major developments within the Inns emerge as a second sustainable, clearly differentiated pub segment.
In all, 123 major development schemes were undertaken Pub Average number Turnover Trading profit Trading profit Company of outlets m m margin % during the year and the average investment per scheme rose 2001 504 254.6 45.6 17.9 from 79k to 106k.
In total, 37.7 million was invested 2002 495 270.6 48.0 17.7 excluding Old English Inns, 17.1 million of which related to site purchases.
Initial returns on this increased level of investment are well ahead of our cost of capital and should generate additional profit growth in the next twelve months.
Much work was also undertaken to integrate the Old English Inns acquisition, with 77 outlets identified for retention Beside its strong financial performance in achieving longwithin Pub Company.
The principal challenges of winning term economic profit growth, Pub Company also registered the hearts and minds of the Old English employees and a year of strategic and operational progress as it continued to carrying out the integration of its infrastructure have largely reshape its business to meet the needs of the modern been completed.
We are now addressing the need to invest in consumer.
The key areas of strategic focus in the year were: improving the quality standards of the retained properties to ensure that they deliver the promised premium experience.
Improving pub manager recruitment and development The quality of local management is the differentiating factor All these initiatives are designed to ensure that Pub between good and excellent pub estates.
In recognition of Company continues to grow on an economically profitable this critical ingredient of future success, we have upgraded basis and is the best operator of managed pubs in the market, an achievement recognised at the Publican newspaper our recruitment and development function to ensure the awards in March 2002 when it was voted the Managed Pub availability of high quality, fully trained licensees to run our Company over 100 outlets of the Year.
The trainee and deputy management programme was enhanced, the new manager induction process was extended in scope and length, and manager Hungry Horse sells rump steaks benefits improved to increase our attractiveness to potential recruits.
The early benefits of this initiative are encouraging equivalent to the weight of the and have already resulted in a dramatic reduction in the use international space station every of temporary relief managers.
Expanding and strengthening the Hungry Horse brand The marketing and imagery of the Hungry Horse brand were refreshed, re-emphasising the quirkiness of the brands personality, whilst the quality and value of the food offer have been strengthened.
We also acquired a further 14 sites for Hungry Horse.
The effect of this energetic approach to an already successful business has exceeded all expectations, with like-for-like sales up 6.0 per cent and strong performances being achieved by those new sites which had GRANDSTAND, GRANDSTAND ROAD, HEREFORD been developed by the year end.
Right by the race course, Hungry Horse is a dead cert to romp home against the competition.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT | 2001 2002 10 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVESREVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Pub Partners Operational performance was strong across a broader range of trading measures, as follows: The year saw a significant level of property activity within our tenanted and leased pub estate as it disposed of 15 nonin the like-for-like estate of 908 pubs, turnover core outlets, passed 2 sites to management and accepted back rose by 5 per cent 5 properties from management, as part of the ongoing average beer barrels per pub were up 1.6 per cent, evolution of our estate.
Pub Partners also took over 32 inns despite a market decline acquired as part of Old English and completed 13 transfers to we achieved a 3.5 million improvement lease, finishing with 1,071 pubs at the end of the year and a further 19 Old English sites in the process of transfer.
in working capital efficiency our return on capital rose to 14.4 per cent.
The transfer of these Old English Inns to assignable lease agreements is a major task, given the relatively large size and Pub Average number Trading profit Trading profit Profit per pub Partners of outlets m change % change % complexity of the properties involved, and takes more time than if transferred to our simpler nine year tenancy agreement.
2001 1,091 35.3 23 12 Leases are needed to let these properties because of the greater 2002 1,053 37.5 6 8 scale of the financial commitment required by the licensee, the higher level of investment committed by us, and the greater This strong performance at outlet level reflects the benefits rental levels we seek to achieve our return.
Finally, given the accruing from our strategy of improving the average quality specialist skills required, securing the right calibre of licensee to by means of: operate such properties successfully is a significant undertaking and one which we are not prepared to rush just to achieve acquiring new outlets in the top quartile of the estate rapid lettings.
improving the calibre of licensees through better recruitment and support Trading at the 13 sites let by the year end has been encouraging and a further 10 had been let by the end of June.
We are investing prudently in pub developments confident that these properties are an excellent addition disposing of those outlets which no longer meet our to the top end of the estate and will produce attractive criteria for sustainable quality.
Trading profit for the year increased by 6 per cent to 37.5 million on the back of a 6 per cent rise in turnover to 95.7 million.
Allowing for the time-weighted decline in the Our success in selling our beers number of outlets within the estate due to the sale of nonwas complemented by a 9 per cent strategic properties, and adjusting for a 53-week year, turnover increase in wine and spirit volumes and trading profit per pub were both ahead by 8 per cent.
BAR 4, FRIAR STREET, READING, BERKSHIRE Trading around the clock, from an early morning coffee with pastry to late evening living it up, the right site and the right staff deliver a good time GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT | 2001 2002 12 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVESREVIEW
