GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT In my first report as Chairman, it is pleasing to note that continued satisfactory progress during 2002 has made this the Groups eleventh consecutive year of profit, earnings and dividend growth.
This success has been based above all on a culture of putting people first that goes right back to Greggs roots as a family bakery.
Attentiveness to the needs of our employees and customers has been the key to almost 40 years of successful expansion which have taken Greggs from a single shop to a nationwide market leader with over 1,200.
RESULTS BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Sales in 2002 increased by 11.9 per cent to 422.6 million.
This included The Group traded satisfactorily throughout the year, with like-for-like sales growth like-for-like sales growth of 6.4 per cent, driven by continued strong demand for slowing as expected in the second half, as we encountered comparison with the takeaway food.
exceptionally strong performance achieved in the latter part of 2001.
The Greggs Operating profit increased by 11.8 per cent to 35.3 million, despite the substantial brand maintained its good progress, with particularly strong performances in the increase in insurance costs that was experienced across the food and retail sectors, South East, Midlands and Scotland.
A year of record capital investment saw us and interest receivable rose by 0.2 million to 1.3 million.
Pre-tax profit advanced increase the pace of new shop openings, adding a net 58 stores to give a total of by 12.0 per cent to 36.7 million.
Basic earnings per share were 205.5 pence, 1,202 at the year end.
We also made substantial investments in production facilities a rise of 8.0 per cent, reflecting an increase in the Groups tax charge following the to support the growth of our retail operations.
Mike Darrington provides a more exhaustion of credits relating to prior years.
detailed commentary on these and other trading and business development issues in his report on pages 6 - 10. DIVIDEND The Board recommends a final dividend of 49.0 pence per share 2001: 44.0 pence, THE BOARD an increase of 11.4 per cent.
Together with the interim dividend of 23.5 pence, paid I succeeded Ian Gregg as Chairman on 2 August 2002, having joined the Board in October 2002, this makes a total for the year of 72.5 pence 2001: 65.0 pence, on 1 March.
I am delighted that Ian has agreed to remain on the Board as a a rise of 11.5 per cent.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend non-executive director for the time being, providing us with continued access to policy which seeks to provide shareholders with increases in their income broadly his unequalled expertise.
We are seeking to add to the number of independent in line with the underlying growth of earnings per share over the medium term.
non-executive directors on the Board.
Subject to the approval of the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2003 to shareholders on the register at 22 April 2003.
3 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Its great value and the kids love it.
PEOPLE PROSPECTS I have greatly enjoyed getting to know Greggs and its people, visiting bakeries and Trading since the start of the new year has been satisfactory, with like-for-like sales shops in many of the divisions since my appointment to the Board.
One cannot fail in the first nine weeks up 5.2 per cent.
Results to date are in line with our budgets, to be impressed by the hard work and commitment that is shown by all our staff, and ahead of the comparable period last year.
and also by the fact that they take pleasure as well as pride in what they do.
Since the year end we have opened our first two shops outside the UK, at Leuven The continued growth of the business directly reflects the efforts of all our 17,524 and Antwerp in Belgium, and plan a controlled trial of the Greggs format in that employees and I would like to thank them on behalf of the Board for their country which will involve a small number of additional openings in the months ahead.
contribution to another successful year.
The main thrust of our expansion will continue to be in the UK where we plan to add a further 45 new units, net of closures.
We will also make significant further investments in UK manufacturing capacity, to keep pace with our retail expansion.
Greggs is the market leader in a growing sector, with strong brands, proven formats and exceptional people.
Despite further cost pressures we believe that the Group is well placed to achieve another year of satisfactory progress in 2003.
