02 Chairmans statement from Sir John Egan Inchcape has again produced an outstanding set of results All this is testament to the quality of our businesses in our six core markets where we have strong manufacturer partnerships and excellent market positions.
Inchcape has again produced an Acquisitions and disposals The Group is therefore well placed to outstanding set of results.
Despite During the year 89.7m was spent on fund its strategic development programme, challenging conditions in some of our acquisitions and settling claims mainly arising which will focus on further growth with our core markets, operating profit before from the sale of Intertek Testing Services Ltd key partners.
Although broadly based the goodwill amortisation see note 1b rose 14.9m.
The largest acquisition was the programme will encompass continued by 13.1% whilst Headline profit before purchase of the minority holding c. 36.7% in investment in our Retail activities in the UK, tax before goodwill amortisation and our quoted Singaporean subsidiary, Inchcape Greece and Australia and further expansion exceptional items was up 12.4% Motors Ltd IML, in May 2002 63.1m.
of Business Services in the UK and, see note 9.
Headline earnings per share, The company was delisted on 3 July 2002. ultimately, Continental Europe.
At a later of 104.5p, increased by 31.1% compared The acquisition of a number of dealerships stage we envisage investing in China with to 2001.
Operating cash flow in 2002 in the UK made up the balance and included our key manufacturer partners.
was strong at 163.9m and the Group a Mercedes-Benz market area, covering Oxford, Given these intentions, a further return remained ungeared at the year end.
of capital to shareholders is not currently All this is testament to the quality of No disposals of any significance were considered appropriate.
However, the our businesses in our six core markets where made in the period although there are still Boards policy in this regard remains clear we have strong manufacturer partnerships certain non-core businesses to be sold and consistent: if available funds are not and excellent market positions.
The results within our portfolio.
required for investment purposes we support the strategic steps taken over the will make additional returns of capital last three years to focus on these businesses Financial performance to shareholders.
Furthermore our confidence Operating profit rose 9.6% whilst that, overall, the Group will be further operating profit before goodwill amortisation, Dividend strengthened following the recent changes of 5.6m, rose by 13.1% to 117.2m.
The Board follows a progressive to the European Block Exemption legislation Headline profit before tax was 112.1m, dividend policy and since becoming a pure supports our strategy going forward.
up 12.4% on last year, with Headline automotive services group in 1999 the earnings per share rising 31.1% to 104.5p.
dividend has been increased each year.
The Board therefore recommends the Operating cash flow in the period was payment of a final ordinary dividend of 163.9m.
Despite spending 89.7m on 21.0p 2001 18.2p giving a total dividend acquisitions and settling claims, there was for the year of 31.0p 2001 27.0p.
This is a cash outflow of only 0.9m.
Year end net an increase of 14.8% and means that the cash was 16.6m.
ordinary dividend has risen over 47.0% since 1999.
The dividend is covered 3.4 times by Balance sheet strength Headline earnings per share.
We became a pure automotive services group in 1999 and since then our business has Inchcape management and employees demonstrated strong cash flow characteristics I would like to congratulate the resulting in an ungeared balance sheet.
This management team on delivering yet another is despite an increasing dividend, the return of set of impressive results in what are challenging 45.0m to our shareholders through a share times for the world economy.
buy back in 2001 and continued investment On behalf of the Board I must also thank in our businesses.
the employees of Inchcape for all their efforts and loyalty throughout the year.
Their contribution to the changes that have taken place at Inchcape should not be underestimated.
