2 INTERNATIONAL POWER Chairmans statement essential part of our strategy, in the sustainability CSR an aspect of our current business environment, that we business that has been of the highest retain sufficient liquidity.
Coupled with importance to us and has always been at our available resources, this will be a the forefront of our thinking and business critical competitive advantage enabling practices.
The CSR report contained in us to grow selectively and thereby deliver this Annual Report is of necessity brief: long-term shareholder value.
However, however, we encourage you to obtain we are very aware that in these difficult and review our fully comprehensive CSR times for investors, returns by companies report which is available on our website to their shareholders, as part of their www.
com or by writing to the 2002 was once again a year of total shareholder return, are increasingly Company Secretary at the address at significant earnings growth for important.
Within the boundaries the end of this document.
EPS at 15.5p prescribed by our lenders we will be The way ahead is clearly challenging and, excluding exceptional items keeping the matter under close review.
as we have already indicated, our earnings was up 26% on 2001, and profit At the end of 2002 we implemented the will be lower in 2003 than they were last before interest and tax excluding next stage of our management succession year.
However, the operational progress exceptional items was 388 million plan, when David Crane, Chief Operating made to date by International Power since 19% up on 2001.
Officer since demerger, was promoted to demerger has been good, reflecting our In light of these excellent results from Chief Executive Officer.
Peter Giller has success in managing a portfolio of plant a difficult year for our industry we have moved to the non-executive role of Deputy across a broad geography in a manner that been disappointed by the decline in our Chairman.
I want to express my gratitude diversifies and mitigates the fundamental share price over the past year.
However, to Peter for his leadership and drive in risks inherent in the international power we must recognise that our Companys both successfully establishing International industry.
Therefore, whilst managing the performance is being assessed against the Power as an independent company and in ongoing weakness in the US and UK backdrop of a generation industry facing laying the sound foundations for our role as markets, we will continue to seek severe difficulties, both in the US and the an international power generator.
We look opportunities to grow the asset base UK with many of our principal competitors, forward to his continuing support in the of our business in the markets where particularly in the US, having suffered next phase of International Powers growth we are active.
Accordingly I commend dramatic reductions in their profitability, and development.
this Annual Report to you.
severe liquidity problems and subsequent Since the year-end, Derek Higgs has very steep falls in their equity values.
Stock released his review on Non-Executive market conditions have also been Directors and Sir Robert Smith has issued severely depressed.
his report on audit committees.
We believe The question therefore arises as to whether that we are already compliant with most the Companys policy on dividends and or of the main recommendations made, share buybacks should change.
To date, but we will report more fully next year, we have not altered our policy because we including addressing and explaining Sir Neville Simms believe that the changes going on in the any areas where we do not comply.
Chairman generation market should provide us with In this years Annual Report for the significant opportunities to grow the value first time we report directly on corporate of our business this year.
