Chairmans statement Amersham delivered a solid financial performance in 2002, We were extremely pleased to welcome a new Non-Executive with good sales growth and double-digit growth in earnings per Director to the Board this year.
Turnover reached 1,618 million, up seven per cent over Professor of Biotechnology at the Royal Institute of Technology 2001 at constant exchange rates.
Earnings per share before in Stockholm, Sweden and an internationally recognised expert exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 29.9 pence, in proteomics, is a strong addition.
Andrew Carr, President of a growth of 15 per cent at constant exchange rates.
The Board Amersham Biosciences, and Peter Loescher, who has recently is recommending a final dividend of 5.15 pence per share, joined the company as President of Amersham Health, are giving a full year dividend of 7.8 pence per share, a growth new Executive Directors on the Board.
We also wish to thank of 10 per cent.
Dr John Padfield for his valuable contributions to the company.
John retired from the Board and as the Chief Executive of In a year of challenging economic and market conditions, the Amersham Health in December, having delivered strong sales breadth and balance of our global businesses continued to be growth in Amersham Health during his three years with our a strong asset.
In Amersham Biosciences, our protein separations company.
John is now pursuing a portfolio of other business area grew sales by 15 per cent, and we achieved good opportunities and we wish him every success in the next sales of reagents in all areas of the life science market.
helped offset a slowdown in instrument sales in discovery systems, due primarily to reductions in capital spending in the US I shall retire from the Amersham Board at the Annual General market.
Similarly, in Amersham Health our portfolio of patented Meeting in May 2003, having served as a Non-Executive medical diagnostic products grew sales by 22 per cent, more Director for 14 years including four years as Chairman.
than offsetting lower bulk sales into Japan.
Overall, sales in North Amersham has undergone an amazing transformation during America, our largest market, were up by eight per cent to my tenure, evolving from a small spin-off of the UK Atomic 799 million, sales in Europe rose eight per cent to 428 million, Energy Authority into a global leader in medical diagnostics and sales in Japan were up by one per cent at 264 million.
and life sciences, achieved through a consistent application of strategy and two transformational mergers in 1997 with In March, we achieved a key strategic objective.
Completing the Nycomed and Pharmacia Biotech.
We are now a driving force merger process which began in 1997, we purchased Pharmacia in medical innovation.
Being a Director of this company, and Corps 45 per cent stake in Amersham Biosciences to take playing a role in its development, has been a source of intense full ownership of our life sciences business.
The purchase was pleasure and pride.
partially financed through the issue of 57.5 million new shares, raising 397 million towards the purchase price of 704 million, On behalf of the Board, I want to express my sincere with the remainder being drawn from existing bank facilities admiration and appreciation to all Amersham employees.
Having full ownership of Amersham Their dedication and talents have built a great company.
I now Biosciences and Amersham Health opens new and exciting pass the Chairmans baton to Donald Brydon, a Non-Executive opportunities, particularly in research and development, for Director since 1997 and currently Chairman of the Audit incorporating genetic knowledge into diagnostics taking Committee.
Donald has had an illustrious career in investment us a big step further towards our long-term vision of enabling management 32 years and counting!
and he is eminently personalised medicine.
qualified to guide Amersham on the next stage of its development.
My very best wishes to Donald, the Board and 2002 also saw heightened awareness of corporate governance management, and to a great team of employees.
issues for companies following revelations of corporate mismanagement and accounting fraud, primarily in the US.
This has served to focus attention on the role of independent Non-Executive Directors in protecting the interests of shareholders.
It has also resulted in new legislation SarbanesOxley Act in the US, and a series of recommendations the Higgs Review which may be adopted during 2003 in the UK.
Amershams Board is committed to high standards of Richard Lapthorne Chairman corporate governance and we believe our current practices demonstrate this.
We have always believed that using the Board to manage the company, exposing it to issues and a wider cross section of our managers provides an indispensable framework of business understanding, without which our corporate governance risks being a theoretical and unsubstantial activity.
In this Annual Report, we have supplemented our disclosure and control procedures as required by the US legislation: and we shall review the proposed UK recommendations to ensure that our company continues to follow best practices.
