CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW I am pleased to report a year of excellent progress for Wetherspoon.
Sales increased by 117.3 million to 601.3 million, a rise of 24%.
Operating profit increased by 20% to 70.1 million and profit before tax rose by 21% to 53.6 million.
Earnings per share increased by 17% to 16.6p.
Capital investment was 155.9 million and tax charge rising from 5% to 16% of profits.
compound annual growth in sales has been net gearing at the year end was 98% 2001: It is anticipated that the cash tax charge will 39%, profits before tax 33% and earnings 88%.
Gearing excluding the impact of rise to approximately 30% of profits per share, excluding deferred taxation, deferred taxation was 82%, which by 2010.
compares with 75% at the end of the previous year.
Net interest was covered 4.2 DIVIDENDS.. cash flow per share times 2001: 4.2 times by operating profit.
The board proposes, subject to of 33.5p, more than Operating margins were 11.7% compared shareholders consent, to pay a final double earnings per with 12.1% last year, mainly as a result of dividend of 2.12p per share on higher labour costs.
Cash profits per pub share... 29 November 2002 to those shareholders increased marginally to 207,400. on the register at 27 September 2002, Economic profit, calculated by adding bringing the total dividend for the year to Free cash flow after payments of tax, depreciation to profit before tax and 3.22p per share, a 10% increase on the interest and capital investment of 18.7 subtracting capital expenditure on existing previous year.
At this level, dividends will be million in existing pubs increased by 17% to pubs, increased by 22% to 71.2 million, covered 5.2 times by earnings, compared 71.4 million, resulting in a cash flow per with capital investment in existing pubs at with 4.8 times in 2001.
A scrip alternative share of 33.5p, more than double earnings 3.1% of turnover, compared with 3.3% of will again be offered to shareholders.
per share, before investment in new pubs, turnover in the previous period.
loan repayments, proceeds from the sale of FINANCE fixed assets and dividends paid.
Free cash We are now approaching the 10th The company had 36 million of unutilised flow growth was slightly lower than turnover anniversary of our flotation on the stock banking facilities and 14 million of cash at growth, principally as a result of the cash market.
During this period, our the balance sheet date.
Since the year end, ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW 55 million of new banking facilities have that we have experienced.
example, our IT systems, food delivery been agreed.
Total facilities, which are now systems, training, buying and design of new in excess of 400 million, coupled with our We acquired the first 10 Lloyds pubs 2 years pubs.
strong organic free cash flow, underpin the ago and sales at those pubs have more than companys expansion plans for the doubled.
In addition, we have opened 24 In terms of external recognition, we are foreseeable future.
new Lloyds pubs which have achieved very pleased to have won the Supreme extremely high levels of initial sales.
Training Award from the British Institute of The company continues to fund an Innkeeping for the second year in a row increasing percentage of capital investment and to have won other awards, for.. 54% of our new pub from organic free cash flow.
In 1998, 26% example, for the quality of the design of our development, of new pub development was financed in pubs in Llandudno and Ross-on-Wye.
excluding capitalised this way, and this percentage has steadily interest, was increased so that 54% of our new pub Historically, pubs in Britain have not allowed financed development, excluding capitalised interest, access to children.
In individual pubs over was financed organically in the year under recent years, we have applied for childrens organically... review and we anticipate internally licences which allow accompanied children financing an increasing proportion of our to use certain areas of the pub during Like-for-like sales increased by 5.0% capital expenditure over the next few years.
In April, we successfully and like-for-like profits by 3.8% in the year, extended this experiment to nearly all our resulting in our 22nd year of like-for-like FURTHER PROGRESS pubs, resulting in a considerable increases.
We opened 87 pubs during the year, improvement in food and soft drink sales.
compared with 94 in the previous year.
The As we have indicated in the past, our total number of pubs now operated by us is Following the successful introduction of approach is to try and make small, 610, including 2 opened since the year end.
cappuccinos some time ago, we now intend incremental improvements to the business The new pubs are in a variety of locations to open all our pubs at 10am, regularly, rather than instigating major throughout Britain and Northern Ireland, are approximately 1 hour earlier than reorganisation.
To this end during the year, slightly larger in size than recent years, and currently, for the provision of coffee and we have endeavoured to upgrade every opened at the highest level of initial sales breakfasts, and believe that this will area of the business, including, for 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW The Postern Gate, York ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW create further momentum in the food side of rising from the current 10 per annum to an work in creating another year of great the business.
average of approximately 400 per annum, progress for the company.
Any other REGULATION proposed savings can be just as well PROSPECTS A number of organisations including the CBI achieved using the magistrates system.
Like-for-like sales increased by 5.9% in Confederation of British Industry have August, helped by good summer weather, criticised the increasing amounts of and total company sales increased Like-for-like sales regulation from the government and by 25%.
increased by 5.9% in We have 25 sites in the course of August, helped by As stated previously, increased regulation construction, 60 with the necessary increases pub costs, but the government is permissions for development, a further 60 good summer also proposing to interfere with the regulation on which terms have been agreed and 166 weather, and total of pub licences by transferring jurisdiction to currently in negotiation.
This company sales transfer will be a laborious and expensive As a result of another strong trading increased by 25%.
process and is hard to justify since areas of performance, a good pipeline of new sites licensing now controlled by local authorities and our excellent team, I remain confident are slower and more expensive than those The pub industry is a major employer and of our future prospects.
The proposals are contributor to the Exchequer, with around also absurd as ultimate authority will still rest 40% of pub revenues paid in tax.
In these with magistrates who will deal with appeals circumstances, the government should Tim Martin against local authorities.
The disruption and listen to those affected by the proposed Chairman expense of these proposals cannot be legislation and leave responsibility for 6 September 2002 justified and are strongly opposed by the licensing with magistrates.
huge majority of individual licensees.
The government indicates that its proposals will PEOPLE save money, but the basic licensing fee is I would like to thank again our employees, partners and suppliers for their dedicated 6 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW Ice Wharf, Lloyds No.
1, Camden ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 7
