Chairmans Statement From strength to strength Sir Ian Wood, Chairman I am pleased to report an excellent year, in which we The new capital from our IPO is being used to finance successfully completed an Initial Public Offering IPO, acquisitions and organic developments in line with our significantly extended our business and customer range growth strategy.
Since the IPO, we have completed five and delivered another set of record financial results.
Our acquisitions and undertaken several significant capital 2002 revenues increased 14% to $1,738.1m 2001 projects, with 2002 investment and capital expenditure $1,523.8m, EBITA increased 25% to $135.9m 2001 totalling $202.2m 2001 $86.6m.
$108.8m and adjusted earnings per ordinary share Focus on Growth increased 25% to 16.5 cents 2001 13.2 cents.
The recommended final dividend of 2.0 cents per ordinary Our strategy for growth is focused on developing our share takes the total dividend for the year to 3.0 cents.
broad range of complementary activities in five key longterm growth areas in the oil & gas and power markets These results again confirm that our broad geographic and we are making good progress in building on our coverage, our business spread across the energy sector differentiation and market-leading positions in each of and our focus on less cyclical activities within oil & gas these: provide both growth and financial resilience.
Engineering & Production Facilities delivered strong growth and record In deepwater topsides and subsea engineering and revenues and profits.
Well Support made good progress in major offshore pipelines, we have been involved in in difficult markets and Gas Turbine Services delivered more than 50% of the deepwater projects worldwide encouraging growth in revenues and profits despite a and are involved in over 60% of current Gulf of Mexico slow North American power market.
Sir Ian Wood, Chairman and Chief Executive and Allister Langlands, Deputy Chief Executive visit Rolls Wood Group's RB211 facility in Aberdeen.
Caption will be required for here.
6 John Wood Group PLC In production support and enhancement, we acquired Our People Louisiana based OCS, Brazil based Santos Barbosa and A warm welcome to David Baillie, who joins us from established new operations in Trinidad and Indonesia to Schlumberger, as Chief Executive of Gas Turbine extend our production support activities in these Services.
My thanks to my Board - both Executives important markets.
We also worked on significant new and Non-Executives - who put a huge amount of work into ensuring our continued growth and success in projects in the North Sea, US, Trinidad and Colombia.
My thanks also to all our customers around the Our electric submersible pumps ESP and pressure world for their continuing confidence in our ability to control activities have continued to expand meet their challenges.
Most of all, my heartfelt internationally outside the US with new operations in appreciation to all our employees now more than China, Algeria, Ecuador and Kuwait.
We have also 12,000 in 34 countries for their huge commitment, increased long-term pay-for-performance contracts with enthusiasm and diligence.
Our conviction that Wood good growth from our 6-year ESP contract in Oman and Group will continue to be a very successful public significant new contracts in Kuwait and the US.
company is based entirely on our confidence in the skills, commitment and dedication of all our employees In the industrial gas turbines aftermarket we acquired worldwide.
Thomason Mechanical, one of the largest independent heavy industrial turbine HIT field service businesses in Outlook North America and significantly enhanced our Eastern Looking to the future, world oil and gas markets are Hemisphere HIT field service business, both of which expected to grow by some 5% in 2003.
Against this should substantially increase access to customers for background, Engineering & Production Facilities should our other HIT services.
We also extended our continue to deliver good growth with a significant capabilities in gas turbine related equipment to include proportion of 2003 revenues already under contract.
generator repair with the acquisitions of IRS and Rotary Well Support should also make good progress with Electrical and to include turbine control system repairs, increasing participation in markets outside North retrofits and upgrades with the establishment of a America and an anticipated recovery in North American North American turbine control services business.
In outsourcing and managed services we entered While it is difficult to see any near term recovery in the into two major new contracts supporting BPs North American power sector, the broad spread of our operations in Colombia.
In the North Sea, our oil & gas and power activities, the expected growth significant engineering knowledge and innovative outside North America and the contribution from recent approach to production enhancement and cost control acquisitions, should lead to strong growth for Gas continue to deliver strong performance from our major Turbine Services in 2003. contracts.
With North Sea assets changing ownership In Venezuela, if the expected production recovery is in the mature phase, we are increasing our focus on delayed, there could be a modest effect on our operations management to enhance our ability to earnings.
The potential hostilities in Iraq are unlikely to support the growing requirements of the new entrants.
have any significant impact unless the conflict extends across the wider Arabian Gulf.
Both countries, with These growth initiatives benefit from and contribute to substantial oil reserves, could also provide significant our global infrastructure and continue our successful opportunities for increased growth in the medium term.
combination of organic growth and acquisitions.
Our overall strategic goals remain the achievement of high Overall, we believe we are well positioned to continue growth and high returns from the less volatile end of the the very successful Wood Group story and we look to commodity price cycle.
7 March 2003 Sir Ian Wood John Wood Group PLC 7
