4-5 Johnson Matthey results Chief Executives Statement Annual Report and Accounts 2002 customers from pre-clinical trials all the way through to full scale The Catalytic Systems business, which encompasses our manufacture of proprietary and generic drugs.
The subsequent global autocatalyst, heavy duty diesel and stationary source emission acquisition of Meconic has, through its operating company Macfarlan businesses, had an excellent year.
Global car sales in Johnson Smith, given the division a European base and provides major Mattheys financial year were 2 to 3% down on last year but catalyst opportunities for cross selling and sharing research and development.
volumes were flat, as we gained market share in Europe.
Johnson Matthey manufactures active pharmaceutical The double digit growth in sales excluding the value of precious ingredients, which are sold to pharmaceutical companies.
The metals reflects the continued introduction of new products using division has a strong worldwide position in the manufacture of more complex formulations with higher material costs.
Over half of controlled substances, particularly painkillers where the world the products that we make in Catalytic Systems today have been market is estimated to be growing at 6% p. a.
Within that market introduced into production within the last two years.
Margins have the growth of semi-synthetic opiates is more rapid, both in North improved as these higher performance products, precision coated to America and Europe.
We were notified this month that the group tolerances that have become the industry benchmark, have saved will receive conditional registration from the US Drug Enforcement our customers money whilst achieving tighter legislative limits.
Administration DEA to import the raw materials needed to The heavy duty diesel HDD market has also taken several steps manufacture codeine and morphine.
This will enable our West forward in recent months.
The retrofitting of aftertreatment devices has Deptford, New Jersey facility to improve its market share of opiate continued to grow as several major cities including New York, Los drugs in the US.
Johnson Matthey will now be positioned to Angeles, Washington DC, Seattle and more recently Hong Kong and manufacture a full range of these products on both sides of the Tokyo, have instigated significant trials of clean buses and trucks.
Overall, we see excellent long term growth prospects for Johnson Mattheys patented CRT technology has secured a majority this division.
share of these trials and subsequent sales.
We are also collaborating with all manufacturers of HDD engines as they prepare to start fitting Financial Highlights these devices as original equipment in the next few years.
In the financial year to 31st March 2002 Johnson Mattheys profit Chemicals also had a good year, with most of the growth before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation rose by 4% to coming in pgm refining with increased intake from primary producers.
Earnings per share before exceptional items and Catalyst sales were weaker, reflecting the downturn in some of the goodwill amortisation rose by 6% to 60.4 pence.
A number of new products were introduced in Total sales fell by 18% to 4.8 billion reflecting significantly lower 2001 02, which should have a positive impact on the current financial prices for platinum and palladium, particularly in the second half of year.
Construction began during the year on a pgm chemicals the year.
Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 12% manufacturing facility in Shanghai, to better serve the developing to 1.1 billion, with double digit growth in Catalysts & Chemicals.
The plant is scheduled to open in late summer Pharmaceutical Materials sales benefited from the contribution from 2002.
Our catalogue based Research Chemicals business, which the two acquisitions made in 2001 02 as well as from good organic sells fine chemicals mainly to research institutes, pharmaceutical and growth in the second half of the year.
chemical companies, achieved excellent growth.
In February 2002 Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation we acquired Avocado Research Chemicals Limited, which is a rose by 10% to 193.3 million.
The group had a net interest charge of supplier of specialised organic chemicals with an established 6.1 million compared with a net credit of 5.3 million last year.
Since acquisition the business has performed well.
change reflects the funding costs of the major investments and share We have stepped up our investment in Fuel Cells, the costs of buy-backs undertaken in the year, and higher interest paid on gold and which are included in the results of Catalysts & Chemicals Division.
The year has seen the completion of our major investment in The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of expanding fuel cell R&D and testing facilities at our research centre at 17.1 pence making a total dividend for the year of 24.6 pence, an Sonning Common, UK.
This facility is now operating on a 24 hour increase of 6%.
basis and is an invaluable, worldclass resource for our research and product development teams as well as our partners in our many Operations collaborative programmes.
Good progress has been made on the Catalysts & Chemicals Divisions sales fell by 11% to 1,303 million first phase of our dedicated manufacturing facility for MEAs at reflecting the significant fall in pgm prices.
Sales excluding the value of Swindon, UK.
A new plant for testing and developing fuel processors precious metals rose by 11% to 597 million.
The divisions operating and associated catalyst coated components has been completed at profit rose by 17% to 94.7 million.
We continue to see excellent opportunities for our growth businesses despite uncertain economic conditions.
