06 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Johnston Press has enjoyed a very satisfactory year with cash generation, profits and turnover all at record levels.
We have seen the early benefits of the acquisition of Regional Independent Media Holdings Limited RIM, and all of our businesses have done well on a like-for-like basis.
The growth we have achieved is a function of steady trading and well-controlled costs.
This reflects a single-minded focus on the provision of information and entertainment to local communities and to meeting the needs of local advertisers.
This approach underpins all of our strategic and tactical decisions.
For most media companies the past two We recognise that our daily, weekly and than 480 million newspapers each year years have been very difficult particularly less frequent publications with their and have an average weekly readership of for those dependent on selling display associated special supplements and web 11.8 million.
Our web sites receive more advertising.
For many, this has resulted in sites will only thrive if they make a strong than 100 million page impressions reduced profits and a declining share connection with the communities they annually.
We reach deeply into numerous price.
I am pleased to report that Johnston serve.
This is why we place such store by local communities around the country.
Press was an exception in both respects editorial independence and a singleand notably we were one of the best mindedly local approach.
RESULTS performing European media shares in In 2002, we achieved turnover of 2002.
But we are not remotely Britain is very well served by national 428 million up 43%, profit before tax of complacent, recognising that each week media.
Our role is to understand and meet 93 million up 35% and free cash flows of brings new challenges as well as the needs of people in the areas where 86 million up 127%, all against 2001.
We benefit from having a they live, work and play.
For most of us, consolidation of RIM from 12 April 2002 robust advertising business but, to sustain what happens in our immediate local contributed to this growth but it is this, we must remain focused on serving environment is of far more importance especially pleasing to report operating our customers well.
It is in the local profit margins of 30% for the enlarged community that we spend most of our Group, with good growth from both the The theme of this report, as it was last time and in which we have our greatest existing and acquired activities.
Free cash year, is life is local.
It is our guiding interests.
Most of us eat out, seek flow in the business is excellent with a principle.
Our investment in people, entertainment, go shopping, buy cars, conversion of 66% from operating profit equipment, technology and acquisitions is look for a job and move house close to compared to 42% last year.
Headline aimed at enhancing our service to local our homes.
We have continued to do this earnings per share were 26.75p, up 13% communities and, in particular, to our even in recent economically uncertain on 2001 when adjusted for the Rights Issue principal customers our readers and our times which is why our advertising associated with the acquisition of RIM.
The circulations of our paid-for weekly It is the policy of your Board to be Following our successful acquisition of newspapers have been strong, growing by editorially neutral and community biased.
RIM, we now publish and distribute more 1.5%.
Our daily titles, in line with industry 07 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002 will facilitate further consolidation in the costs in the business remain well controlled.
We have no doubt that the During the year we will also see further process will continue regardless.
benefits from the full integration of RIM.
BOARD The outlook is clouded by events overseas We have noted the proposals of and their potential impact on the UK Derek Higgs on the role of non-executive economy, including business and consumer directors.
Various concerns on the confidence.
Whilst it is impossible to predict practical implications of these have been the economic consequences with certainty, expressed, many of which we share.
we remain confident that Johnston Press is We place great store by good governance.
in good shape to respond to whatever We have benefited from informal feedback challenges the future may bring.
from shareholders, both large and small, on governance and I welcome any comments, particularly if people have any concerns.
Sir Harry Roche plans to step down from the Board at the AGM in 2004, which coincides with his 70th birthday.
Harry has been a director since 1993 and Deputy Chairman since 1996.
Throughout that time he has brought a wealth of newspaper industry knowledge and business expertise.
I wish him well in what will be a very active ROGER PARRY retirement.
Peter Cawdron will replace Chairman Harry as Senior Independent Director next 19 March 2003 year.
We have appointed external consultants to seek Harrys replacement.
trends, have shown circulation declines but newspaper sales revenues and Your Board consists of six non-executive advertising sales have continued to grow and two executive directors.
Freddy as the communications value of our Johnston and his brother Harry, both nonpublications remains great.
executives, are not regarded as independent as they represent a substantial DIVIDEND shareholding in the Company and due to Your Board propose a final dividend of their length of service on the Board.
3.6p per share making a total of 5.4p per However, I am sure it will not be surprising share compared to 4.9p last year, an to learn that they very definitely have increase of 18% when allowing for the shareholders interests at heart and are discount element of the Rights Issue.
passionate about the Groups success.
I would like to congratulate Tim Bowdler, STRATEGY our Chief Executive, on his appointment in We believe that industry consolidation and July 2002 as President of the Newspaper the emergence of a small number of large, Society, a position which he will hold until well-resourced publishers has resulted in the middle of this year.
It has enabled him better local newspapers than would have to play a leading role in matters of concern been the case from a fragmented and and interest to the industry as a whole.
Local focus comes through the efforts of editors and PROSPECTS managers not as an accident of ownership.
We have made a satisfactory start to 2003, achieving further modest revenue growth, We continue to seek opportunities to despite advertising markets remaining expand our business and we remain subdued.
The price of newsprint, our hopeful that the Governments stated largest purchase item, has reduced and objective to lighten the burden of regulation 08 LOCALLY FOCUSED Johnston Press Annual Report & Accounts 2002
