Chairmans statement Hilton and Ladbrokes are both world-leading brands.
It is our belief that, in the medium term, our hotel performance will improve and Ladbrokes will continue to grow.
The past year has been a difficult one in terms Most Admired Company Being Responsive of economic and global uncertainties but I am This is a Group that wins awards.
A raft of We have, over the years, built a Group that pleased to report a solid performance by your awards in hotels, betting and gaming and health is structured to be nancially strong during Group.
clubs was capped at the end of last year with such uncertain times as these.
We have built the news that readers of Management Today a Group that is responsive to the needs of our World-leading Brands magazine voted Hilton Group the most admired customers and which will continue to be so.
Hilton and Ladbrokes are both world-leading company in the leisure and hotels sector.
In Both these attributes leave Hilton Group as brands.
They offer products, service and addition, of the largest 125 companies in the a strong player for the future.
quality that will always be in demand.
UK, our admiration ranking moved up from 72 to 19.
The Dividend Overview of Results In line with our commitment given last The Groups profit before taxation, goodwill Hilton in the Community November that we would maintain the full year amortisation and exceptional items fell 3.1% As a Group we take our responsibilities to our 2002 dividend at no less than last years level, to 271.4 million.
employees and the communities in which we the Board have recommended a final dividend operate very seriously.
In February 2002 we of 5.52 pence per share payable on 2 June 2003 Due to the reduction in international travel established Hilton University which provides to shareholders on the register on 7 March.
exacerbated by the general downturn of employees with learning and education This final dividend, together with the interim economies, notably in Germany and Scandinavia opportunities.
The Hilton in the Community dividend of 3.40 pence, gives a total dividend where the portfolio is predominantly owned or Foundation, established almost two years ago, of 8.92 pence, maintained at last years level.
leased, the hotel division saw operating profit for is now supporting charities and disaster relief the year fall by 43.2 million to 212.1 million.
At Ladbrokes, staff are Outlook Underlying profit, after adjusting for property close to raising over 2 million for charity over At the time of writing, the uniquely complex changes and exchange movements and excluding the last five years.
economic and political uncertainty makes the Scandic acquisition, fell by 13.4% to forecasting for hotels difficult.
Customer Service for betting remains positive.
Our task is to Hilton Group is in good shape and I want muster the strengths of our brands, management Worldwide Betting turnover at 3.8 billion to take this opportunity to thank staff and and nances to continue to outperform the increased by 50% following the introduction of management right across the business for competition.
tax-free betting, the continued international their hard work and commitment to customer expansion of our eGaming business and the service that has helped bring this about.
benefit of the World Cup in Japan and Korea.
Gross win at 622 million was up by 8%, The Board increasing in all channels and reecting positive On 22 July 2002 Nicholas Jones was appointed Sir Ian Robinson growth across the business.
Operating profit a non-executive director of the Board of Chairman before exceptional items increased by 31.5% Hilton Group plc.
Nicholas is a distinguished 27 February 2003 to 149.3 million.
corporate nancier and is Vice Chairman of Lazard Brothers and was previously Chairman Setting the Pace of the National Stud.
Russell Walls, the senior It is our belief that, in the medium term, our independent director, will not be standing for hotel performance will improve and Ladbrokes re-election at this years AGM and we would will continue to grow.
We hold that belief like to thank Russell for the contribution he because we know that both businesses are has made to the Group.
On Russells retirement leaders in their sectors, developing fresh Patrick Lupo will take over as the senior approaches, making innovations and responding independent director.
These are businesses that set the pace and the agenda in their sectors.
Where Hilton or Ladbrokes goes, the competition is sure to follow.
2 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2002
