Chairmans statement We kept disruption from the merger process to a minimum This is my first statement as non-executive chairman for and, in comparison to our peers, LogicaCMGs performance in LogicaCMG, following the merger of Logica and CMG.
It the six months to 31 December 2002 was creditable.
Our staff reports on the combined performance of the two previously remained focused on delivering results and I would like to separate companies, for the six months ended 31 December 2002, and looks forward to the calendar year 2003. register my thanks for their efforts.
As indicated in our recent update to the financial markets, the results were broadly in line In 2002, the marketplace for IT services remained difficult with our expectations at the time of the merger.
Nonetheless, against a backdrop of economic slowdown in most global basic earnings per share were down 9% at 5.2p.
Following a decade of strong growth, LogicaCMG along with its competitors was faced with more limited The continued fall in stock market valuations over the last year demand as many customers focused primarily on maintaining has required us to make a further write-down of goodwill existing systems and those that generate swift cost savings.
This associated with earlier acquisitions.
This non-cash item led to pricing pressure and overcapacity in our industry.
The amounted to 444.6 million and now leaves 369.4 million of telecommunications and financial services sectors two markets goodwill on the balance sheet.
key to the exceptional performance of both Logica and CMG from 1998 to 2000 were particularly affected.
Overall, our IT In addition to the LogicaCMG merger, we continued to services business held its margins firm against falling revenues.
consider opportunities to strengthen specific parts of our business through niche acquisitions.
In September, we acquired Our wireless networks business was challenged by both eGlobal Pacific, an Australian SAP consulting firm, while, in continued restrictions on capital expenditure and slow November, we acquired Great Lakes Technologies Group, of migration to new technologies.
We nonetheless slowed the rate Michigan USA, to enhance our offering to the automotive of revenue decline significantly and traded above break-even industry.
We will continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities for the period, partly as a result of previous actions to reduce on their merits.
Before goodwill, restructuring costs and other exceptional items.
2 Chairmans statement LogicaCMG report and accounts 2002 Shares and dividend Greater headcount reductions and other cost saving measures will Shares in LogicaCMG continue to have their primary listing on strengthen margins.
However, given the longer timescale to effect the London Stock Exchange, with a secondary listing headcount reductions in mainland Europe, we anticipate some maintained on Euronext in Amsterdam, recognising the pressure on overall margins during the first half of 2003.
As more of continued importance of the Dutch marketplace for our the cost reductions come on-line during the second half, we expect combined business.
On 3 March 2003, Euronext increased the margins to improve, with a further increase during 2004 as the full weighting for LogicaCMG in the premier AEX index, requiring impact of the cost savings comes through.
index tracker funds to increase their holdings.
In wireless networks, the progress on multimedia and associated For the period ended 31 December 2002, the board has services is encouraging, although estimates of when the recommended a dividend of 3p per share.
Our policy is to penetration of new handsets will reach critical mass and associated ensure that shareholders benefit directly and smoothly from the volume-based revenues take effect, remain tentative at this early successful growth of the business while continuing to provide stage.
We are leveraging our market position to maximise our sufficient funds to invest in future growth.
Based on the total return from the short messaging service SMS marketplace that dividend of 5.4p per Logica share for the financial year ended 30 remains an important, though declining, source of revenue.
Our June 2002, it is expected that, in the current climate, combined product portfolio, backed by a streamlined LogicaCMG will maintain the value of the dividend in real terms development, distribution and support organisation, strengthens for the financial year ending 31 December 2003. our competitive position considerably, underpinned by a customer base of some 260 operators delivering a solid maintenance Board changes revenue stream.
We plan to manage our costs effectively as we The LogicaCMG board is drawn from both previous entities.
A negotiate our path through the technology transition, which number of directors have in consequence stood down, including the inevitably causes uncertainty and less visibility of revenue.
We are Logica non-executive chairman, Sir Frank Barlow.
I would like to projecting an R&D spend of approximately 55 million for the thank all retiring directors for their contribution to the development current year, compared to a combined spend of nearly 70 million of the two companies and for their support through the merger.
We have already proposed some 485 also greatly appreciate the help that my new colleagues have given redundancies in our wireless networks operations.
These actions me in quickly creating a new, cohesive team.
give us a cost base designed to at least break even at the operating level for the full year, recognising that product uncertainty at the Having spent most of the last 14 years as a CEO, of which the last beginning of the year and the timing of cost reductions will impact two years were spent at CMG, Alistair Crawford has informed the the first half.
board that he wishes to pursue similar leadership opportunities.
Alistair has resigned from the board with effect from 4 March 2003 Our customers are facing demands for greater efficiency and and will support the company in various integration activities over virtually every attempt to improve performance or enhance channels the next several months in line with his contractual notice period.
to market involves an IT dimension.
The merger strengthens our The board is grateful for his support both in the process of achieving ability to win market share and to benefit from any improvement in the merger and in helping to plan and implement the early phases of demand.
We remain focused on managing our costs tightly, integration.
The board wishes him well in his future career.
capitalising on the cross-selling opportunities the merger has created, and delivering value-added services to clients.
Outlook In IT services, we see some evidence of price stability in our largest markets, the UK and the Netherlands, as customers concentrate their purchasing on a smaller number of suppliers with a proven track record of delivery.
However, demand in systems integration and consulting remains weak as customers focus on cost reduction and maximising returns from existing investments.
LogicaCMG is well positioned to benefit from an increasing appetite to outsource mission-critical processes, with an established capability supported by our offshore competence.
The economic climate in France and Cor Stutterheim Germany continues to deteriorate, increasing pressure on rates in Chairman our least differentiated businesses.
