com 1 Luc Vandevelde Chairman and Chief Executive Chairmans message In my report last year, I detailed our plan for restoring the fortunes of Marks & Spencer.
The first was to focus on the heart of our business our retail and financial services operations in the UK and to get back to the fundamental strengths that had made Marks & Spencer great in the past.
To succeed, we needed clarity of purpose and no distractions.
The second element of the plan was therefore to stop all activities which were non-core or making a loss.
Thirdly, we needed the right capital structure to make our balance sheet more efficient and to generate greater value for our shareholders.
The plan was simple, radical and all-encompassing, with each element essential to the success of the whole.
And it had to be accomplished rapidly: we were, after all, ghting to recover in a harsh, competitive marketplace.
To generate a sense of urgency in the organisation, I deliberately imposed a tight deadline for starting to see real changes.
A year on, the restructuring is complete and the changes to our capital structure including the return of 2bn to our shareholders have increased our potential earnings per share.
Best of all, were seeing a marked improvement in our performance.
In the 12 months to 30 March 2002, sales from continuing operations were up by 3.8% and corresponding Group operating profits by 30.8%.
During the 2001 calendar year, Marks & Spencer was the best performing share in the FTSE 100.
Customers are coming back, buying more and telling others.
Now that we have turned the corner, our task is to secure the recovery and to keep building for our future.
There is much to do and we are not complacent.
Phase one may be complete, but the plan moves on as we set about growing the business and regaining our leadership in the UK market.
Before we look forward, it is worth reecting on why the turnaround has been so relatively swift.
Yes we have changed our organisational and financial structures.
But more importantly, we have tapped into the values and qualities that customers traditionally associated with our brand but which tended to be obscured in recent years.
We have succeeded not by inventing a new Marks & Spencer, but by rediscovering the fundamental strengths of the past and making them relevant to the present.
Let me outline what I believe these fundamentals to be.
The first is to make sure we have the right team, without which no plan can succeed.
Our Board, completely reconstituted over the past two years, is a powerful combination of people with past experience of Marks & Spencer and those who bring new skills and ideas to the organisation.
We are grateful for the continuity provided by Robert Colvill who delayed his retirement from the Board until December 2001 to help restructure the business.
We also welcome talented new members to the Board Laurel Powers-Freeling, Chief Executive of Marks & Spencer Financial Services, and Jack Keenan and Paul Myners who join us as non-executive directors.
It is gratifying to see how the experience and knowledge brought by each addition to the Board has enhanced our underlying culture and values.
The Board of UK Retail benets from the same combination of internal and external talent.
And right down through the organisation, we are fortunate in the quality and dedication of our people.
We are building a way of working based on teamwork, personal accountability and passion for our products and our 65,000 people have responded magnicently.
My thanks go to all of them, as well as to the many suppliers who have worked so closely with us on our recovery plan.
Along with having the right team, the next imperative is to listen to our customers.
Marks & Spencer has a special place in the British way of life.
I have always believed, and have often said publicly, that no other retailer in the world has such loyal customers.
We may have let them down and they may have punished us by staying away, but the vast majority were waiting for the excuse to come back.
They definitely even desperately wanted us to succeed.
2 Marks and Spencer Group p. l. c. Chairmans message They were therefore quick to respond when they saw that Marks & Spencer was taking them seriously.
As the business rediscovered its talent for innovation, quality, value and service, it also began restoring that all-important trust between retailer and customer.
Shoppers started coming back through our doors, delighted to nd that the Marks & Spencer they remembered was still there and indeed even better.
That is the reason why the recovery has been quicker than many people expected not simply that weve got back to fundamentals, but that, in so doing, weve reconnected with a huge reservoir of goodwill that never ceased to exist.
The vicious circle of decline became a virtuous circle of recovery when, once again, we were able to tap that capital of loyalty that represents the real value of the business.
Looking ahead, our task is to keep building on our fundamental strengths, guided by our mission of making aspirational quality accessible to all.
If phase one of the plan focused our efforts on the heart of our business, phase two addresses our future growth.
It looks at how we deliver value, both for our shareholders and for the communities in which we operate.
After much debate and renement, it is summed up in the following statement.
We will: Regain our leadership in clothing and speciality food by translating our scale and authority into superior quality, value and appeal: Build on our unique customer relationships through new products and services, particularly in Home and Financial Services: Shape our store locations, formats and product offer to meet the changing needs of our customers: Reassert our position as a leading socially responsible business.
The past year has proved that returning to fundamentals and reconnecting with our customers really does make a difference.
We knew the brand was strong stronger, indeed, than its custodians and have shown what can be achieved by releasing its inherent strength.
On this basis we aim to become, once again, the standard by which all others will want to be measured and to generate increasing value for our shareholders.
Thank you for standing by us as we turn the business around.
Your support is much appreciated by all of us in the Group.
As our fortunes now look up, we look forward to your continued support and hope you enjoy the shopping.
Luc Vandevelde Chairman and Chief Executive
