Chairmans Statement In what has been an unusual and challenging year in terms of trading conditions, it is pleasing to have again achieved record sales and profits.
Turnover in the twelve months to 31 December 2002 increased by 4.3 per cent to 342.1 million 2001: 328.0 million.
Operating profit in the period increased by 11.0 per cent to 50.3 million 2001: 45.3 million.
Taking into account the 2.3 million profit on the disposal of the Flooring business, explained later in my statement, the Group profit before tax at 49.4 million 2001: 42.7 million was 15.6 per cent above 2001.
All Divisions achieved sales growth.
Landscape Products increased by 2.8 per cent, Clay Products by 2.9 per cent and Natural Stone Products, with a Chineham Court, Basingstoke.
Clay Pavers full year contribution from Stancliffe Stone, by 27.6 per cent.
Emerging Businesses, including the The market intelligence we gain through regular contribution from the Flooring business sold after contact with our network of approved Registered eleven months, increased sales by 2.7 per cent.
Installers confirms that the domestic demand for The remaining Emerging Businesses, increased our products remains buoyant.
Sales to the sales by 12.7 per cent.
commercial and public sectors grew by 4 per cent in the full year.
This compares with forecast total growth in the construction industry of 7 per cent.
Group Overview These figures suggest that we could see the impact of this higher industry growth during 2003 Had it not been for the impact of the Jubilee as our products tend to be installed towards the celebrations and the World Cup in June 2002, to end of most construction projects.
which we referred at the half year, orders in the pipeline suggest that sales would have been considerably higher.
Customer demand remains Clay Products Division strong and as a consequence of the backlog of domestic work that has built up during the year, The Division increased sales by 2.9 per cent to the installers of our products began 2003 with 30.3 million in the full year.
The second half sales healthy order books.
The commercial and public growth was slightly stronger than the first six sector markets, where our experience was similar months.
Sales of bricks through the Landscape to the domestic market, also remain strong.
Products Division Service Centres continue to increase as a percentage of total sales which implies that our performance in the repair and Landscape Products Division maintenance sector is currently better than new build.
The Division achieved sales of 254.5 million, 2.8 per cent ahead of last year.
Sales in the month of June were more than 6 million lower than the previous year due to the impact of the special events referred to above.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 5 Natural Stone Division This is the first year we have disclosed separately the results for this part of our business.
It includes our own natural stone products, imported stone paving and granite products, and aggregates from our own quarries.
Sales of this new Division amounted to 25.0 million, an increase of 27.6 per cent over 2001.
This includes a full year contribution from Stancliffe Stone, acquired in June 2001.
Organic growth in sales was 14.0 per cent.
Cottage Garden Bricks, Rose Emerging Businesses Division Balance Sheet The sales of this Division, which now exclude The Group balance sheet remains exceptionally natural stone and related products, amounted to strong.
The net borrowings at the year end of 32.3 million in the year.
Only eleven months 17.9 million 2001: 12.9 million represents sales of Flooring are included because, on 29 gearing of 8.8 per cent 2001: 6.9 per cent.
This November 2002, we sold the business to Hanson position has been affected by a combination of Building Products, as we did not see the prospect our continuing capital investment programme, an of Marshalls establishing a major market presence acquisition and higher stock levels which have in this sector.
The price obtained was 13.1 been partially offset by the cash inflow from the million.
In addition, we have received the surplus disposal of our Flooring business.
Cash inflow funds that have arisen from the from operating activities amounted to 54.6 collection of debtors and payment of creditors.
Sales from the remaining Emerging Businesses, on a like for like basis, increased by 12.7 per cent.
The main change from 2001 relates to an increase in stock levels of 8.6 million.
The higher stock levels are predominantly in the Landscape Products Division and relate to the special events in the summer and the slower recovery in the third quarter.
Only in September did sales return to more normal levels and stock levels start to reduce.
Initiatives have been established to reduce stock to target levels in 2003.
Investment and Disposals The Group continued to invest significantly in its capital expenditure programme, spending 36.5 million 2001: 31.3 million.
In addition in December 2002 a small sand and gravel business was acquired for 4.8 million.
On 29 November 2002 the Group disposed of its Flooring business which manufactures pre-cast concrete flooring, to Hanson Building Products, part of Hanson PLC for cash proceeds of 13.1 Heritage Octant, Yorkstone million and commenced the closure of a related 6 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 business on the same manufacturing site.
The It is very pleasing to me to report to you that the gain on disposal and termination of business of Board have decided that Graham Holden, 2.3 million is disclosed net of goodwill of 1.5 currently Chief Executive of the Landscape million previously eliminated against reserves.
Products Division, will become Group Chief Executive when I step down as Executive Chairman of the Group.
Graham joined Marshalls Dividend in 1986 and was appointed to the Board in 1992 as Finance Director.
He became Chief Executive of The Board has decided to recommend a final the Landscape Products Division in November dividend of 6.70p 2001: 6.35p per ordinary share 2000 and has significantly improved the making a total of 10.00p 2001: 9.50p for the year, performance of that Division since his an increase of 5.3 per cent compared with 2001. appointment.
We have already commenced the The dividend will be paid on 7 July 2003 to search for a new Managing Director of Marshalls Shareholders on the Register on 6 June 2003.
The Landscape Products who will be expected to join ex-dividend date will be 4 June 2003. the Board on appointment.
In addition, we have commenced the search for a Outlook new Non-Executive Chairman who, together with We enter the new financial year with installers Graham and the Board, will ensure that we having good domestic order books.
Whilst continue to deliver superior value for our general economic conditions are expected to be Shareholders.
more difficult in 2003, the prospects for the UK construction industry should still remain good in There will also be the need to appoint two new view of public sector spending plans.
With this in independent non-executive directors.
Michael mind, and the developments we have in place for Stacey, one of our non-executive directors, all our Divisions, we are looking forward to recently resigned from the Board having another successful year.
completed one three year term.
He also resigned from another public company, of which he had been a non-executive director, in order to pursue Board opportunities in the private equity market.
His In 2002, Marshalls enjoyed its sixth year of contribution to our business will be missed.
continued sales and profit growth.
Marshalls today comprises a group of strong, focussed and John Footman was appointed to the Board in complementary businesses and is in extremely 1996 after retiring as a director of Wolseley Plc.
good shape, with a very strong balance sheet and He has served two terms as a non-executive leading market positions in a number of growing director of Marshalls plc.
In accordance with best markets.
It is therefore my wish, by the end of practice, and the recommendations of the Higgs 2003, or as soon thereafter as possible, to step Report, he will not therefore be standing for down as Chairman of the Group.
His detailed knowledge of the objective to tackle one more corporate Industry and contribution to the Board will also turnaround or transformation before hanging up be missed.
I want the time to find that opportunity and then meet the challenge.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our management and employees throughout The Board have decided that, in accordance with the Group for their excellent contribution during best practice, and the recommendation of the the year.
Higgs Report, we should take this opportunity to separate the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Christopher Burnett Executive Chairman Marshalls plc Annual Report 2002 7
