McCarthy & Stone plc Chairmans Statement John McCarthy We delivered a lower number of units to finished We have achieved record OVERVIEW stock than in the previous year, in part, reflecting results once again.
Our financial year began with uncertainty our concerns at the direction the economy might following the events of September 2001. take following the events of September 2001.
At the interim results stage in April I reported However, we finished the half year strongly and However, we have closed the period with a that we were confident we would deliver a the second six months of our financial year higher level of finished units and work in further good year for shareholders.
We have enjoyed strong market conditions.
We have also had an excellent year in turned in an excellent performance.
to move selling prices forward and increase terms of achieving planning consents.
The following highlights stand out: volumes.
I am pleased at the progress of our new Assisted Living business.
PLANNING Profit before taxation was 75.4m 60.5m, an increase of 25%.
Basic earnings per share We had a good year for securing land.
We I have referred in the past to the significant was 49.2p 39.2p, an increase of 26%.
acquired approximately 2,300 units, nearly all of planning and social benefits that result from our which were conditional on securing satisfactory developments, not least in that they meet a The Directors propose a final dividend of 8.1p planning.
This provides us with total stock specific and growing housing need and in that which, when combined with the interim holdings to service five years of sales at last effectively, 100% of our development takes place dividend of 3.3p makes a total dividend for the years sales rate and the ability to increase sales in on central urban brownfield land.
Our form of year of 11.4p 9.7p, an increase of 17.5%.
development remains highly sustainable and The Groups dividend cover is 4.3 times.
complies fully with the fundamental aims and objectives of Government planning policy.
Finished stock, work in progress and land amounted to 8,510 units 7,735, an increase of 10% equivalent to five years of sales at last years sales rate.
Cash balances at the year end amounted to 53.5m 66.5m after early redemption of 13m of Loan Stock, which was due to be repaid on 31 March 2004 The Groups pre-tax return on capital on the basis of shareholders funds at the year end was 32%.
Over the last five years we have achieved compound increases in earnings per share of 33%, profit before tax of 30% and dividends of 31%.
Typical lounge Page 4 McCarthy & Stone plc Jubilee Court, Dunfermline The recently published findings of the 2001 At present, the significant merits of our greater resources for local planning authorities: Census have shown that 21% of the UK developments are not being given due weight or, a better understanding, interpretation and population 12.2 million is now over the age of for example, being balanced more fairly against consistency in application of current planning 60.
This is a significant increase since the last the communitys need for affordable housing.
policies by local authorities: Census and it should be borne in mind that the Only when such due recognition has been majority of older people now own their homes.
achieved, will we be able to operate on a level housing strategies for older people: and, playing field in those local authorities where The Government, in recognition of the much greater discipline in the implementation demands for affordable housing, at present, economic and social implications of an ageing of the system and in the behaviour of local are only being met at the cost of other special population, has made it clear that good quality planning authorities.
housing is a key to ensuring better health and At present, far too many bad planning decisions independence in later life.
Through its Strategic I am nonetheless, pleased that we are represented are based on local political interests rather than Framework, Quality and Choice for Older on the Governments Housing And Older People sound planning judgement.
Peoples Housing, the Government seeks to Development Group, which is charged with the ensure that there is a sufficient range of housing implementation of the Governments Strategic Government really must overcome the notion that options available to older people so that they are Framework.
I am particularly encouraged by the development is evil and that the community able to secure a home appropriate to their Governments intention to ensure that all local should be compensated for accepting circumstances.
In this regard, the Government authorities examine the housing needs of their development.
This notion has encouraged the acknowledges that moving to good quality older population, prepare housing strategies, and excessive pursuit of planning gain.
Any so called sheltered housing, in both the public and private adopt appropriate housing and planning polices.
gain can ultimately only be extracted from the sectors, is a positive experience for many older I certainly look forward to much greater land value.
This can restrict the supply of land people, enabling independence in a home more recognition of the positive planning benefits that coming onto the market as did Development suitable to their needs whilst receiving support, our developments bring.
Land Tax in earlier years which, in turn, had to be security and company.
Hence, the challenge for abandoned.
We have already witnessed instances For far too many years I have found it necessary to local authorities is to help meet the housing of brown land being withdrawn from the criticise the planning system for delaying and needs of the elderly through housing and market by vendors when it becomes evident prejudicing our ability to develop our sites and to planning policies.
what the costs of development are.
deliver much-needed sheltered housing despite our It is of great concern to me that only a handful developments being in accord with the Development, and in particular our specialised of local authorities across the country have Governments planning objectives as set out in its form of housing, brings with it significant social, properly examined the housing needs of older Planning Policy Guidance and Circulars.
I, like economic and environmental benefits to society.
The vast majority do others in our industry, was pleased to hear that the I sincerely hope that the Government not have a housing strategy for older people.
Government had at last recognised that the acknowledges these benefits swiftly as, if it fails With the absence of such an important housing planning system needs attention.
I was, however, to do so, the major shortage of housing strategy, local authorities are unable to adopt disappointed with the proposed reforms set out in provision, in particular provision that ensures planning policies, that would ensure appropriate the Planning Green Paper published last December.
older people are able to secure and sustain their housing choice for older people.
independence in homes appropriate to their The planning system does not need radical circumstances, will persist.
What is required is: McCarthy & Stone plc Page 5 McCarthy & Stone plc Typical Kitchen Chairmans Statement continued STAFF AND SUPPLIERS On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all our staff.
These are our best results ever, by a large margin, and they could not have been achieved without all their commitment, enthusiasm and expertise.
I am pleased that these results have enabled all our staff, both at Head Office and in the Regions, to share in the success of the Group through the incentive arrangements we have put in place.
I am also pleased to see that we have a very high level of participation in our SAYE and SIP schemes.
We renewed our commitment to our Customer Care programme and we have re-emphasised that message to our consultants, suppliers and subcontractors.
It is always difficult to ensure the highest levels of service and quality from our suppliers but, with some exceptions, we believe we have achieved this in the year.
Once again we were delighted to recognise the contribution of our suppliers, subcontractors and professional consultants with our annual awards.
We have had another outstanding year in terms of the public recognition of our brand and of PROSPECTS the quality of our homes.
We maintain the highest quality rating with the NHBC, as we Given the present market conditions, the Group Looking forward, we continue to focus on have done for many years.
can look forward with confidence to delivering our core retirement housing product.
increased value for shareholders and sustainable The home-owing retirement community, which Land and planning provide the essential raw long term growth.
is now more affluent and more numerous, is the material for our developments.
However, the market we serve.
political and planning environment has become ever more complex in the last 20 years making it The rate of house price increases over the last increasingly difficult to realise the development year has been the subject of much public debate, potential of our sites.
I am very pleased, as has the high level of household and mortgage therefore, to welcome Gary Day as an Executive debt but, with low interest rates, affordability Director with responsibility for land and within the general housing market remains sound.
Gary has headed up our Planning Bureau at Head Office since John McCarthy, MBE McCarthy & Stone has started the new financial 1988 and has had overall responsibility for our Chairman year in excellent health.
We are enjoying much planning and its many achievements in higher levels of enquiries, visitors and net recent years.
reservations compared to last year and have a record forward sales position.
We have a land bank that will deliver us profitable growth and a balance sheet that can finance it.
Page 6 McCarthy & Stone plc Kelburne Court, Paisley
