com Business review headcount by 200, led to an exceptional operating charge of History and development of the Company 75 million being incurred in the second half of the year, and is On 10 May 2001, BT announced its intention to demerge our expected to generate annual cost savings of 40-45 million.
This was effected by a reorganisation, a scheme of consequence of this streamlining, as from 1 April 2004, O Online 2 arrangement and, on 19 November 2001, the demerger transaction.
and Products O will no longer be operated as separate businesses.
2 As a consequence, our operations have been conducted as an independent entity, mmO, with key subsidiaries in the United 2 O Germany 2 Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
In Our German business, O Germany, was launched in May 1995 as 2 September 2001, we announced a new brand, O, for the Group.
2 a joint venture between BT and Viag AG, with BT holding a 50 per This was introduced in May 2002 and, in support of that cent stake, and prior to 2002 was called Viag Interkom.
Pursuant to introduction, each of the principal country company operating agreements made in August 2000 and January 2001, BT acquired a names, except for Manx Telecom Limited in the Isle of Man, were controlling stake in O Germany.
In February 2001, BT acquired the 2 changed to include the brand in their names.
Accordingly, references remaining share capital of the business from E. ON AG formerly throughout this annual report to the country operations, where known as Viag AG for 4,562 million.
appropriate, refer to the new operating company names.
Initially, the business provided xed line services only, but in May On 14 April 2003, we announced that we had agreed the sale of 1997 O Germany was awarded the fourth German GSM licence 2 O Netherlands to Greeneld Capital Partners, an independent 2 and launched GSM mobile services in October 1998.
In August private equity and finance group with interests in the telecoms 2000, O Germany was awarded a UMTS licence in Germany.
The 2 sector, for 25 million in cash which was paid on completion of the cost of the licence was 5.16 billion, which was paid in September transaction on 3 June 2003.
In January 2001, O Germany launched its GPRS service.
2 that our Board of Directors had received and considered a proposal by Royal K. P. N. N. V. the Dutch telecommunications group.
The O Ireland 2 Board carefully considered the proposal but rejected it as not being Our Irish business, O Ireland, was formed in June 1995.
In April 2 in the best interests of mmO shareholders.
2 2001, BT acquired the entire share capital of O Ireland.
2 The following is a brief summary of the development of our O Ireland launched its commercial GSM services in March 1997 and 2 key businesses: its GPRS service in January 2002.
On 2 October 2002, O Ireland was 2 awarded one of four UMTS licences offered by the Irish government.
O UK 2 O UK is our main UK business and presently our most significant 2 O Airwave 2 business in terms of its contribution to our revenues and profitability.
In November 2001 BT transferred the Airwave business to us.
O Airwave provides TETRA network services to certain Public Safety 2 O UK was formed as a joint venture between BT and Securicor 2 Users in England, Scotland and Wales.
Prior to that, BT already had Group plc in January 1984, with BT owning 51 per cent, and, prior transferred to us its contracts to provide network services to a to May 2002, was called BT Cellnet.
In April 1986, BT increased its number of police authorities within the United Kingdom.
In November 1999, BT acquired Securicors remaining stake in the business for 3,173 million including Manx Telecom expenses.
The business was managed separately from the businesses In 1987, our business in the Isle of Man, Manx Telecom, was awarded of either of its former shareholders.
a 20-year licence to operate the Isle of Man telecommunications network.
The licence originally covered xed line telephony, but was O UK provided analogue mobile telephone services from January 2 expanded in 1994 to include GSM mobile services and in 1999 to 1985 until October 2000 and has provided GSM services since July include UMTS services.
Manx Telecom launched Europes first UMTS 1994.
In April 2000, O Third Generation Limited, one of our 2 network in December 2001.
On 1 January 2004, Manx Telecom was subsidiaries, was awarded one of the five UMTS licences in the awarded a licence extension for 15 years.
United Kingdom for 4.03 billion, which was paid in May 2000.
On 17 July 2003, the UMTS licence was transferred from O Third 2 O Netherlands 2 Generation Limited to O UK.
In June 2000, O UK launched GPRS 2 2 O Netherlands was founded in September 1996 as a joint venture 2 services to the UK market.
between BT and Nederlandse Spoorwegen N. V. the Dutch railway company, with BT holding a 50 per cent stake, and prior to 2002 Our mobile internet portal, O Online, was originally developed in 2 was called Telfort Mobiel.
In July 2000, BT completed the acquisition 1997 as part of O UK in the United Kingdom, and prior to 2002 2 of the remaining 50 per cent interest in the business for 1,207 was called Genie.
O UK continues to provide online distribution of 2 million.
On 14 April 2003 we announced that we had agreed the its devices and services through this channel.
sale of O Netherlands to Greeneld Capital Partners, an 2 independent private equity and finance group with interests in the During the second half of the year, the Group transferred the telecoms sector, for 25 million in cash which was paid on O Online, Products O and certain other central functions to the 2 2 completion of the transaction on 3 June 2003. operating businesses, to simplify lines of management, reduce costs, and improve speed of execution.
We also saw the rapid growth in Business overview participation TV programmes.
The final of Pop Idol 2, a TV Our Group programme, for example, attracted 1.4 million text votes in We are a leading provider of mobile communications services in the first hour.
Europe, with wholly owned businesses in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
GPRS technology, however, is a transitional stage in the gradual roll-out of UMTS networks.
Over time, these are expected to bring Together these target a total population of 148 million people.
For significant benets to customers, such as high-resolution video, the first time our total subscriber base broke through 20 million higher speed multimedia services and other enhancements.
during the year and we now provide international mobile roaming to 150 countries worldwide.
We have secured licences to operate UMTS services in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
We believe it is imperative The businesses in the UK and Ireland are both established and that these roll out progressively, and only when we can offer profitable, with a track record of revenue and customer growth customers a genuinely dynamic service and a range of affordable and a strong presence in high-value markets, such as business handsets with adequate battery life to support such services.
As a result we do not expect to see a mass market take-up of UMTS until late 2005.
O Germany is now the fastest growing operator in Germany.
Its 2 6 million customers account for the highest ARPU ratio of any Our products and services German operator, a major factor in the ongoing transition to In line with our strategy, our internet portal is designed to attract EBITDA profitability during the year.
high-value customers, reduce churn and generate revenues by providing high-quality content and closer relationships with O Airwave, which is supplying a network of secure communications 2 customers.
We are pleased with the success of this service, which to the police forces and other Public Safety Users in England, has recorded a 27 per cent increase in online subscribers in the Scotland and Wales, has continued to develop rapidly.
financial year to 31 March 2004, of which around half were post-pay customers.
Manx Telecom is unique within the Group, providing mobile, xed line and internet services in the Isle of Man.
It was also the pioneer We are committed to increasing the value of our offering to of UMTS networks, the platform on which we, in measured stages, business.
Our corporate handheld e-mail device, BlackBerry, is will supply services Europe-wide.
Since launch, more than 55,000 devices have been sold to over 2,000 organisations.
Our technology At the heart of our improved performance is GPRS.
This achieved Following the success of our Xda device, this years launch of market maturity and rapid growth during the year.
our own-brand X1 picture phone and Xda II second-generation pocket PC highlighted our ability to offer innovative products to GPRS provides always on connectivity for ofce services, our customers.
media picture messaging, e-mail, e-commerce, banking, online billing, entertainment, mobile internet and other data services.
Designed to make the mobile phone more intuitive and easier to Fuelled by the launch of affordable colour screen handsets and new use, O Active, which is discussed in greater detail later in this 2 multimedia applications, the number of customers using GPRS more review, has been an instant success.
An award-winning, data services than tripled in the year and applications and services were taken up menu, it quickly became the UKs most widely used mobile portal.
Mobile alliance The trend enabled us to launch Europes first mobile music service, In October 2003, our German, UK and Irish operations became allowing customers to download a choice of over 40,000 tracks to founder members of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, a group of their mobile phones.
Video streaming was also launched, bringing independent mobile phone operators who are joining forces in Rugby World Cup highlights and other sports to mobile handsets readiness for the international roll-out of UMTS services.
Starmap operating on our network.
aims to provide a home-away-from-home experience by introducing seamless roaming and multimedia connectivity to more Only a few years ago, all our revenues came from traditional voice than 46 million customers in 10 European countries.
Today our customers spend more than 1 billion a year away-from-home concept aims to provide customers with a service on other services, including text messaging, e-mail, games and while travelling that is as close as possible to that they receive at internet surng.
It will enable members to be quick to market across borders with new products and services, and will increase their inbound Such innovations are essential for achieving our strategic goal of roaming revenues.
growing our revenues from more sophisticated data services.
Nevertheless, we continue to benefit from simple text messaging, with our networks carrying over 11 billion texts during the financial 8 mmo2.
com Business review Our strategy Operations by country Our primary goal is to create shareholder value by becoming O UK 2 the fastest growing major European mobile operator in revenue Operational performance and profitability.
We have a number of specic growth opportunities O UK continued to build momentum during the financial year to 2 including market share growth in Germany, improving our customer 31 March 2004.
Financial performance ahead of our key financial mix in the UK and Ireland, O Airwave moving into full operations, 2 targets was matched by strong operating performance.
Strong and maximising the potential of key partnerships such as Tesco Mobile.
growth in customer numbers, ARPU and EBITDA was accompanied by significant improvements in network and service quality, We will build on the momentum created by our successful brand, innovative new propositions for our customers and the development ensuring that whenever customers come into contact with us the of an increasingly iconic and distinctive O brand.
2 expectations created by the brand are met.
This requires us to understand clearly different types of customer, to deliver a range of Total customer numbers grew by 1.2 million to 13.3 million.
targeted service packages, to develop efficient CRM systems and to Encouragingly, higher spending post-pay customers accounted transform our retail presence.
In this way, we aim to become an for over 40 per cent of customer growth.
integral part of customers lives and improve our ability to attract and retain higher-value customers.
The quality of our customer base continued to improve, with higher ARPU for both post-pay and pre-pay customers.
Post-pay ARPU for We have already established a strong position in mobile data.
To the financial year to 31 March 2004 was 525, a 4.4 per cent maintain this strength, we will continue to make these services more increase over the previous financial year, while pre-pay ARPU was accessible and user-friendly for customers and to deliver compelling 141, a 16.5 per cent rise over the previous financial year.
On a content, services and devices.
We will continue to work with third blended basis ARPU was 272 for the financial year to 31 March parties to achieve this.
2004, an increase of 10.1 per cent over the previous financial year.
As a group, we are smaller than some of our international These increases in ARPU reect our success in attracting large competitors and we will leverage this relatively small scale to our numbers of new customers from our target high-value consumer advantage.
We have recently reorganised our operations to improve and business segments, as well as success in driving greater revenue the speed and quality of execution while also developing and from existing users.
As a result, our net service revenue grew communicating a local touch in each market.
We continue to by 16.3 per cent year on year.
focus on our European footprint of wholly owned businesses.
To attract high-value customers, we rolled out a number of ground Our results this year illustrate the value of this targeted approach.
breaking new services and introduced simpler new tariff packages.
We are experiencing greater customer loyalty and a richer mix For example, O Bolt Ons which allow users to bolt additional 2 of customers with more emphasis on post-pay packages, together bundles of attractively priced voice, text and other services on to with higher average returns, which results in greater revenues across their existing price plan continued to drive higher usage and the Group.
differentiate the O brand in a crowded market.
In September 2003, 2 we launched O Home, which uses location-based technology to 2 The following table represents the turnover for each of our allow customers to make cheaper mobile calls from their home for continuing operating businesses for the three financial years a xed monthly premium.
ended 31 March: Developing and growing the market for non-voice, or data services, 2004 2003 2002 Continuing operations m m m also remained an area of major focus for the financial year to 31 March 2004, and will continue to be so going forward.
Increased O UK 3,451 3,025 2,756 2 take-up of services that go beyond simple voice and text will be the O Germany 1,508 1,060 875 2 key to growing ARPU in a maturing market where new customer O Ireland 529 442 395 2 additions will decelerate.
During the year, revenue from non-voice O Airwave 89 16 11 2 services accounted for over 20 per cent of total O UK revenue, the Manx Telecom 50 48 43 2 highest proportion among any UK mobile operator.
By the end of O Online 140 93 100 2 the year, nearly 9 per cent of this revenue came from data services Intragroup eliminations 121 73 104 other than text messaging.
Total 5,646 4,611 4,076 For the mass consumer market we introduced O Active, the mobile 2 portal, in June 2003, a simple-to-use colour menu that enables customers to access a range of multimedia services such as video downloads, news, games, picture messaging, ringtones, images and chat.
As at 31 March 2004, across the Group, there were more than 2.7 million O Active customers measured as the number of unique 2 visitors during the previous 90 days.
com 9 A number of innovative O sourced and branded devices also helped Companion will enable us increasingly to predict and meet 2 us drive growing service usage.
The O Xda versions I and II, a customer needs by better aligning our billing, care and relationship 2 wireless personal digital assistant enabling web browsing, LAN WAN management activities to their behaviour.
A large number of access, video, e-mail and a range of ofce applications, was widely existing customers have already been transferred from old billing recognised as the best device of its kind and helped attract some of and CRM systems to Companion and this process will continue the highest value users in the market.
At the other end of the during the year.
spectrum, the X1, our unique handset with a range of multimedia functions, succeeded in stimulating greater non-voice use amongst Through these and other initiatives, O UKs customer satisfaction, 2 pre-pay users because of its very attractive price.
We also pioneered measured using our quarterly survey, improved during the year.
music over mobile with the launch of the O Digital Music Player, Through Companion and other programmes we will continue to put 2 Europes first over the air music download service.
substantial investment into improving customer satisfaction in the forthcoming financial year and beyond.
All of these services were promoted through a growing network of O UK retail stores.
Store numbers increased by 41 to reach 235 by We continued to differentiate ourselves from our competitors 2 31 March 2004 and retail store sales rose by 25 per cent.
Online through the increasingly strong appeal and distinctiveness of the O 2 sales also grew strongly.
Brand awareness continued to climb last year, assisted by O 2 up its one-millionth customer in October 2003, making it the most UKs sponsorships of the World Cup-winning England rugby team, successful service of its kind in Europe.
2003 FA Cup winners and new Premiership champions, Arsenal, the Big Brother TV show and Capital Radios drive-time, as well as the In the business market, the financial year to 31 March 2004 saw strong appeal of our market propositions.
Spontaneous brand a sharp increase in competition as other mobile operators put far awareness for O in the UK is currently 64 per cent an all time high 2 heavier emphasis in this area than in previous years.
To combat this versus 53 per cent a year earlier.
In less than two years, O UK has 2 change, we restructured our sales operations, improved the quality already achieved the brand awareness gures previously achieved by and focus of our sales force and introduced new pricing and service its predecessor, BT Cellnet.
Market dynamics Our Best for Business campaign a series of initiatives including new Our performance was achieved against the backdrop of stiff and tariffs, improved service quality, enhanced account management, increasing competition.
This came from traditional competitors such and a multiple award-winning 2 Minute Challenge advertising as Vodafone, Orange and T-Mobile, plus the rise of several newer campaign played a large part in a continued sustained recovery in entrants whose presence was particularly felt during the second half our position in the UK business market.
Our momentum increased of the year.
3, a new third generation mobile network operator during the year with customer connections and ARPU both showing owned by Hutchison Whampoa, launched in March 2003 and, after steady growth as the year ended.
Good demand for specialist a slow start, has built strong momentum.
BT Group also re-entered devices such as BlackBerry, a wireless e-mail device that utilises our the mass consumer market as a virtual operator a network GPRS data network, and the Xda also contributed to this resurgence.
We also formed Tesco Mobile, a 50:50 joint venture between O UK and Tesco plc, to address sections of 2 Operationally, our strategy to improve overall service quality focused the family market that we do not currently target with the O brand.
2 on two main areas: improving our network performance and Tesco Mobile launched in October 2003 and, by May 2004, had increasing our customer service capabilities.
Both are aligned to our reached 250,000 customers, many of them new to the UK mobile continuing strategy of differentiating by delivering a better overall market.
We expect competition to intensify again during the customer experience.
financial year to 31 March 2005, and this will coincide with slowing overall growth in new customers as the UK market matures.
Our focus on the network led to a 25 per cent overall increase in performance and quality year-on-year, as measured through Corporate responsibility indicators such as minutes per drop, being the number of minutes We recognise our role in protecting the vulnerable, promoting the between dropped voice calls.
This significant improvement brought responsible use of mobiles, and behaving as a responsible corporate independent recognition of O UK from the industry regulator Oftel citizen.
Last year, for example, we launched a national education 2 for showing the best ever published national call success rates by campaign to promote safer use of mobiles and protect children from any UK operator.
This was achieved despite lower capital expenditure inappropriate contact via mobiles.
The campaign is promoted on the 2G network than in previous years.
Improved network and through a range of channels, including O UK stores, and includes 2 service quality were among a number of factors contributing to a advice on the responsible use of camera phones, personal safety, year-on-year reduction in churn amongst our post-pay customers.
text bullying and text chat.
Pre-pay churn increased slightly, in line with industry trends.
Together with the other networks, we have worked with the police In terms of improving customer service, we continued to make and the Home Ofce to tackle mobile phone crime.
We have made significant investment in Companion, a single billing and CRM significant technical progress in ensuring that both handsets and SIM system that will be a key operational foundation for our future.
com Business review cards cannot be used after they have been stolen, and we have business will ideally position us to emerge from a challenging market funded a targeted advertising campaign called Immobilise to in good health.
In December 2003, in advance of the changes in the law to make it an offence to hold a mobile phone while O Germany 2 driving, we also launched an awareness campaign to publicise this Operational performance change and promote safe driving practice.
O Germany achieved further EBITDA growth, underlining its high 2 degree of operational efficiency and strict cost management In the communities where we operate, we have focused on children together with its ability to generate strong top line growth, fuelled and teenagers deemed to be most at risk.
In Slough, where we are by high value customers.
headquartered, we funded and launched a new Cyber Caf in an area of particular social deprivation.
The facility is being used by Further important programmes were initiated to streamline Slough Education Authority and Youth Services teams for operations, for example integrated customer care, and to increase programmes targeting teenagers who face the greatest risk of social customer loyalty.
In October 2003, O Germany launched an online 2 exclusion.
Similarly, we initiated a joint partnership with the loyalty programme aimed at driving ARPU up and churn down.
International Youth Foundation and the Foyer Federation to sponsor Customers collecting bonus points are able to choose between Safe Moves, a pilot early intervention programme for teenagers at different rewards.
The loyalty programme is simple to understand risk of becoming homeless.
The programme was piloted in West and also brings the customer closer to O Germanys product range.
2 Yorkshire near our Leeds ofces.
We also support Millys Fund as our An Active Lifecycle Management Pre-paid and Post-paid national charity.
Set up by the family of teenager Milly Dowler programme to increase customer retention and profitability was also following her tragic abduction and murder, the charity aims to introduced.
With service differentiation and new, extended sales empower young people to better evaluate potential risks to their channels, customer retention has been given a high priority.
In October 2003, we jointly launched Teach UR Integrated marketing is an additional component of the CRM Mum 2 Txt, a national campaign that gives simple tips to parents concept.
Having identied gaps in our distribution network we and children about how to use mobile phones to increase personal successfully increased the number of our direct outlets to 470 shops safety.
The campaign received a global award for the best use of by 31 March 2004 which included partnerships with other retailers, mobile technology in society in February 2004.
Finally, as part of our including shop-in-shops.
Our online shop has become one of our community investment programme, we funded the development of strongest direct sales channels with particular appeal to mobile a medical device using the O Xda enabling doctors to monitor data customers.
The technology allows patients to manage their conditions more effectively and helps doctors to diagnose and Genion, a key driver of gross additions, underlines our strategic provide timely treatment.
We are currently funding a similar trial to focus on more profitable customers, generating higher ARPU and monitor Cystic Fibrosis patients.
a considerably lower churn rate than other mobile products.
Customers attracted from other operators usually generate a higher Looking ahead ARPU because they change their patterns of usage with Genion.
We will continue our focus on improving profitability by growing our Thanks to its advanced technology, Genion offers innovative services base of high-value customers and improving business efficiency.
To in combination with reduced tariffs in a geographical area chosen by achieve this, we remain committed to delivering the best possible the customer, usually near the home or workplace.
This is a unique experience for our customers through, amongst other things, service in the German market.
We will be continuing to promote continued improvements in service quality, launch of innovative new Genion employing an evolutionary marketing approach to widen the services, improvements in customer service and CRM, and continued potential market and to address sub-segments with dedicated development of the O brand.
campaigns and special tariff offers.
2 Some of these new services will be made possible by UMTS mobile In our target business market we made good progress, winning technology.
Investment made in our UMTS network during the major new customers, forging new partnerships with sales channels financial year to 31 March 2004 will accelerate in the financial year and software suppliers, and introducing innovative new tariff to 31 March 2005 as we move towards the commercial launch packages and services specially tailored for the business customer.
of our initial UMTS services in autumn 2004.
However, we expect We acquired a number of household name customers, including that UMTS will have a more substantial impact on the UK market Kraft Foods, Xerox, Campbells, Bayer, Blohm Voss and Deutsche after 2004.
We also expanded our indirect sales model the pure business centre which is targeted at small and medium Overall, we expect that competition in the UK mobile market will sized enterprises.
We intend to have between 10 and 15 key continue to intensify over the next 12 months.
As such, we expect partners who will, in turn, manage a further 60 to 100 sales customer and revenue growth to slow in the financial year to partners.
Some 20 co-operation agreements have been signed with 31 March 2005.
This is why we remain focused on driving increased companies including Siemens SBS, UNISYS, Tobit Software, Nextira usage of new non-voice services to help deliver higher ARPU.
With these partners we are able to offer our remain confident that the momentum we have established and the business customers mobile solutions in such areas as eld service actions we are currently taking to continue strengthening our control and mobile data security, using our Xda II and the mmo2.
com 11 BlackBerry, among other platforms.
In January 2004 we launched availability of mobile data services and increasingly attractive handsets customised business packages Pro Ofce, Pro Company and were an important driver of market growth.
Market conditions remained Pro Connect for small businesses and the self-employed.
We competitive as operators sought growth through highly subsidised introduced a new simple, transparent and exible tariff scheme for handset offers and attractive tariffs, including at rates and large volume medium to large companies.
As an example of our focus on the bundles.
There are currently four mobile network operators in Germany customer, we were first to the German business market with an T-Mobile, Vodafone, E-Plus and O Germany.
2 application that allows quick access to company data using UMTS.
O Germany customers can now use either UMTS, GPRS or WLAN Corporate responsibility 2 for mobile data applications with the aid of new connectivity O Germany is an active participant in the communities in which we 2 software that automatically connects customers to the network operate.
Our Schola-21 project was launched during the year.
This is an best suited to their needs.
internet-based school project supported by O Germany in partnership 2 with the International Youth Foundation and Deutsche Kinder-undOur growth in revenues from mobile data products continued last Jugendstiftung German Children and Youth Foundation which was year, reinforced by further progress in the wholesale market.
The main features of Schola-21 are the creation of an revenues at O Germany have shown a strong increase accompanied internet portal and a virtual learning area that will be used to stimulate 2 by superior data ARPU compared with our competitors.
SMS services study and support learning on specic projects.
are still the main driver of growth in data revenues, but non-SMS data services are also showing significant growth.
About 20 per cent Looking ahead of our customer base is now using non-SMS data services.
In June Last year we concentrated on reductions in operating costs and 2003, the O Active mobile portal was launched.
O Active is the improvements in our core processes, together with a number of major 2 2 first full colour mobile portal to adapt automatically to the users new product launches and the launch of our customer Loyalty behaviour.
It has enjoyed an excellent reception in the marketplace Programme.
Corporate customers are increasingly recognising the value and from external commentators.
In September 2003 we launched of our specially tailored products.
In the coming year, O Germany will 2 mobile data packs, comprising e-mail & surf pack and an e-mail continue to develop and enhance data products such as a surf@home pack.
This is a differentiating factor for O Germany compared to our a mobile Internet enhancement for our Genion product based on 2 competition which followed suit, a good example of O Germanys UMTS and to exploit synergies within the Starmap Mobile Alliance.
It has been well received in the The next phase of O Active will provide customers with an integrated 2 marketplace because mobile data packs are easy to use and offer experience and offer an advanced online portal with personalised transparent pricing.
Multicard, a service enabling customers to content for the next generation of handsets.
We will also be developing combine between three and six SIM cards under one number, was an attractive and comprehensive UMTS service in line with availability launched in October 2003.
It shows a high level of technical of appropriate handsets and customer demand.
We will maintain an functionality, in particular enabling customers to surf the internet ongoing focus on market segmentation and continue to adjust our and make phone calls at the same time which is unique in the marketing activities and organisation accordingly.
Our target remains to German market.
Our hardware strategy also showed successes.
continue to grow our market share in Germany focusing on high-value MMS handsets with integrated cameras, which show an MMScustomers and a further improvement in our EBITDA margin through ARPU-share about three times higher than for handsets with click-on top line growth and operational efficiency.
cameras, have become increasingly important.
In November 2003 we launched the X1, the first O branded phone.
O Ireland 2 2 Operational performance As a complementary product, we have developed WLAN services.
O Ireland management maintained a focus last year on providing 2 From October 2003, O Germany post-pay customers have been customers with the best possible service experience, and was 2 able to tap into the service without prior registration.
Pre-pay recognised in a number of industry awards and commendations.
customers can access the WLAN service by using vouchers or a credit In April 2003, O Ireland was awarded Telecoms Company of the 2 card.
O Germany currently has 450 hotspots, making it one of the Year at the ICT Expo Awards.
ie won 2 leading WLAN providers in Germany.
Our partnerships with Irelands leading technology award, the Golden Spider Award, for GlobalAirnet AG, Swisscom Eurospot, ISIS Multimedia Net and the third year running.
O Ireland was also short-listed by the Irish 2 NetCheckIn are driving the rapid expansion of our WLAN hotspots.
Independent among the top 50 companies to work for in Ireland.
Our partners deal with WLAN technology while O Germany takes 2 care of marketing and billing.
In the past year, the O Ireland management team has continued to 2 improve business performance, gain market share and build the Market dynamics reputation of the O brand and the business.
Through improved 2 The German mobile phone market grew at a faster rate last year as operational efficiencies, quality of service and innovation, we have penetration of active customers rose to 76 per cent in March 2004 retained our existing customers and won new subscribers.
During compared with 69 per cent in March 2003.
During the financial year to the past 12 months, the strength of the O brand has continued to 2 31 March 2004 the total number of connections grew by 6 million to grow and deliver maximum value to the business.
The attractiveness of the German market is underlined by its brand was helped by sponsorships and associations with the Irish strong growth, even though the market is close to saturation.
The Rugby Football Union, the Smurt European Open, golfer Padraig 12 mmo2.
com Business review Harrington and O in the Park a family musical event in Phoenix government funding to install wihotspots in selected locations in 2 Park, Dublin.
We also rolled out our own wihotspots nationwide in hotels, airports, bus and train stations and business O Ireland also maintained a strong performance in its quarterly centres.
Currently we have over 20 hotspots in operation around 2 customer satisfaction survey over the past year as customers scored the country and we are in discussion with other operators to seek O Ireland highly in both network quality and billing services.
The agreement over roaming services.
2 increase in customer satisfaction on these two counts stemmed from continued investment in the O Ireland network together with Mobile data usage continued to improve owing to the success of 2 intensive efforts to make bills easier to understand and to ensure products such as the BlackBerry, the Xda combined phone and that they get to customers on time.
Growth in text messaging continued with usage up by 20.2 per cent.
We had a particularly strong O Ireland continues to invest in technology and improvements in Christmas in 2003, with sales of camera phones and new customer 2 the efficiency of our operations, ensuring that our people can deliver acquisitions exceeding our targets.
In the corporate market, we a better service to our customers.
In the past year, with this aim in gained a number of important new customers including Campbell view, we have concentrated on customer care, IT and network Soups, APC and Atlantic Industries.
The new products and services that we launched last year have reinforced our strategy, which is to offer value for money, Market dynamics simple tariffs and services that are easy to use.
In this way we retain The Irish market continues to be a highly challenging one for the and attract high value customers.
We introduced new tariffs in 2003 mobile industry with penetration levels of mobile phones in the for pre-pay and post-pay customers, leading to a strong increase in population now standing at 88%.
O Ireland holds the second 2 our customer base.
biggest share of the market at 40%.
3 Hutchison Telecom entered the market in January 2004 and has begun to roll out its UMTS In September 2003, we introduced All Ireland, a new tariff for network.
Meanwhile two xed line operators, Esat BT and Eircom, customers moving between the Republic of Ireland and Northern have both indicated that they intend to re-enter the mobile market.
Ireland that abolishes roaming charges between the two jurisdictions.
We also brought an innovative new cost-saving service Corporate responsibility to market: Group Worker enables companies to separate the mobile In Ireland, our Community Investment programme focuses on calls of their employees into personal and work-related calls, thereby providing educational opportunities for young people in areas of social reducing the overall cost of mobile communications to the company.
We have partnered with the Irish Youth Foundation in support of its CITY Communications and Information Technology for Full Mobile Number Portability came into effect in July 2003.
This Youth project in North Dublin.
The programme provides supervised was a highly complex programme, successfully implemented by a computer access for 10-19 year olds.
O Ireland also sponsored the 2 large team from across our business and one which won us Irish Youth Foundations Childrens Hour.
This is a national fundraising customers from other operators.
initiative that invites employees from large and small businesses in Ireland to donate one hours worth of their salary to support Maintaining the highest quality network in order to maximise educational and social projects for disadvantaged young people.
customer satisfaction remains central to our business.
We always seek to build our network in a cost efficient and environmentally In November 2003, Chief Executive Danuta Gray became a board friendly way and we therefore continued, where possible, to share member of Business in the Community in Ireland.
In June 2003, existing sites of other mobile operators and utilities providers.
Ireland hosted the Special Olympics.
Forty O Ireland staff were given 2 additional holidays to volunteer in the organisation of the event.
We have adopted the same policy in building our UMTS network.
In addition, O Ireland provided its corporate box in the Special 2 On 14 January 2004 the Commission for Communications Olympics venue to entertain people with special needs during the Regulation ComReg formally confirmed that O Ireland had reached opening and closing ceremonies.
2 its UMTS performance targets in relation to network coverage, quality of service and site sharing.
We began limited trials of our In January 2004, O Ireland launched a handset recycling scheme 2 UMTS service in January and plan to bring UMTS services to the throughout its ofces and shops nationwide.
This scheme will support market in late 2004. the National Tree Week, a national initiative that plants 15,000 trees throughout Ireland each year.
We have built our networks in a way that is designed to be as unobtrusive as possible to local communities.
We have put Looking ahead community relations at the heart of everything we do and we The focus for O Ireland over the coming year will be to concentrate 2 continue to play a highly visible role in many parts of Irish life from on providing the best possible customer experience with the aim of sports to entertainment to the arts.
acquiring and keeping high value customers and offering them compelling products and services.
We will continue to grow basic As part of our strategy to provide wireless broadband services to the services by increasing market share.
Non-voice revenues will become regions, O Ireland became the only Irish mobile operator to receive increasingly important.
We saw a noticeable increase in the number 2 mmo2.
com 13 of camera phones and other data devices sold towards the end of emergency planning team and to allow the team to communicate last year, which will lead to more and more revenues coming from directly with the police when necessary.
For similar reasons, non-voice services.
While non-voice revenue will become an Darlington has equipped its community wardens with Airwave increasingly important part of our revenue stream, we will continue making communication easier among wardens and with the police.
to maximise revenue from existing voice services.
We have met the regulatory requirements for UMTS network roll-out and we would Airwaves capabilities go beyond voice transmission: they enable the hope to provide commercial UMTS services to the mass market in secure communication of vital data across the network.
Airwave late 2004, dependent on the availability of handsets at a price and allows police ofcers to gain access to the Police National Computer in a form that is attractive to our customers.
While we expect PNC and Scottish Criminal Records Ofce to carry out vehicle and competitiveness in the market place to increase, we are well placed personal checks directly from their Airwave handsets.
Rapid access to to grow the business profitably with ongoing reviews to maximise national records not only increases the efficiency of police ofcers: it shareholder value.
also reduces the workload of command and control centres.
North Yorkshire and Suffolk Police Forces are using Airwaves Automatic O Airwave Vehicle Location Service to track the precise deployment and status 2 Operational performance of their eets of vehicles, about 700 vehicles in total.
Kent and During the financial year to 31 March 2004, O Airwave accelerated Lancashire constabularies have undertaken trials of our Mobile 2 the roll-out of its network and established itself as our fourth Application Gateway MAG.
The Kent Police Force used MAG to substantial business.
We delivered our service to a further 25 police give ofcers access to the PNC and to its local HQ while Lancashire forces during the year, including the Metropolitan Police, taking the Police Forces accessed the PNC together with databases for rearms, total of forces so far supplied to 35 with over 50,000 ofcers using arrest warrants and missing from home cases.
We won new customers from other Public Safety Users customers, Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust is the first NHS and launched new products and services, securing additional organisation to use a patient telemetry service over the Airwave business.
We expect to complete the roll-out of the Airwave network.
Patients vital data can be monitored by ambulance crews network by the end of calendar 2005 when a further 16 forces and transmitted over the Airwave network directly to hospital will start using the service.
The faster pace of roll-out led to a more Accident & Emergency units, enabling life-saving treatment to begin than five-fold increase in revenues, which, coupled with tight cost at the scene of an incident.
Shropshire Fire & Rescue has also controls, produced a positive EBITDA for the first time.
We invested enjoyed improved safety for its re ghters, faster response times 243 million in building our network during the financial year to and better risk management by using voice and data communication 31 March 2004.
We will continue to invest a significant amount over the Airwave network.
during the financial year to 31 March 2005, after which our capital expenditure will decline as we complete the build of our network.
Airwave is a sophisticated, fully encrypted digital radio system, which Under the terms of a 2.9 billion, 19-year contract with the Home cannot be scanned or monitored by outsiders.
On completion in Ofce, O Airwave will be the sole supplier of core mobile radio 2005, the Airwave network will allow the police to communicate 2 services to all 51 police forces in England, Scotland and Wales, with seamlessly and securely throughout England, Scotland and Wales.
the three national forces also using the service.
Airwaves multi-functional handsets, combining a digital radio and mobile phone, also operate as data terminals enabling ofcers in Opportunities for Airwave are not restricted to police forces.
Airwave the eld to access local and national databases.
As well as making is currently used by the Ministry of Defence Police, the UK Atomic a significant contribution to the ght against crime, the system Energy Authority Constabulary, the Land Army, two Fire and Rescue promotes the safety of ofcers, partly because it has better radio Services and an Ambulance Trust.
The Royal Navy is also contracted coverage and call clarity but also because of its emergency button to use Airwave in the future.
We are licensed by the DTI to offer our feature, which enables ofcers to summon immediate assistance.
service to about 100 other dened Public Safety Users in the UK.
In The Airwave network is based on the open European standard for an important opportunity, O Airwave is short-listed for a contract to TETRA.
In addition to almost 100 per cent geographical coverage, 2 provide the communications network for the Ambulance Service capacity will be available on Airwave whenever and wherever a nationwide.
We have also been short-listed to supply the Fire Service Public Safety User needs it a vital feature in emergencies.
During the year, O Airwave won new customers among quality is very clear and all communications are encrypted, which 2 other Public Safety Users who value Airwaves ability to allow means that third parties cannot listen in, allowing the police, for emergency services to communicate with each other.
O Airwave is example, to keep one step ahead of the criminals.
Airwave will also 2 working with the Highways Agency to put Airwave into 400 vehicles provide a common platform for Public Safety Users, giving them true that patrol motorways and A-roads, dealing with trafc incidents interoperability and comprehensive geographical coverage.
Lack of and managing the road network nationwide.
HM Prison Service has communications at major emergencies and disasters has been chosen O Airwave to provide communications in the transport of highlighted as a significant factor in hampering the effective co- 2 prisoners.
Two of our first customers for Airwave Direct, a fullyordination of rescue efforts by the emergency services.
Using managed radio communications service enabling smaller public Airwave, police ofcers from different forces can talk to one another safety bodies to subscribe directly to the Airwave network, have or to ofcers from other emergency services, whatever their location, been Norfolk County Council and Darlington Borough Council.
who can in turn communicate directly with one another.
Norfolk is using Airwave to improve communications within its 14 mmo2.
com Business review Corporate responsibility On 1 January 2004 Manx Telecom was awarded a licence extension O Airwave assesses its responsibility to its customers against key by the Isle of Man Government for 15 years.
The licence renewal has 2 performance indicators created by those customers, which we strive reduced Manx Telecoms annual payment to the government to a to meet or exceed.
We have also established a reporting structure to level which covers the cost of telecommunications regulation.
The conform with key indices developed by the Group in areas including savings resulting from this are being passed on to customers through the environment, waste management, employee satisfaction and a range of tariff reductions and increased discounts which will help treatment of our supply chain.
A key target is to comply with the to make our pricing very competitive.
ISO 14001 international standard by the end of calendar 2004.
In May 2003, Manx Telecom launched its GPRS service, Manx Pronto O Airwave is committed to creating national coverage for the Connect, with Island-wide coverage, followed in July 2003 by picture 2 emergency services.
This means that the roll-out of our network will messaging.
We also launched a wholesale SMS service which has take us into areas including national parks, other areas of natural increased the volume of text messages generated.
The average beauty as well as major cities, that are challenging from a planning number of SMS texts sent per month was around three million.
We are a signatory to the mobile phone industrys Code of Best Practice incorporating the industrys Ten Commitments Capital spending during the year was 9 million compared with on mast siting.
We also operate Goldstar, a consultation programme 7 million in the previous financial year.
In December 2003, Manx on our network development that closely involves briengs for local Telecom completed a programme of work that saw all its telephone and regional policymakers and representatives of local communities.
exchanges ADSL-enabled, in order to provide broadband services to local customers.
This means that around 98 per cent of households O Airwave seeks to be an active participant in the community.
and businesses on the island can now access broadband Internet.
2 During calendar 2003 we launched our Community Investment This initiative, in conjunction with the launch of our  which focuses on the theme of Youth Inclusion.
Projects priced Wires-Only ADSL service in September 2003, has seen the we have sponsored so far include a child road safety project in take-up of broadband accelerate on the island.
In the past five years, Devon and Cornwall, Look Alive!, a new advice and information line Manx Telecom has invested around 50 million in the Isle of Mans for Lancashire Fire & Rescue Service and the training and naming telecommunications infrastructure.
of a police dog, Rufus, who has now started service with the Nottinghamshire Police.
O Airwave employees have also given their We pride ourselves on our record for customer service.
This year we 2 time to support London Crimestoppers, the Merseyside High Sheriff continued to build on our reputation with gures from event-driven and Chief Constables Trust, and Weston Spirit.
surveys showing that 87 per cent of customers are very satisfied with the service they have received.
Looking ahead We will continue to invest a significant amount during the financial Market dynamics year to 31 March 2005, after which our capital expenditure will Manx Telecom is the only provider of mobile and xed line telephony decline as we complete the build of our network.
2 is already EBITDA positive and network completion will allow a transformation of financial performance.
In the meantime, Corporate responsibility O Airwave will seek to build on its success in exploiting the Manx Telecom continues to play an active part in the local 2 expanding range of opportunities for winning potential customers community.
We have funded initiatives such as the Manx among the emergency services and Public Safety Users.
Telecomputer Bus, a service providing schoolchildren and others in the community with access to advanced telecommunications, which Manx Telecom this year, we are pleased to say, won a New Statesman Contribution Operational performance to Civic Society award.
Manx Telecom has been operating on the Isle of Man since 1987 and has provided a programme of investment to establish a worldLooking ahead class telecommunications infrastructure there, at the forefront of Our newly awarded, 15-year, licence will give us the platform to introducing new technology and services.
We were the first continue to offer telecommunications services of the highest quality telecommunications operator in Europe to switch on a live UMTS and best possible value to the population of the Isle of Man.
We will network, which we did in December 2001.
Our experience has remain at the forefront of new technological developments in provided the Group with valuable feedback prior to its launch of telecoms on the island and actively support the governments UMTS services in Germany, Ireland and the UK.
strategy to attract new inward investment to the Isle of Man.
We look forward with optimism to the future.
com 15 to have SMP in a market, then SMP conditions cannot be imposed Regulation on it, and existing regulation must be removed.
We conduct most of our business in the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
We are therefore subject to national Regulation in the United Kingdom regulation in each of those countries as well as European UnionImplementation of the New EU Framework wide regulation.
The New EU Framework was implemented in the UK by the Communications Act 2003 Communications Act on 25 July 2003.
Regulation in the EU Under the Communications Act, responsibility for the regulation of The EU has adopted a new regulatory framework for the electronic electronic communications networks and services lies with the Ofce communications sector the New EU Framework which replaces of Communications Ofcom, which replaced the Ofce of much of the previous EU regulatory regime.
Member States were Telecommunications Oftel, the Radiocommunications Agency, the required to implement the New EU Framework into national law Independent Television Commission, the Broadcasting Standards by 24 July 2003, although some have not yet completed Commission and the Radio Authority.
were put in place whereby Ofcoms functions in relation to telecommunications were carried out by the Director General of The New EU Framework comprises four principal Directives which Telecommunications DGT between 25 July 2003 and are intended to converge and harmonise electronic communication 29 December 2003.
Ofcom is carrying out a Strategic Review of regulation throughout the European Community.
This will provide us with the opportunity to things, the Directives set out policy objectives and regulatory inform and constructively engage with Ofcom in the shaping of principles that National Regulatory Authorities NRAs must follow: future UK industry regulations.
they provide for a new authorisation system for companies which provide electronic communications networks and services, contain Market reviews measures to ensure the universal provision of basic services to In the UK, the DGT has concluded that no mobile network operator consumers, and set out the terms on which providers may access either individually or jointly has SMP in the market for access and each others networks and services.
call origination on public mobile telephone networks.
This means that various regulatory obligations such as requirements to meet Importantly, the New EU Framework also harmonises the rules requests for interconnection and not to show undue preference or for deciding when regulation may be imposed on electronic discrimination in the supply of wholesale services provided over communications providers.
In particular, it provides that electronic public mobile networks which had previously been imposed on us communications providers can usually only be subject to specic and Vodafone were lifted.
regulation in markets in which they have significant market power SMP.
SMP, for these purposes, has been aligned to the competition Ofcom has not yet completed its review of voice call termination on law concept of dominance, which essentially means an ability to act individual mobile networks, but has proposed that the charges we independently of customers, suppliers and competitors.
make to other operators for terminating calls on our network call termination should be reduced.
The European Commission Commission has identied in a Recommendation published in February 2003 a list of markets Ofcom has proposed that our call termination charges should be which may be such as to justify the application of specic regulation reduced from an average of 8.03 pence per minute to an average of the Recommendation.
The Recommendation includes the following 5.65 pence per minute for the financial year to 31 March 2005: and mobile markets: i access and call origination on public mobile that they should be reduced by a further 10.5 per cent in the telephone networks: ii voice call termination on individual mobile financial year to 31 March 2006, after allowing for an increase in networks: and iii wholesale national market for international such charges equal to the increase in the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
roaming on public mobile networks.
The Commission has stated that it will review the need for any update to the Recommendation by As at 17 May 2004, Ofcom was planning to complete its market 30 June 2004 on the basis of market developments.
review by the end of May 2004 and to require us to make these proposed price reductions.
NRAs must conduct market reviews in order to determine whether any companies have SMP in any of the markets identied in the National roaming Recommendation.
NRAs may also, with the Commissions consent, Under the previous regulatory regime, O UK and Vodafone were 2 review markets that are not listed in the Recommendation.
Where subject to an obligation in our licences to negotiate a national a company is found to have SMP in any market, the regulator must roaming agreement with the new entrant mobile network operator, impose one or more of the following SMP conditions on it: 3.
In accordance with this obligation, we entered into an agreement transparency: non-discrimination: accounting separation: access: with 3 to permit it to use our second generation network to price control and cost accounting.
In exceptional circumstances, a originate and terminate calls to and from its subscribers while it regulator may impose additional or alternative obligations, but these builds its own UMTS network.
have to be approved by the Commission.
If a company is found not 16 mmo2.
com Business review Regulation in Germany On 1 January 2004 our new licence extension, awarded by the Isle The New EU Framework is not expected to be implemented into of Man Government for 15 years, came into force.
German law via a new Telecommunications Act before June 2004.
Until then, the current German Telecommunications Act will Competition law continue to govern the award of licences for the conduct of certain EU competition law telecommunications activities and the allocation of frequencies.
We are subject to the general competition law of the EU and, in The German telecommunications regulator, RegTP, is not expected particular, Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty Article 81 and Article to start carrying out its market reviews of the markets listed in the 82, which prohibit anti-competitive agreements or concerted Commissions Recommendation until the New EU Framework is practices and the abuse of a dominant position respectively where implemented into German law.
there is an effect on trade between EU Member States.
O Germany fullled its obligation, under German UMTS licence 2 EU competition law is enforced by the Commission and, since 1 May requirements, to reach 25 per cent population coverage with its 2004, has also been enforced by national competition authorities UMTS network.
Mobilcom handed back its UMTS licence to RegTP and national courts.
Companies which breach EU competition law in December 2003. can be subjected to fines of up to 10 per cent of their groups worldwide annual turnover.
They may also be sued in national courts Regulation in Ireland by third parties which suffer loss as a result of the breach.
The New EU Framework was implemented into Irish law on 25 July 2003.
On 1 December 2002, under the Communications Regulation We are also subject to the national competition law of the countries Act 2002, a new regulatory body was established for the regulation in which we operate.
In the UK, Germany and Ireland, national of the communications sector in Ireland.
This new three-person competition law broadly mirrors the provisions of EU competition regulatory body, known as the Commission for Communications law, prohibiting anti-competitive agreements or concerted practices Regulation ComReg, replaces the Ofce of the Director of and the abuse of a dominant position.
International roaming charges Under the old framework, O Ireland and Vodafone were designated 2 The Commission is currently investigating whether mobile operators as having SMP in the mobile telephony market and the national have infringed Article 81 and or Article 82 in markets for market for interconnection in Ireland.
Our SMP conditions under the international mobile roaming services in the European Economic old framework remain in place until ComReg has completed its Area.
The investigation is continuing and no conclusions have yet market reviews.
ComReg is currently reviewing responses to its consultation Infrastructure sharing and national roaming document on the wholesale mobile access and call origination We have entered into UMTS  and national market.
ComRegs preliminary conclusion in the consultation roaming agreements with T-Mobile in the UK and Germany.
The document was that O Ireland and Vodafone are jointly dominant 2 agreements were formally notied to the Commission for negative and should be designated with SMP in this market.
If this conclusion clearance or exemption under Article 81.
The Commission formally is confirmed, ComReg proposes to impose on us SMP conditions cleared the UK arrangement by Decision of 30 April 2003, and the requiring us to enter into commercial negotiations for the purpose German arrangement by Decision of 16 July 2003. of providing wholesale national roaming access to qualifying nonSMP operators.
It may also impose on us certain transparency, The Commission took the view that the infrastructure sharing non-discrimination, accounting separation and cost accounting aspects of the agreements did not restrict competition.
ComRegs conclusions on its market analysis and roaming, on the other hand, was considered restrictive of proposed SMP designations are expected to be issued in competition, but was granted exemption from Article 81 for certain July August 2004. specified time periods.
We lodged an appeal of the German decision with the European Court of First Instance on 25 September 2003.
In July 2003, O Ireland agreed with ComReg to reduce mobile 2 termination rates by Retail Price Index minus 8 per cent per annum We also have a 2G national roaming agreement with T-Mobile in for the period 31 August 2003 to 31 August 2005.
The German competition authority indicated in August 1999 that national roaming agreements may infringe competition Regulation in the Isle of Man laws but that, in the case of our agreement with T-Mobile, this was The Isle of Man is a self-governing Crown Dependency with its own unlikely to be the case at that time.
However, it reserved the right parliament and is not part of the United Kingdom or the EU.
Accordingly, Manx legislation and regulations predominantly govern our operations in the Isle of Man.
com 17 UK margin squeeze investigations Employees Ofcom has been investigating whether O UK, Vodafone, Orange 2 The Group had the equivalent of 12,905 employees at and T-Mobile have conducted a margin squeeze in breach of UK 31 March 2004, as set forth by country in the table below: competition law.
The investigation concerns whether the prices we charge certain retail business customers for calls from xed lines Country Number of employees to mobiles could represent a margin squeeze, when compared to United Kingdom 7,576 the wholesale prices we charge to others for terminating calls on Germany 3,517 Ireland 1,534 our network.
Isle of Man 278 Total 12,905 Key markets Europe includes some of the most advanced markets for mobile For the year ended 31 March 2004, the aggregate number of services in the world.
These markets are characterised by relatively temporary staff employed by our businesses was 2,124. high mobile penetration rates and revenues per customer and are amongst the leading markets for the emergence of mobile data In the United Kingdom, a number of our employees are represented services.
These markets are also characterised by high population by two recognised unions: Connect, which has representation density and GDP per capita.
Across Western Europe, the proportion rights in respect of junior management employees, and the of total voice trafc carried over mobile rather than xed-line Communications Workers Union, which has representation rights networks continues to increase.
These markets are also seeing an in respect of clerical, engineering and technical employees.
increasing proportion of mobile revenues attributable to mobile data Membership of these unions is individual and voluntary.
In addition, services and we expect this trend to continue.
a non-unionised employee representative body represents certain managers.
Our other operating businesses also meet with their Our mobile businesses cover two of the largest markets in Europe, employee representative bodies, or works councils, regularly.
with the UK and German markets giving us access to a total We believe that our businesses have a good relationship with population of over 144 million people.
All our markets have seen our employees and their representatives.
growth over the last few years in the number of mobile telephone users, in large part reecting strong demand for competitively priced Network and service platform technology pre-pay offerings.
Our markets are seeing the emergence of As a result of the initiative to move forward with a common additional wholesale opportunities for network operators.
Through infrastructure which supports the development of services and wholesale agreements, network operators are able to sell capacity applications across the Group, a Nortel GPRS core network has been and services on a large scale to other service providers and mobile installed and is now operational in the UK, Germany and Ireland.
Common UMTS core Nortel and radio Nortel and Nokia has also been installed over the last year in these operating businesses.
Historically, the number of customer connections to mobile Adopting this approach has brought economies of scale to the telephone networks in the markets where we are present has been costs of infrastructure roll-out across the Group and supports a greater during the second half of the financial year than during the pan-European approach to services while enabling tailoring for first half, primarily due to increased sales during the Christmas local market requirements.
See Operating and financial review and prospects Factors affecting our business.
Information technology The table below presents selected data regarding the principal The information technology deployed in the Group is critical to the countries in Europe in which our businesses operate.
Due to the sale efficient and effective operation of the businesses.
The focus for of O Netherlands, this table does not present data for that business.
each business has been to: 2 1 Active mobile maintain a rm level of cost control, whilst supporting overall customers mmO 2 penetration customers business growth: at 31 March at 31 March 1 ensure investment is maintained in the most strategic Population 2004 2004 Country in millions % in 000s systems: and Germany 84 76 5,982 work together to leverage cross-Group benets.
United Kingdom 60 91 13,264 Ireland 4 88 1,391 Total 148 20,637 1 Source: EMC Worldwide Cellular Database, May 2004.
com Business review Following a successful Group-wide initiative to reduce costs in line Insurance with our peers, a variety of initiatives have been pursued.
These We maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the include renegotiating and consolidating supplier contracts, tightly industries and countries in which our Group operates, including managing contract renewal and deploying new equipment to reduce coverage for employee-related accidents and injuries and property maintenance costs.
We consider our insurance coverage and that of our operating businesses to be adequate both as to the nature of This cost control has allowed a shift in investment to strategic the risks covered and amounts insured for the business conducted projects, for example to enhance content billing, to consolidate by us.
multiple legacy billing systems, to address new market segments and to enhance signicantly the CRM capability in each of our businesses.
The IT community from each of the operating businesses has worked together where benets have been clearly identied.
This has enabled us to deploy common infrastructure, use common products and re-use custom developments.
There has also been a joint approach to our key suppliers, providing benets to both sides and enabling the introduction of framework contracts across the Group.
Looking ahead, our businesses have major IT projects to underpin the business strategy.
These include projects to further enhance CRM, ensure a consistently high quality end-to-end customer experience and support key business programmes.
Within the IT units there are initiatives to increase responsiveness to change, ensure the long term value of our systems through adherence to architectural policies and to work with our partners in the Starmap Alliance.
Intellectual property We have actively taken steps to protect our brand, including the acquisition of core trademark registrations for the O brand and 2 related brand materials.
In addition, we have other pending national and European Community trademark applications in ancillary classes.
We are aware that various third parties use O or similar brands in 2 connection with other goods and services.
We have entered into agreements with some such third parties, which permit the brands to co-exist.
These agreements contain some restrictions on use of our brand, but we do not believe that these restrictions conict with our business model or day-to-day activities.
It is not our intention to trade under the O brand in the United States, where our securities 2 trade under the mmO plc name.
2 Meanwhile we have just been granted a European Patent relating to technology used in our HomeZone service.
The HomeZone service is one of our products marketed in Germany.
A third party owns two patents which cover the technology used in the HomeZone service.
To date, this third party has not sought to challenge our patent applications or prevent us from using the HomeZone technology.
We believe that it is unlikely to take any such action in the future.
However, if that third party sought successfully to do so, we might have to stop using the HomeZone technology or nd an alternative solution with the third party or use an alternative technology which serves the HomeZone functionality.
