Business review Bob Baty : Chief Executive : South West Water Limited South West Water continued to deliver sound financial performance, to outperform the regulatory contract and to maintain improvements in services to customers.
Since 1995, cost reductions totalling 46.0 million have South West Water Limited been achieved by South West Water demonstrating its excellent track record in the area of efficiency saving.
The companys turnover increased by 8% from 270.2 million to 291.8 million primarily reflecting the impact In the constant drive to achieve further efficiencies, the of the tariff increases approved by the Director General of company has also successfully launched new major Water Services together with 6,900 new customer management information systems in the areas of asset connections.
management, human resources and customer service management and is currently reviewing its organisational Operating costs increased by 14.2 million to 172.9 structure to ensure that improved levels of efficiency million including 8.6 million for the operation of new continue to be delivered in the future.
capital schemes, inflation of 3.4 million and 6.3 million of other cost increases, mainly pensions, direct Exemplary levels of product and customer service remain cost of sales and bad debts.
These costs were offset by one of the companys key objectives.
Market research efficiency savings of 4.1 million achieved during the year.
carried out amongst South West Waters customers continues to confirm high levels of satisfaction with the Operating profit increased by 7.4 million to 118.9 overall service provided by the company which is also million.
During the year a further 31,000 customers continuing its generally good performance against switched to a measured charging basis compared to Ofwats prescribed Levels of Service Indicators targets.
The regions water storage, treatment and distribution Some five years ago a restructuring and continuous infrastructure has been progressively and significantly improvement programme specifically designed to enhanced over the years and, as a direct result of careful reduce significantly overhead and operating costs was planning and focused capital expenditure, the company introduced.
Its successful delivery is ensuring South has been able to fulfil the expectations of its customers West Water continues to outperform the demanding for adequate supplies of high quality drinking water.
The operational and capital efficiency targets imposed by companys innovative and industry-leading leakage Ofwat and is on track to continue to do so for the detection and control programme continues to deliver remainder of the current regulatory period K3, 2000 results in line with Ofwats mandatory leakage targets 2005. and there have been no water restrictions since 1996.
4 Pennon Group Plc During the K3 period, planned expenditure on water A rolling programme of updating and modernising inland mains renovation will be in the order of 135.0 million waste water treatment works to ensure compliance with with the length of mains scheduled for improvement environmental standards continued throughout the year more than double that achieved in the K2 period 1995 and played a major role in helping the region achieve the 2000.
Over 400 kilometres of water mains were laid, highest percentage length of high quality rivers in replaced or refurbished during the year.
water supply have been matched with improvements to water quality and during the year the company In line with regulatory requirements, capital expenditure maintained its highest ever drinking water compliance for the year reduced by 42.2 million to 139.3 million level of 99.92% with the quality standards set by the with 67.0 million invested in water supply improveDrinking Water Inspectorate.
ments including water mains renovation, water treatment works enhancement and leakage control.
Waste In November 2003, the Department for Environment, water services investment expenditure was 72.3 million, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and the Environment of which 30.8 million was invested in the companys Agency EA announced the best ever bathing water Clean Sweep bathing water improvement programme.
quality results for beaches and bathing waters along the West Country coastline.
Only one of the 141 designated South West Waters Periodic Review submission for the K4 bathing waters in the region regularly monitored by the period 2005 2010 has been made in accordance with EA failed to comply with the European Union EU Ofwats required timescale.
The Draft Determination on mandatory standards, with Devon achieving 100% price limits is due to be published in August this year compliance for the first time ever.
The results also followed by the Final Determination in December 2004 of confirmed that 115 bathing waters met the more the prices effective from 1st April 2005. stringent EU guideline standards, one of the best performances of any region in the UK.
Whilst acknowledging that further price increases will be inevitable, South West Water is endeavouring to strike a South West Waters original 1 billion Clean Sweep realistic balance between value for money investment, bathing water improvement programme has been pivotal financeability and customer affordability.
in achieving these record levels of compliance and the associated financial and environmental benefits for the region.
Its successful delivery is great testament to the endeavours of South West Water employees, its contractors and regional key stakeholders including customers who have all contributed to the completion of the biggest environmental improvement programme of its kind in Europe.
Pennon Group Plc 5 Business review Colin Drummond : Chief Executive : Viridor Waste Limited Viridor Waste delivered further growth both organically and by acquisition.
The previous years acquisitions, Richardson Limited, Viridor Waste Limited Roseland Plant Co. Limited and Parkwood Holdings Limited are now fully integrated and performing in line Viridor Waste made continued excellent progress with its with expectations.
They were, in total, earnings enhancing focused strategy of: before goodwill amortisation as forecast at the time of acquisition.
n capitalising on its strong position in landfill waste disposal: In June 2003, Viridor Waste acquired Churngold Holdings Limited for 19.8 million.
This was in line with its strategy n exploiting opportunities in landfill gas power of pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the generation in line with the Governments target of Governments developing waste management strategy, increasing the proportion of electricity generated particularly in the areas of transfer stations and from renewable sources: and recycling.
The acquisition brought Viridor Waste n pursuing profitable opportunities arising from the additional transfer station and recycling operations in Governments developing waste management the West Country and Scotland with excellent synergies strategy.
with Viridors existing operations in those areas.
The acquisition is now largely integrated and was earnings enhancing Turnover at 183.1 million was 20.2% up on the previous before goodwill amortisation, a year ahead of forecast.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation at 22.7 million was 18.8% up.
Since 2001, operating profit In April 2004 Viridor Waste acquired Thames Waste before goodwill has grown at a compound annual rate of Management Limited for 30.5 million.
Thames Waste 20%, half of which is due to organic growth of the Management comprises one operational landfill site of existing business and half to acquisitions.
Profit before four million cubic metres capacity strategically located tax, after taking account of goodwill amortisation and within the M25 motorway near Sutton, Surrey, 5 megainterest costs associated with recent acquisitions, was up watts MW of landfill gas power generation capacity, 3.5% in the year to 14.7 million.
This financial four liquid waste treatment facilities together with an performance reflects the success of Viridor Wastes associated tanker fleet.
The acquisition also includes a focused strategy.
contract to handle the disposal of Thames Waters sewage sludge analogous to its existing contract with South West Water.
6 Pennon Group Plc During the year, Viridor Waste gained planning approval During the year, Viridor Waste won a 25 year PFI contract for a further 3.1 million cubic metres of landfill capacity.
with West Sussex County Council to provide waste After taking account of usage during the year of 4.3 million management and recycling services.
This contract cubic metres and the acquisition of Thames Waste commenced operation in April 2004.
Management, Viridor Wastes total consented landfill Total recycling volumes increased from 183,000 tonnes capacity at the end of the year was 83 million cubic metres.
to 331,000 tonnes as the company continues to seek Total landfill disposal volumes for the year, excluding profitable opportunities arising from the Governments cover, increased by 6.3% to 3.7 million tonnes, largely developing waste management strategy.
Composting reflecting the full year effect of the Parkwood Holdings volumes of green waste in the year increased to 42,000 acquisition.
Viridor Waste remains confident that landfill tonnes from 35,000 tonnes in 2002 03. will be the key final waste disposal route for the UK for the Viridor Waste sees sustainability as key to its overall medium term.
The series of measures taken by the business and sets great store by its environmental and Government over the past five years to encourage social policies.
These will be covered more fully in recycling and minimise the amount of waste going to Pennons annual Environmental and Social Report.
final disposal can be expected to slow the growth in total Viridor Waste is pleased to report that ISO 14001 volumes going to landfill.
However, with a waste industry accreditation was gained at four more of its sites, at Lean average of only around six years remaining landfill life in Quarry, Cornwall, Weston-super-Mare, Somerset and its the UK according to the Environment Agencys Parkwood and Salmon Pastures facilities in Sheffield, estimates and new planning permissions being Yorkshire.
increasingly difficult to achieve, Viridor Wastes 83 million cubic metres of consented void space is expected to become an increasingly valuable resource.
During the year, Viridor Waste increased its power generation capacity by a further 4MW after last years 9MW increase in line with its policy of exploiting its landfill gas for generation of electricity and benefiting from premium prices under the Governments system of renewable obligation certificates ROCs.
Once again, Viridor Waste is exploiting the scarcity value of its asset base.
With a Government target of 15% of electricity to be generated from renewable sources by 2015 compared with under 4% currently, Viridor Waste expects this element of its business to continue to increase.
With the Thames Waste acquisition, Viridor Waste now has a total of 45MW of renewable energy capacity of which just over half benefits from ROCs.
Pennon Group Plc 7 Business review Both South West Water and Viridor Waste have staff Adding value for employees associations.
South West Water recognises three trade unions GMB, AMICUS and TGWU to represent the The Pennon Group is committed to a culture of interests of their craft and industrial employees.
In continuous improvement through investment in people addition, staff employees elect representatives to the at all levels within the Group.
South West Water Staff Council which deals with areas of interest to all staff employees, both trade union and nonEffective and proven employee communication practices trade union alike.
The trade union UNISON participates in are extensively applied throughout the Group which the Staff Council, working on a partnership basis with the include in-house newspapers Flagstaff and Viridor company.
The Viridor Waste Management Staff Voice and a team briefing system, News and Views.
The Association, aligned with AMICUS, the second largest wide use of e-communication enables the Group to trade union in the UK and with strong links with the communicate quickly and effectively with all employees TGWU, GMB and UNISON, is also involved in a wide variety on all important issues affecting employees and the of staff issues, including looking at a number of business including Group financial performance.
Viridor Waste has seen a number of waste management The Group continues to offer a wide variety of training companies becoming part of the organisation via and development programmes to its employees in acquisition.
Each company brings its own unique set of accordance with the principle that training shall be based employees together with its own cultures, work ethics around business objectives.
Training and development of and contractual obligations.
Viridor Waste works hard to staff is regularly reviewed in the light of the needs of the ensure that as far as possible these cultures are absorbed individual and the company and is designed to achieve within the Group and it is proud of its track record in this quality and excellence in performance.
With acquisitions as geographically diverse as the West Water successfully achieved reaccreditation as an South East, Scotland and the South West, the new Group Investor in People.
employees are given the support and assistance they The Pennon Group recognises that a commitment to need to become part of the team.
Feedback from health and safety contributes to business performance by employees is good and there have been no industrial reducing injuries and ill health.
The understanding of relations issues as a consequence of an acquisition.
mental health issues for example has been focused upon A new human resources management system has been and 90 managers and team leaders have attended stress in the workplace awareness sessions.
Additionally, in introduced for Pennon and South West Water employees order to help meet South West Waters Clear Water 2010 which, as well as improving payroll and personnel data objective to reduce the length of absences, it is management, will enable staff to view their personal data introducing supportive return to work interviews for and instigate certain prescribed activities through a self employees.
For those who have experienced long-term service system.
sickness absence, there are individually tailored schedules for their productive return to the workplace.
8 Pennon Group Plc The Group continues to operate a non-discriminatory acknowledges that the Group has policies and manageemployment policy and, in addition to its Whistleblowing ment systems in place to address social, environmental and family-friendly policies, is constantly updating its and ethical risks.
employment policies to ensure full compliance with, and South West Water has been recognised by The Green indeed exceedance of, the requirements of new Flexible Organisation by receiving two Gold Awards in the Working legislation.
In addition, the Group is committed organisations prestigious Green Apple Awards.
The Gold to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment awards were received for the fide Lank Trunk Main activities, including ensuring there is no bias and Rehabilitation project in Cornwall, which was underdiscrimination in the treatment of people.
South West taken in a very environmentally sensitive location, and Water and Viridor Waste Equal Opportunities Policies set for the companys Going for Green Energy Strategy, out standards and expectations of behaviour of all developed to reduce the companys environmental employees which are applied throughout the Group.
impact and create energy cost savings.
The Group encourages share ownership by operating an The important task of treating and disposing of societys Inland Revenue approved sharesave scheme open to all waste in a sustainable and highly engineered manner is eligible employees.
Nearly 50% of eligible employees are undertaken by the two principal operating companies currently saving in one or more of the Companys within the Group, South West Water and Viridor Waste.
Both companies acknowledge the importance of environmental sustainability and are committed to Caring for the environment ensuring that their operations are undertaken in a manner which has regard to their environmental impact.
The Group plays a major role in enhancing and Viridor Waste has already achieved ISO 14001, the maintaining the quality of the environment.
international environmental management standard, at An environmental policy has been in place since the early most of its key sites and has a policy of gaining days of the Groups life.
It is reviewed annually by the accreditation by its acquired companies.
Recently, Environment Committee of the Board and is set out in accreditation was gained at four more of its sites, at Lean Pennons annual Environmental and Social Report.
The Quarry in Cornwall, Weston-super-Mare, Somerset and at policy aims to achieve continuous improvement in the Parkwood and Salmon Pastures facilities in Sheffield, environmental performance.
This was reflected in a Yorkshire.
Key functions within South West Water have IS0 further improvement in the Groups ranking in the 9001 accreditation, the international quality manageBusiness in the Environment 2003 survey, with the ment standard, and the company is currently developing Groups overall ranking rising to 40th out of 176 mainly its strategy for the introduction of ISO 14001 across its FTSE 350 companies, compared to 55th out of 207 business.
Its overall score improved During the year, South West Water maintained its highest to 92.43% from 88.11%.
ever performance in drinking water compliance of The Group has been listed in the Dow Jones World and the 99.92% with the quality standards set by the Drinking Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indices following their Water Inspectorate.
The Group scored 66% against an South West Waters waste water compliance was the best industry group average of 53% and this reflects the Groups excellent performance across economic, ever achieved with 98.70% of the equivalent population environmental and social criteria.
served by waste water treatment works, compliant with sanitary parameters.
In addition, the coastal waste water treatment improvement programme, Clean Sweep, The Group has also been listed as a constituent member of continues to be a key contributor to the region having the FTSE4Good Index recognising that it meets stated corporate responsibility criteria.
In particular, the listing some of the finest bathing waters and beaches in Europe.
Pennon Group Plc 9 Business review The region achieved over 99% compliance with European Involvement with the community Union EU mandatory standards and 115 bathing waters met the more stringent EU guideline standards, the best As a major Company within the region, Pennon Group performance of any region in the UK.
The Environment feels it is of vital importance to invest in and help Agency has also stated that the region features a higher promote regional activities and assist in the overall percentage length of high quality rivers than any other enhancement and development of the region.
A substantial programme of community-based initiatives The Group is a major producer of renewable energy.
has been delivered over the past 14 years which has seen Viridor Waste has substantially increased its landfill gas many individuals and organisations both large and small generation capacity thereby helping to achieve the benefit from financial and practical support.
These Governments target of 15% of electricity generated from include the Eden Project, the National Maritime Museum, renewable energy by 2015.
Following the April 2004 the National Marine Aquarium and many hundreds of acquisition of Thames Waste Management Limited, smaller local initiatives.
Viridor Wastes capacity for power generation from landfill gas is now 45MW and the company generated 272 South West Water fully recognises the role its customers gigawatt hours GWh of energy during the year.
South play in assisting it to provide levels of product and West Water for its part generates over 12GWh from hydroservices in line with customers expectations.
To electric and combined heat and power plants.
In total, encourage customer feedback, the company carries out the Group generates the equivalent of 127% of its own consultation exercises to ensure it understands their electricity from renewable resources.
Construction activity associated with the Groups water, Viridor Waste continues to be heavily involved in the local sewerage and waste management activities can have a community in areas where it operates and in the wider significant impact on the local neighbourhood as well as social arena.
Viridor Waste has active liaison groups at on the natural habitat.
The Group is committed to over 90% of its major operational sites which provide an working closely with planners and interested parties to open channel of communication between the company, minimise such impacts and to ensure that the sites blend local residents and other parties with an interest or role in with the natural environment.
At most landfill sites in the operation of the site.
The company continues to and on many of the Groups construction projects, close sponsor local charitable work and has also contributed to contact continues to be maintained with the local National Campaigns, e. g. Jeans for Genes Day and Breast community through formal liaison groups to discuss and, Cancer Awareness Day.
The company also supports local whenever possible, mitigate potential problems.
This schools and has provided financial assistance to three underlines the approach of the Group in its determination secondary schools located near landfill facilities.
This to be a good neighbour.
support is in line with the partnership approach adopted with schools in all of the operational areas.
10 Pennon Group Plc The Groups financial involvement in the community is it had available to distribute was considerably less than in channelled through a number of initiatives: previous years.
During the year it distributed 100,000 to support a diverse range of projects across the region.
n Charitable Donations Charitable donations by Pennon Group amounting to 50,000 were made during the year.
n South West Water Special Assistance Fund The Fund These donations were primarily to charities operating in was established to provide help to customers trying to Devon and Cornwall, where the average size of donation pay their water and sewerage bills but who, for reasons of of around 500 can make a significant impact on the severe financial or personal difficulties, were having services provided by these organisations.
problems paying the full amount.
Although South West Water provides administrative support to the Fund, the n South West Water Community Sponsorship Programme decisions on applications for help are made by a panel Funds amounting to 62,000 were awarded during the drawn from the South West Water Customer Consultative year across a wide range of activities.
n Landfill Tax Credit Scheme LTCS This scheme enables Viridor Waste to deliver lasting environmental and social Social and Ethical Policy benefits for communities in the vicinity of its landfill operations.
The Government made changes to the The Pennon Group aims to establish and preserve a scheme at the beginning of the year, re-allocating reputation for integrity and fair dealing.
It believes that funding previously available for sustainable waste such a reputation is essential to the long term well-being management research and development to a public of the Group itself, its shareholders, employees, spending programme.
This resulted in a reduction in the customers, suppliers and the community in which it amount available for distribution by Viridor Waste.
To facilitate these ethical business practices, same time a new biodiversity category was created and the Group has adopted a Social and Ethical Policy which is made eligible for funding through the reduced scheme.
The six key areas are finance, Projects are now being funded under this category that employees, customers and suppliers, community, managewill enrich local biodiversity and provide lasting quality ment responsibility and communications.
comprehensive details of the Social and Ethical Policy may be found in the Environmental and Social Report.
Over 40 million has now been distributed to Environmental Bodies via the Scheme, providing funding The Group operates a non-discriminatory employment for over 1,000 projects since it began in 1996.
Funds of policy and every reasonable effort is made to ensure that 4.6 million were awarded in the year to a diverse range no current or future employee is disadvantaged because of projects which enabled development of village and of age, gender, religion, colour, ethnic origin, marital community halls, play areas, museums and other local status, sexual orientation, or disability.
amenity facilities, together with lakelands, wetlands, woodlands and other conservation initiatives.
Most of the The Groups previously mentioned Whistleblowing policy funding is distributed through local steering groups and supports its approach to ethics in business by decisions are taken using the three primary criteria of encouraging employees to raise, in accordance with a sustainability, value for money and proven local need.
formalised procedure, concerns which relate to potential The continued success of the LTCS helps secure additional unlawful conduct, financial malpractice, dangers to the matched-funding for projects and strengthens local public or damage to the environment.
This policy also partnerships between Viridor Waste and the communities protects employees who raise such concerns from in which it operates.
n Pennon Environmental Fund Committee The Committee was formed with the specific aim of bringing environmental and social benefits to the communities within South West Waters operating area by utilising some of Viridor Wastes landfill tax credits.
Following the changes to the landfill tax credit regulations, the amount Pennon Group Plc 11
