Business Review 1 Description of Business 10 Description of Legislative and 2 PacifiCorp Regulatory Background 3 Infrastructure Division 11 US Business Regulation 4 UK Division 12 Regulation of PacifiCorp 5 PPM 13 Regulation of the Electricity and 6 Group Employees Gas Industries in the UK 7 Group Environmental Policy 14 Environmental Regulation 8 Charitable Contributions 15 Employment Regulation 9 Description of the Companys Property 16 Business Risks 17 Litigation 18 Summary of Key Operating Statistics businesses in the US and the UK to serve electricity and gas Description of Business customers.
The regulated businesses provide a base for steady Scottish Power plc ScottishPower, a public limited growth through consistent investment and proven skills in 1 company registered in Scotland, is an international operational and regulatory management.
In its competitive energy company listed on both the London and New York Stock businesses where the group has local market knowledge and Exchanges.
Through its operating subsidiaries, the company skill advantages, it seeks to grow its market share and to provides in excess of 5.8 million electricity or gas services to enhance margins through the integration of generation, energy homes and businesses in the western US and across the UK.
It management and customer services, again underpinned by bestprovides electricity generation, transmission, distribution and in-class operational performance.
The aim is to support the supply services in both countries.
The companys US activities growth and development of both regulated and competitive extend to coal mining and gas storage, including gas facilities in businesses through a balanced programme of capital investment western Canada and in Texas.
In Great Britain, ScottishPower which will deliver organic growth.
Growth will arise from also stores and supplies gas.
In the year to 31 March 2004, the investment in new generation, networks and gas storage assets.
sales revenues of the group were 5.8 billion $10.7 billion.
It will also be sought through competitive market share gains Following its creation upon privatisation in 1991, and selective acquisitions of smaller operations that complement ScottishPower developed by both organic growth and strategic the groups business and will accelerate its organic growth.
acquisitions in the British electricity, gas and telephony markets Shareholder value will be created through an investment - and through its November 1999 merger with PacifiCorp in the programme assessed on a risk-adjusted returns basis.
During 2001 02, the group was redefined as an investments are expected to be earnings enhancing and international energy business, exiting non-strategic activities in supportive of the aim of retaining an A credit rating for the the US and UK, demerging the UK telecommunications and groups principal operating subsidiaries.
internet business, Thus, to the companys shareholders and, in The strategy is delivered through four businesses, each April 2002, selling the UK water and wastewater company, clearly focused on its strategic priorities: Southern Water.
From 2002 03, ScottishPower has focused on PacifiCorp its strategic aim of becoming a leading international energy Infrastructure Division company.
UK Division PPM Strategic Context In each of the US and the UK, there is one business ScottishPowers strategy is to become a leading international operating under regulation and one in competitive market energy company: managing both regulated and competitive conditions.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 9 Business Review Description of Business In the US, PacifiCorp operates as a regulated electricity network safety, reliability and high-level performance, including business and the competitive energy business is PPM Energy, targeted investments in areas of high demand growth.
Both are subsidiaries of PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc. severe storms in late December 2003 and early January 2004 PHI a non-operating, US holding company, itself an indirect impacted the PacifiCorp network in northern Utah and parts of wholly-owned subsidiary of ScottishPower.
PHI is also the parent Oregon and California, increasing costs and leading to voluntary company of PacifiCorp Group Holdings which owns the shares goodwill payments to those Utah customers who were without of subsidiaries not regulated as domestic electricity providers, power for extended periods.
including PacifiCorp Financial Services, Inc.
In the UK, the regulated Infrastructure Division operates Retail Electricity Sales electricity transmission and distribution subsidiaries of the PacifiCorp serves approximately 1.6 million retail customers in wholly-owned UK holding company Scottish Power UK plc service territories aggregating about 135,000 square miles in SPUK.
Other subsidiaries comprise the groups competitive portions of six western states.
The geographical distribution of energy business, the UK Division, covering its British Isles PacifiCorps retail electricity operating revenues for the year generation assets, commercial and energy management activities ended 31 March 2004 was Utah, 39%: Oregon, 32%: Wyoming, and energy supply business units.
In August 2003, PacifiCorp announced that it was discontinuing efforts to sell its California service area to the Nor-Cal Electric Authority PacifiCorp and committed itself to continue to serve its more than 44,000 In November 1999, PacifiCorp and ScottishPower customers in Yreka, Crescent City, Alturas, Mt.
Shasta and the 2 completed a merger under which PacifiCorp became an surrounding communities.
As a result of the merger, The PacifiCorp service areas diverse regional economy PacifiCorp developed and implemented significant mitigates exposure to economic swings.
In the eastern portion organisational and operational changes arising from the strategic of the service area, mainly Utah, Wyoming and south eastern decision to focus on its electricity businesses in the western US Idaho, customer demand peaks in the summer when cooling and embarked upon a continuing programme of efficiency systems and irrigation are heavily used.
are manufacturing, health services, recreation and mining or extraction of metals, coal, oil, natural gas, phosphates and Principal Business Activities elemental phosphorus.
In the western part of the service PacifiCorp is a regulated electricity company operating in territory, mainly consisting of Oregon, south eastern Washington portions of the states of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, and northern California, customer demand peaks in the winter Idaho and California.
As a  electricity months due to heating requirements and the economy generally business, PacifiCorp owns or controls fuel sources, such as coal revolves around agriculture and manufacturing, with pulp and and natural gas, and uses these fuel sources, as well as wind, paper, lumber and wood products, food processing, high geothermal and hydroelectric resources, to generate electricity at technology and primary metals being the principal industries.
This electricity, together with electricity During 2003 04, no single retail customer accounted for more purchased on the wholesale market, is transmitted over a grid of than 2% of PacifiCorps retail electricity revenues and the 20 transmission lines throughout PacifiCorps six-state region and is largest retail customers accounted for 13% of retail electricity then transformed to lower voltages and delivered to end-use revenues.
Trends in energy sales by class of customer are set out customers through PacifiCorps distribution system.
PacifiCorp in Tables 3, 5 and 6 page 31. conducts its retail electricity utility business as Pacific Power and PacifiCorp serves some areas of rapidly changing Utah Power, and engages in electricity sales and purchases on a population size and economic activity.
In particular, a substantial wholesale basis under the name PacifiCorp.
The subsidiaries of part of the eastern service territory is in Utah and Idaho, states PacifiCorp support its electricity utility operations by providing expected to be among the top ten states in the US for growth coal mining facilities and services and environmental during the next few years.
Additionally, recent warm summer remediation.
temperatures are causing residential customers to install central air The western US energy market is experiencing growth in conditioning systems and are contributing to a faster summer peak demand due to both increased customer numbers and growth.
Commercial sales are positioned for growth in the eastern underlying load growth.
PacifiCorp continued its energy hedging portion of the service territory, particularly Utah, because of strong strategy, maintaining a balanced loads and resources position population and economic viability and through Utahs central role through 2003.
PacifiCorp has hedged its forecast load and in the manufacture, distribution and delivery of goods to resource balance and price exposure for 2004 05 and for surrounding western states.
Wyoming is experiencing increasing summer 2005, when demand is expected to be supported by the industrial activity in its energy-related sectors, with increasing commissioning of the first phase of the 525 MW Currant Creek exploration and rig counts suggesting a positive trend in plant in Utah.
PacifiCorp also continued to invest in support of PacifiCorps future sales to the industrial sector in the state.
10 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Oregon, which has been experiencing recessionary conditions, on permitting, siting, emissions, cost recovery and economic nonetheless contains a number of communities showing high conditions.
Regulators in many of the states in which PacifiCorp levels of growth suggesting the likelihood of an increasing pace of operates have acknowledged the 2003 IRP.
Costs incurred by economic development and recovery across PacifiCorp service PacifiCorp to provide a service to its customers are expected to territories.
be included as allowable costs for ratemaking purposes.
For the five years to 31 March 2009, the underlying annual However, under the US regulatory compact, PacifiCorp must growth in retail MWh sales in PacifiCorps franchise service demonstrate to regulators that the incurred costs are both territories is estimated to be in the range of 1.5% to 2.6%, reasonable and necessary to the provision of safe, adequate, dependent upon factors such as economic growth, changes in reliable and efficient electricity utility services to its retail customer numbers, weather, the potential effects on demand customers and that the decisions were made in a prudent resulting from conservation efforts and changes in price.
increase in the region, demand growth over the region may slow.
Action items from PacifiCorps 2003 IRP have been pursued in the Requests for Proposals RFP process which Power Production and Fuel Supply seeks to identify PacifiCorp's future resource mix though a PacifiCorp owns or has interests in generating plants with an programme coordinated with stakeholders in the six states it aggregate nameplate rating of 8,420 MW and plant net capability serves.
From the first of the RFPs, PacifiCorp determined that the of 7,987 MW, see Table 1 page 30.
During 2003 04, construction of a new 525 MW gas-fired plant in Utah, would be approximately 73% and 5% of PacifiCorps energy requirements the lowest risk and most economical 2004 05 resource category were supplied by its thermal and hydroelectric generation plants choice to meet future generation needs.
The plant will be named respectively.
The remaining 22% was obtained primarily through Currant Creek.
The Utah Public Service Commission UPSC purchased power.
The share of PacifiCorps energy requirements has given its approval for construction of the plant and the Utah generated by its own plants will vary from year-to-year and is Division of Air Quality issued its final approval order in May determined by factors such as planned and unplanned outages, 2004.
The plant is expected to come on-line in two phases over availability and price of coal and natural gas, precipitation and 2005 and 2006.
On 10 May 2004, PacifiCorp announced that, snowpack levels, environmental considerations and the market following a thorough review of proposals submitted, it had price of electricity.
PacifiCorp will make use of existing longidentified the Summit Vineyard LLC proposal for the term purchase contracts, and expects to choose appropriate costconstruction of a 534 MW Lake Side Power Plant near Salt Lake effective resources to meet the balance of its customer demand City, Utah as the best option to meet the long-term resource through new longand short-term purchase arrangements, requirements of its customers.
PacifiCorps filing for a Certificate including those covering some 91 MW of wind power.
of Convenience and Necessity for the development could take At 31 March 2004, PacifiCorp had 220 million tons of up to six months to complete and is intended to facilitate a recoverable coal reserves that are mined by PacifiCorps mining summer 2007 introduction of the plant.
In February 2004, affiliates and are dedicated to nearby PacifiCorp-operated PacifiCorp issued a further RFP seeking up to 1,100 MW of new generation plants, see Table 2 page 30.
During 2003 04, these renewable resources across its service territories over the next mines supplied some 30% of PacifiCorps total coal seven years.
Coal is also acquired through long-term and shortterm contracts.
Thirteen long-term coal contracts accounted for Wholesale Sales and Purchased Electricity 68% of the overall 2003 04 requirements.
The contract terms In addition to its base of thermal, renewable and hydroelectric range from one to 19 years.
PacifiCorp has also entered into generation assets, PacifiCorp uses a mix of long-term, short-term long-term, fixed-price natural gas contracts to meet the and spot-market purchases to balance its load and wholesale forecasted needs of its existing natural gas-fired electricity obligations.
PacifiCorp enters into wholesale purchase and sale generation plants to the end of calendar year 2006.
Natural gas transactions to provide hedges against periods of variable transportation capacity was purchased to meet the needs of the generation or variable retail load.
Generation varies with the Currant Creek project, which is expected to start up in June level of outages or transmission constraints and retail load varies 2005, and PacifiCorp has purchased most of its calendar year with the weather, distribution system outages and the level of 2006 forecasted gas supply needs for the Currant Creek project.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, 22% To manage future generation needs and meet of PacifiCorps energy requirements were supplied by electricity environmental objectives, PacifiCorp developed an Integrated purchased under shortand long-term arrangements.
For the Resource Plan IRP, filed in January 2003 and updated in year ended 31 March 2003, 23% of PacifiCorps energy October 2003.
The IRP is reviewed and updated every two years requirements were supplied by purchased electricity under shortand provides a framework which will allow PacifiCorp to and long-term purchase arrangements.
During 2003 04, there continue to select optimal solutions from a mix of renewable, was a slight decline in short-term wholesale sales and a broadly thermal, market purchase and demand side management choices parallel reduction in short-term purchases with an overall and will guide specific build or buy decisions made dependent increase in the use of owned generation and longer-term ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 11 Business Review Description of Business purchases.
PacifiCorps wholesale transactions are integral to its by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the Authority retail business, providing for a balanced and economically and held by the transmission and distribution businesses, hedged position and enhancing the efficient use of its which are entitled to charge for the use of the systems on generating capacity over the long term.
PacifiCorps terms approved by the Authority under various price control transmission system is available for common use consistent formulae.
with open access regulatory requirements and connects with The management focus of the transmission and market hubs in the Pacific Northwest to provide access to what distribution business is to outperform allowed regulatory is normally low-cost hydroelectric generation and also to the returns from the provision of efficient, coordinated and south western US, which provides access to normally highereconomical networks which are open to licensed users on a cost fossil-fuel generation.
non-discriminatory basis in order to facilitate competition in Under the requirements of the Public Utility Regulatory generation and supply and operated to approved standards of Policies Act of 1978, PacifiCorp purchases the output of safety and reliability.
The business is also engaged in qualifying facilities constructed and operated by entities that are continuing work with the Office of Gas and Electricity not public utilities.
During 2003 04, PacifiCorp purchased an Markets Ofgem and the rest of the industry to develop the average of 108 MW from qualifying facilities, compared to an price control framework to allow increased investment to average of 101 MW in 2002 03. secure the long-term safety, reliability and sustainability of the electricity infrastructure in Great Britain and to invest in network development to support the UK Governments Infrastructure Division planned expansion of renewable generation.
Three wholly-owned subsidiaries of SPUK SP The income derived from the distribution business is 3 Transmission Limited, SP Distribution Limited and SP dependent on the demand for electricity by customers in the Manweb plc are the asset-owner companies holding the authorised areas.
Demand for electricity is affected by such groups UK regulated assets and transmission and distribution factors as growth and movements in population, social trends, licences.
A further wholly-owned subsidiary of SPUK SP economic and business growth or decline, changes in the mix Power Systems Limited PowerSystems provides asset of energy sources used by customers, weather conditions and management expertise and conducts the day-to-day operation of energy efficiency measures.
Tables 10 and 11 page 32 set out the networks.
the demand in gigawatthours GWh by customer type within the broadly stable levels of electricity transported over Principal Business Activities the distribution systems in the ScottishPower and Manweb The asset-owner companies act as an integrated business unit to home areas during the five most recent financial years.
concentrate divisional expertise on regulatory issues and investment strategy.
PowerSystems implements work Asset Management programmes commissioned by and agreed with the asset-owner Within the PowerSystems business unit, the focus continues to business.
Strict commercial disciplines are applied at the asset be on cost-effectiveness and service quality improvement.
Its owner-service provider interface, with PowerSystems operating principal business activities involve the construction and as a contractor to the transmission and distribution business refurbishment of the UK transmission and distribution systems, unit.
An integrated senior management team within the their maintenance and related fault repair.
PowerSystems acts Infrastructure Division applies the benefits of growing expertise as the major service provider to the ScottishPower transmission in asset ownership, financing and operational service provision and distribution business and as the primary customer contact to the management of the groups regulated networks businesses agent for network-related matters.
PowerSystems continues to in both the UK and the US.
focus strongly on the efficient delivery of these services under contract.
The regulatory framework provides financial Transmission and Distribution incentives to improve network performance and customer ScottishPower owns and manages a substantial UK electricity satisfaction.
PowerSystems is focused on maximising the transmission and distribution network which extends to over financial benefit to be obtained from these incentives over the 115,000 km, with 67,100 km of underground cables and course of the current price control period.
48,400 km of overhead lines, comprising both the distribution Some 23% of the divisions investment programme is system to customers in its two authorised areas and, in devoted to organic growth areas such as new customer Scotland, its high-voltage transmission system 132 kilovolt connections and network reinforcement.
PowerSystems has kV and above, including those parts of the Englandcontinued to maintain a joint venture with Alfred McAlpine Scotland interconnector which are in its Scottish authorised Utility Services Limited, called Core Utility Solutions Limited, area.
Table 9 page 32 shows key information with respect to to take advantage of the opportunities presented by the the divisions transmission and distribution services in requirement for competitive provision of connections to 2003 04.
These networks are operated under licences issued distribution networks.
12 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 division a particularly flexible portfolio.
Acquisition of additional UK Division thermal generation capacity is kept under continuing review but The UK Division operates in gas and electricity markets purchases will only be made at value-enhancing prices and the 4 which became fully competitive with the ending of current market is characterised by over-capacity.
The restated residual price controls on 31 March 2002: although Ofgem public policy emphasis on renewable generation and the continues to enforce licence conditions and regulate quality of extension to 2015 of the Renewables Obligation Certificates service.
The division comprises five wholly-owned subsidiaries: scheme targets provide the context for continued expansion of ScottishPower Generation Limited owns and operates the the windfarm business which, at 31 March 2004, had power stations and other generation assets in the British Isles operational windfarms totalling 158 MW, planning applications and holds the groups generation licence: ScottishPower Energy for a further 920 MW and environmental assessments begun on Management Limited and ScottishPower Energy Management around 560 MW of further potential sites to ensure that the Agency Limited deal in gas and electricity at the wholesale company target of 10% of supply from renewables by 2010 is met.
level and in the commercial instruments and agreements which ScottishPowers fuel purchasing strategy is based upon constitute the market balancing mechanisms for the competitive the objective of achieving competitive fuel prices while energy market in the UK: ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited balancing the need for security and flexibility of supply.
The is the gas and electricity supply company and holder of the major components of the fuel portfolio are coal and gas, both groups supply licences, managing pricing, selling, billing and fuels being sourced through a combination of long-term receipting for gas and electricity supply to both business and contracts and shorter-term trading.
The division has three longdomestic customers and dealing with enquiries arising in the term contracts with terms of greater than five years for supply course of this business: and SP Dataserve Limited is the data from major gas fields.
management and metering company, managing the data Generation output is managed in order to hedge risk and processes which underpin customer registration through to optimise the position in the balancing market.
In 2003 04, some billing and settlement.
19 terawatt hours TWh were despatched, both to contribute The divisional management team oversees activities towards the approximately 33 TWh of retail and wholesale across the energy value chain, maximising value from a diverse demand provided by the division and to maintain export generation portfolio through to a national customer base of 4.25 volumes through the interconnectors to England & Wales and to million, via an integrated commercial and energy management Northern Ireland.
activity that acts to balance and hedge energy needs.
In 2003 04, wholesale energy prices recovered from the historic lows of Energy Management and Commercial Arrangements 2002 03 although, in light of the emphasis on a market-based In addition to its own generation capacity and long-term bulk framework for energy policy set out by the UK Government in gas contracts the UK Division has access to additional February 2003, wholesale energy markets face the prospect of generation under contract.
Through its commercial and energy continuing structural and contractual changes.
As an active management operations, the division uses medium and shortmarket participant, the division engages fully in regulatory and term contractual arrangements to complete its energy purchase contractual debate and in the consultation processes following requirements and to sell its generation output into the electricity the Governments review of energy policy.
In the meantime, the market in Scotland and, through the interconnectors, to England division aims to leverage the benefits of its flexible generation & Wales and to Northern Ireland.
The Energy Bill intended to asset base and commercial operations to deliver sustained facilitate a Great Britain-wide market through the British earnings through improved business processes and customer Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements BETTA service and to develop its position in renewable generation.
was introduced into Parliament in November 2003, although the new arrangements are now not expected to become effective Principal Business Activities until April 2005 at the earliest.
BETTA is expected to have only a The UK Division operates ScottishPowers generation assets in modest impact on end-user prices and the focus of consultation the British Isles, manages the companys exposure to the is now on transmission charging in a Great Britain-wide market, wholesale electricity and gas markets and is responsible for particularly in the light of the policy emphasis on renewables.
energy supply: the sales and marketing of electricity and gas to Through its activities in the electricity, gas and coal customers throughout Great Britain, together with the markets, ScottishPowers energy management business secures associated customer registration, billing and receipting processes competitive advantage for the UK Division through hedging and and handling enquiries in respect of these services.
optimising its position across the energy value chain, continuously evaluating and managing risk exposure.
Power Plant Portfolio, Fuel Strategy and Generation Sales ScottishPowers Hatfield Moors gas storage site enhances the The UK Division operates some 5,400 MW of generating flexibility of the divisions energy management position, both in capacity, see Table 8 page 32 comprising coal, gas, meeting peak demands of supply customers and responding to hydroelectric and wind power generation assets, giving the the volatility of gas prices between midweek and weekends.
In ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 13 Business Review Description of Business addition, the bulk gas contracts allow the gas to be sold out or PPM used in the divisions power stations, giving yet more flexibility.
A planning application for a 6 billion cubic feet BCF gas storage PPM, the groups competitive US energy business, is a 5 facility at Byley, Cheshire was approved in May 2004, following a fast-growing energy provider, with operating assets in public inquiry in late 2002. eight US states and in Canada.
Its diverse portfolio, focus on The New Electricity Trading Arrangements, introduced wind power and moderate risk approach position PPM for into England & Wales in March 2001, provided for a direct continued earnings growth in 2004 05.
PPM commenced contracting, pay-as-bid process between generators and substantive operations in 2001 operating until January 2003 as suppliers, with imbalances between actual and contracted PacifiCorp Power Marketing, Inc. and is growing through a positions settled through a balancing mechanism intended to strategic focus on clean energy: concentrating on renewable lead to more cost-reflective prices and more effective power, natural gas storage and hub services and gas-fired management of risk.
In this context of a fully competitive energy generation.
market, the division has renegotiated or ended a number of longterm contracts put in place before privatisation in 1991 under Principal Business Activities which it was obliged to pay non-market-based rates for PPMs principal assets are thermal and renewable generation electricity from the nuclear plants of British Energy BE and resources and natural gas storage facilities, including gas storage the Peterhead power station and hydro plants of Scottish and assets in western Canada and Texas.
PPM creates value by Southern Energy SSE.
Necessary regulatory approvals have securing quality assets at strategic locations and by locking in been received and the revised arrangements with BE took effect value with long-term contracts with creditworthy customers.
in November 2002, providing a benefit of some 25 million a Integration of plant operations, contract dispatch and energy year.
Removal of the relevant contracts with SSE will take effect management add additional value.
The optimisation benefits from April 2005, providing a further anticipated saving of come from displacing plant operations with low-priced around 20 million a year from 2005 onwards.
electricity purchases, selling the displaced gas or placing it in storage, as well as using transmission and contract delivery Energy Supply flexibility to manage locational price differences in both gas and Since September 1998 when, under the provisions of the electricity.
PPM aims to leverage the benefits of its flexible asset Electricity Act, competition was extended to residential base and contracts to extract value across gas and electricity.
electricity customers, the strategic focus of the ScottishPower energy supply business has been the defence of its core markets, Power Production and Wholesale Sales residential and small business customers in the ScottishPower PPM has more than 1,600 MW of operating assets currently and Manweb home areas, whilst seeking profitable additional under its ownership or control and, of that, PPM has full business outside these historical regional boundaries.
Retention economic interest in 1,368 MW, see Table 7 page 31.
PPM of home area residential customers stands at 60% whilst targeted balances its supply and sales, selling a substantial amount of its sales efforts, strategic marketing alliances, such as NESTMakers, supply forward under long-term contracts.
In its electricity the partnership with Sainsburys and the use of e-commerce business, PPM serves a wide variety of wholesale energy channels have helped develop a Britain-wide customer base customers including municipal agencies, public utility districts which now stands at 4.25 million energy accounts.
The business and investor-owned utilities.
During 2003 04, the number of improvement programme introduced in 2001 continues to drive long-term customers served by PPMs wholesale electricity improvements across the retail supply business and has helped business grew from 6 to 18.
These customers are primarily to deliver increased direct debit penetration and reduced located in wholesale energy markets served by the 1.8 million customer churn rates in addition to cost benefits in areas such as square mile Western Electricity Coordinating Council service billing, debt and customer registration business processes.
territories in the western US and the Mid-Continent Area Power Pool service territories in the upper midwest US.
Metering and Data Management In the competitive energy market SP Dataserve Limited Wind Power Dataserve operates end-to-end process and data PPM is the second largest provider of wind energy in the US.
Six management in order to maximise efficiencies in the provision projects were completed in December 2003 bringing the total and control of registration and metering data for ScottishPower added during the calendar year to 528 MW and the total wind and other agency arrangements.
Data management covers the power under PPMs control to more than 830 MW.
PPM establishment of new customers, maintenance of existing continues to place much of its renewable energy output under customers and accuracy of energy settlement.
For example, all output from the new 162 manage gas and electricity customers, Dataserve has continued MW Colorado Green windfarm has been sold under a 15-year to contribute to improvements in billing performance through agreement to supply the Public Service Company of Colorado.
the management of the agents, who provide much of the data.
PPM has also developed the 51 MW Moraine Wind Power 14 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Project in southwest Minnesota in conjunction with a long-term consistent, positive experience of working for ScottishPower power sales agreement signed with the regional regulated utility, which encourages and supports high personal performance.
The Northern States Power Company, and completed the key strategic initiatives to support the strategy include a strong development of the 44 MW Flying Cloud Wind Project in Iowa, commitment to leadership development, talent management to which includes a 15-year agreement to sell power to Interstate build organisational competencies and succession, a strong Power & Light, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy.
Approximately emphasis on continuously improving performance in health and 80% of the wind power under PPM's control has been sold safety, and efforts to improve employee engagement through a under long-term contract with the balance hedged under multipositive working climate.
A new group health and safety governance process was approved by the Executive Team in November 2002 and was Gas Storage and Hub Services implemented in 2003 04, with the Group Health & Safety PPMs two major gas storage facilities are in Alberta, Canada Executive Committee composed of US and UK members and in Katy, Texas.
Each is connected into substantial pipeline meeting on a quarterly basis.
Following extensive consultation networks serving well-diversified customer bases under firm, and internal communication, a new group health and safety long-term and short-term contract arrangements.
In addition to strategy was implemented in 2003 04.
As part of the strategy, a the 44 BCF of gas storage capacity under its ownership during new Group Health & Safety Framework composed of a new calendar year 2003, PPM has increased its available gas storage Group Policy and Health & Safety Standards was also approved capacity by 23 BCF for calendar year 2004 through contracting for application group-wide.
During November and December for capacity in third-party storage facilities in western Canada, 2003, baseline assessments were undertaken using the new Texas and California.
This capacity will be used, along with assessment protocol to measure the performance of business existing facilities, to extend PPMs energy management and hub units against standards set on a world-class health and safety services and represents one of a number of development scoring scale.
opportunities identified to grow PPMs gas storage business at selective locations over the next several years.
PPM also has Employee Consultation begun development of a 7.2 BCF high-deliverability salt cavern An annual survey is conducted across all businesses to provide a gas storage project in west Texas.
measure of employees perception of the companys direction and their sense of empowerment, value, training and development and of manager communication.
Survey results are Group Employees shared with all employees, reviewed by the Executive Team and US Businesses PHI and its subsidiaries had 6,704 used in each business to set targets and action plans for the 6 employees at 31 March 2004, of which PacifiCorp and following year.
In addition, individual businesses use surveys its subsidiaries had 6,507 and PPM and its subsidiaries 194. and other tools to understand the issues that fall within their Approximately 58% of the employees of PacifiCorp and its specific areas of responsibility and regular consultation takes mining subsidiaries are covered by union contracts, principally place using a variety of means including monthly team meetings, with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the team managers conferences, business unit road shows, safety Utility Workers Union of America and the United Mine Workers committees, presentations, focus groups and employee of America.
In the companys judgement, employee relations in magazines.
Senior managers across the business meet with a the US businesses are satisfactory.
cross-section of employees on a regular basis and with trade union representatives in joint consultations on issues of mutual UK Businesses ScottishPower and its UK subsidiaries had 8,117 interest.
Of these, 3,324 were employed in Further details of group workplace policy and performance the Infrastructure Division and 4,793 in the UK Division.
can be found in the ScottishPower Environmental and Social Approximately 56% of employees in the UK are union members, Impact Report and the ScottishPower Workplace Performance and 79% are covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Both are available on the ScottishPower website.
The the companys judgement, employee relations in the UK company also operates a number of all-employee share plans businesses are satisfactory.
Human Resources Strategy Group Environmental Policy In 2003 04, plans were developed and implemented to give effect to the human resources strategy approved by the Board in ScottishPower recognises the need for a responsible 7 July 2002, which aims to ensure that the business achieves business to embrace a wider role in society and to superior results through the high performance of its employees.
engage fully with shareholders, staff, communities, customers This is being achieved by strategic efforts to ensure that, and other opinion formers.
It aims to do this transparently, wherever they work across the group, employees share a through an international framework, to ensure that key ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 15 Business Review Description of Business principles are translated into action.
This framework comprises Charitable Contributions overall international visionary goals: and specific goals for the US and UK.
Performance towards meeting these goals is In order to encourage comparability, the group uses the 8 tracked through carefully chosen Key Performance Indicators, London Benchmarking Group LBG model to evaluate closely related to business unit objectives.
ScottishPowers its community support activity groupwide.
The LBG model is a strategy is to become a leading international energy company.
standard for community reporting adopted by over 80 leading UK Hence, it must strive to achieve a balance between various companies and ScottishPowers use of the model is reviewed each needs including securing energy supply now and into the future, year by the LBG to help ensure the evaluation principles are keeping energy affordable and minimising its impact on the correctly and consistently applied.
ScottishPower companies contributed 6.2 million in community Policy frameworks in the US and UK have common support activity.
This incorporated 600,000 categorised by the elements, particularly in using market instruments for air LBG model as charitable gifts, 4.8 million of community support quality regulation and supporting renewables and energy activity categorised as community investment and 760,000 efficiency measures.
In the US, numerous Congressional categorised as commercial initiatives in the community given in proposals on multi-pollutant regulation feature tradable cash, through staff time and in-kind donations by the companys credits intended to provide cost-efficiency and flexibility in US and UK operations.
An additional 1.2 million of charitable meeting emissions limits.
Efforts continue in Congress to extend support was made through the PacifiCorp Foundation for the renewable energy production tax credit, which helps to Learning, which is fully endowed by ScottishPower companies.
make new wind projects price-competitive in many US Further details of group community engagement policy electricity markets.
Also, efforts continue to create viable and performance can be found in the ScottishPower markets for renewable generation at the state level, most Environmental and Social Impact Report and the Marketplace notably in California.
The UK Government and the European & Community Performance Report.
Both are available on the Commission EC are developing firm proposals for the ScottishPower website.
implementation of the European Union EU Emissions Trading Scheme which is scheduled to bring a mandatory Description of the Companys Property emission trading regime into force in 2005.
The UK Energy White Paper, published in February 2003, doubled the UK US Businesses The US properties consist primarily of 9 renewables target of 10% by 2010 to 20%, to be achieved by generating facilities, electricity transmission and 2020.
Energy saving and energy services received a boost, while distribution facilities, coal mines and a number of office resources were identified to support new clean coal.
Substantially all of PacifiCorps electricity plants are Scotland, the Scottish Executive has announced the target of subject to the lien of PacifiCorps Mortgage and Deed of Trust.
achieving 40% of electricity generation from renewable sources PacifiCorp owns or has an interest in 54 hydroelectric by 2020.
This is being carried out at a time when network generating plants.
These have an aggregate nameplate rating of operators and the UK regulator, Ofgem, are engaging in 1,077 MW and plant net capability of 1,164 MW.
It also owns or discussions which recognise the need to set network upgrades has interests in 16 thermal-electricity generating plants with an in the context of future network development for renewables aggregate nameplate rating of 7,310 MW and plant net capability and embedded generation.
PacifiCorp also jointly owns one wind power The group continues to develop specific policies to generating plant with an aggregate nameplate rating of 33 MW respond to these regulatory challenges, aiming to grow its and plant net capability of 33 MW.
Table 1 page 30 sets out key business sustainably in new energy markets, to invest in aspects of PacifiCorps existing generating facilities.
These renewables and clean-coal technology and to ensure that generating facilities are interconnected through PacifiCorps customers benefit from innovations in energy efficiency.
It also own transmission lines or by contract through the lines of aims to manage existing coal-fired assets responsibly, applying others.
Substantially all of PacifiCorps generating facilities and appropriate abatement technologies to reduce its environmental reservoirs are managed on a coordinated basis to obtain footprint whilst supporting security of supply and affordability maximum load carrying capability and efficiency.
Portions of of power for its customers.
The lines of accountability for PacifiCorps 73,000 miles of transmission and distribution environmental policy are focused through the policy making networks are located, by franchise or permit, upon public lands, Energy and Environment Committee, chaired by the Chief roads and streets and, by easement or licence, upon the lands of Executive and with direct reporting lines to ScottishPowers other third parties.
Table 4 page 31 sets out further information Executive Team.
Further details of group environmental policy and PacifiCorps coal reserves are described in Table 2 page performance can be found in the ScottishPower Environmental 30.
Most are held pursuant to leases from the federal and Social Impact Report and the Environmental Performance government through the Bureau of Land Management and from Report.
certain states and private parties.
The leases generally have 16 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 multi-year terms that may be renewed or extended and require generally have jurisdiction over mergers, acquisitions and the sale payment of rentals and royalties.
In addition, federal and state of utility assets, the UK Government, as a way to maintain control regulations require that comprehensive environmental over ScottishPower and certain of its subsidiaries, required at protection and reclamation standards be met during the course privatisation the issuance of a ScottishPower Special Share.
The of mining operations and upon completion of mining activities.
Special Share only affected corporate control transactions at the PPM has more than 1,600 MW of operating assets overall group holding company level and had no effect on currently under its ownership or control and, of that, PPM has PacifiCorp.
On 5 May 2004, the UK Government announced the full economic interest in 1,368 MW, see Table 7 page 31.
The redemption of the Special Share, following a review which majority of PPMs capacity, 606 MW of wind power contracted concluded that public policy objectives are now adequately for a period of 25 years and 237 MW of thermal power protected by the legal and regulatory framework currently in place.
contracted for a period of 30 years, comes from long-term ScottishPowers UK operations are subject to such EU agreements while 525 MW comes from outright ownership of six Directives as the UK Government brings into effect, specifically, wind plants and two thermal plants.
PPMs windfarms are on the EU energy liberalisation directives and EU prohibitions on land owned or leased for 25 years or more.
PPM also owns anti-competitive agreements and the abuse of a dominant position major gas storage facilities in Alberta, Canada and in Katy, Texas implemented through the Competition Act 1998, which came into representing a total of 44 BCF of gas storage capacity.
effect from 1 March 2000 and also to the provisions of the Utilities Act 2000 Utilities Act.
The Utilities Act introduced a legal UK Businesses The UK properties consist of generating stations, framework for energy company licences based on standard, UKtransmission and distribution facilities and certain nonwide conditions and, taken together with requirements of the operational properties in which the company holds freehold or Department of Trade and Industry DTI and licence changes leasehold interests.
introduced by the Regulators, defines the regulatory framework ScottishPower owns seven power stations in Scotland, within which SPUK and its subsidiaries must operate.
five of which are operational and two in England.
It also owns A summary of the more specific legislative and regulatory three windfarms in Northern Ireland, six in Scotland, and one in background to the operations of the groups businesses is set out the Republic of Ireland.
In addition, the company has joint below.
venture interests in one power station in England and three windfarms, two of which are in England and one in Wales.
All US Business Regulation generation plant is owned by the group, with the exception of the non-operational Methil power station, which is held on a ground PacifiCorp is subject to the jurisdiction of the 11 lease that expires in 2012, and the windfarms which are generally public utility regulatory authorities in each of the held on ground leases of at least 25 years duration.
See Table 8 states in which it conducts retail electricity operations.
These page 32 for further details of operational generation assets.
authorities regulate various matters including prices, services, At 31 March 2004, the UK transmission facilities included accounting, issuance of securities and other matters.
PacifiCorp approximately 4,000 circuit km of overhead lines and is a licensee and a public utility as those terms are used in underground cable operated at 400 kV, 275 kV and 132 kV.
In the Federal Power Act FPA and is, therefore, subject to addition, the distribution facilities included over 110,000 circuit regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission km of overhead lines and underground cable at voltages operating FERC as to accounting policies and practices, certain prices from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
The group holds either permanent rights or and other matters.
way leaves which entitle it to run these lines and cables through Because PPM does not conduct retail electricity private land.
See Table 9 page 32 for further details.
operations, it is not subject to the same state public utility commission regulation as PacifiCorp.
However, certain of its wholesale activities are regulated by the FERC and the state Description of Legislative and commissions impose certain limitations on affiliate transactions.
Regulatory Background In addition, PPM's gas storage activities in Texas are subject to 10 As a public limited company plc, Scottish Power regulation by the FERC and the Texas Railroad Commission and plc is subject to the UK Companies Acts and is also registered as a those in Canada by the Alberta Energy and Utilities Board.
holding company under the US federal Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, which is administered by the US federal FERC Issues Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Hence, Scottish California refund case PacifiCorp is one of a number of parties to Power plc, PacifiCorp and other subsidiaries are subject to a FERC investigation of potential refunds for energy transactions regulation unless specific subsidiaries or transactions are otherwise in California during past periods of high-energy prices and, in exempt by SEC rules or orders.
SPUK and its subsidiaries are 2001 02, established a provision of $17.7 million for these potential exempt because SPUK is an exempt foreign utility as defined in the refunds.
PacifiCorps ultimate exposure to refunds is dependent 1935 Act.
Whereas US federal and state regulatory commissions upon any final order issued by the FERC in this proceeding.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 17 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background FERC show-cause orders In August 2003, PacifiCorp and the objectives and to achieve a permanent consensus on each FERC staff reached a resolution on the FERC order to show states responsibility for the costs and entitlement to the why various parties behaviour during the California energy benefits of PacifiCorps existing assets.
Between April 2002 and crisis did not constitute manipulation of the wholesale electricity July 2003, PacifiCorp and key parties from the states it serves market.
Under the terms of the settlement agreement, PacifiCorp or, in the case of California, a key monitoring contact denied liability and agreed to pay a nominal amount of $67,745 analysed over 50 options which were narrowed to two in exchange for complete and total resolution of the issues raised possibilities.
Following the July 2003 meeting, PacifiCorp relating to it in the FERCs show-cause order.
The FERC issued undertook extensive analytical work to develop a single its final order approving the settlement in March 2004.
Several proposal that would best balance its needs and the market participants have requested a rehearing of the FERCs requirements of the states in addressing the positions, issues approval and a decision on a rehearing is expected from the and concerns raised and discussed during the course of the FERC during the summer of 2004.
In January 2004, the FERC collaborative and individual state meetings.
This work dismissed PPM from the show-cause proceedings, finding that culminated in a regulatory filing in September 2003 in the PPM did not engage in prohibited practices during the relevant states of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming and Idaho.
A similar filing period and indicating in the motion to dismiss several reasons was made in Washington in December 2003 as part of the why PPMs behaviour did not constitute manipulation of the general rate case filing.
A filing in California will follow, wholesale electricity market.
coordinated with rate case activity.
Utah, Oregon and Wyoming continued formal and informal meetings among the Northwest refund case In June 2003, the FERC terminated its states and commissions over the months to May 2004.
Direct proceeding in this case, concluding that ordering refunds would and rebuttal testimony is expected to be filed over May and not be an appropriate resolution of the issues relating to June 2004, with hearings scheduled for July 2004.
In wholesale spot-market bilateral sales in the Pacific Northwest Washington, hearings are scheduled for August September between 25 December 2000 and 20 June 2001.
In November 2004 with a probable order date of mid-November 2004.
2003, the FERC issued its final order denying a requested rehearing.
Several market participants have filed petitions in the Regional Transmission Organization RTO court of appeals for review of the FERCs final order.
PacifiCorp, in conjunction with nine other utilities, is seeking to form a Regional Transmission Organization RTO, now to be Federal Power Act Section 206 case In November 2003, the known as Grid West, in response to the FERC's Order 2000.
FERC also issued its final order denying a rehearing of Creation of the RTO is subject to regulatory approvals from the PacifiCorps request for recovery of excessive prices charged FERC and state regulatory commissions.
In September 2002, the under certain wholesale electricity purchases scheduled for FERC found that, with some modification and further delivery during summer 2002.
Appeals for review of the FERCs development of certain details, the RTO proposal satisfies the 12 final order by PacifiCorp and Morgan Stanley Capital Group, characteristics and functions in the FERCs Order 2000.
Inc. were transferred to the D. C. Circuit Court of Appeals for Concerns raised by regional stakeholders about the RTO consolidation in December 2003.
PacifiCorp obtained dismissal proposal have resulted in a renewed regional process to develop of the Morgan Stanley appeal, and requested transfer of the case a staged approach to RTO formation that provides for enhanced back to the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
The RTO, if and when fully implemented, would serve as an independent transmission FERC market-based rates In February 2004, PPMs Katy provider for the RTO region and have the operational authority Storage and Transportation business unit was granted marketneeded to direct bulk wholesale electricity transfers over a based rate-making authority subject to re-examination if there is majority of the 60,000 miles of transmission lines owned by its a significant change to Katys market power status.
Under the current proposal the RTO would have operational control but PacifiCorp would continue to own its transmission assets.
In July 2002, the FERC issued a Notice of Proposed Regulation of PacifiCorp Rulemaking, proposing a new Standard Market Design for Multi-State Process MSP wholesale electricity markets.
"The FERC subsequently issued a 12 PacifiCorp is involved in a collaborative process ""Wholesale Power Market Platform"" white paper in April 2003, with stakeholders in the six states it serves to develop mutually which signalled a greater willingness to defer to regional acceptable solutions to the issues faced by PacifiCorp and the solutions and not adopt overly prescriptive rules."
After the states as a result of the operations of a multi-state utility.
MSP Standard Market Design white paper was released, the Grid seeks to clarify roles and responsibilities, including cost West filing utilities, operating through the Regional allocations for future generation resources, to provide states Representatives Group, a formal regional stakeholder body, with the ability independently to implement state energy policy developed a consensus of regional issues and opportunities and 18 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 unanimously approved a proposal for future progress.
The return on shareholder investment.
Determination of these Regional Representatives Group is currently developing an returns, and the composition of the investment costs included in implementation plan for this regional proposal, which includes the rate base, is made by the commissions in hearings on general timing for seating an independent Board of Trustees, obtaining rate cases.
Rates are then set to allow PacifiCorp the the necessary regulatory approvals and the first phase of opportunity, with no guarantees, to meet its expenses, recover its operation by an independent regional operator.
PacifiCorp investments and earn the allowed ROE for its shareholders.
expects that, in its final rule, the FERC will allow PacifiCorp is currently pursuing a regulatory programme in all implementation schedules to vary depending on local needs and states, with the objective of keeping rates closely aligned to will allow for local differences.
The FERC is closely monitoring ongoing costs.
In recently completed general rate cases, any pending legislation in the US Congress and has not yet set a regulators in Utah, Oregon and Wyoming allowed full cost date for issuing the final rule.
recovery on new investments for growth.
This includes recovery of the investment costs themselves through inclusion in Relicensing of Hydroelectric Projects regulatory rate base, as well as recovery of operation and PacifiCorp's hydroelectric portfolio consists of 54 plants with a maintenance expenses.
In addition, PacifiCorp is requesting net plant capability of 1,164 MW, about 15% of PacifiCorp's total similar cost recovery and rate base treatment of growth generating capacity.
The majority of the hydroelectric generating investments in a general rate case now in process in Washington portfolio is operated under licences from the FERC, granted for and will include recent investments for growth in regulatory rate periods of 30 to 50 years.
There is a complex regulatory process base calculations for future general rate cases in Idaho and to apply for licence renewal which begins five and a half years California.
before the expiration of an existing licence and involves a number Commissions in all states served by PacifiCorp monitor of federal and state agencies, Native American tribes, as well as PacifiCorps achieved ROE for appropriateness in current other stakeholders.
Some state and federal agencies have market conditions.
PacifiCorp continues to refine its internal mandatory authority to require certain terms and conditions to procedures and to work with the commissions to ensure that all be included in the FERC licence.
Often existing licences expire prudently incurred costs are reflected in its rates and that actual prior to the FERCs issuing of a new licence.
In these cases, the rates achieve allowable ROE levels.
General rate adjustments FERC has historically issued annual operating licences so that reflecting changes in the regulated cost base granted in Utah, the project can continue to operate while alternatives are Oregon, Wyoming and California during 2003 04 have an evaluated: the FERC is continuing this practice.
annualised value of almost $100 million.
In addition, PacifiCorp In order to facilitate the licensing process, PacifiCorp has a general rate case pending in Washington seeking may agree to early implementation of expected licence approximately $27 million of proposed annual price increases to conditions, or settlement terms, if a settlement has been reached recover system investments and rising costs, including insurance, with licensing stakeholders.
The cost of these measures, together pension, healthcare, power, infrastructure and security costs.
with the costs for hydroelectric relicensing, are expected to be The Washington case should be completed by November 2004. included in rates and, as such, not to have a material adverse Further rounds of rate cases are under consideration or impact on the group's consolidated results of operations.
During development in most of the states served by PacifiCorp.
As with calendar year 2003, PacifiCorp filed general rate cases in Utah, any general rate case, the outcome of these requests is uncertain.
Oregon, Wyoming and Washington, which included each states portion of the relicensing process costs associated with the Recovery of Excess Power Costs projects where new licenses have become effective or are close PacifiCorp has made progress towards recovering the deferred to being issued by the FERC.
In Oregon and Utah, the general power costs incurred during the period of extreme volatility and rate cases ended in a commission approved settlement, and the unprecedented high price levels beginning in the summer of commissions did not contest the hydroelectric relicensing costs.
2000 and extending through the summer of 2001.
The Utah In Wyoming, the commissions general rate case order did not portion of these costs has been recovered through rate orders challenge the hydroelectric relicensing costs included in the test amounting to $147 million and recovery continues of $131 year, whilst, in Washington, the recovery of relicensing costs is million plus ongoing carrying charges in Oregon and $25 million among the issues being considered in the current rate case, in Idaho.
The Oregon rate order is the subject of an appeal by which is expected to conclude by November 2004. intervening parties which, if successful following oral arguments in May 2004, could require some refunds.
In Wyoming, Regulatory Established Returns PacifiCorps request for deferred power cost recovery was The regulatory commissions in the various states where denied, a decision which has now been appealed to the PacifiCorp operates approve an appropriate level of cost Wyoming Supreme Court.
On 30 April 2004, PacifiCorp filed recovery for debt, preferred equity and common equity which another challenge to the decision in the US District Court for results in an allowed return on rate base costs ROR, Wyoming, requesting recovery of over $150 million for including an allowed return on equity ROE representing the wholesale power and transmission costs previously denied by ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 19 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background the Wyoming Public Service Commission WPSC.
In PacifiCorp also completed DSM services in Oregon Washington, PacifiCorp filed for deferral and recovery of excess under a transition agreement with the Energy Trust of Oregon net power costs estimated at the time to be $17.5 million, ETO helping to ensure that customers efficiency needs including carrying charges, or, alternatively, that it be allowed to were adequately served throughout the ETOs initial start-up file a general rate case, which would otherwise not have been period and development of utility replacement programmes.
The decision of the Washington The ETO was established as the deliverer of DSM services to Utilities and Transportation Commission WUTC was not to Oregon as part of the States industry restructuring legislation allow for the deferral and recovery of excess power costs but to that was implemented in March 2002.
Under a recovery allow PacifiCorp to file a general rate case any time before July method similar to Utahs tariff rider mechanism, PacifiCorp 2005 that addresses the level of prices needed to cover all continues to invest in DSM in Washington State at around 3% ongoing costs to serve Washington customers.
This decision was of retail revenues.
challenged in August 2003 by the Public Counsel section of the In addition to its supply side Requests for Proposal, state attorney generals office.
A status conference was held in under the IRP, PacifiCorp issued a separate RFP for the demand November and PacifiCorp and the WUTC staff submitted a joint side resources called for in the IRP in June 2003.
Analysis of reply brief in April 2004.
In May 2004, the court confirmed the initial responses has been completed and PacifiCorp has selected WUTC decision.
Notwithstanding the pending challenge, certain proposals for further evaluation.
PacifiCorp filed its Washington general rate case in December 2003 and expects that a final order will be made in November Renewable Energy 2004.
The 2003 IRP found that 1,400 MW of renewable energy was Under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles cost-effective over the following 10 years.
PacifiCorp executed a GAAP, all PacifiCorps net power costs are charged to the power-purchase agreement with a new, 41 MW windfarm in profit and loss account when incurred.
There is, therefore, a time Milton-Freewater, Oregon, in conjunction with the ETO.
The lag between the recognition of allowable excess power costs ETO uses funds collected under Oregons public benefits charge under UK GAAP compared to US GAAP, which continues to to cover the above-market cost of the wind project while benefit future UK GAAP reported earnings.
PacifiCorp purchases the power at market price.
This was the first joint effort on renewable energy development between PacifiCorp Demand Side Management DSM and the ETO, which is to exist through to 2012.
PacifiCorp also PacifiCorp continues to offer its Energy Exchange programme in released an RFP for 1,100 MW of renewable generation over a Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington and Idaho.
This seven-year period and will evaluate bids during 2004 05. programme is an optional, supplemental service, which allows During 2003 04 there were several policy developments participating customers an opportunity voluntarily to reduce affecting renewable generation.
California continued to clarify electricity usage in exchange for a payment at times and prices implementation rules on its renewable portfolio requirement, determined by PacifiCorp.
The programme is designed to enable which calls for investor-owned utilities in the state to supply all customers of one MW and greater to help address periods of 20% of their California-based load from renewables in 2017 and high wholesale prices and peaks in demand when they occur.
encourages publicly-owned utilities to do the same.
Utilities such During the summer of 2003, PacifiCorp filed and as San Diego Gas and Electric and Sacramento Municipal Utility received regulatory approval in Utah for three new residential District have begun to invest in new renewable projects.
DSM programmes: a refrigerator recycling programme, an airPacifiCorp is waiting for the disposition of clarifying legislation conditioning load control programme and an incentive pending in the California General Assembly before programme to encourage the installation of evaporative coolers implementing a compliance strategy.
The Washington legislature or energy-efficient air-conditioners.
PacifiCorp filed for a tariff contemplated a renewable portfolio standard in the 2004 rider to allow it to recover costs incurred through the legislative session but the measure failed to pass out of the implementation of all DSM programmes approved by the Utah House.
The Utah legislature passed a sales and use tax Public Service Commission UPSC.
Following the filing of exemption for renewable energy equipment in 2004 to create an testimony, tariff proposals and a series of technical conferences, incentive for renewable development within the state.
interested parties have approved a stipulation detailing the In 2003 04, PacifiCorps Blue Sky programme, which introduction of a tariff rider mechanism and a self-direction offers customers the opportunity to support renewable energy programme for large customers.
This stipulation was heard and development above its system investments, was approved by the approved by the UPSC in September 2003 and, following California Public Utilities Commission CPUC and the Idaho discussions with regulatory parties, PacifiCorp proposed setting Public Utility Commission IPUC.
The programme is now an initial collection rate of 3% for the DSM tariff rider.
The 3% available to all customers in PacifiCorps service territory.
Based collection rate, approximately $28 million annually, was on data compiled by the US Department of Energy, PacifiCorp approved by the UPSC in March 2004 and became effective, as ranks fifth nationwide in customer participation and fourth in planned, on customer bills from 1 April 2004.
MWh sales in voluntary renewable energy programmes.
20 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Competition and Deregulation 2004.
The new rates took effect in early March 2004.
In During 2003 04, PacifiCorp continued to operate its electricity September 2003, PacifiCorp filed a request to establish a power distribution and retail business under state regulation.
Certain cost adjustment mechanism the PCAM.
This mechanism was industrial customers in Oregon can choose alternative electricity intended to protect PacifiCorp from net power cost volatility and suppliers and the California General Assembly is debating reduce the regulatory lag associated with recovery of net power legislation to restore direct access options for large customers.
costs, which are defined as fuel and wheeling expenses and However, deregulation of the retail market has not developed wholesale sales and purchases.
Hearings in the PCAM case were widely and, whilst customer demand for choice in each state may held in March 2004.
The request to establish the PCAM was eventually lead to retail competition in some form, no significant denied in April 2004. proposals for customer choice were brought forward in any of the legislatures outside California during 2003 04.
PacifiCorp currently Washington owns and operates transmission facilities as part of its vertically In October 2003, PacifiCorp filed petitions with the WUTC for integrated operations.
Transmission costs are bundled with accounting orders to allow deferral and amortisation of the Trail generation and distribution costs in approved retail rates.
Rules Mountain coal mine closure costs and environmental issued by the FERC in 1996 designed to facilitate competition in remediation costs and requesting WUTC authorisation of the wholesale market on a nationwide basis give greater flexibility accounting treatment relating to pension liability as well as and more choices to wholesale electricity customers.
The moves to confirmation by the WUTC that certain actuarially determined introduce RTOs also impact on PacifiCorps transmission pension costs are recoverable in rates.
These filings were made responsibilities and, possibly, the resultant revenues.
in response to the stipulation approved in the last general rate proceeding in Washington requiring that items treated as A summary of the outcomes and significant further regulatory regulatory assets under authorisations from other states, which and legislative developments in the states concerned is set out are proposed for inclusion in Washington at the end of the rate below.
plan period, be supported by accounting authorisations in Washington.
In December 2003, PacifiCorp filed with the Utah WUTC for a general rate increase of $26.7 million annually, or PacifiCorp commenced a general rate case in May 2003.
In 13.5% to recover higher power costs: increases in insurance, January 2004, the UPSC approved a stipulation allowing an pension, healthcare, infrastructure and security costs: increase annual increase of $65 million, representing a 7% average price authorised ROE to 11.25% and receive approval for the increase.
The increase in customer rates was effective on 1 April proposed inter-jurisdictional cost allocation protocol.
A stipulation on rate spread and rate design was filed with, addition, PacifiCorp is requesting that the WUTC adopt the and approved by, the UPSC in January 2004.
This order findings of a prudence review of generating resources acquired establishes rates giving PacifiCorp the opportunity to collect the since the 1986 Washington general rate case.
The WUTC has previously ordered 7% average price increase and earn an adopted a procedural schedule requiring testimony from the staff authorised ROE of 10.7%.
and other parties in June 2004 and PacifiCorps rebuttal testimony in July 2004.
Hearings are scheduled to begin on 30 Oregon August 2004 with a final order expected in November 2004.
In August 2003, the Oregon Public Utility Commission OPUC approved a settlement of PacifiCorps general rate case Idaho filed in March 2003.
Under the settlement, base rates increased In August 2003, the IPUC approved as filed PacifiCorps July by $8.5 million annually on 1 September 2003, resulting in a 2003 application for approval of a renewable-energy tariff.
1.1% average price increase and an effective authorised ROE of Under the proposed tariff, residential and non-residential 10.7% based on the filed capital structure.
Also, a $12 million customers can purchase newly developed wind, geothermal and merger credit for the period from January 2004 to December solar powered energy in fixed increments.
In December 2003 2004 was eliminated and a further merger credit will be reduced PacifiCorp filed with the IPUC to recover $4.2 million related to from $6 million to $4 million and amortised to return the full Idahos portion of income tax payments resulting from audits of amount to customers by December 2004. prior years.
A stipulated agreement between the parties was filed in mid-May 2004.
The filing requests recovery over 16 months, Wyoming beginning in June 2004, when a power cost recovery surcharge, In May 2003, PacifiCorp filed a general rate case with the WPSC which began in June 2002, expires.
to recover rising costs including insurance premiums, pension funding and healthcare costs and request an increase in the California authorised ROE to 11.5%.
Hearings in the case were completed The CPUC issued a final order in November 2003 approving two in January 2004 and an order granting a $22.9 million annual stipulations in the general rate case and finalising permanent increase and authorising a 10.75% ROE was issued in March rates.
The order grants an additional annual increase of $2.8 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 21 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background million effective from 1 December 2003.
Combining this order Electricity generation the production of electricity at power with the interim increase in June 2002 results in an overall stations, hydroelectric plants, windfarms and some industrial annual price increase of $7.6 million.
Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, ScottishPower average price increase, with an authorised ROE of 10.9%.
Generation Limited, the group is licensed to operate some 5,400 MW of generating capacity and, by contracting in the wholesale market, has access to capacity operated by other licensed Regulation of the Electricity and generators.
Gas Industries in the UK 13 The UK electricity and gas industries are regulated Electricity transmission the bulk transfer of electricity across a under the provisions of the Electricity Act, the Gas Acts and the high-voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables and Utilities Act.
The Electricity and Gas Acts provided for the associated equipment typically operating at or above 132 kV.
privatisation and restructuring of the industries in the late Through its wholly-owned subsidiary, SP Transmission Limited, 1980s and the 1990s, including the introduction of price the group owns and is licensed to operate the transmission regulation for electricity transmission and distribution and gas system in central and southern Scotland.
ScottishPowers transportation: and of competition in electricity generation, gas transmission system is connected to that of SSE in the north of storage and the supply of both gas and electricity.
The Acts Scotland and is linked to the National Grid in England & Wales established the licensing of industry participants and created and to the Northern Ireland transmission system by regulatory bodies for each of the electricity and gas industries.
interconnectors which enable the export and import of In 2000, the Utilities Act enabled the electricity and gas electricity within the UK.
Following a review by the Authority, a regulators to be merged as the Authority, established new parliamentary bill has been published to facilitate revised independent consumer councils and provided powers for arrangements in respect of the interconnector between Scotland Government Ministers to give statutory guidance on social and and England: these are now expected to be in place by 2005. environmental issues and to set energy efficiency targets and renewables obligations.
Electricity distribution the transfer of electricity from the high The Utilities Act transferred the functions of the previous voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers, across electricity and gas industry regulators to the Authority and a network of overhead lines and underground cables operating provided for the appointment of a Chairman and other members at voltages ranging from 33 kV to 0.23 kV.
The Utilities Act of the Authority by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry required separate licensing of the 14 regional distribution Secretary of State.
The Chairman of the Authority holds businesses introduced under electricity privatisation.
Each office for renewable periods of five years and is the Managing Public Electricity Distributor PED licensee is required, Director of Ofgem which provides administrative support to the among other duties, to develop and maintain an efficient, Authority.
Under the Utilities Act, the principal objective of the coordinated and economical system of electricity distribution Secretary of State and the Authority is to protect the interest of and to offer terms for connection to, and use of, its distribution customers, wherever appropriate by promoting effective system on a non-discriminatory basis, in order to ensure competition.
In carrying out those functions, they are required to competition in the supply and generation of electricity.
Through have regard to the need to secure that all reasonable demands its wholly-owned subsidiaries, SP Distribution Limited and SP for electricity and gas are met: the need to ensure that licence Manweb plc, the group is licensed to distribute electricity within holders are able to finance their functions: the interests of its two distribution services areas for all suppliers whose individuals who are disabled or chronically sick, of pensionable customers are within the areas.
Charges for distribution are age, with low incomes or residing in rural areas.
The Authority made to the various suppliers as appropriate.
The Authority has exercises, concurrently with the Director General of Fair granted a derogation, which will lapse only in certain limited Trading, certain functions relating to monopoly situations under circumstances, allowing the distribution businesses in the the Fair Trading Act 1973 and the Enterprise Act 2002 and to ScottishPower and Manweb PED licence areas to be managed anti-competitive conduct under the Competition Act 1980 and and operated jointly.
The Authority also manages UK compliance with the European Community Liberalisation Gas transportation and storage the onshore transportation Directive, which is concerned to introduce competition in system, most of which is owned and operated by Transco, the generation and supply and non-discriminatory access to gas transportation arm of National Grid Transco plc, and the rest by transportation and electricity transmission and distribution other gas transporters, conveys gas from the beach terminals to across the EU.
consumers and is interconnected with the gas transportation systems of continental Europe, Northern Ireland and the The Licensing Regime Republic of Ireland.
Storage capacities are largely used to The Authority is responsible for granting new licences or licence balance supply and demand over time.
Major facilities are used extensions for each of the following separate activities: to balance seasonal variations in demand while diurnal storage 22 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 capacities provide flexibility in meeting changing gas demand on specified minority threshold for a standard licence condition, the a daily basis.
Competition in storage has been introduced only means by which the Authority can secure a modification is progressively since 1998 through the auction of major storage following a modification reference to the Competition capacity owned by Transco and the provision of new capacity by Commission and in the circumstances set out below.
Through its modification reference requires the Competition Commission to wholly-owned subsidiary, SP Gas Limited, the group is licensed investigate having regard to the matters in relation to which as a gas transporter.
duties are imposed on the Secretary of State and the Authority and report on whether matters specified in the reference in Gas shipping gas shippers contract with gas transporters to pursuance of a licence operate, or may be expected to operate, have gas transported between the beach terminal and the point against the public interest: and, if so, whether the adverse public of supply.
Gas shippers can also access storage facilities.
The interest effect of these factors could be remedied or prevented by group is licensed as a gas shipper.
modification of the conditions of the licence.
If the Competition Commission so concludes, the Authority must then make such Supply of gas and electricity the bulk purchase of gas and modifications to the licence as appear to it requisite for the electricity by suppliers and its sale to customers, with the purpose of remedying or preventing the adverse effects specified associated customer service activities, including customer in the report, after giving due notice and consideration to any registration, meter reading, sales and marketing, billing and representations and objections.
The Secretary of State has the revenue collection.
Large industrial and commercial customers power to veto any modification.
have been able to choose their energy suppliers for a number of Modifications to licence conditions may also be made in years and the residential market was opened to competition consequence of a reference under the Fair Trading Act 1973, the progressively, commencing in April 1996, with residual controls Enterprise Act 2002 or the Competition Act.
ScottishPowers on residential electricity prices ending in March 2002.
Any acquisition of Manweb in 1995 and its merger with PacifiCorp in electricity supplier wishing to supply electricity to domestic 1999 both involved ScottishPowers giving of undertakings to customers must obtain authorisation from the Authority and be the Secretary of State to agree to modifications to the licences subject to additional domestic supply obligations in its licence, under which the group operates in the UK.
Broadly, these including having its codes of practice statements of intent about modifications were designed to ring-fence various UK regulated how the supplier will interact with customers approved by the businesses, to require that the group had sufficient management Authority.
Broadly comparable arrangements allow British Gas and financial resources to fulfil its UK obligations and to ensure Trading to supply mains gas to any connected customer in that UK regulators would continue to have access to the competition with licensed gas suppliers.
Customers may information needed to carry out their duties.
continue to take supplies from the pre-privatisation monopoly supplier for the area or may choose an alternative licensed Term and revocation of licences Licences under the Electricity supplier.
Once customers have changed a gas or electricity Act, as modified by the Utilities Act, may be terminated by not supplier, they are able to change supplier again subject to the less than 25 years notice given by the Secretary of State and contractual terms offered by licensed suppliers and approved by may be revoked in certain circumstances specified in the licence.
Through its wholly owned subsidiary, These include the insolvency of the licensee, the licensees ScottishPower Energy Retail Limited, the group is licensed as a failure to comply with an enforcement order made by the gas supplier and an electricity supplier.
Authority and the licensees failure to carry on the activities authorised by the licence.
Modification of licences The Authority is responsible for monitoring compliance with the conditions of licences and, Price Controls where necessary, enforcing them through procedures laid down It is recognised that the development of competitive markets is in the Electricity and Gas Acts.
Under these Acts, as amended by not appropriate in some areas: particularly in the core activities the Utilities Act, licences consist of standard licence conditions, of transmission and distribution of electricity and the operation which apply to all classes of licences, and special conditions of the gas transportation system.
In these areas, regulatory particular to that licence.
The Authority may modify standard controls are deemed necessary to protect customers in licence conditions collectively through making proposals to all monopoly markets by determining inflation-limited price caps relevant licence holders.
If some licence holders object, the and to encourage efficiency.
The groups UK transmission and modification may be carried out only if the number of objectors distribution businesses are subject to price controls or revenue is below a specified minority.
The Authority may modify a controls in the case of the transmission business which restrict special licence condition with the agreement of the licence the average amount, or total amount, charged for a bundle of holder after due notice, public consultation and consideration of services.
The price caps are expressed in terms of an RPI X any representations or objections.
In the absence of agreement constraint on charges, where RPI represents the annual for a special licence condition or if objections are above the percentage change in the UKs retail price index, and X is a ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 23 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background percentage determined by the Authority.
The X factor is used to expenditure.
PacifiCorp expects to manage its decision making reflect expected efficiency gains and investment requirements.
and implementation of these matters effectively so that these and For example, where RPI is running at 3% and X is 2%, a future costs will be found to be prudent and recoverable in rates company would be able to increase the average charge for a and, as such, not to have a material adverse impact on the bundle of services by 1% per annum.
The Authority from time to groups consolidated results of operations.
time reviews the price cap formulae.
Through participation in, and the submission of evidence to, these price control reviews Air Quality and, where necessary, through the Competition Commission PacifiCorps fossil fuel-fired electricity generation plants are subject modification process described above, companies have the to regulation under federal, state and local requirements.
opportunity to comment on and seek to influence the final PacifiCorp uses emission controls, low-sulphur coal, plant outcome of any price control review.
operating practices sensitive to environmental impacts and continuous emissions monitoring to enable its plants to comply Transmission price control The revised transmission price with emission and opacity limits, visibility and other air quality control for ScottishPower took effect for the five years from 1 requirements.
The EPA has initiated a regional haze programme April 2000.
The BETTA review proposes a Great Britain-wide intended to improve visibility at specific federally protected areas, wholesale market for electricity and revised arrangements.
some of which are located near PacifiCorp plants.
PacifiCorp is BETTA is dependent upon primary legislation and is expected anticipating climate change challenges with additions of renewable to be implemented in 2005.
Ofgem has proposed a two-year generation, conservation and thermal resources as outlined in the roll-forward of the current price control for SP Transmission IRP.
Carbon dioxide CO emissions risk has been recognised in 2 from April 2005.
PacifiCorps IRP through the use of a projected additional cost based on the fuels carbon content when evaluating the cost of new Distribution price control The maximum distribution revenue is resources.
PacifiCorp also supports development of trading and calculated from a formula that is based on customer numbers as other market mechanisms, as well as offset strategies, where well as units distributed.
Distribution price controls for the feasible, to reduce future compliance costs to customers.
ScottishPower and Manweb areas, which took effect for the five The US Congress is currently considering several years from 1 April 2000, are currently subject to a review by the proposed bills that would create enforceable limits on electricity Authority aimed at ensuring that customers interests are plant emission of sulphur dioxide SO2, oxides of nitrogen protected and that companies have the appropriate incentives to NOx, mercury and in some cases CO.
The EPA also has 2 invest and operate efficiently.
Key challenges for this review proposed new regulations that could impact emissions and is include modifying the regulatory framework to provide pursuing enforcement actions against selected coal-fired power incentives for distribution companies to connect distributed plants in the eastern and mid-western US with the aim of generation and developing the quality of supply incentives causing nationwide emission reductions.
All of these efforts may established at the previous review.
lead to additional control equipment being installed over the next 10-15 years.
PacifiCorp expects that future costs relating to these matters may be significant and would consist primarily of Environmental Regulation capital expenditure but will be spread over a number of years.
Throughout its operations, ScottishPower will meet, PacifiCorp also expects that the impact will be mitigated by 14 or better, relevant legislative and regulatory recovery through regulatory ratemaking.
environmental requirements and codes of practice.
ScottishPower will publish its 2003 04 Environmental and Social Impact Report Endangered Species and Environmental Performance Report in October 2004.
Copies Protection of threatened and endangered species and their will be available on request from the Company Secretary and the habitat makes it difficult and more costly to perform some of the reports will be available on the ScottishPower website.
core activities of PacifiCorp, including the siting, construction, maintenance and operation of new and existing transmission and US Environmental Regulation distribution facilities, as well as hydroelectric, thermal and wind Federal, state and local authorities regulate many of PacifiCorps generation plants.
In addition, endangered species issues impact activities pursuant to laws designed to restore, protect and the relicensing of existing hydroelectric generating projects, enhance the quality of the environment.
These laws have generally raising the price PacifiCorp pays to purchase wholesale increased the cost of providing electricity service and give rise to electricity from hydroelectric facilities owned by others and identifiable contingencies, principally in respect of Clean Air Act increasing the costs of operation of PacifiCorps own hydroelectric matters, which are subjects of discussions with the US resources.
Nonetheless, PacifiCorp creates and implements Environmental Protection Agency EPA and state regulatory management systems to ensure that environmental considerations authorities.
PacifiCorp expects that future costs relating to these are successfully incorporated into major business decisions matters may be significant and consist primarily of capital relating to its generation, transmission and distribution assets.
24 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Environmental Clean-ups Electricity Generation, Transmission, Distribution and Supply Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, The Electricity Act obligates the Secretary of State to take into Compensation and Liability Act and similar state statutes, entities account the effect of electricity generation, transmission, that accidentally or intentionally disposed of, or arranged for the distribution and supply activities upon the physical environment disposal of, hazardous materials may be liable for clean-up of the in approving applications for the construction of generating contaminated property.
In addition, the current or former owners facilities and the location of overhead power lines.
The or operators of affected sites also may be liable.
PacifiCorp has Electricity Act requires the group to take into account the been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection conservation of natural features of beauty and other items of with a number of clean-up sites because of current or past particular interest and, in terms of the Environmental Impact ownership or operation of the property or because PacifiCorp Assessment Regulations, to carry out an environmental sent materials deemed to be hazardous to the property in the assessment when it intends to construct significant overhead past.
PacifiCorp has completed several clean-up actions and is transmission systems or power stations of greater capacity than actively participating in investigations and remedial actions at 50 MW.
The group also prepares formal statements on the other sites.
The costs associated with those actions are not Preservation of Amenity and Fisheries in line with the expected to be material to the groups consolidated results of requirements of the Electricity Act.
The Utilities Act provided for environmental guidance to be given by the Secretary of State to the energy regulator, Ofgem, Mining and for regulations to be drawn up which require licensed The federal Surface Mining and Reclamation Act of 1977 and electricity suppliers to secure a certain percentage of their similar state statutes establish operational, reclamation and supplies from renewable energy sources, compliance being closure standards that must be met during the operation and demonstrated by tradable Renewables Obligation Certificates.
upon completion of mining activities.
These obligations stipulate The current objective is that 10% of UK energy should come that mine property be restored consistent with specific standards from renewable sources by 2010 and an objective of 20% by and the approved reclamation plan.
Significant expenditures are 2020 was included in the UK Government White Paper on expected to be required as individual PacifiCorp mining energy.
ScottishPower continues to develop its windfarm operations are closed and reclamation occurs.
The costs business and expects to meet the company target of 10% associated with reclamation are subject to the regulatory generation from renewables by 2010.
In December 2003, the UK process.
PacifiCorp expects to be allowed to recover these costs.
Government announced its desire to increase the firm Renewables Obligation target to 15% by 2015.
The Utilities Act Water Quality also provided for energy efficiency targets to be set for licensed The federal Clean Water Act and individual state clean water suppliers to be implemented by an Energy Efficiency regulations require a permit for the discharge of wastewater, Commitment.
The emphasis on energy saving has remained in including storm water runoff from the electricity plants and coal the recent UK publication: Energy Efficiency the storage areas, into surface waters and groundwater.
PacifiCorp Governments Plan for Action.
This was announced in April believes that it has management systems in place to monitor 2004 and indicated an increase in current Energy Efficiency performance, identify problems and take action to assure Commitment targets for the period between 2005 and 2011. compliance with permit requirements.
The Environmental Protection Act of 1990 EPA 1990 requires that potentially polluting activities such as the operation UK Environmental Regulation of combustion processes which includes power plant requires The groups UK businesses are subject to numerous regulatory prior authorisation.
The Act also provides for the licensing of requirements with respect to the protection of the environment, waste management and imposes certain obligations and duties including environmental laws which regulate the construction, on companies which produce, handle, and dispose of waste.
operation and decommissioning of power stations, pursuant to Waste generated as a result of the groups electricity activities is legislation implementing environmental directives adopted by managed to ensure compliance with legislation and waste the EU and protocols agreed under the auspices of international minimisation is undertaken where possible.
bodies such as the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe UNECE.
The group believes that it has taken and Generation Activities continues to take measures to comply with applicable laws and The principal emissions from fossil-fuelled electricity generation regulations for the protection of the environment.
Applicable are SO, NOx, CO and particulate matter, such as dust, with the 2 2 regulations and requirements pertaining to the environment main waste being ash, namely pulverised fuel ash and furnace change frequently, however, with the result that continued bottom ash.
The primary focus of current environmental compliance may require material investments, or that the legislation to date has been to reduce emissions of SO2, NOx and groups costs and results of operation are less favourable than particulates, the first two of which contribute to acid rain.
recently, the UK Government has consulted on the EU ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 25 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background Emissions Trading Scheme which will regulate the release of limits arising from this review, without materially constraining CO2 from fossil-fuelled power stations.
The proposed operational and commercial flexibility.
In particular, gas-reburn arrangements in the UK will be subject to approval by the EC technology, as used at Longannet, offers greater potential to reduce during 2004, with scheme implementation scheduled for January emissions than other technology in use elsewhere in the UK.
A number of other power station emissions and discharges The Waste Incineration Directive WID imposes are subject to environmental regulation.
emission limits on the incineration or co-incineration of EPA 1990 is the primary UK statute governing the materials deemed to be waste in terms of relevant EU environmental regulation of power stations.
These will also be implemented via the PPC introduced a system of Integrated Pollution Control IPC for permitting process.
During 2003 04, SEPA indicated that it large scale industrial processes, including power stations, now considers that the WID provisions will apply to the burning of enforced with respect to emissions to atmosphere in England & sewage sludge pellets used at Longannet Power Station.
Wales by the Environment Agency EA and in Scotland by the ScottishPower Generation Limited has petitioned for a Judicial Scottish Environment Protection Agency SEPA.
Each of Review of this decision by SEPA.
ScottishPowers power stations is required to have its own IPC authorisation, issued by the EA or SEPA, regulating emissions of Contaminated Sites certain pollutants, seeking to minimise pollution of the While the nature of developments in environmental regulation environment and containing an improvement programme.
Each and control cannot be predicted, the group anticipates that the IPC authorisation requires that a power station uses the Best direction of future changes will be towards tightening controls.
Available Techniques Not Entailing Excessive Cost In view of the age and history of many sites owned by the group, BATNEEC to prevent the emissions described above or, to the group may incur liability in respect of sites which are found the extent this is not practicable, to minimise and render to be contaminated, together with increased costs of managing harmless any such emissions.
ScottishPowers IPC authorisations or cleaning up such sites.
Site values could be affected and do not have an expiry date, but the EA or SEPA is required to potential liability and clean-up costs may make disposal of review the conditions contained within them at least once every potentially contaminated sites more difficult.
The Contaminated four years and may impose new conditions to prevent or reduce Land Regulations, which implement provisions of the emissions of pollutants, subject to the application of BATNEEC.
Environment Act 1995 EA1995, require local authorities to The EU has agreed a Directive on Integrated Pollution identify sites where significant harm is being caused and to take Prevention and Control, which introduces a system of licensing appropriate steps.
In order for harm to be demonstrated it must for industrial processes such as power stations.
This Directive is be shown that a source of pollution, a receptor and a pathway being implemented via the Pollution Prevention and Control are present.
Harm may be eliminated by clean-up or by breaking Regulations PPC Regulations which will bring modifications the source to receptor pathway.
Clean-up is only required to fit to the IPC regime into effect, on a staged basis.
The EU Directive for subsequent use standards, so that environmental will eventually require that all emission and pollution control compliance is consistent with the intended use of the site.
measures are placed onto a Best Available Techniques basis to Other proposals which may, under certain conditions control the impact on the environment.
impose strict liability for environmental damage, such as the The EU has adopted a framework directive on ambient air Environmental Liability Directive, are presently being adopted quality assessment and management and, under the auspices of by the EC.
ScottishPower is not currently aware of any liability UNECE, protocols regarding reductions in the emissions of SO which it may have under EA1995 or proposed EU directives 2 and NOx have been agreed.
These protocols are currently which will have a materially adverse impact on its operations.
implemented in the EU by means of the Large Combustion Plants Directive LCPD.
The EU has finalised a Ceilings Directive Employment Regulation which will implement the SO2 and NOx targets agreed in the UNECE Gothenburg Protocol.
In the UK, the Government has Numerous laws and related codes of practice 15 submitted details to the EC of how it proposes to implement the international, EU, UK and US ensure that LCPD.
Continued uncertainty remains on final arrangements companies offer equal opportunities to all individuals, regardless surrounding implementation of bulk emissions and emission limit of gender, race, disability and age.
Similarly, both the US and the values.
Compliance with local air quality issues will continue to UK have extensive legislation covering health and safety at be implemented in the UK by means of the National Air Quality work.
ScottishPower has well-defined policies in place Strategy NAQS published in 1997, and reviewed in 2000.
The throughout its businesses to ensure that there are equal provisions of the LCPD and of NAQS are to be introduced opportunities in employment and to comply with applicable through the PPC permitting process on a plant-by-plant basis.
These policies cover a range of specific issues, The group has identified options that, given the such as disciplinary and grievance procedures, equal pay, appropriate commercial conditions, would enable it to continue harassment, race, sex and other forms of discrimination, stress the environmental improvements required by potential future and non-retaliation for the reporting of compliance issues.
26 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 A more extensive description of how the businesses Targets have been set for business units to improve performance discharge their wider responsibilities to protect the welfare, against the Standards and to improve in key areas.
These are health and safety of the public and their employees, can be included in the business unit scorecards.
Progress against the found in the ScottishPower Environmental and Social Impact Standards will be measured in the fourth quarter of 2004 05.
Report and the ScottishPower Workplace Performance Report, available on the ScottishPower website.
A brief overview of the US Businesses The lost time accident LTA rate for the two most extensively regulated aspects of employee relations US businesses reduced from 0.90 to 0.63, a reduction in follows.
The PacifiCorp Employee Climate Survey scores also showed a good safety culture in Equal Opportunity place across PacifiCorp.
At PPM, Pacific Klamath Energy US businesses In the US, equal employment opportunities are received its Oregon Sharp Certification from the Oregon provided without regard to race, colour, sex, religion, creed, age, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, distinguishing sexual orientation, national origin, veterans status, physical or its safety programme with other state leaders.
In public safety, mental disability or any other status protected under applicable the amount of electricity public safety education performed local, state or federal law.
The group provides equal opportunity increased about 20% above prior years, and the programme was for qualified applicants and employees and maintains a ranked in the top tier in the industry.
A team from Energy West programme of affirmative action, pursuant to legal requirements, Mining also won the National Mine Rescue Competition.
in order effectively to employ minorities and women and to The groups US Health & Safety Committee continues to encourage workforce diversity.
The programme also covers meet on a regular basis, providing senior executive oversight disabled persons and veterans.
The US affirmative action and leadership in PacifiCorp and PPM in these areas.
Major programmes establish specific, results-oriented procedures: initiatives are underway in PacifiCorps power delivery, determine whether effective utilisation of minorities and women generation and mining business units and in PPM to reduce and is achieved: incorporate equal employment principles in prevent accidents.
supervisory training: and promote effective community outreach The US businesses participate with other industry efforts for women and minority applicants.
stakeholders in the regulatory process on significant safety and health regulatory proposals affecting the utility and mining UK Businesses The UK businesses work with both outside industries.
PacifiCorp is also well represented amongst these organisations and an internal equality forum to consider policies stakeholders, with safety professionals occupying leadership for racial equality, family issues, disabled people and other key positions in both mining and electricity trade associations safety areas.
ScottishPower is affiliated with a number of organisations groups.
including the Equal Opportunities Commission, Employers Forum on Age, Employers Forum on Disability, Commission for UK Businesses The LTA rate for the UK businesses reduced Racial Equality and Parents at Work.
Internal human resources from 0.83 to 0.62, a reduction in LTAs of 60 to 48.
The highlight staffs work with these organisations to find ways to incorporate of the year was in the generation business which had a period of their expertise into group and business unit policies.
seven months without any LTAs.
The introduction of The Employment Equality To recognise the importance of employee involvement Regulations 2003 extended existing equality legislation to ScottishPower, in partnership with its trade unions, launched protect workers from discrimination on the basis of their the new Safety Representatives Charter the Charter sexual orientation, religion or similar belief.
The UK businesses during August 2003.
ScottishPower and the trade unions are have reviewed and updated their existing equality policies to committed to achieving a long-term goal of operating without ensure that they meet the new requirements.
They have also harm to employees, customers and the public.
Collaboration, worked in conjunction with their recognised trade unions to over many years, in the companys health and safety activities jointly develop and implement a new UK-wide Company has resulted in improved performance, particularly over recent Agreement.
The agreement harmonises a number of significant years when the incidence of accidents and ill-health in the terms and conditions, including maternity and paternity leave workplace has seen a consistent decline.
Safety representatives provisions and also contains harmonised employment have contributed greatly to improved performance and the procedures dealing with discipline, sickness absence, introduction of the Charter will allow them to make a greater performance and grievance.
In the UK, the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Health and Safety Dangerous Occurrences Regulations set out the requirements for Assessments against the Group Health & Safety Standards were reporting of all work-related accidents.
As UK regulators and carried out during November December 2003, establishing a enforcement authorities increasingly seek to raise the priority baseline for business unit performance against the Standards and importance that companies give to health and safety issues, and the creation of a ScottishPower Best Practice Model.
they are likely to take action for any non-compliance.
The ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 27 Business Review Description of Legislative and Regulatory Background company continues to support industry organisations, such as Pension Risk the Association of Electricity Producers, Engineering Employers As a result of the relative decline in the equity markets and low Federation and Energy Networks Association, and engages in interest rates, the group anticipates that pension expense and representation to the UK Health and Safety Executive, the DTI cash contributions into the pension schemes will increase in the and other relevant organisations through these industry groups.
The investment risk has been addressed as part of the pensions review undertaken by both the group and its pension scheme trustees, focusing on the asset allocation of the Business Risks schemes.
The risk management process established by the 16 group is designed to identify, assess, monitor and Regulatory Risk manage each of the various types of risk involved in the groups In the US the group is subject to the jurisdiction of federal and business and activities: measure quantitative market risk state regulatory authorities.
The FERC establishes tariffs under exposure: and identify qualitative market risk exposure in its which PacifiCorp provides wheeling services to the wholesale business.
Increases or reductions in future retail demand for market and the retail market for states allowing retail electricity as a result of economic growth or downturns, among competition, establishes both cost-based and market-based other factors, including abnormal weather, may impact retail tariffs under which PacifiCorp sells electricity at wholesale and revenues, cash flows and investment levels.
In particular, the has licensing authority over most of PacifiCorps hydroelectric pace of economic recovery in PacifiCorps service territories, for generation facilities.
The utility regulatory commissions in each example, Oregon which has been experiencing recessionary state independently determine the rates PacifiCorp may charge conditions, could impact PacifiCorps results and timing of its retail customers in that state.
The principal discussion of the groups Each states rate setting process is based upon that management of market risks is set out on pages 49 to 54.
An commissions acceptance of an allocated share of total outline of the approach taken to the management of other PacifiCorp costs as its responsibility.
When different states business risks is set out in the following paragraphs.
adopt different methods to address this inter-jurisdictional cost allocation issue, some costs may not be incorporated into any Operating Risk rates in any state.
Rate making is done on the basis of Operating risk is the risk that assets and mechanical systems, as normalised costs, so if in a specific year, realised costs are well as business processes and procedures, might not perform as higher than normal, rates will not be high enough to cover those expected, with the result that the group may be unable to meet a costs.
Likewise, if in a given year costs are lower than normal or portion of its obligations without resorting to an unanticipated revenues are higher, PacifiCorp retains the resulting higher-thanmarket transaction.
Operating risk is primarily mitigated normal profit.
Each commission sets rates based on a test year through a combination of sound maintenance practices, prudent of its choosing.
In states that use a historical test year, rate and safe operational processes and insurance products, such as adjustments can follow cost increases, or decreases, by up to two business interruption insurance.
Regulatory lag results in a delay in recovery of costs currently incurred but not in rates, and also imposes a timeSecurity Risk value-of-money burden on PacifiCorp.
Further, each commission The emergence of terrorist threats, both domestic and foreign, is decides what levels of expense and investment are necessary, a continued risk to the entire utility industry, including reasonable and prudent in providing service.
In the event that a ScottishPower.
Potential destruction of assets and disruptions to commission decides that part of PacifiCorps costs do not meet operations are not readily determinable.
The group has this standard, such costs will be disallowed and not recovered identified critical assets and developed several levels of security in rates.
For these reasons, the rates authorised by the regulators and emergency response to meet the increased threat level.
The may be less than the costs to PacifiCorp to provide electricity US businesses are well advanced in the implementation of a service to its customers in a given period.
physical security plan to enhance the security surrounding Several of PacifiCorp's hydroelectric projects are in some critical assets under the overall auspices of the North American stage of the FERC relicensing under the FPA.
The relicensing Electric Reliability Council 1200 Urgent Action standard.
process is a political and public regulatory process that involves The impact of cyber attacks has been relatively small, as sensitive resource issues.
PacifiCorp is unable to predict the compared to most businesses, based on preventive measures requirements that may be imposed during the relicensing taken and rapid response to events.
Planning and prioritisation process, the economic impact of those requirements, whether for additional security enhancements is underway for 2004 05. new licences will ultimately be issued or whether PacifiCorp will In the UK, there is an established liaison with the security be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue services and police, to ensure that critical assets are protected operating its hydroelectric projects.
against potential threat of terrorism.
Federal, state and local authorities regulate many of PacifiCorp's activities pursuant to laws designed to restore, 28 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 protect and enhance the quality of the environment.
All state legislatures in those states except California is unable to predict what material impact, if any, future changes have completed their calendar year 2004 general sessions.
The in environmental laws and regulations may have on the group's Oregon Legislature may convene in special session during consolidated results or financial position.
calendar year 2004 to consider tax reform proposals.
The Utah In the UK, the electricity and gas industries are regulated Legislature referred for study during 2004 Senate Bill 198 which primarily through powers assigned, under the Utilities Act 2000, would affect rules for procurement of new electricity resources.
to the Authority which licenses industry participants, enforces In the UK an Energy Bill was introduced to Parliament in licence conditions, regulates quality of service and sets pricing November 2003 with provisions for implementing the formulae for electricity transmission and distribution activities.
Governments policies in relation to the nuclear industry, In principle, it has wide discretion in the exercise of its renewable energy and energy trading markets including the obligation to act to protect the interests of customers, wherever implementation of BETTA.
Government energy policy was set appropriate by promoting effective competition, whilst the need out in a White Paper in February 2003 emphasising a continuing to ensure that licence holders are able to finance their functions intention to make maximum use of market-based mechanisms is only one of a number of other factors to which the Authority whilst seeking to reduce the use of carbon, boost energy-saving must have regard.
However, the Authority operates through a and maintain efforts to mitigate the impact of fuel costs on process of extensive consultation and on pre-determined lower-income households.
There is particular emphasis on the timetables, making its activities relatively predictable.
use of renewable energy sources and developing discussion of Regulations designed to restore, protect and enhance the quality the network enhancements likely to be required for the of the environment are similarly introduced through a process of increased use of both renewables and embedded generation.
intensive and generally EU-wide consultation with the This policy framework offers opportunities for the group and has industry and other parties.
Nonetheless, there is a general shaped a number of current business plans.
The White Paper, tightening of environmental regulation and it must be recognised and the proposed provisions of the Energy Bill, have received that the future impact of the costs of such requirements cannot broad endorsement across the UK political spectrum and appear be forecast with precision.
to be largely consistent with EU policy generally.
However, as the policy outlined extends well into the future, it could be Political Risk subject to change and amendment by future Governments.
In the US, PacifiCorp and PPM conduct business in conformance with a multitude of federal and state laws.
At Litigation present the US Congress is considering significant changes in energy, air quality and tax policy.
However this energy In May 2004, PacifiCorp was served with a 17 legislation has been stalled short of a final vote.
If a complaint filed in the US District Court for the comprehensive energy bill is enacted, the law is likely to include District of Oregon by the Klamath Tribes of Oregon and certain direction for the regulation of, as well as financial incentives to of the Klamath Tribes' members.
The claim generally alleges that invest in, electricity transmission.
The law would make changes PacifiCorp and its predecessors affected the Klamath Tribes to improve the hydroelectric relicensing process and would federal treaty rights to fish for salmon in the headwaters of the extend and modify terms of the recently-expired renewable Klamath River in southern Oregon by building dams that energy production tax credit.
Extension of the credit generally blocked the passage of salmon upstream to the headwaters would be likely to benefit PacifiCorp's efforts to develop, acquire beginning in 1911.
The claim seeks in excess of $1.0 billion in and maintain a low-cost generation portfolio and PPMs efforts damages.
PacifiCorp believes it has a number of defences and to continue developing its renewable energy portfolio.
Extension intends to vigorously defend any claim of liability for the matters of the renewable energy tax credit is generally well supported alleged by the Klamath Tribes.
and may pass in other legislation if a comprehensive energy bill Other than the foregoing, ScottishPower is not aware of fails.
Changes to the Clean Air Act any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary contemplated by a variety of pending legislative proposals are routine litigation incidental to the business of the group, to being monitored closely in that they may impact requirements which ScottishPower or any of its subsidiaries is a party, or any for emissions from fossil-fuelled generation plants.
No action such proceedings known to be contemplated by any was taken on President Bushs Clear Skies Act or on competing governmental authority.
proposals in calendar year 2003 and enactment of new clean air legislation is not considered likely in calendar year 2004.
As the Clear Skies legislation has not progressed in the US Congress, the EPA is considering new regulations governing power plant emissions.
The laws of the states in which PacifiCorp operates affect PacifiCorp's generation, transmission and distribution ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 29 Business Review Summary of Key Operating Statistics Summary of Key Operating Statistics 18 Table 1 Summary of PacifiCorp Generating Facilities as at 31 March 2004 Nameplate Plant net Installation rating capability Location Energy source dates MW MW Hydroelectric plants Swift Cougar, Washington Lewis River 1958 240.0 264.0 Merwin Ariel, Washington Lewis River 1932-1958 135.0 144.0 Yale Amboy, Washington Lewis River 1953 134.0 165.0 Five North Umpqua Plants Toketee Falls, Oregon N. Umpqua River 1949-1956 133.3 139.0 John C. Boyle Keno, Oregon Klamath River 1958 80.0 90.0 Copco 1 and 2 Hornbrook, California Klamath River 1918-1925 47.0 54.5 Clearwater 1 and 2 Toketee Falls, Oregon Clearwater River 1953 41.0 41.0 Grace Grace, Idaho Bear River 1908-1923 33.0 33.0 Prospect 2 Prospect, Oregon Rogue River 1928 32.0 36.0 Cutler Collingston, Utah Bear River 1927 30.0 29.1 Oneida Preston, Idaho Bear River 1915-1920 30.0 28.0 Iron Gate Hornbrook, California Klamath River 1962 18.0 20.0 Soda Soda Springs, Idaho Bear River 1924 14.0 14.0 Fish Creek Toketee Falls, Oregon Fish Creek 1952 11.0 12.0 34 Minor Hydroelectric Plants Various Various 1895-1990 99.0 94.4 Subtotal 54 hydroelectric plants 1,077.3 1,164.0 Thermal electric plants Jim Bridger Rock Springs, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1974-1979 1,541.1 1,413.4 Huntington Huntington, Utah Coal-Fired 1974-1977 996.0 895.0 Dave Johnston Glenrock, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1959-1972 816.7 762.0 Naughton Kemmerer, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1963-1971 707.2 700.0 Hunter 1 and 2 Castle Dale, Utah Coal-Fired 1978-1980 728.0 662.0 Hunter 3 Castle Dale, Utah Coal-Fired 1983 495.6 460.0 Cholla Unit 4 Joseph City, Arizona Coal-Fired 1981 414.0 380.0 Wyodak Gillette, Wyoming Coal-Fired 1978 289.6 268.0 Carbon Castle Gate, Utah Coal-Fired 1954-1957 188.6 175.0 Craig 1 and 2 Craig, Colorado Coal-Fired 1979-1980 172.1 165.0 Colstrip 3 and 4 Colstrip, Montana Coal-Fired 1984-1986 155.6 149.0 Hayden 1 and 2 Hayden, Colorado Coal-Fired 1965-1976 81.3 78.0 Blundell Milford, Utah Geothermal 1984 26.0 23.0 Gadsby Steam Salt Lake City, Utah Gas-Fired 1951-1952 251.6 235.0 Gadsby Peakers Salt Lake City, Utah Gas-Fired 2002 141.0 114.0 Little Mountain Ogden, Utah Gas-Fired 1972 16.0 14.0 Hermiston Hermiston, Oregon Gas-Fired 1996 237.0 245.0 Camas Co-Gen Camas, Washington Black Liquor 1996 52.2 52.0 Subtotal 16 thermal electric plants 7,309.6 6,790.4 Other plants Foote Creek Arlington, Wyoming Wind Turbines 1998 32.6 32.6 Subtotal 1 other plant 32.6 32.6 Total generating facilities 71 8,419.5 7,987.0 Notes: Jointly owned plants: amount shown represents PacifiCorps share only.
Hydroelectric project locations are stated by locality and river watershed.
Table 2 PacifiCorp Recoverable Coal Reserves as at 31 March 2004 Recoverable tons Location Notes Plant served in millions Craig, Colorado 1 Craig 48.8 Emery County, Utah 2 Huntington and Hunter 50.6 Rock Springs, Wyoming 3 Jim Bridger 120.7 Notes: 1 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Trapper Mining, Inc. a Delaware non-stock corporation operated on a cooperative basis, in which PacifiCorp has an ownership interest of approximately 20%.
2 These coal reserves are mined by PacifiCorp subsidiaries.
3 These coal reserves are leased and mined by Bridger Coal Company, a joint venture between Pacific Minerals, Inc. a subsidiary of PacifiCorp, and a subsidiary of Idaho Power Company.
Pacific Minerals, Inc. has a two-thirds interest in the joint venture.
Coal reserve estimates are subject to adjustment as a result of the development of additional data, new mining technology and changes in regulation and economic factors affecting the use of such reserves.
Under US GAAP, following the implementation of Emerging Issues Task Force No.
03-11, Reporting Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments that Are Subject to Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and Not Held for Trading Purposes EITF 03-11, certain transactions are no longer reported as Wholesale Sales and Market Trading.
Wholesale Sales and Market Trading GWh volumes on a basis consistent with the reporting of sales in accordance with EITF 03-11 are: 13,407 for 2004: 14,873 for 2003: 13,403 for 2002 and 14,998 for 2001.
Table 4 PacifiCorp Transmission and Distribution Systems Key Information 2003 04 Pacific Power Utah Power Total Franchise area 72,075 sq miles 63,175 sq miles 135,350 sq miles System maximum demand 4,190 MW 4,732 MW 8,922 MW Transmission network miles Overhead 15,763 Distribution network miles Underground 5,393 8,321 13,714 Overhead 26,118 17,632 43,750 Table 5 Total Electricity Units Distributed in Pacific Power Service Area GWh Year Residential % Commercial % Industrial % Other % Total 1999 00 7,612 31 6,766 27 10,167 41 122 24,667 2000 01 7,768 31 7,041 28 10,164 40 130 1 25,103 2001 02 7,537 31 6,932 29 9,743 40 129 24,341 2002 03 7,454 31 7,081 29 9,478 40 90 24,103 2003 04 8,205 33 7,587 31 9,025 36 72 24,889 Table 6 Total Electricity Units Distributed in Utah Power Service Area GWh Year Residential % Commercial % Industrial % Other % Total 1999 00 5,416 24 6,061 27 10,302 46 541 2 22,320 2000 01 5,687 24 6,593 28 10,495 45 575 2 23,350 2001 02 5,858 25 6,878 30 9,868 43 582 2 23,186 2002 03 5,833 26 6,925 30 9,570 42 541 2 22,869 2003 04 6,256 26 6,826 29 10,109 42 599 3 23,790 Table 7 Summary of PPM Generating Facilities as at 31 March 2004 Plant net Installation capability Location Energy source date MW Thermal electric plants Klamath Cogeneration Plant Klamath Falls, Oregon Natural gas-fired Combined cycle 2001 506 West Valley Generating Plant West Valley City, Utah Natural gas-fired Single cycle 2002 200 Klamath Generating Plant Klamath Falls, Oregon Natural gas-fired Single cycle 2002 100 Sub-total 3 thermal electric plants 806 Renewable electric plants Phoenix Wind Power Plant Southern California Wind generation 1999 3 Stateline Wind Energy Center Oregon Washington Wind generation 2002 300 Klondike Wind Power Plant Northcentral, Oregon Wind generation 2001 24 High Winds Energy Center Northern California Wind generation 2003 162 Southwest Wyoming Wind Energy Center Southwest Wyoming Wind generation 2003 144 Moraine Wind Power Plant Southwest Minnesota Wind generation 2003 51 Flying Cloud Wind Power Plant Northwest Iowa Wind generation 2003 44 Mountain View III Wind Power Plant Southern California Wind generation 2003 22 Colorado Green Wind Power Plant Southeast Colorado Wind generation 2003 81 Subtotal 9 renewable electric plants 831 Total all plants Owned or controlled plants 1,637 Note: Jointly owned plant ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 31 Business Review Summary of Key Operating Statistics Table 8 Sources of ScottishPower Owned Generating Capacity and Output in the UK and the Republic of Ireland as at 31 March 2004 Number of Maximum generating sets and or Net output capacity installed capacity capacity available Notes MW MW MW Coal Longannet 4 x 600 2,304 Cockenzie 4 x 300 1,152 1 3,456 2,880 Gas Turbine Rye House 1 x 715 715 715 Brighton 21 x 414 400 200 Knapton 1 x 42 42 42 Pumped Storage Cruachan 4 x 100 400 400 Conventional Hydro Galloway Scheme 109 106 106 Lanark Scheme 17 17 17 Windfarms Beinn an Tuirc 46 x 0.66 30 30 Barnesmore 25 x 0.6 15 15 Hagshaw Hill 26 x 0.6 16 16 P & L Windfarm 3 103 x 0.3 31 15 Rigged Hill 10 x 0.5 5 5 Corkey 10 x 0.5 5 5 Elliots Hill 10 x 0.5 5 5 Coal Clough 4 24 x 0.4 10 4 Carland Cross 4 15 x 0.4 6 3 Dun Law 26 x 0.66 17 17 Hare Hill 20 x 0.66 13 13 Cruach Mhor 35 x 0.85 30 30 CHP 102 102 Total 5,421 4,620 Notes: 1 Scottish and Southern Energy was entitled to a supply of electricity from part of the capacity of ScottishPowers coal-fired generating stations at Longannet and Cockenzie.
This agreement terminated on 1 April 2004.
2 Brighton power station is owned by South Coast Power Limited, with ScottishPower Generation Limited and American Electric Power each having a 50% ownership interest.
3 The P & L Windfarm is owned by CeltPower Limited, with ScottishPower Generation Limited and Tomen Power Europe BV each having a 50% ownership interest.
4 The windfarms at Coal Clough and Carland Cross are owned by a joint venture between ScottishPower Generation Limited, Western Power Distribution and Renewable Energy Systems, with ScottishPower Generation Limited having a 45% ownership interest.
