business review Christopher Hyman Chief Executive The years excellent performance was founded on the passion, commitment and drive that we share throughout the business.
The passion for quality and value in service delivery, the commitment to partnership with our customers in achieving constant improvement, and the drive to make it happen.
Put those together and you get satisfied customers who want you to do more for them thats how we keep generating strong organic growth, year after year.
Serco Group plc business review 20 21 Civil government Market developments The expanding civil government sector has become our largest market, accounting for 33% of sales during the year.
The UK governments choice and e-government agendas are fuelling growth and the Gershon Efficiency Review has increased the pressure on central and local government to reduce costs while improving public services.
Elsewhere in Europe, the German federal government is setting the pace in public private partnership and has let a growing number of defence outsourcing contracts.
At a regional level private sector opportunities are emerging in German prisons and schools, and we anticipate the first PFIs will be announced this year.
In North America, the worlds largest service contracting market, we see both federal and state governments working to reform public services in the face of substantial budget deficits.
The US government aims to increase competitive sourcing at the federal level where we have already won an early contract with the US Department of Agriculture and increase focus on human capital management in all federal agencies.
Overall, major opportunities are emerging in home affairs, education and health, where the use of private sector support is relatively new.
Home affairs: organic growth supported by strong service delivery Our work in this sector ranges from managing prisons and court escort services to operating electronic monitoring services, developing intelligence systems for the police and criminal intelligence agencies, and providing road safety equipment.
We achieved strong organic growth in this rapidly developing sector, where the UK Home Offices search for increasingly integrated solutions is creating attractive opportunities.
Our Premier Custodial Group PCG business has now merged with the Serco Justice division to form a new Serco Home Affairs division, which will be better placed to extend our capabilities in the UK market and address the opportunities that are emerging overseas.
Since we took full ownership in 2003, PCG has expanded strongly.
It is the only organisation providing services to all five UK Home Office markets: electronic monitoring, prisons, immigration, secure training centres, and prison escort and custody services.
In May PCG won a seven-year, 300m contract that increases our escort and custody services responsibilities to cover 25% of the England and Wales market.
PCG also successfully renewed a contract to provide electronic monitoring of offenders, effectively maintaining its share of the market with a contract covering two of the five England and Wales regions.
This is a volume related contract with significant growth potential.
Serco Group plc business review In August PCG opened the 326-bed Colnbrook Immigration Removal Centre and Short Term Holding Facility near Heathrow Airport as planned and on budget.
The scope of our business at the centre has already broadened and this year we expect to provide custody services to HM Customs & Excise HMC&E.
This will be the first time the private sector has provided HMC&E with such operational services.
We also expanded the capacity of our Dungavel Immigration Removal Centre in Scotland.
Some 70% of prisoners reoffend within three years.
A key aim is to educate, train and equip prisoners to lead normal lives and so reduce reoffending.
At Doncaster prison we have opened a new community resettlement suite which helps the people in our care look for work, housing and training before release.
The Chief Inspector of Prisons commended our turnaround of Ashfield Young Offenders Institution YOI now under our sole management since a critical assessment in 2002.
Ashfield was originally intended for both juveniles and young offenders.
In 2004 we began reconfiguring it for juveniles only: we introduced more classrooms and educators and are now adding a resource centre and drug awareness facilities.
Chief Inspector Anne Owers praised the Ashfield team for the concentrated and hard work needed to pull the establishment up so far and so fast and looking beyond the fine print of the contract.
She also praised our management of Lowdham Grange prison after an unannounced inspection in March 2004.
And she commended Dovegate prisons Therapeutic Community, the only privately run unit of its kind, for its significant achievement in dealing with troubled and dangerous prisoners.
PCG won three Butler Trust Awards in 2004.
The Special Educational Needs team at Ashfield YOI won the Pilgrim Trust Award for work with young offenders.
HMP Dovegates Islamic Minister, Sheik Mohammed Hanif Khan, received an award for his work both inside the prison and with the local community.
And Stephen Sanderson won an award for his commitment to prisoners with mobility problems.
Our five prison contracts were successfully audited by the British Safety Council BSC, with four receiving a Five Star rating and two the British Sword of Honour, the highest recognition available in this field.
Ashfield Young Offenders Institution and Lowdham Grange prison also received BSC National Safety Awards.
In June 2004 we began work on a new secure communications and information infrastructure for the UKs Immigration and Nationality Directorate, under the Mycroft programme.
By the end of March 2005 we will have trained almost 700 users.
The number of users will rise to 2,000 during the five-year, 40m contract.
The core technology is adapted from a system we developed for the National Crime Squad.
We anticipate further opportunities in this market.
Serco Group plc business review 22 23 Overall the UK government is investing heavily in national security, fighting crime and reducing reoffending.
We expect the market available to us to double over the next five years.
We are also broadening our home affairs activities internationally.
Germany is seeking to improve its prison services with the support of private suppliers.
Serco won the countrys first major prison contract, at Hnfeld in Hessen.
Valued at 3.5m a year for six years, it covers all non-custodial services including psychological, medical and educational care, rehabilitation, catering and facilities management.
The 502-capacity prison opens at the end of 2005.
In Italy we began a nine-year contract to supply electronic monitoring equipment and support services for up to 40% of the country, after running a successful pilot.
We are also supplying equipment and support to the West Australian Department of Corrections at its Wooroloo Prison Farm to securely monitor up to 250 prisoners.
We expect further international tagging opportunities this year and are trialling next-generation equipment which uses satellite positioning.
Education: improving results Serco provides a range of integrated services to improve childrens education.
Teachers professional development, head teachers management systems and pupils learning are all supported through a range of change management and technology-driven services.
The UK governments Building Schools for the Future BSF programme will deliver some 60bn of capital investment over the next 15 years to rebuild or refurbish 3,500 schools.
We believe we are well placed to support educationalists and children through this programme with our schools software, educational management experience and broader IT and facilities management offers.
The BSF pathfinder programme has begun and we are bidding on early opportunities.
The major achievement of 2004 was a glowing report from the Office for Standards in Education Ofsted on our performance in Walsall.
Serco took over management of all aspects of educational services to Walsalls 130 schools at the end of 2002 after an inspection report had condemned overall performance as very poor.
Less than two years on, Ofsted found performance had been transformed.
The report declared education services in Walsall to be highly satisfactory and praised the Education Walsall team for delivering good progress in a short time.
Credit for the fastest educational turnaround on record is due to the passionate commitment of our team, and a highly effective partnership with Walsall Councils Chief Executive, her strategic board and the councillors.
Over the past school year all school inspections have been successful.
In defence, as in more and more of our markets, the trend is towards larger contracts integrating multiple activities.
This gives us major opportunities for organic growth.
Our new Naval Air Command multi-activity contract, for example, is substantially broader than the one it replaces.
As well as operating Heron Flight for senior officers and VIPs, were now responsible for the Fleet Requirements Air Direction Unit.
Operating Hawk aircraft, we provide realistic threat simulations to enhance training for Royal Navy ships and aircraft.
24 25 In Australia, we have an innovative contract to supply 12 defence patrol boats for the Royal Australian Navy.
Were managing design and construction of the vessels, adapting a high-speed civil design.
And well provide through-life support, including crew training, for 15 years.
The first vessel, HMAS Armadale, was launched in January 2005.
Serco Group plc business review Our education contract in Bradford is also making progress.
Attendance and attainment are improving at well above national average rates.
Overall attendance in Bradford schools is the best ever and truancy rates are significantly lower.
Fewer children are being permanently excluded from school.
We are committed to making further improvements to education in both Bradford and Walsall.
With support from our local authority clients, head teachers and the Department of Education, we will be able to sustain progress.
In Germany we began our first schools facilities management contract, with the state of Nordrhein Westphalia.
The 25-year contract, valued at 35m, covers a group of schools in Monheim.
We are now bidding for more contracts in this field.
Health Health is an emerging market for Serco.
We already provide wide-ranging nonclinical support services to health customers in Europe and Asia Pacific, and our strategic healthcare consultancy develops ways of modernising the care process.
In all our markets we make innovative use of IT and technology to help improve services.
In the UK we currently operate hospital services contracts at Wishaw in Scotland, Leicester Royal Infirmary and Norfolk & Norwich University Hospital.
Our strategic health and social care consultancy has won major new contracts, notably to evaluate the effectiveness of a Department of Health initiative to reduce patient waiting times.
This year it has moved into new areas, such as supporting NHS Trusts and consortia implementing the National Programme for IT.
It has continued to enhance its reputation in healthcare planning, and is working on several major capital schemes to redevelop acute and community hospitals.
Regional and local government services: deepening relationships Our local government services business helps improve the essential services we all use.
As a result, millions of people are enjoying a quality of service that makes a difference to their daily lives.
In 2004 we successfully delivered two major phases in Wiltshire County Councils business process re-engineering programme, which will improve customer service and reduce cost.
In addition, our support to the council contributed to its recently improved Comprehensive Performance Assessment score, published by the government to help residents compare their council with others.
We also strengthened a decade of partnership with Canterbury City Council, with a new seven-year housing maintenance contract valued at 20m.
Serco Group plc business review 26 27 In November we signed a new environmental services contract with Breckland District Council in Norfolk.
Valued at 30m over 10 years, it includes an innovative operating model that integrates streetscene and environmental services teams.
Over the year we won three of the four leisure centre management contracts offered by UK local councils, bringing the number of UK centres under Serco management to 63.
In Canada, our Ontario Driver Examination Services concession has already delivered the promised improvements in customer satisfaction and service availability, and our customer has broadened the scope of the service we provide.
The rapid success of the operation has earned Serco a high profile in Canada, where we are seen as a leader and innovator in public services.
The Ontario Ministry of Transportation and Serco have jointly been presented with the Canadian Public Private Partnerships Councils Gold Award for service delivery in the large business category.
Also in Ontario, the Serco-managed Ray Friel Recreation Centre was voted employer of the year in the local business awards.
Other government services: growth in US and Middle East New US federal government guidelines are encouraging competitive sourcing of public services.
In 2004 the Department of Agriculture Forest Service awarded us a five-year contract valued at US$30m to maintain over 4,500 vehicles in 18 national forests throughout California.
This gives us valuable experience for future opportunities at federal government level.
When completed, our acquisition of RCI will provide an enhanced platform from which to leverage Sercos global capabilities in defence, integrated transport and homeland security.
Our Middle East profile is rising considerably and we have opened a new office in Dubai.
Our Serco Gulf joint venture with local partners Istithmar won a facilities management consultancy contract to help design the services for Palm Island.
This is a strategically important role in a venture with worldwide visibility.
Serco Gulf is now also providing facilities management services on the large Gardens residential complex.
The United Arab Emirates University is planning to develop through a PPP structure a new 19,000-student university complex in Al Ain in 2010.
Serco Middle East has entered into an agreement to form a joint venture to provide facilities management and operational services for the project for a minimum period of 10 years.
Our JV partner for this project is Mubadala Development Company owned by the Abu Dhabi government.
Government consultancy: shaping future services Serco Government Consulting SGC, our management consulting business, has grown rapidly and profitably since its formation in 2003.
In 2004, it achieved revenues of 4.5m and grew to 40 consultants.
Its successful consulting assignments for central government departments are helping build Sercos reputation with senior decision makers across government.
Our strength in light rail is well established through the Docklands Light Railway, Manchester Metrolink and Copenhagen Metro.
Now were building an equally strong reputation in heavy rail.
Our new Northern Rail franchise brings together two previous operations.
Together, they make a 475-station rural and inter-urban network serving passengers across the north of England.
With our partner NedRailways weve already improved services on Merseyrail, our first heavy rail franchise.
We aim to bring similar benefits to Northerns passengers, with the help of its 4,600 employees.
28 29 Its been a record-breaking year for our Great Southern Railway business in Australia.
Record passenger numbers, record bookings, record profits.
And the worlds first North-South transcontinental rail service.
All thanks to the new Alice Springs-Darwin link, which extended The Ghan service to run coast to coast.
Once a loss-making state-run business, the railway is now a booming worldwide tourist attraction and a source of pride for Australians.
Serco Group plc business review SGC is developing a reputation for addressing complex client issues by combining the skills of experienced consultants with the lessons learnt from Sercos operations.
Its assignments range from operational performance improvement to the delivery of complex programmes such as New Dimension, which is strengthening the resilience of the UK emergency services to terrorist and other threats.
Transport Market overview A track record of improved service to road and rail users has supported strong growth over recent years in the transport sector, which now accounts for 22% of turnover.
We are a UK leader in the light rail market and are exploring further opportunities in the UK and internationally.
We expect to see more growth as new schemes are approved.
In the heavy rail market we have moved out of infrastructure management and maintenance to focus on passenger service operations.
We have won two franchises since early 2003 and will pursue further franchises that fit with our risk profile.
From our position as UK leader in traffic management systems we are successfully applying our technology in the US, Sweden, Hong Kong and Australia.
We are also pursuing opportunities in road pricing, which is forecast to develop into a major worldwide market in the next 10 years.
We have a strong position in aeronautical services, including air traffic control and airport services, in the Middle East where we are market leader the US and South Africa.
We aim to continue building on this base.
Rail: reliability rewarded with record contract In 2004 our heavy rail business took a major step forward with the signing of the Northern Rail franchise, with our partner NedRailways.
This is our largest-ever contract, valued at around 2bn to us over eight years and nine months.
Northern provides passengers across the north of England with inter-urban commuter and rural services via 475 stations and a large fleet of diesel and electric multiple trains.
Operations involving 4,600 employees began in December.
The contract will be earnings and cash positive from this year.
Our success in winning this contract was undoubtedly helped by our proven performance on Merseyrail, Manchester Metrolink and Londons Docklands Light Railway.
Merseyrails train passengers are enjoying even more reliable and punctual trains.
The employees and management have achieved record reliability and punctuality levels Serco Group plc business review 30 31 measured at 95%, compared to 91.5% in 2002 03 before we took over.
Docklands Light Railway continues to be the UK benchmark for light rail operations.
In 2004 it set records for passenger numbers and won its fifth consecutive National Rail Award.
Passenger numbers and revenue will increase further this year with the opening of the extension to London City Airport soon to be followed by the extension to Woolwich.
We are currently rebidding the contract, which expires in March 2006.
In Australia, our Great Southern Railway business continues to break booking and profit records on its iconic transcontinental services.
In 2004 the Alice Springs-Darwin link was opened, enabling The Ghan to run Australias first coast to coast North-South service.
The 48-carriage inaugural train measured over 1.1km in length.
Forward bookings are strong and we continue to increase capacity to meet demand.
Road: growing from Birmingham to China Drivers on motorways in England are now receiving better traffic information thanks to the team at the National Traffic Control Centre, located on the M5 near Birmingham.
The centre uses CCTV cameras, automatic number plate recognition cameras and induction loops to monitor traffic.
Information on congestion and incidents is then communicated through roadside message signs, an interactive website and telephone service, as well as being supplied to the broadcast media and other data providers.
Real-time traffic information is now available online at www.
We have started another contract with the Highways Agency to design, supply and operate the Electronic Service Delivery for Abnormal Loads portal ESDAL.
This will provide a seamless link between hauliers, police, owners of structures such as bridges, and the Highways Agency for the request, planning and notification of abnormal load movements by road throughout the UK.
The Highways Agency is simplifying its purchasing of road maintenance services by engaging single contractors to oversee the management and maintenance of motorways and trunk roads in a given area.
We are a strategic partner of InterRoute, a joint venture between RCS, part of Balfour Beatty, and Mott MacDonald, to provide the maintenance of all the traffic control and information technology.
InterRoute was awarded the South West contract in December 2004.
The five-year contract, valued at around 7.5m to Serco, begins in July 2005.
In Hong Kong we are applying technology proven in Scotland, Sweden and Australia to provide the traffic control and surveillance system for a massive new road and bridge Trafc management technology travels well.
Today were taking skills weve honed in Scotland, Stockholm and Sydney and applying them across England and to Hong Kongs new link with mainland China.
Want to know about traffic conditions on Englands motorways and trunk roads?
Go to the Traffic England website at www.
com or the interactive telephone service available soon on 0870 066 0115.
Youll find live traffic information and forecasts, updates on roadworks and you can even read any roadside message display on the network.
Its all part of the service to drivers from the National Traffic Control Centre were creating for the Highways Agency.
32 33 Were bringing world-class technology to a massive new road and bridge project linking Hong Kong with mainland China.
With its 5km bridge, the Hong Kong-Shenzhen Western Corridor, Deep Bay Link and Yuen Long Highway will be a powerful symbol of Hong Kongs relationship with the mainland.
Our job will be to keep the traffic moving, with a state of the art traffic control and surveillance system.
Serco Group plc business review project.
The Hong Kong-Shenzhen Western Corridor, Deep Bay Link and Yuen Long Highway will form a strategic route linking Hong Kong and mainland China, including a 5km bridge.
This is the first major project that takes us onto the Chinese mainland and has involved significant collaboration between local Serco staff, who know the language and culture, and our UK-based technical specialists.
Air: safe services land more renewals Our reputation for providing safe and reliable aeronautical and aviation services supported several successful rebids worldwide.
The US Federal Aviation Administration FAA reappointed Serco to run air traffic control ATC towers across the Western United States and Alaska.
This is our third successful bid for this five year, US$118m contract.
Serco-run towers have won the FAAs prestigious Willie F. Card Contract Service Award, which recognises excellence in safety and customer service, in both years since its launch.
Four facilities received the None in a Million award for handling a million aircraft operations without a single error.
Our contracts at Abu Dhabi and Al Ain airports have been renewed, ensuring we remain the Middle Easts leading provider of ATC and other airport technical services.
Abu Dhabi airport is planning extensive developments over the life of the contract, including an additional terminal and runway.
In mainland Europe we successfully rebid our contract to manage the flight information display systems at Brussels Airport for up to a further five years.
Defence Market overview Our defence business enjoyed its best-ever year in 2004, with overall growth of some 20% driven largely by expansion of existing contracts and rebids that broadened the scale and scope of contracts.
The defence sector accounted for 30% of 2004 sales.
In the UK we are a leading supplier to the Ministry of Defence MoD.
We have a wellbalanced portfolio of over 120 large, medium and small contracts across 110 locations, giving us an 8.5% market share.
Despite tight budgetary pressures, we estimate the accessible MoD market will more than double by 2010.
Overseas, we are witnessing increased use of private service companies to support defence activities.
We have a growing relationship with the German Ministry of Defence, for example.
Completion of the RCI acquisition will give us a strong position with the US Department of Defense, which accounts for some 75% of US government spending on outsourced services.
Serco Group plc business review 34 35 Our strategy is to retain and expand our existing business, leveraging our capabilities into new but related areas and selected major bid opportunities, both in the UK and internationally.
We will continue to target four main areas: equipment support, facilities and infrastructure management, training, and communications information systems where Sercos IT expertise gives us considerable credibility.
An MoD customer survey rated Serco among the best of its key suppliers.
UK: service and value win strong organic growth Our RAF Northolt and Uxbridge contracts are good examples of our approach to organic growth building broader and deeper customer relationships by delivering service and value.
These contracts have been renewed and combined into a 55m multi-activity contract MAC running for nearly six years.
RAF Northolt includes responsibility for maintaining and supporting No 32 The Royal Squadron whose tasks include Royal, VVIP and VIP flying.
It complements the 39m Naval Air Command MAC successfully phasedin during 2004, which includes operating Heron Flight for senior officer and VIP flying.
July saw the passing-out ceremony for the first pilots trained under our MAC at RAF Cranwell, the RAFs premier officer training station.
Under the 60m contract we provided seven King Air B200 training aircraft through an innovative arrangement that enabled us to introduce a new, modern aircraft for pilot training in a few months rather than years.
In a year when we presented our first 40-year staff long-service award at RAF Fylingdales, we were pleased to become the sites only contractor to win 10 successive rebids.
In fact, we won two contracts.
The first, valued at 31m over eight years, involves the operation, maintenance and repair of the Solid State Phased Array Radar and associated hardware including programme design and maintenance.
The second, valued at 14m over two and a half years, provides support services for the UK Air Surveillance and Control System which ensures the integrity of UK airspace.
The Defence Logistics Organisation is changing the way it procures whole-life capability support, requiring manufacturers to become prime contractors for integrated operational support for the equipment they supply.
This is proving advantageous for Serco.
We have formed an alliance with AgustaWestland to provide integrated operational support for helicopters achieving organic growth that complements the contracts we hold directly with the Navy and Army.
We have signed a similar deal with Rolls-Royce to support aero engines and see such alliances with manufacturers as a source of future growth.
We won and delivered a contract to supply a Action Speed Tactical Trainer for the Royal Navy as part of the Warspite Project launched by Commander-in-Chief Fleet in effect a complete naval warfare simulation package.
This includes simulators for 10 ships and a fleet control room, with a command and control system for the war game controllers.
Its a tough business and also a politically sensitive one.
The rapid growth of our custodial service reects the care and responsibility we bring to it.
In August 2004 we opened the 326-bed Colnbrook Immigration Removal Centre and Short Term Holding Facility near Heathrow Airport as planned and on budget.
We also expanded the capacity of our Dungaval Immigration Removal Centre in Scotland.
36 37 An artists impression of the new facility Last year we won Germanys first major outsourced prison services contract.
German law prohibits private companies from providing prison warders.
But were delivering all the non-custodial services at the new 502-capacity Hnfeld Prison, which opens in late 2005.
As well as catering and facilities management, these include psychological, medical and educational care, and rehabilitation.
Serco Group plc business review Additionally, the Second Sea Lord opened the Waterfront Training and Education Centre for which we supplied the systems and operational support for the Royal Navy at Devonport.
This demonstrated technology for reconfigurable smart classrooms that can be used for a range of maritime warfare operator skills training and simulation at the quayside in any port area.
Early in 2005 we secured one of our largest-ever defence wins.
The 400m Defence Academy Campus Integrator contract runs for almost 24 years.
We have begun working with the MoD to integrate its three existing postgraduate colleges to create an international academic centre of excellence for senior military and civilian personnel.
We already manage the Joint Services Command and Staff College, one of the three colleges on the Defence Academy site.
In the UK the services market continues to expand and we see more opportunities than we can deal with, so we will continue to be selective in our investment and bidding.
International: growing through technology and innovation In January 2004 we began our contract at the German Armys Combat Training Centre GZ to provide technical support services for simulated battle training.
This is one of the German Defence Authoritys first total service outsourcing contracts and feedback to date from the German Ministry of Defence is very positive.
The German armed forces are increasing their outsourcing of non-core support services and we are building on our existing good relationships.
In Australia our Defence Marine Services DMS joint venture with P&O has launched the first of the 12 defence patrol boats that it is building for the Royal Australian Navy.
The innovative 15-year, A$500m contract uses a 56-metre commercial vessel design adapted for military use and encompasses through-life support including crew training.
Following the launch, in January 2005, DMS was named as preferred bidder to supply eight patrol boats for Australian Customs.
In February 2004 we were appointed preferred bidder with our local partner, the Bahwan Group to build and operate a joint technical training college for the Oman Ministry of Defence.
The college will train 2,000 students a year.
The 30-year contract is the Middle Easts first PFI and we expect to sign it in 2005.
Science Market overview Serco aims to be recognised as the leading private sector partner for the management of scientific organisations, programmes and consulting.
We are already a UK market leader in the management of government scientific establishments and have a longSerco Group plc business review 38 39 standing relationship with the European Space Agency.
Science contracts accounted for 7% of our 2004 sales.
In the UK alone we expect the accessible market to double by 2008.
UK Regional Development Agencies have a growing role in developing innovation and technology centres and the UKs Nuclear Decommissioning Authority is being established to supervise the dismantling of redundant nuclear installations.
Serco has excellent credentials for opportunities in these areas.
Business highlights: improving the quality of life The years most important development was the successful rebid of our contract to manage the UKs world-class National Physical Laboratory NPL.
The new contract, finalised in March 2004, is valued at a minimum of 500m over 10 years.
We are now implementing the new strategy we put forward for NPL, focused on applying scientific excellence to achieve positive economic and social benefits.
We are supporting the Department of Trade and Industrys innovation strategy with a range of new science programmes particularly in emerging technologies such as biotechnology and nanotechnology and knowledge transfer to encourage commercial application.
The laboratorys world-leading new facilities are enabling us to carry out work that was previously impossible.
For example, we are working on ever more precise atomic clocks, which could enhance systems ranging from electricity grids to global positioning satellites and the internet.
We are also improving the accuracy of brachytherapy radiation treatment for a wide range of cancers including prostate, breast and lung cancer.
Such projects promise improvements in the quality of life as well as benefits for the UK economy.
The laboratory is strengthening its international position and has been selected to lead a 3m European Commission project to promote co-operation in measurement science across Europe.
The new facilities at Teddington were being designed and built by John Laing Construction under a contract from a Laing Serco PFI joint venture.
After the construction company experienced financial difficulties, we acquired Laings investment in the project and have been working with the Department of Trade and Industry DTI to complete the new facility.
We have now agreed to end the PFI and transfer the completed building to the DTI, allowing it to complete the fit-out of certain laboratories.
This mutually satisfactory arrangement does not affect our science management contract.
In 2004 Serco Assurance successfully rebid a contract to provide independent nuclear safety assessment and advice to the Royal Navy.
This 50m, five-year contract includes responsibility for advising the MoD on the nuclear safety of each submarine in the UK fleet.
Our experience in air trafc control goes back half a century.
But this is one job where what matters is your performance right now every minute of every day.
A British company directing aircraft in US airspace?
Its been daily routine in the western US for a decade.
The Federal Aviation Administration now entrusts 54 air traffic control towers to our care.
With good reason weve held its national Contract Service Award, for safety and service, since its inception two years ago.
Four of our facilities have received the None in a Million award for handling a million aircraft operations without a single error.
And in 2004 the FAA renewed our contract for a further five years.
40 41 Our relationship with Abu Dhabi airport was established long before the present international airport opened in 1982 and our operation there has grown with it.
Now the airport is planning further extensive developments including an additional terminal and runway.
As the Middle Easts leading provider of ATC and airport technical services, were very much part of its plans.
Its just awarded us a five-year contract in place of the previous three-year terms and for the first time well be able to employ our local staff directly rather than through the government.
Serco Group plc business review We are part of the successful SDC Alliance, which has won a major contract to provide one-stop engineering services to BNFL at Sellafield.
This contract has potential to generate sales for Serco of more than 2m a year.
As part of its diversification strategy, Serco Assurance is playing a growing role in national security, working together with Serco Government Consulting on the UKs New Dimension project.
It has also recently completed the assessment phase of the MoDs Integrated Sensor Management System.
This is an intelligent network of sensors that can be placed around a field installation to detect chemical, biological or radiological attack.
We have successfully applied innovative technology which is easily transferable to the civil sector and should secure a market leading position.
We continue to manage communications for the UK governments Envirowise programme, which promotes environmentally sound practice to businesses.
The government has committed additional funding for this and other environmental projects from 2005.
In continental Europe we won extensions to two of our contracts with the European Space Agency.
In Germany we won a six-year extension to our Eumetsat spacecraft operations contract and in Italy we were awarded an 18-month extension to our IT support services contract.
We have a growing presence at the Geneva-based CERN particle accelerator laboratory.
In 2004 we won a new IT contract to provide desktop support services for 4,400 users.
We now have some 160 IT and engineering staff at CERN, contributing to its ambitious goal to build the worlds largest scientific instrument and its computing infrastructure.
Private sector Market overview We address new business opportunities in the private sector selectively and opportunistically.
In 2004 the private sector accounted for 8% of sales this is set to increase with the addition of ITNETs commercial business.
Business highlights: multi-tasking for Microsoft In France we renewed our facilities management contract covering Oracles Paris headquarters and seven other sites.
We have provided this service since 1998.
In Ireland we have broadened our role with Microsoft.
As well as providing facilities management we now operate a Shared Services Centre for Microsoft subsidiaries in 11 European countries.
The initial one-year contract has an option to extend for three years.
We also added a further contract to provide document administration for licensing agreements in Europe, the Middle East and Africa a critical service previously run from the US.
Serco Group plc business review 42 43 We also successfully rebid our contract to maintain 79 properties for The Boots Company across Ireland for a further three years.
In the US we further strengthened our position in the utilities market.
PECO Energy, a natural gas and electricity utility in Pennsylvania, awarded us a fleet management contract to support over 10 sites involving some 1,500 vehicles.
Acquisitions Gaining skills and capabilities for expanding markets Our people are experts at growing their business organically.
By delivering high quality services they strengthen client relationships, expand existing contracts and win new ones.
More than 80% of our 2004 underlying turnover growth came from renewing or extending existing contracts and winning new business.
We therefore make acquisitions to gain capabilities or market access as a foundation for organic growth.
The UKs business transformation and local government outsourcing markets are set to increase by 50% by 2007.
Serco provides a range of these services under several of our contracts, but we needed to increase our capabilities.
The acquisition of ITNET, completed in February 2005, significantly enhances our ability to compete for larger and higher value contracts.
ITNET has a strong reputation among local authorities for IT services and business process outsourcing, and its consulting expertise complements our own growing consultancy business.
Half of ITNETs business is with local government and around 60% of 2003 sales came from the public sector.
ITNET will immediately enhance our technology and business process offering to the UK market.
And our established presence in defence, transport and the justice markets will expand ITNETs addressable market.
The US is the worlds largest service contracting market and the announced acquisition of RCI, with its enhanced technology capabilities and strong customer relationships, will increase our competitive position in this market.
Completion of the transaction in March will enhance our position in the US defence market and beyond.
By joining RCIs systems integration capabilities with Sercos partnering and service delivery experience, we will be well positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities throughout North America.
Turning around a failing education authority is a huge responsibility.
All those pupils cant wait for you to get results its their future thats on the line.
We took over management of Walsalls 130 schools after the regulator, Ofsted, had found the local education authority to be failing.
Less than two years later, Ofsted has found performance transformed to highly satisfactory.
Its a good demonstration of Sercos ability to get the best out of people but we couldnt have done it on our own.
The passionate commitment of our team was matched by a highly effective partnership with Walsall Council, elected members, the Chief Executive and her executive management team and a tremendous response from dedicated teachers and head teachers.
With their support, theres still plenty more we can achieve for the children of Walsall.
Serco Group plc business review 44 45 RCIs primary market is the Department of Defense.
Half of the companys business is with the US Navy and a third is with the Army two sectors where we have complementary experience around the world.
We see scope for applying our air force support experience to open up opportunities for RCI with the US Air Force.
We also expect, over time, to be able to apply RCIs capabilities in human resources management, systems engineering, IT, supply chain management and strategic consulting to customers in state and local government, the utilities industry and even outside North America.
Like Serco, ITNET and RCI have a record of contract renewal and achieving growth through long term customer relationships.
People Training and development Commitment to lifelong learning is a central part of our culture.
Our groundbreaking training scheme with the Institute of Directors is now well established.
So far nearly 80 directors and senior managers have achieved the IoD Serco Certificate in Company Direction and over 30 have achieved the Diploma.
During the year we introduced a Europe-based module to broaden the programmes reach across the Group and 11 non-UK based managers passed either the Certificate or Diploma.
Our broader leadership development programme aims to fast-track development leadership and management skills in key people.
By the end of 2004, 43 had joined or completed the programme and a further 15 are expected to join in 2005.
Over 70 people are completing a programme focused on programme and project management skills and a further 180 will follow them this year.
We aim for continuous improvement in the courses themselves, and have reviewed and refreshed all open programme workshops managed by the Serco Best Practice Centre.
In addition to these Group initiatives, training and development requirements are managed locally and each contract manager is required to develop and implement a training plan.
We see employee volunteering on community initiatives as a valuable tool, helping to develop people both professionally and personally.
In September 2004 we launched Enabling People to Excel, a Group-wide initiative to encourage employee volunteering.
In the UK, we also launched Skills for You, a drive to provide basic skills training in English, literacy and numeracy to everyone in Serco who needs it.
We believe there are perhaps as many as 4,000 people in the Company who would benefit.
The scheme, which has strong union backing, offers assessments for all staff and provides basic skills and essential IT courses, with the opportunity to progress to National Vocational Qualifications.
