Business Review Life & Pensions Total new life and pensions business increased further to hit a new record level.
Five Star service and major awards We have consistently maintained that our service to our customers will positively differentiate us from others in the market.
We seek to help our customers, both existing and potential, through the complexities of financial services and we have incorporated the FSAs initiative Treating Customers Fairly into the objectives of all areas of our business.
We were therefore delighted to be recognised as a provider of Five Star service in the 2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards, the largest industry survey of its kind, based on the views of more than 2,000 IFAs.
For the third consecutive year, we are the highest ranked of all the UK listed life companies in this prestigious survey.
Our brand is being built around the powerful combinations of processes and people, innovation and operational efficiency.
Our success in deploying these attributes effectively is reected not only in our 2004 business results, but also in the significant number of major awards received in 2004, in addition to the overall Five Star service award.
Life & Pensions Highlights 434m 83m 19.1% New business APE a new Contribution from new New business margin record 2003: 429m business 2003: 80m 2003: 18.6% 12 Friends Provident The phrase award-winning systems has never been more true than in 2004, our online services winning no fewer than seven independent awards.
Roger Williams, Janet Longden, Prashanth Gurusimha and Andrew Murgett, pictured above, are a few of the many who are ensuring our systems keep their leading edge.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 13 Business Review Life & Pensions continued The overall protection market contracted by 12.2% We have consistently over the year, driven in large part by cooling in the housing market.
We expect, at best, modest market maintained that our growth in 2005.
In addition, competitive activity is increasing.
Against this, we are confident of service to our making further progress through a combination of the distribution agreements secured and similar customers will positively agreements expected to follow, our capacity to handle signicantly higher volumes and our awardwinning products, systems and service.
We also differentiate us from see further opportunities to grow our group risk business, an area which complements our core others in the market.
skills and existing relationships in the group pensions and individual protection markets.
Pensions Total new pensions business declined 7.2% over 2004 to 227.8 million.
Although group pensions new business declined 2004 performance 7% to 163.7 million in 2004, it remains our biggest Total new life and pensions business for 2004 market segment, contributing 38% of our total new increased a further 1% to hit a new record level life and pensions business.
The market continues to of 434 million, consolidating the 14% increase be sluggish, having increased by only 1.1% in 2004. achieved in 2003.
Importantly, the profits earned Our experience and anecdotal industry evidence show on our new business have increased for the third a general decline in the number of new schemes consecutive year, up 4% over 2003, 26% over 2002 placed by Employee benefit Consultants EBCs and 54% greater than 2001, reecting growth in and in transfer business from dened contribution both volumes and margins.
schemes originally set up on now outmoded charging UK IFAs provided 69% of our 2004 new business, up structures.
The merger of ISIS and F&C further from 65% in 2003, reecting our strategy of building hinders our short-term position through the normal closer relationships and working more collaboratively practice of EBCs placing asset managers undergoing with independent intermediaries.
Our international such large-scale reorganisation on hold during the operations accounted for 17% of new business, transitional period.
However, media focus on the need slightly up on the 16% produced by this business for pensions is a positive backcloth, and we have in 2003.
The remaining 14% of new business was seen an increase in EBC activity in early 2005.
We principally sourced through tied agents.
As expected, remain committed to this market.
We added a further 1,477 new dened contribution schemes in 2004 and this is less than the 19% contribution to 2003 new the annual round of new members and increments business from tied channels, following the closure relating to this growing portfolio of schemes will of our direct salesforce in early 2004. increasingly provide a stable and reliable source of new business going forward.
Analysis of new business Our focus throughout 2004 remained on our three New individual pensions in 2004 decreased 9.8% to core market segments of protection, group pensions 36.1 million and new annuity business declined and investments.
We have deliberately not focused on either of these product areas over recent Protection years.
In the case of annuities, we remain cautious in New protection business in 2004, including income the light of improving longevity.
Regarding individual protection, increased 11.2% to a new record of pensions, the Governments previous stance on 77.2 million, with each quarterly performance pricing did not provide a fair return for either us or our exceeding the corresponding quarter of 2003.
However, following the Governments the last two years, new business has increased review of the charge cap, we intend to re-enter the 71.2% and the resulting 2004 market share of 7.7% individual pensions market in the first half of 2005, represents our highest ranking, further cementing seeking to grow in the areas we consider to be our position as one of the leading providers in the potentially more profitable, with particular focus protection market.
At the heart of the proposition on single premium business.
is our online new business processing system eSelect designed to make life easier for customer Investments and distributor alike.
We continue to transact more Total new investment business increased 12.6% than half of all protection business online.
to 128.7 million, with quarterly performance All new business gures shown in this section are expressed as Annual Premium Equivalent APE unless stated otherwise.
This measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
14 Friends Provident throughout 2004 exceeding the corresponding We boast one of the quarters of 2003.
Over the two-year period beginning 1 January 2003, a 32.7% increase in new business most complete end to has been achieved.
Isolating UK performance, new business increased end online services for 22%, indicating that we have participated fully in the general recovery of this market, which increased by a the distributor market similar 22% over 2004.
We anticipate only single digit growth in this market over 2005.
Portfolio Bond and Income Distribution Bond account for the majority of our UK investment business, with online transactions in 2004 representing 65% and 50% of sales respectively.
Of the total new investment business in 2004, 54% came from international cross-border markets, the majority through the Isle of Man-based business.
The Far East was the biggest international market for us in 2004 and we have moved to larger premises in Hong Kong.
This demonstration of our long-term commitment to the region has been welcomed by the intermediaries based there.
In the Middle East, we expect the opening of our new sales ofce in Dubai late last year to help us make further progress.
With profits business 2004 New Business by The with profits market continues to contract and distribution channel now accounts for only 7% of our total life and UK IFAs 69% pensions new business, down from 10% in 2003 and International 17% 26% in 2002.
Bonus rate changes continue to reect Tied agents 14% the large fall in investment values that occurred between 2000 and 2002 and the general decline in expected long-term investment returns.
Nevertheless, we were able to declare increased final bonus rates for a number of our policies.
The objective continues to be to ensure that all Friends Providents 1.5 million with profits policies are treated fairly both now and in the future, by achieving a closer alignment of policy payouts with their underlying investment values.
In 2004, we allocated 244 million to our with profit policyholders through regular and final policy bonuses, providing valuable guarantees to Total New Business: customers and supporting the respectable returns APE m these policies continue to deliver, particularly for the longer-term contracts.
Product innovation and development Protection: The technology platform behind our eSelect new business processing system has benefited from a range of enhancements over 2004, giving us distinct competitive advantage and recognised by a host of external awards.
Our protection products have also attracted major awards.
Our market leading Income Protection Plan, for example, won three awards in 2004, including best in category for both the specialist Protection publications, and we were overall winner Income Replacement Company of the Year in the 2004 Financial Adviser Life and Pensions Awards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 15 00 352 01 343 02 377 03 429 04 434 Business Review Life & Pensions continued facility Activ Investment Solutions.
We are also Our brand is being built introducing some important customer-focused additions to our web-based service this year, which around the powerful will further strengthen our offering.
We are optimistic about our opportunities in this market.
combinations of Enhanced extranet services We boast one of the most complete end to end processes and people, online services for the distributor market in the UK, covering both the group and individual business innovation and markets.
This has been recognised in the industry by seven independent awards in the latter part of 2004, operational efficiency.
including being voted Overall E-commerce Company of the Year in the inuential Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards 2004.
Our services are designed to empower our distribution partners and customers, providing them with instant access to right first time servicing.
The usefulness of these services is evidenced by the Investment: The Stewardship range of ethical dramatic increase in their take-up.
During 2004 we investment funds remains the market leader with recorded more than 560,000 logins to our extranet some 1.8 billion of investments under F&Cs self servicing facilities, compared with around management.
In June 2004, to coincide with the 110,000 during 2003.
20th anniversary of Stewardship and in keeping with our heritage of pioneering ethical investment The Policy Servicing and Proposal Tracking facilities opportunities, we launched the Stewardship are proving particularly popular, with over 221,000 Safeguard Optimiser fund.
This is the first openpolicies interrogated via the policy servicing facility ended ethical fund in the UK market with built-in around 92,000 in 2003 and over 129,000 proposals protection against stock market falls, the objective interrogated using the New Business Tracking service of this fund being to protect both the investors fund no comparative data for 2003.
As previously and their ethical principles by providing smoothed indicated, there has been a steady growth in new investment returns from an ethical portfolio.
The Safeguard Optimiser concept was launched During 2004 we extended the range of e-commerce services that allow IFA back-ofce systems to access towards the end of 2003 as an alternative to with profits and has attracted more than 21 million over data directly from our core systems.
At the beginning of 2004 we were automatically handling around 200 its first year.
During 2004, we have also enhanced policy valuation requests from distributor systems the dedicated multi-manager fund proposition, per month, increasing to over 1,400 per month by launched in late 2003, with the introduction of the end of the year.
Extending these integration further risk-graded multi-manager funds and services further is now a key focus for us to additional distribution funds.
maximise the benets that intermediaries and In August 2004, we enhanced our range of trust customers can derive from e-commerce.
and investment solutions with the launch of the Discounted Gift Plan, designed to help reduce the Customer website impact of inheritance tax, which is affecting an We continue to develop our customer website to increasing number of customers following the make it increasingly helpful, and this is reected in house price rises seen over recent years.
the significant rise in the number of customers electing to use the system to manage and service In March 2005, we launched a new Portfolio their policies online, up from 7,000 in 2003 to 23,000 Management tool, designed to help IFAs build in 2004.
Further new features were added in 2004, portfolios appropriate for their clients.
A Life ISA the most significant enabling customers to see the product will also be launched in the first half of 2005, impact on their pension of changing their intended to take advantage of the new levels of tax-free retirement date.
For the international cross-border market, our Zenith single premium bond Distribution prole is being introduced to provide intermediaries with a In the light of the many regulatory changes that have more exible approach to charges and commissions.
impacted our industry over recent times, we have Pensions: Signalling our commitment to the group taken important steps to reposition our distribution pensions market, a further twelve external funds prole appropriately.
In 2003 we announced the have been added this year to our multi-manager closure of our direct sales operation and we followed 16 Friends Provident this in 2004 by restructuring our Appointed Representative channel, focusing it exclusively on the protection market, predominantly mortgagerelated, in anticipation of the new regulations introduced in January 2005 relating to non-investment insurance contracts.
Depolarisation was the most significant development impacting future distribution, the revised regulations allowing distributors to promote the products of either a single or a number of providers.
We have New Group Pensions: consistently stated the importance of positioning APE m ourselves to be a natural partner for distributors and a strong contender for positions on their panels.
The success of this strategy has been reected in the extent of our inclusion on these panels.
In 2004 we secured panel positions with a number of distributors including Milleld Group, THINC Destini, St Jamess Place, Bankhall, Sesame, and Lighthouse.
We have been able to announce further distribution agreements this year, including Barclays and National Australia Bank, and a number of other agreements remain in negotiation.
Our International business has secured distribution agreements with the National Bank of Abu Dhabi New Protection: APE and, more recently, is partnering the Bahrain-based m provider, Solidarity.
Through this arrangement, we have developed bespoke products that will be marketed via that companys authorised financial advisers and bancassurance partners.
Following the acquisition of Lombard, our presence in the international cross-border market will be signicantly enhanced and new channels of distribution have now become available.
Lombard has very good relationships with some 50 private banks, family ofces and specialist IFAs across a number of European countries.
The company intends to grow its business over the near future, primarily through developing these alreadyNew Savings & established relationships, as well as pursuing new Investment: APE m distribution opportunities in Asia and South America: these will be pursued selectively and are likely to be partnership-led arrangements.
The geographical and customer segment reach of our combined international operations has been substantially extended as a result of the acquisition of Lombard, with new focus on the very wealthy, typically resulting in very large average case sizes.
Lombards new business APE increased 38% to 130 million in 2004.
Total premium income was up 65%, with December recording the highest monthly level of business experienced by Lombard.
Although boosted by a one-off surge from Germany, this is a strong performance with excellent growth achieved, particularly in Spain and Belgium.
Switzerland and France also hold good growth opportunities in Europe, with Mexico and the Far East offering attractive potential.
