Business Review Asset Management The merger was the largest transaction in the global asset management industry in 2004.
The merged businesses are a compelling strategic t Integration of the merged businesses remains on track Synergies of 33 million remain the target for delivery by first half of 2006 Business Highlights and Prospects UK Retail Despite the tough climate, our pro forma gross new business for collectives in the UK was 39% up on 2003 and net new business was some 138% ahead of 2003, reecting an improvement in redemption levels.
significant retail activity took place in the first half of 2004 with a focus on the launch of two new multimanager products in February.
This is a fast growing segment of the market that is benefiting from moves by advisers to consolidate their clients fund portfolios into managed products.
With the distribution environment changing as a result of depolarisation and commercial pressures, advisers are revisiting their business models.
Some are choosing to focus on financial planning rather than portfolio management and are therefore concluding that they should make greater use of multi-manager products.
With its long-standing presence in the fund of funds segment, F&C is benefiting from this trend.
Asset Management Highlights 125bn 36.1% Funds under management Operating margin 2003: 63bn 2003: 32.9% 18 Friends Provident Combining two companies the size of F&C and ISIS is no mean feat but the emerging business is one of the biggest in its eld and a major development for the Friends Provident Group and its customers.
Marc Harrington, Arnal Patel and David Hopwood pictured are part of the new enlarged operation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 19 Business Review Asset Management continued Corporate bonds were also a key retail product area European wholesale for F&C in 2004, reecting both investor interest in The merger has provided exposure to the income generating products and the strength and Continental European retail market, an area depth of the proposition which has been built on where ISIS had no presence but where F&C scale and team work.
F&Cs credit team within the see attractive growth potential.
xed income department has signicantly expanded Whereas in the UK market Independent Financial as a result of the merger, moving from 10 investment Advisers have historically been the dominant professionals to 25, making F&Cs operation one of distribution channel, in most Continental European the best resourced managers of corporate bonds countries retail investors purchase financial products in the UK.
The agship retail bond product, F&C primarily through banks and insurance companies.
Strategic Bond Fund, recently won its category in This requires a different approach to developing a the 2005 Lipper Fund Awards.
retail presence, so F&C strategy is to work primarily A notable highlight of 2004 has been the recognition through local distributors in a wholesaler capacity.
achieved for the excellent performance of the The three key markets for F&Cs European wholesale Stewardship range of ethical funds.
The funds received business are Portugal where F&C sub-advise the significant attention during the year, aided by the 20th mutual funds of Millennium BCP, The Netherlands anniversary of the Stewardship Growth Fund and the where F&C sub-advise Achmeas mutual funds and appearance of the Stewardship Income Fund in the unit linked products and Germany where F&C inuential White List Report produced by Principal distributes its SICAV funds.
This rated the fund as one manages assets for Millennium BCPs unit-linked of the best equity income funds on a risk return basis.
products as part of its contract to manage their The manager of the Stewardship Income Fund won insurance assets.
Friends Provident has longstanding the UK Equity Income category of the Lipper Citywire relationships with both Millennium BCP and Achmea.
2004 Fund Manager of the Year Awards.
Funds under management for these wholesale Another area of success has been the Venture relationships grew marginally over 2004 from c8.3 Capital Trust VCT market where F&C operates billion to c8.4 billion.
The Portuguese unit-linked under the Baronsmead brand.
In the 2003 4 tax year, business grew from c3.7 billion to c4.3 billion over Baronsmead achieved the largest market share of the same period.
any VCT provider and, despite competition from over thirty new launches, Baronsmead has Institutional continued to generate large market share in Through F&C we now have leading positions in the 2004 5 tax year.
two key segments of the European institutional marketplace.
The first is in managing assets for F&C has a dominant share of the investment trust insurance companies: the second is in managing regular savings scheme market and in 2004 celebrated assets for pension funds.
Both areas have expanded the 20th anniversary of the F&C Private Investors as a result of the merger.
Looking to the future, F&C will continue to be a pioneer of investment trust Whereas the asset management business has savings products and is the only asset management always had a significant exposure to insurance group to offer an investment trust Child Trust Fund assets, the client base has become more diverse.
CTF, a new Government savings initiative.
F&Cs Given the Groups experience in this area, and its position as the leading investment trust provider expanded product range, F&C is well positioned was confirmed in a number of awards including to benefit from any further moves by insurance Best Investment Trust ISA Provider, 2004 What companies to outsource asset management to Investment, Best Investment Trust Group 2004 third-party providers.
As part of its long-term Personal Finance and Best Investment Trust contracts with some of its insurance companies, Group 2005 Professional Adviser.
F&C has contractual rights to manage assets resulting from any corporate activity by these clients.
F&C has combined its experience as a manager of closed-end investments with the strong performance While insurance funds are heavily weighted to lowerof F&C Property Asset Management as an investor margin xed interest assets, there are indications in commercial property.
In May 2004, a 170 million that such funds are increasingly looking at areas listed property trust was successfully launched, such as private equity, alternatives and structured ISIS Property Trust 2 Limited.
These areas generate higher fees.
The property trust, F&C Commercial Property Trust merger has strengthened the range of services Limited, commenced in March 2005.
With assets that F&C can deliver to its insurance clients, which in the region of 1 billion, provided largely by now includes hedge funds, fund of hedge funds, Friends Provident, this is the largest launch of derivative-based products and a strong asset-liability its kind in the UK.
20 Friends Provident F&C is also a top-ten manager of European pension outsourcing arrangement with Mellon that was funds with leading positions in the Dutch, Portuguese, announced on 16 November 2004.
They are due Irish and UK markets.
The well-documented pension to move to the Mellon ofces later this year.
short-fall problem in Europe, combined with shifts Following the decision to adopt the F&C corporate in asset allocation towards areas where we can name a project was initiated during the latter part demonstrate strength and depth, offer good growth of 2004 to develop a brand proposition that would opportunities.
Its partnerships with local insurance include a clear statement of F&Cs corporate vision, companies means F&C is well positioned to deliver mission and values.
This exercise involved both fully integrated investment and pension internal and external consultation: it has now been administration services.
nalised and will provide the basis for future activities F&C is a large multi-asset manager but is also aimed at building the F&C reputation.
a specialist in a number of areas.
In particular, its strengths are in xed interest, Governance and F&C Vision Socially Responsible Investment, high alpha UK equities, alternatives hedge funds and private To become Europes partner of choice for equity, and commercial property.
fund mandates represent just 16.5% of F&Cs F&C Mission assets under management across Europe.
We seek to differentiate ourselves by: Building business partnerships with clients, Alternative investments intermediaries and consultants There continues to be increasing interest in Providing them with solutions that deliver superior alternative investments.
In the broadest sense performance and service this includes both private equity and hedge funds and, under some denitions, commercial property.
Combining the benets of centres of excellence and expert local teams Although ISIS had a strong private equity and commercial property presence, the business did We aim to create value for clients, shareholders not have any hedge fund capability.
of the merger, F&C now has strength in each of these high-margin product areas.
Considerable progress has already been made in In our 2003 Annual Report we announced that ISIS raising the prole of the F&C brand.
At the end of had signed heads of agreement to acquire a 15% January 2005 a new advertising campaign was equity stake in Cardinal Capital Partners trading as launched, focusing on a solutions-driven approach.
Cardinal Asset Management, a new business Alongside this, the prole of the business continues focused on alternative investment.
At that time to be raised through high levels of press activity.
ISIS had no in-house hedge fund capability, so the investment in Cardinal was a way of achieving Investment quality is essential to the success of exposure to the segment without disrupting the F&C.
It can be dened in a number of ways, but at existing business.
its most basic means offering products that meet both the needs and expectations of clients in terms A consequence of the merger of ISIS and F&C is that of structures, returns and risk characteristics.
Good the company now has both an in-house alternatives investment performance is paramount.
As a large proposition and a minority stake in, and a preferential asset manager with a diverse range of products relationship with, an external provider.
This provides a across all the major asset classes, there will be some strong base for developing F&Cs proposition in a variability in performance.
Post the merger, products fast-growing market segment.
that were performing well have continued to do so, and there has been an improvement in some areas Merger of weakness.
However, a constant focus on The merger of ISIS Asset Management and F&C improving investment quality is fundamental.
Asset Management was the largest transaction in the global asset management industry in 2004 as well as the most significant in the UK for many years.
Ahead of the transaction F&C issued an integration timetable to its shareholders.
The integration project has a dedicated team and all the separate work streams covering the different aspects of integration will complete their goals during 2005.
All London-based staff transferred to the new headquarters before the end of December, with the exception of those who are part of the operational Source: Cambridge International Partners, The Cambridge Commentary review of 2004 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 21
