Business and Financial Review Debt was more readily available to help The UK and Continental 1 finance buyouts than in the previous year.
Buyout Market This availability of debt, together with the Despite the slowdown in activity caused by large amounts of money held by private the Iraq war early in the year, 2003 turned equity funds, led to strong competition for out to be a strong year for buyouts.
The total the available acquisition opportunities, value of European LBO activity for the year is particularly at the large end of the market.
estimated to amount to 43.5bn compared This has led to high prices being paid for with 40.0bn in 2002.
This high level of quite a number of buyouts during the year.
activity arose for the same reason as in the Private equity investors believe that such high previous two years, namely the strong position levels are justified by the fact that they are financial buyers have relative to their corporate now buying companies at what they believe competitors in acquiring businesses coming to be the low end of the economic cycle and up for sale at a time when the cost of that improved profitability in the future will borrowing is low.
While corporate buyers more than justify the high multiples being towards the end of the year were becoming paid at the present time.
Leverage levels have somewhat more active in the M&A market, also increased in the large transactions as a they were for the most part constrained in result of the increased liquidity in the debt their ability to finance acquisitions by weak markets and also as a result of increasing stock markets and their inability to gear up confidence in the global economic recovery.
their balance sheet in the way that financial buyers can.
Looking forward, while corporate acquirers Private equity funds continue to have billions are starting to become more active and of pounds available to them to finance while there are some signs of activity in the acquisitions and also have access to debt IPO market, ICG believes that, with large capital markets, which, in a more confident amounts of money continuing to be financial environment, are able to provide available to financial buyers, together them with greater amounts of debt to with more confident debt markets and leverage up their acquisitions.
Additionally, continuing low interest rates, buyout the dormant European IPO market has given activity in 2004 will again be good.
the opportunity to financial buyers to acquire companies, particularly former buyouts, which might otherwise have gone to the IPO market.
Last year private equity investors were particularly involved in buying subsidiaries of larger companies, which needed to make disposals, buying companies in secondary buyouts and buying companies as a result of a public to private process.
In 2003, Continental Europe provided 27.7bn of total buyout activity compared with 15.8bn in the UK, which represented the highest value of buyouts ever transacted in Europe in one year.
Intermediate Capital Group 5 Business and Financial Review continued The most active competitors to ICG were the ICG and the European 2 banks operating as one stop shops arranging Mezzanine Market both senior debt and mezzanine as a In 2003 mezzanine was again much in package.
While ICG often works closely with demand from arrangers of European such banks and obtains good mezzanine buyouts with total mezzanine investment opportunities from them, some of these banks of approximately 4bn being at similar occasionally overleverage the transaction and levels to 2002. put in more debt than ICG regards as being The reasons for this high usage were similar appropriate.
There were a number of such to the previous year.
Firstly, there has been deals in 2003 which ICG turned down.
a material increase in the number of larger One U. S. mezzanine fund manager was more buyouts, where mezzanine is more likely to active in the market last year because it had be used.
Secondly, the high yield bond market raised a new larger fund.
In addition a small remained relatively inactive which left the number of independent fund managers raised opportunity for mezzanine to be used in larger new funds during the year which made them buyouts, some of which might otherwise have more competitive in the middle market in used the public bond market.
Thirdly, the market some countries.
ICG believes it continues to for buyouts was competitive in Europe with have a significant competitive advantage over the private equity arrangers competing other mezzanine investors because it has strongly for all the quality buyouts and many more experienced professionals of the consequently they were encouraged to relevant nationality committed to each of the use mezzanine in order to improve their key markets in Europe.
Pricing of mezzanine for the most part held The use of mezzanine in Germany increased up well with IRRs in excess 10% over during the year to 630m, while that in EURIBOR or LIBOR.
The make up of this return France declined to 860m from 1.3bn as has been changing somewhat over the last in the previous year there had been three few years, particularly in the larger particularly large mezzanine transactions.
In these transactions additional In the UK usage of mezzanine increased non cash interest has substituted part of the materially from 430m to 800m.
return which previously was obtained from The uncertainty in the financial markets in the warrants.
Such rolled up interest can be first half of the year reduced the appetite of attractive particularly when there is uncertainty some debt providers and thereby improved about the value of the warrants.
However it is the quality of many of the mezzanine important that such a return is obtained for a opportunities available to ICG.
With improved minimum period of, say, 3 years rather than confidence in the debt markets more being subject to early repayment which inexperienced investors are now showing effectively turns it into a bridge loan.
interest in the mezzanine market.
6 Intermediate Capital Group Repayments Last year loans totalling Overview of the European High The Portfolio 3 4 161m were repaid or prepaid in respect of Yield Bond and Leveraged Loan Markets 12 companies.
These repayments resulted During the year to 31 January 2004, ICG's from trade sales or the refinancing of the portfolio of loans and investments increased European High Yield Bonds The European mezzanine loans with cheaper debt.
by 24% to 1.1bn which is a similar rate high yield bond market experienced a of increase to that in the previous year.
significant upturn compared with the low Provisions It is ICG's policy to make specific The increase arose primarily because of the points of 2001 and 2002, with the CSFB provisions against any loan or investment attractive environment for mezzanine, coupled Western European High Yield Index where, in the opinion of ICG's management, with a relatively low level of repayments for producing a return of 31% compared with the value of that loan or investment has the year.
This was become permanently impaired.
Last year a mainly driven by a significant inflow of new It is ICG's aim to diversify its risk by small number of companies in the portfolio money into the market during the year.
spreading its portfolio on both a continued to suffer from depressed trading There were 62 new transactions in 2003 geographic and sector basis.
At the end of and as a result of this, ICG made significant totalling 16.7 billion compared with 25 the year, ICG's portfolio was spread across provisions against three of these.
The transactions totalling 5.3 billion in 2002.
11 countries in Western Europe, and two amount of gross provisions made totalled A further increase in 2004 is possible, but countries in the Asia Pacific Region.
However, during the year, ICG unlikely to be as dramatic as 2003 as risk Europe, ICG's strongest markets continued made a full recovery 4.8m in respect of a premiums are already tight and not all of the to be in the UK and France, although the loan against which a full provision had money put into the market in 2003 will German portfolio has increased significantly previously been made, and is also writing remain.
We do expect deal flow to continue this year.
The Spanish team, recruited in back a provision of 2.1m in respect of a to be good in 2004, driven by the buy-out 2002, completed their first transaction in company whose financial performance has market and corporate restructurings.
the year and the Scandinavian and Benelux improved considerably and where a part of teams are also being rewarded for their the loan has now been repaid.
The net European Leveraged Loan Market The marketing initiatives with increased deal flow.
charge of specific provisions to the profit European leveraged loan market is, to a and loss account therefore amounted to large extent, driven by private equity activity ICGs portfolio continues to be spread across 19.0m, compared to 17.5m in the which is experiencing growth over the a wide range of sectors and at the end of previous year.
medium term, albeit this growth can be the year it was spread across 27 sectors, with both seasonal and cyclical.
Transaction the largest exposure in any being 13%.
At the end of the year ICG's total provisions volumes were reasonably strong in 2003. amounted to 56.9m in respect of nine Details of the portfolio, including new loans Demand from investors for loans has been loans and investments.
This represents 78% and repayments, may be found on pages 10 high and is expected to continue to be so in of the total cost of these loans and to 13.
2004: not only are institutional investors investments and 5% of the gross loan book.
growing their assets under management, New Loans and Investments During the but banks, after a period of reducing their Shares and Warrants As a result of its year, ICG underwrote or provided a total of balance sheet exposure to the asset class, mezzanine lending activity, ICG holds 652m of mezzanine loans relating to are beginning to rebuild their portfolios.
The unquoted shares and warrants in companies twenty new deals.
consequences are that the secondary market to which it lends and whose value is not is very illiquid and the pressure on leverage ICG was the lead mezzanine investor on included in the balance sheet.
These in buy-outs is marginally upwards.
Primary twelve of the twenty deals completed and investments, which are held in the balance new issuance volumes are expected to be is the agent on sixteen of them.
Fifteen sheet at nominal cost, are valued by the relatively good in 2004. of these deals were in respect of buyouts, Directors at 82m compared to 71m of which two related to public companies at the beginning of the year.
A further three related to acquisition finance and two were in respect of refinancing.
Intermediate Capital Group 7 Business and Financial Review continued Fund Management Borrowings and Shareholders Funds 5 6 7 Loan Facilities At the end of the year, ICGs shareholders At the end of the financial year, ICGs Mezzanine ICG continued to make funds had increased by 106.6m to 322.8m.
borrowings stood at 792m compared to investments on behalf of its Mezzanine 20.6m of this increase came from retained 671m at the end of the previous year.
The Fund 2000 which during the year became profits for the year, while a further 81.7m increase in debt was lower than the growth fully invested utilising its equity of 300m came from the equity issue completed in in the loan portfolio due to the equity issue and bank debt of 80m.
This year a further October 2003 and 4.3m from share options of 82m during the year.
As a result of this new mezzanine fund was raised, the ICG exercised.
Note 18 to the accounts shows equity issue, the company had a gearing level Mezzanine Fund 2003.
This has equity the movements on shareholders funds.
of 2.5:1 times at 31 January 2004, compared commitments of over 650m, which with If the full value of warrants referred to earlier to 3.1:1 at the end of last year and 3.6:1 at bank facilities will enable the fund to be is included, ICGs equity base would have the end of July 2003. geared at least 1:1 times, giving a total increased from 288m at the end of last fund size of up to 1.5bn.
This fund will During the year, the company significantly year to 405m at the end of this year.
take 40% of all relevant European increased its borrowing facilities by mezzanine opportunities, thus increasing securitising part of its portfolio.
This was the underwriting ability of ICG, as well as achieved by selling a portion of each loan significantly increasing its future fund into a separate ring-fenced subsidiary and management income.
raising publicly rated debt to fund this.
The In the year, ICG invested 228m of debt is secured over the assets of the subsidiary mezzanine on behalf of these funds and, but there is no security over assets in any after 56m of repayments, including those other part of the group.
This was completed from earlier fund management arrangements, in June 2003, and raised over 200m of new the amount invested by ICG on behalf of its debt, which will be increasable to over fund management clients at the end of the 300m over time.
This debt, along with the year was 491m.
securitised assets, are included in the groups balance sheet.
The initial costs of the High Yield and Leveraged Loan Fund securitisation are being written off against Management During the year ICG raised a profit over a five year period.
Consequently ICG now manages five different sub-investment During the year the company has also grade structured funds totalling over 1.7bn.
renewed 50m of maturing bank facilities.
The first two CDO funds and Promus I fund are fully invested and, having recently issued At the end of the financial year, ICG had additional notes through a tap issue, Promus II total unutilised facilities available of is now 60% invested and the new loan fund, 225m, compared to 142m at the CDO III, is 82% invested.
8 Intermediate Capital Group Fee Income Total fee income increased by Capital Gains and Provisions Capital gains Results for the year 8 17% to 20.9m for the year.
Underwriting decreased from 33.9m to 26.2m as a fees rose 12% from 7.5m last year to result of the weak market for exiting ICG's results for the year to 31 January 2004 8.4m in the current year as a result of investments.
Payments under the Medium are summarised on page 1 of these higher levels of new business.
Agency fees Term Incentive Scheme relating to capital statements.
Pre-tax profits increased by increased 27% to 1.4m for the year.
Fund gains reduced from 8.8m to 4.8m 21% to 64.6m.
The main driver behind management fees increased from 9.3m because of the lower level of gross capital this increase in pre-tax profits is core last year to 11.1m this year.
Capital gains were realised from income and in particular, net interest managing mezzanine funds amounted to eleven companies of which ten were trade income.
The analysis of core income is 6.9m 2003 - 6.3m including 1.4m of sales or refinancings with the remaining shown in note 3 to the accounts.
carried interest fees, down on last years one being from a sale of quoted shares.
The pre-tax return on average shareholder figure of 2.0m.
Fees from the Gross provisions for the year amounted to funds amounted to 24%.
Profit after tax management of non-mezzanine assets 25.9m, primarily as a result of provisions amounted to 43.6m compared to 35.1m amounted to 4.2m compared to 3.0m against three of our portfolio companies.
Taking into account the release of 6.9m per share amounted to 70.4p compared Expenses Total administrative and of provisions no longer required on two to 59.8p last year.
operating expenses increased by 5.5m to of our loans, net provisions amounted The constituent part of ICG's profit are: 20.0m this year.
Salaries and short term to 19.0m compared with 17.5m in bonuses, the most significant part of ICGs the previous year.
Core Income Core income is the key expenses, increased from 8.2m for the component in ICGs profitability and previous year to 10.9m this year as a consists of net interest income plus fees result of increased staffing levels and costs less related administrative expenses and and a provision for National Insurance on increased by 36% to 62.2m for the issued share options reflecting the substantial financial year.
increase in the share price.
Costs of the Net interest income Net interest income Medium Term Incentive Scheme directly increased by 44% from 42.5m last year to attributable against core income resulting 61.3m.
This increase was unusually high, from the cash receipts of rolled-up interest and reflects the particularly large increase amounted to 2.3m.
in the loan portfolio over the last 18 Non-payroll related costs increased by months together with the increasing use 0.5m to 6.8m.
Overall, total expenses of rolled-up interest in the structure of represent 32% of core income, unchanged mezzanine.
