BUSINESS REVIEW A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITY GROUP eliminates the impact from conversion, the effects of which Results Highlights do not alter the long-term value of shareholders interests in The Group has delivered a good set of results for 2004, as our non UK businesses.
illustrated by the double-digit growth of all the key performance In the Business Review and Financial Review, year-on-year measures shown in the table below.
This is the result of strong comparisons of financial performance are at CER, unless contributions across all regions.
As a result of healthy sales in the UK, the US and Asia, the Group achieved record insurance sales and new business achieved INSURANCE profit NBAP in 2004.
This, together with the significant increase United Kingdom and Europe in contributions from the in-force insurance business and fund Prudential UK and Europe delivered a strong performance in 2004 management operations, drove achieved profits basis operating increasing its market share in the medium to long-term savings profit up 39 per cent on 2003. market excluding collective investments by 2.3 percentage points to 8.9 per cent based on data from the Association of On the modified statutory basis MSB, operating profit was up British Insurers, reflecting not only its brand franchise and 49 per cent on last year.
This reflects a combination of solid year-onfinancial strength but also the significant progress made in year growth in profit in both the insurance and fund management broadening its distribution channels and product range while businesses of 40 per cent and 55 per cent respectively.
maintaining a clear focus on its customers.
Basic earnings per share on an achieved profits basis for the year Total annual premium equivalent APE sales were up 40 per cent after minority interests were 37.2 pence, compared with a restated on 2003 to 817 million, which included 111 million in relation figure of 25.4 pence in 2003.
Following the Rights Issue in October to a substantial annuity transaction with Royal London which was 2004, a restatement of earnings per share is derived and reported concluded in December.
Excluding Royal London, APE sales grew in accordance with the requirement of Financial Reporting 21 per cent to 706 million.
Growth was driven by increased sales of Standard FRS 14. unit-linked bonds up 219 per cent, bulk annuities up 62 per cent, Basic earnings per share, based on total MSB profit for the year individual annuities up 24 per cent and credit life protection after minority interests, were 20.1 pence, up 10.1 pence from products up 224 per cent.
the restated 2003 figure of 10.0 pence.
This increase in new business sales and a new business margin Impact of Currency Movements of 27 per cent led to an increase in new business achieved profit Prudential has a diverse international mix of businesses with a NBAP of 40 per cent to 220 million.
Total achieved profits significant proportion of its profit generated outside the UK.
In basis operating profit increased 25 per cent to 450 million.
preparing the Groups consolidated accounts, results of overseas The increase in profit from the in-force book was partially offset operations are converted at rates of exchange based on the year by experience and assumption changes.
MSB operating profit average, while shareholders funds are converted at year end was 305 million in 2004, an increase of 19 per cent on 2003. rates of exchange.
This was driven principally by increased annuity sales now being written through the shareholder-backed subsidiary, Prudential Changes in exchange rates from year-to-year have an impact Retirement Income Limited PRIL.
on the Groups results when these are converted into pounds sterling for reporting purposes.
In some cases, these exchange New business achieved profit margins, averaged across all rate fluctuations can mask underlying business performance.
products, remained stable at 27 per cent, however individual For example, growth in Asias total MSB operating profit was product performance varied.
Margins on Business to Business 83 per cent at reported rates, compared to 103 per cent at Constant B2B corporate pensions fell from 16 per cent to nine per cent Exchange Rates CER.
This reflects the close relationship between principally as a result of higher proportions of less profitable unitmost Asian currencies and the US dollar and its depreciation linked products, rather than with-profits products being sold in against sterling during the year.
In line with our strategy to develop further our shareholderbacked business, we have sold an increasing volume of both unitConsequently, the Board has for a number of years reviewed linked bonds and protection products.
The increased scale of the the Groups international performance at CER.
This basis RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2004 at 2004 Percentage 2004 2003 Percentage m unless otherwise stated as reported exchange rate change as reported as reported change Annual premium equivalent APE sales 1,846 1,464 26% 1,846 1,557 19% Net investment flows 3,589 2,908 23% 3,589 3,031 18% New business achieved profit NBAP 688 561 23% 688 605 14% NBAP margin 37% 38% 37% 38% Total achieved profits basis operating profit 1,124 807 39% 1,124 861 31% Total modified statutory basis MSB operating profit 603 405 49% 603 424 42% Achieved profits basis shareholders funds 8,596 6,762 27% 8,596 7,005 23% MSB shareholders funds 4,281 3,060 40% 4,281 3,240 32% Continuing operations excluding Jackson Federal Bank JFB and Eggs France business.
In the Business Review and Financial Review, year-on-year comparisons of financial performance are at constant exchange rates CER, unless otherwise stated.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 BUSINESS REVIEW A WORLD OF CONTINUED OPPORTUNITY unit-linked bond business has enabled it to approach a break-even products and with Zurich and Pearl for the distribution of position in terms of NBAP.
Margins on annuities and with-profits individual annuities.
The existing reassurance agreement with products remained in excess of 40 per cent.
As Prudential UK Zurich will be replaced in the second half of 2005 with a direct broadens its product range, the mix of business it expects to write offer arrangement under which advisers of Openwork formerly in the future is likely to lead to some reduction in the overall new Zurich Advice Network will sell Prudentials range of annuity business profit margin.
Prudential UK expects this to be offset by products to their customers on an exclusive basis following the higher new business premiums, a greater proportion of which will Openwork operational launch.
Prudential UK has also entered into a five-year partnership Prudential UK operates through four diversified distribution agreement with St. Jamess Place which becomes effective in channels.
The Intermediaries IFA channel, which accounted for May 2005 and will allow SJP Partners to sell exclusively Prudentials 34 per cent of APE sales in 2004, distributes a range of medium annuity products to their customers.
On 1 March 2005, Barclays to long-term savings products primarily through independent announced its intention to appoint Prudential UK as one of its financial advisers and will include sales generated through nominated product providers as part of the banks multi-tie multi-ties.
The B2B channel, which accounted for 28 per cent approach to distribution to be launched later this year.
of 2004 APE sales, distributes corporate pensions through Prudential UK has maintained leading positions in many of worksite marketing in partnership with consulting actuaries and its core product areas including annuities, corporate pensions benefit consultants.
The Partnerships channel has responsibility and with-profits bonds.
Nearly all of its annuity business is now for developing relationships with banks and other distributors and written through PRIL.
From July 2004, this included maturing accounted for 26 per cent of APE sales in 2004, an increase from pensions from the unit-linked and with-profits funds, the latter six per cent in 2003.
The remaining 12 per cent of APE sales was of which makes up a large proportion of annuity sales.
In addition, generated by the Direct to Customer channel which focuses shareholder capital is used to support the annuity business written primarily on the sale of annuities to individual pension customers, on behalf of other insurers such as the agreements with Zurich although an increasing proportion of this is now being transacted and Pearl.
Prudential UK is one of the few insurers to write bulk through IFAs.
annuity business and, including the Royal London transaction, Independent financial advisers continue to be the principal wrote 158 million APE in 2004, representing a 72 per cent share channel for the distribution of life and pension products for of the market.
This channel is undergoing significant change Prudential UK is a market leader in corporate pensions: in 2004, it with the introduction by the Financial Services Authority FSA of was the provider to 20 per cent of FTSE 350 companies, managing new depolarisation rules leading to the establishment of multi-tie more than 4,000 pension schemes, and it is the market leader in panels.
Over the next few years, Prudential UK expects that a the provision of pension schemes to the UK public sector.
It has significant proportion of IFAs, which previously operated as wholeenhanced its sales process to include automatic enrolment and of-market providers, will move to a panel approach whereby they greater use of worksite marketing to support its position.
distribute the product range of a select number of life companies.
Despite seeing reductions in sales of with-profits bonds across Prudential UK has already been appointed to work with Sesame, the market, Prudential believes that there is still customer demand Millfield, Tenet and Burns-Anderson on the design of their for products offering a smoothed investment return: PruFund, respective multi-tie propositions.
It has been appointed to the a transparent smoothed investment product, was introduced to regulated multi-tie panels for Sesame, Millfield, Burns-Anderson the market in September.
Savers had invested 10 million APE and THINC Destini and has also been appointed as THINC 1 million in PruFund by the year end.
The Prudential Assurance Companys PAC long-term fund Depolarisation is also expected to have an effect on the UK bank remains well capitalised with a free asset ratio of 14.8 per cent distribution market as some banks move to offer their customers on the former regulatory Form 9 basis, without taking account of products from a panel of different providers rather than from a future profits or implicit items.
The with-profits fund delivered a single product provider.
Prudential UK has already seen significant pre-tax return of 13.4 per cent in 2004, compared with a FTSE growth through its partnership agreements with Lloyds TSB and All Share Total Return of 12.8 per cent.
Consequently, Prudential Alliance & Leicester for the distribution of credit life protection UNITED KINGDOM AND EUROPE RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS Percentage m unless otherwise stated 2004 2003 change APE sales 817 584 40% NBAP 220 157 40% NBAP margin 27% 27% Total achieved profits basis operating profit 450 359 25% Total MSB operating profit 305 256 19% Certain investment mandates previously reported as UK Corporate Pensions business are now reported as M&G institutional investment flows.
This gives rise to a restatement of 2003 UK APE sales of 32m from 616m to 584m and 2003 UK NBAP of 9m from 166m to 157m.
06 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 UK announced in February 2005 that total bonus rates were increased New business achieved profit of 156 million was up 18 per cent or maintained on all unitised plans showing that with-profits business on 2003.
This increase reflects a 21 per cent increase in total continues to deliver attractive returns for policyholders when provided sales, partially offset by a shift in product mix towards a higher by a financially strong and well managed fund such as Prudential.
proportion of equity-linked indexed annuity, life and institutional sales and a small impact from economic assumption changes.
Prudential UK has also made a significant investment in its unitlinked offering and this is reflected in the increase in year-on-year Total achieved profits basis operating profit on continuing operations sales and market share.
The Flexible Investment Bond, launched of 303 million was up 75 per cent on 2003.
Total achieved operating late in 2003, and the recently-launched range of protected bonds profit on long-term business of 317 million was up 80 per cent continue to build share in the growing IFA unit-linked bond market.
This reflects an 18 per cent increase in new business achieved profit and an in-force profit of 161 million, which was Throughout the year, Prudential UK has continued to extend more than three times higher than in 2003.
The increase in in-force its product range.
Two risk management products for defined profit primarily reflects an improvement in spread income on fixed benefit pension schemes will widen the solutions available to annuities, lower economic assumption changes and a 28 million pension schemes considering bulk annuity buy-outs.
a healthcare product that links health and fitness to the cost of medical insurance plans, was developed in conjunction with Total MSB operating profit on continuing operations of 182 million Discovery Holdings of South Africa, the market leader in the was up 46 per cent on 2003.
The 53 per cent growth in long-term South African healthcare market and launched in October 2004. business operating profit reflects 169 million higher spread income and record variable annuity fee income due to significant growth in Prudential UK is achieving strong growth, through both new and separate account assets.
In addition, there were two one-off items, existing products, and by developing new distribution opportunities.
a 28 million favourable legal settlement and a positive 8 million Having completed the 200 million cost saving programme, it adjustment arising from the adoption of SOP 03-01 Accounting has maintained a focus on capital management and has achieved and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Non-traditional further cost efficiencies.
This is reflected in Prudential UKs ability Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts.
This adjustment to maintain overall new business margins in 2004. relates to a change in the method of valuing certain liabilities.
Prudential UKs performance reflects the continued impact of In 2004, JNL continued its focus on giving its customers greater its brand, track record of investment performance and financial freedom of choice by enhancing its product portfolio, distribution strength, as well as its successful transition from a with-profits and network and customer service.
direct sales orientated company into a competitive, cost effective organisation.
The successful diversification of its distribution In March, JNL launched its first variable universal life product channels, new distribution agreements and broadened product and in May it introduced Fifth Third Perspective, a variable range place Prudential UK in a strong position to continue to gain annuity product designed exclusively for customers of Fifth Third from developments in the UK market.
Prudential UK expects sales Securities.
In the eight months since launch, sales of this product in 2005 to grow by about 10 per cent from the base established in accounted for more than 65 per cent of JNLs total variable annuity 2004.
This compares with the industry expectation for UK market sales through Fifth Third Securities in 2004.
In October, it added growth of around five per cent for 2005. further investment options to its Perspective II variable annuity product as well as two new optional benefits which customers United States can actively select and pay for.
In 2004, Jackson National Life JNL delivered record sales despite the challenges of low crediting rates offered in the fixed annuity JNL is a top 10 player as measured by net flows in the variable market, relatively flat equity markets during the first nine months annuity market.
Its variable annuity assets grew 36 per cent in of the year and an evolving regulatory environment.
2004 compared to industry growth of 12 per cent and Perspective II was the best selling variable annuity contract in terms of net flows APE sales for the year of 453 million were up 21 per cent on 2003, in the US Source: VARDS.
The rate of take up of the fixed with total retail sales of 368 million, up 12 per cent on 2003. account option continued at normal levels, with 29 per cent of Variable annuity sales growth in 2004 was 15 per cent compared the variable premium going into the fixed account, compared with market growth of three per cent Source: VARDS.
JNL offers a range of variable annuity guarantee benefits for which customers pay.
UNITED STATES RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2004 at 2004 Percentage 2004 2003 Percentage m unless otherwise stated as reported exchange rate change as reported as reported change APE sales 453 374 21% 453 418 8% NBAP 156 132 18% 156 148 5% NBAP margin 34% 35% 34% 35% Total achieved profits basis operating profit 303 173 75% 303 194 56% Total MSB operating profit 182 125 46% 182 140 30% Continuing operations excluding Jackson Federal Bank JFB which was sold in October 2004.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 07 BUSINESS REVIEW A WORLD OF CONTINUED OPPORTUNITY JNLs APE fixed annuity sales of 113 million in 2004 were down The US is the worlds largest medium and long-term savings eight per cent on 2003.
It was ranked the seventh largest provider market.
Although a fragmented market, it contains many profitable of fixed annuities in the US Source: LIMRA.
JNL is a scale player in its chosen segments and its position as a low cost provider gives it an expense advantage Institutional APE sales of 85 million were up 98 per cent on 2003. over competitors.
JNLs distribution proposition is strong: it JNL has taken advantage of attractive issuance opportunities as provides market leading sales support through value-added they have arisen during the year, and will continue to do so in 2005. wholesaling and marketing support.
JNL took a significant step forward in 2004, enhancing its customer The ageing demographics of the US, combined with customers servicing and support function through the reorganisation of its increasing demand for professional advice, increase the potential customer support centres to provide standardised procedures, for profitable growth.
JNL is well positioned to capitalise on this increased operational efficiency and improved customer service.
given its strength among independent broker-dealers through Curian Capital, which provides innovative fee-based separately National Planning Holdings NPH, its independent broker-dealer managed accounts, had net investment flows of 387 million network.
In 2004, NPH increased gross sales by 23 per cent and in the year.
At the end of 2004, 21 months from launch, it had increased agent productivity.
accumulated over US$1 billion 550 million of funds under Following President Bushs State of the Union address and the management.
As the business builds scale, we expect operating items contained in the Presidents proposed 2006 budget, JNL losses to reduce.
anticipates a variety of initiatives to promote further individual A key factor in JNLs continuing success is the strength of choice, greater flexibility and a stronger orientation toward marketits relationship-based distribution model, which is heavily based solutions to savings and retirement.
These proposals will dependent upon achieving the highest levels of customer include personal security accounts, as well as tax-free accounts satisfaction.
In 2004, JNL received two service awards and was for savings and simplified retirement accounts.
one of only eight companies across all sectors to earn a world-class We expect the US market to grow at about four per cent in customer satisfaction award from North Americas Service Quality 2005 and JNL to grow sales at around twice this rate as current Measurement Group.
It also received the highest customer conditions continue to favour companies which have a range of satisfaction by industry award for the financial services industry.
variable and fixed annuity product offerings, a relationship-based In October 2004, JNL completed the sale of Jackson Federal Bank distribution model and award-winning service.
We expect to be JFB to Union Bank of California for 166 million.
JFBs principal able to maintain margins at current levels depending on the mix area of business was banking and commercial real estate lending, of business written.
which no longer aligned with JNLs strategy.
Asia As part of JNLs continued focus on developing its life business, In Asia, APE sales showed solid growth over 2003, up 14 per cent in November it announced the purchase, subject to regulatory to 576 million with particularly high growth rates in India, Korea, approval, of Life Insurance Company of Georgia for 137 million.
Taiwan and China, offset to a certain extent by lower volumes in This acquisition will double the number of JNLs in-force life and Vietnam due to a steadying of the market on the back of four years annuity policies, add scale to its operating platform and expand its of explosive growth following liberalisation and in Japan where we distribution capability.
This will enable JNL to grow its life business are implementing our strategy to focus on more profitable products at a higher return and faster rate than it can achieve organically.
Excluding discontinued lines in Japan, JNL anticipates achieving a minimum internal rate of return after growth over 2003 was 20 per cent.
tax on this transaction of 13 per cent and the capital provided NBAP of 312 million was up 19 per cent on 2003 reflecting from its retained earnings will be returned over a payback period a combination of increased sales and higher product margins.
The planning for the integration of the business APE increased by 14 per cent on 2003.
The NBAP margin was is on track and full integration is anticipated within 12 months 54 per cent, compared to 52 per cent in 2003 due to effective of closing the transaction.
The regulatory approval process is management of country and product mix.
ASIA RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2004 at 2004 Percentage 2004 2003 Percentage m unless otherwise stated as reported exchange rate change as reported as reported change APE sales 576 506 14% 576 555 4% NBAP 312 262 19% 312 291 7% NBAP margin 54% 52% 54% 52% Total achieved profits basis operating profit 381 328 16% 381 365 4% Total MSB operating profit 126 77 64% 126 85 48% Excluding development and Asia regional head office expenses.
08 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 The Asian economies consistently high economic growth rates Chartered Bank SCB in Hong Kong, has proven to be very and favourable demographics, together with the trend to allow effective in enabling Prudential to leverage its top five position greater access to foreign financial services players makes these in a very competitive market while still retaining a strong core markets very attractive.
However, success is not guaranteed: agency channel which produces a higher proportion of regular there are many regulatory, cultural, competitive and organisational premium business.
challenges which favour companies such as Prudential who have a in Singapore the market is competitive and Prudential remains long history and clear commitment to Asia, a track record of delivery focused on profitability rather than pure volume: although new and an operating model enabling them to think internationally and business APE declined by four per cent in 2004, new business act locally.
achieved profit margins increased by five percentage points.
Over the last 10 years, building on its long-standing commitment to Prudentials other long-established market, Malaysia, which the region, Prudential has followed a proven strategy of expanding celebrated its 80th anniversary in 2004 recorded APE sales up geographically, diversifying its distribution, launching innovative, 15 per cent on 2003. customer-focused products and partnering with leading local the Japanese life market remains very challenging and in the institutions.
Today, Prudential has operations in 12 countries and third quarter of 2003 we scaled back our operations to focus is Europes leading life insurer in Asia in terms of market coverage on higher value distribution channels and more profitable and number of top five market positions.
It has an agency force products.
While the operation is now somewhat more efficient of 136,000 that generates around 75 per cent of new business with lower expense levels and has made some progress with with the remainder of new business coming from a variety of establishing new distribution channels, it will take some time to distribution partnerships, including a number of leading banks.
deliver material new business volumes and become a positive The face of Prudence is well-known throughout the region and contributor to Prudential Corporation Asias overall results.
has similar recognition levels to other leading international financial services institutions.
However, in its other North Asian Market, South Korea, Prudential continues to have great success: new business APE This breadth and depth of operations across the region gives growth was 113 per cent in 2004, driven by developing a multiPrudential diversity backed up by collective scale that is a real channel distribution model including a pioneering cable TV home competitive advantage as it can leverage expertise and experience shopping channel, bancassurance, proprietary distribution and a in some countries and apply this elsewhere as appropriate.
It is also strong general agent multi-tied network.
In 2004 we successfully able to take a longer-term view on the development of the region launched a unit-linked insurance product, making Korea the as a whole.
Prudential Corporation Asias consistently impressive 10th Prudential Corporation Asia market to offer these capital NBAP margins illustrate not just the overall attractiveness of the efficient products.
Asian markets, but more specifically our success in maximising long-term value creation while effectively managing risk.
With over five million life insurance customers, Prudential Corporation Asia now has the scale to benefit from more During 2004, the strength of Prudential Corporation Asias standardisation and integration of processes and the introduction business model was illustrated in a number of ways: of common systems platforms.
In 2004, the first step towards when Prudential acquired its life operation in Taiwan in 1999, the a more integrated back office was made with the launch of a first priority was to build distribution scale, and, consequently, regional processing centre, Prudential Services Asia, based in agent numbers grew rapidly.
In 2003 the focus shifted to Malaysias high tech business park Cyberjaya.
broadening the product range and improving profitability In China, Prudentials joint venture with China International by capitalising on being the first life operation in Taiwan to Trust and Investment Corporation CITIC is one of the countrys launch regular premium unit-linked insurance products through leading foreign players and APE growth was 70 per cent last leveraging successes in markets such as Singapore and Malaysia.
CITIC Prudential already operates in three cities, has a During 2004 APE volumes grew significantly by 23 per cent and new Shanghai operation launching in the second quarter of 2005 the proportion of unit-linked sales is 40 per cent, significantly and in February 2005 received additional licences for cities in higher than the industry.
Guangdong province Dongguan and Foshan, and has approval to in India, the ICICI Prudential joint venture continues to grow provide group policies alongside the core individual life products.
very strongly with APE up 127 per cent on 2003.
With ICICIs It is expected that this rapid development will continue as strong local presence and reputation and Prudentials expertise, geographic licensing restrictions ease further.
it is the leading private sector player, well ahead of its nearest The impact of Prudential Corporation Asias focus on capital competitors.
In 2004, the Indian government announced efficiency and its increasing scale can be seen as it is expected its intention to increase the cap on foreign ownership from to become a net contributor of cash to the Group in 2006, whilst 26 per cent to 49 per cent.
While Prudential remains interested continuing to fund high growth rates.
in increasing its stake in the joint venture, the relevant legislation has not yet been put before the Indian Parliament.
We are confident of our ability to grow strongly and profitably in Asia: the opportunities in our newer markets, coupled with the the Hong Kong market has seen some significant changes over the strength of our larger operations, should enable us to accelerate last few years with increasing emphasis on shorter-term single our level of sales growth in 2005.
We expect to be able to maintain premium products sold through bank channels.
Prudentials margin while delivering this growth.
innovative bancassurance model, as applied with Standard PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 09 BUSINESS REVIEW A WORLD OF CONTINUED OPPORTUNITY FUND MANAGEMENT of M&Gs expansion into Germany, Austria and Italy was evident M&G in 2004 with gross fund inflows growing fourfold to 611 million M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund management 433 million, compared with the previous year.
business and has over 126 billion of funds under management, In its institutional businesses, M&G continued to reap the benefits of which 98 billion relates to Prudentials long-term business of its position as a leading innovator in fixed income and private funds.
M&G operates in markets where it has a leading position finance, with gross fund inflows increasing by 50 per cent to and competitive advantage, including retail fund management, 3.9 billion during 2004.
The successful strategy of developing institutional fixed income, pooled life and pension funds, new external business lines with attractive margins, using expertise property and private finance.
We believe, based on data from developed for internal funds, generated increased revenue the Investment Management Association, M&G ranks as the streams, especially in the area of non-correlated assets such as third largest asset manager in the UK.
M&Gs private finance business closed two more In 2004, M&Gs operating profit including performance-related Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs during the year, bringing fees PRF was 136 million, an increase of 53 million on the the total number of CDOs launched since 2001 to six.
Underlying profit, which excludes PRF, increased M&Gs property division, Prudential Property Investment by 57 per cent to 110 million reflecting the strengths of M&Gs Managers PruPIM, which invests primarily on behalf of the diversified business, disciplined cost management and the success Prudential Assurance Company, significantly increased its funds it has had in developing new sources of revenue.
Over the last under management during 2004 and expanded its product offering two years, M&Gs underlying profit has more than doubled even into the retail marketplace with the launch of the M&G Property though the average of the FTSE All Share index in 2004 was at Fund alongside the successful expansion of its unit-linked funds.
PruPIM is one of the largest institutional property fund managers Performance-related fees in 2004 were 26 million, including in the UK with over 14.8 billion invested in the property market.
20 million as a result of several exceptionally profitable realisations Looking forward, we expect M&G to continue to perform strongly by PPM Ventures that are not expected to recur.
M&G also building on its current position.
received 6 million of performance fees for the management of the Prudential Assurance Company long-term and annuity funds, Asia Fund Management which continued to beat their strategic and competitor benchmarks Prudential Corporation Asia manages 22.5 billion funds under during the year.
management, a growth of 24 per cent from 2003, on behalf of the Asian life businesses, funds allocated from elsewhere in the M&G enjoyed a very strong year in terms of sales, with gross Prudential Group to Asia and retail customers funds principally fund inflows up 54 per cent to 5.8 billion.
Net fund inflows were in the form of mutual funds.
Collectively it is one of the regions up 48 per cent to 2 billion.
External funds under management, largest international fund managers and has investment product which represent approximately one quarter of M&Gs total funds funds under management of 7.8 billion.
under management, rose by 19 per cent during the year to 28.7 billion due to a combination of net fund inflows from both Investment flows are from our mutual fund operations in seven retail and institutional clients and market gains on existing funds.
Asian markets and include our 36 per cent share of our joint venture with Bank of China International BOCI in Hong Kong In M&Gs retail businesses, gross fund inflows were a record for Mandatory Provident Fund MPF products and unit trusts.
2 billion in 2004, up 61 per cent on the previous year.
In the UK, M&G maintained its fixed income sales and continued to During 2004 our Japanese mutual fund operation has seen increase fund flows into equity funds on the back of its strong considerable success with net inflows of 1.4 billion, primarily fund performance.
The launch of the M&G Property Fund in driven by marketing US bond funds that leverage the expertise March 2004 provided M&G with an additional asset class for the of PPM America.
retail market and added a significant boost to sales.
The success FUND MANAGEMENT RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2004 at 2004 Percentage 2004 2003 Percentage m unless otherwise stated as reported exchange rate change as reported as reported change M&G: Gross investment flows 5,845 3,797 54% Net investment flows 2,004 1,353 48% Underlying profit before PRF 110 70 57% Total MSB operating profit 136 83 64% Asia Fund Management: Net investment flows 1,198 1,416 15 % 1,198 1,522 21 % Total MSB operating profit 19 11 73% 19 13 46% 10 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 These strong fund inflows from Japan and good results from our mix following growth in its unsecured lending portfolio, the stage Korean asset management business offset the marked decline in in the life cycle of its card and loan books and the increasing Taiwans bond funds assets under management, where industryproportion of personal loans business.
wide concerns over the liquidity of some bond funds unsettled the Egg has 3.1 million customers who are defined as marketable market during the second half of 2004.
As a result, funds under based on their activity levels.
Moving forward, Egg will focus on management in Taiwan reduced by 33 per cent during 2004. growing lending balances and fee income through a mix of both Looking ahead, while our Asian funds division will continue to add acquisition and cross-sales rather than by customer acquisition value to its core internal clients, there are also good opportunities as the key growth metric.
for it to continue to expand its retail customer base.
The operating loss for the discontinued French operation was 37 million reflecting the results up to the date of the BANKING announcement of Eggs intention to withdraw from the Egg market in July 2004.
In 2004, Egg sold its French unsecured Egg is an innovative financial services company, providing a range lending, savings and brokerage portfolios and in early 2005 of banking and financial services products through its internet site.
closed the current account business.
The expected total exit The principal business includes credit cards, deposits, general costs remain unchanged from the 113 million provision insurance and mortgages.
Operating profit from the core UK business was 74 million, Consistent with the intention to focus on its successful UK compared with 73 million in 2003.
This represents a solid result business, Egg has sold its investment business to Fidelity at a considering the increased competition and rising interest rates small loss, which will release approximately 20 million of capital that have impacted the credit card and personal loan markets.
back to its core banking business in 2005.
It has also put Funds Unsecured lending grew strongly by 1.4 billion during 2004 Direct, its investment wrap platform business, up for sale and taking total balances to 6.2 billion as at the end of 2004, up provided for a 17 million impairment charge against the full 30 per cent on last year.
The successful cross-selling of personal carrying value of the underlying assets in Funds Direct.
loans into their credit card customer base has been complemented During 2005, Egg intends to undertake a restructuring of by the MasterCard proposition launched in June, which is proving share capital and reserves with a view to eliminating its profit and popular with Eggs customers and has now achieved almost loss deficit against other reserves including the share premium 140 million in balances.
Overall, Eggs share of the credit card account.
This restructuring will allow the payment of dividends as market had increased to six per cent at the end of 2004. and when sufficient distributable reserves have been generated Income arising from the UK of 497 million grew by 18 per cent and Eggs Board considers it to be in the best interests of the on 2003, with non-interest income providing the majority of the Company and its shareholders.
Margins were under pressure throughout the year from Looking forward, Eggs highly attractive unsecured lending increased competition, especially in the first half, and rising base portfolio represents an opportunity to grow further and deliver rates.
Despite the rising interest rate and competitive landscape, healthy returns.
In addition, it will continue to build on its strong net interest income increased by nine per cent on 2003.
Other relationship with customers and their levels of consideration to income also grew impressively, up 34 per cent to 210 million.
buy other products from Egg, as evidenced by general insurance Record loan disbursements and good card balance growth, with cross-sales in the fourth quarter.
To this end, Egg will look to offer associated revenue from cross-sales of payment protection a broader range of products and services in 2005 and beyond.
insurance, was the main factor.
We expect Egg to finance its own growth without requiring capital Eggs effective cost management and good credit quality also support from the Group.
contributed to the solid results from its UK operation.
It has increased its provision levels to reflect the change in its product EGG RESULTS HIGHLIGHTS Percentage m unless otherwise stated 2004 2003 change Total MSB operating profit : Egg UK 74 73 1% Subsidiaries Associates Joint Ventures 21 4 425 % Others 10 14 29% 43 55 22 % Net interest income 287 263 9% Non-interest income 210 157 34% Continuing operations excluding Eggs France business.
