6 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Operating and financial review Business review The Business review is divided into the following sections: 7 Introduction 7 Group structure 10 Group strategy 10 Keep a relentless focus on improving customer satisfaction 10 Put broadband at the heart of BT 12 Create mobility services and solutions 12 Transform our network for the twenty-first century 13 Achieve competitive advantage through cost leadership 13 Lead the world in network-centric ICT solutions 15 Reinvent our traditional business 16 Motivate our people and live the BT values 17 Research and development and IT support 17 Regulation, competition and prices 23 Relationship with HM Government 23 Legal proceedings Please see cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 141.
All customer numbers are given as at 31 March 2004, unless stated otherwise.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation.
The denition, reconciliation and reasons for disclosing EBITDA are discussed in the Financial review.
7 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Introduction local area network, WAN wide area network and BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an IPVPN internet protocol virtual private network integrated group of businesses that provides voice and services, applications hosting, storage and security data services in the UK and overseas, particularly in services, through to business transformation and Europe, but also in the Americas and the Asia Pacic change management.
British Telecommunications plc is a whollyowned subsidiary of BT Group plc and holds virtually all Governance businesses and assets of the BT group.
BTs policy is to achieve best practice in our standards Our aim is to increase shareholder value through of business integrity in all our operations, in line with service excellence, an effective brand, our large-scale our published statement of business practice The Way networks and our existing customer base, and also We Work.
This includes a commitment to maintaining through innovation in products, services and solutions.
the highest standards of corporate governance These increasingly build on our strengths in ICT throughout the group see Corporate governance.
information and communications technology, broadband, IP internet protocol and solutions.
Corporate social responsibility BT is the UKs largest communications service BT is committed to enhancing its positive impact on provider, by market share, to the residential and society through leadership in CSR corporate social business markets, supplying over 20 million customers responsibility.
In our view, a well managed CSR with a wide range of communications products and programme supports the delivery of strategy and is in services, including voice, data, internet and the best interests of customers, shareholders, multimedia services, and offering a comprehensive employees and the community see Our commitment range of managed and packaged communications to society.
Our core portfolio covers traditional telephony From Oftel to Ofcom products such as calls, analogue digital lines and The UK regulatory environment changed in 2003 private circuits.
New wave revenue generation is when, on 25 July, the Communications Act came into focused on ICT, broadband, mobility and managed force, bringing in a new regulator the Ofce of services.
Communications Ofcom and a new regulatory In the UK wholesale market, we provide network framework.
services and solutions including broadband ADSL See Regulation, competition and prices for more asymmetric digital subscriber line, interconnect, information on Ofcoms duties and powers, and the transit and private circuits to other operators.
serve around 500 communications companies, xed and mobile network operators, and service providers.
Group structure We aim to build complete communications packages Background and work with our customers to help them succeed in Telephone services in almost all of the UK were, until their businesses.
1981, provided by the Post Ofce, which was a Our aim in these markets is to continue to increase government department until 1969, when it was profitable revenues from data and advanced established as a state public corporation.
In 1981, the broadband and internet services, which will further postal and telecommunications services of the Post reduce our dependence on revenues and profit Ofce became the responsibility of two separate generated by traditional xed-line voice services.
corporations, with British Telecommunications under In the year ended 31 March 2004 the 2004 the trading name of British Telecom taking over the financial year, 93% of our revenues were derived from telecommunications business.
As a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984, Outside the UK, we supply managed services and British Telecommunications plc was incorporated in solutions to multi-site organisations worldwide.
Our England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly core target market is the top 10,000 global multi-site owned by the UK Government.
corporations and European multi-site organisations.
In November 1984, the UK Government offered Building on our existing relationships with large multi- 3,012 million ordinary shares 50.2% of the total site organisations in the UK and internationally, we issued ordinary shares to the public.
British Telecom provide global reach and a complete range of ICT shares made their debut on the London Stock solutions and services.
From April 1991, Our extensive global communications network and British Telecommunications plc traded as BT.
strong strategic partnerships enable us to serve In December 1991, the UK Government sold over customers in the key commercial centres of Europe, half its remaining shares in BT, retaining a holding of North America and the Asia Pacic region.
It sold this residual holding in July 1993. this network links more than 270 towns and cities In 1985, Cellnet, the mobile phone operator, was across 19 countries to our UK network, and beyond launched as a joint venture between British Telecom into the Americas and the Asia Pacic region.
and Securicor, which held 40% of the company.
BT Our global communications services portfolio acquired full control of Cellnet now O UK part of 2 ranges from desktop and network equipment and mmO plc by acquiring Securicors minority holding in 2 software, transport and connectivity, managed LAN November 1999.
8 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 In January 2000, BT and AT&T established Concert as and accruing interest at LIBOR, became repayable, in a 50 50 joint venture serving customers around the full, on the IPO initial public offering of Yell.
world and transferred their trans-border assets and In December 2003, BT issued bonds worth operations to Concert.
99 million, maturing in December 2008, which are exchangeable into our 16.6% holding in LG Telecom 2002 restructuring LGT shares.
LGT is a wireless telecommunications During the 2002 financial year, we substantially service provider in the Republic of Korea.
At a 17.5% completed a radical restructuring programme, the key premium to LGTs current share price at the time of elements of which were: issue and a coupon of 0.75%, this was an efficient way & the UKs largest-ever rights issue raising to monetise our shareholding in LGT.
5.9 billion In December 2003, we sold our 7.8% stake in & the demerger of the majority of BTs mobile Inmarsat Ventures a provider of global mobile businesses satellite communication services for a total cash & the disposal of significant non-core businesses and consideration of 67 million.
assets In January 2004, we acquired the UK operations of & the unwind of Concert, BTs joint venture with NSB Retail Systems, a supplier of software products AT&T and services to the retail market for a consideration of & the creation of customer-focused lines of business.
We also became NSBs exclusive This restructuring resulted in a significant distributor in the UK and Ireland.
reduction of our debt levels.
Also in January 2004 we announced an offer for the entire issued, and to be issued, share capital of Demerger of mmO Transcomm plc, at a price of 15.5 pence per share, 2 On 19 November 2001, we completed the demerger valuing the company at 16 million.
Transcomm is one of mmO, comprising what were BTs wholly-owned of the leading providers of data-only wireless services 2 mobile assets in Europe.
In March 2004, the offer was declared wholly unconditional and in April 2004, more than Concert 90% of Transcomms shareholders had accepted the On 1 April 2002, we completed the unwind of Concert.
offer, enabling us compulsorily to purchase the The assets taken back into our ownership have been remaining shares in the company.
rationalised and integrated with our existing operations with the aim of optimising performance of the business How BT operates and simplifying the product set for our customers.
BT consists principally of three lines of business: BT Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services.
Acquisitions and disposals prior to the 2004 BT Retail and BT Wholesale operate almost financial year entirely within the UK, addressing the consumer, major Between the 1999 and 2002 financial years, we made corporate, business and wholesale markets, and offer a a number of significant acquisitions, including a stake broad spectrum of communications products and in J-Phone Communications and Japan Telecom and services.
BT Global Services is BTs managed services control of Viag Interkom in Germany.
and solutions provider, serving the needs of global, During the 2002 financial year, reecting the multi-site corporations and European multi-site change in the groups strategy, we disposed of a organisations.
These three lines of business are number of businesses and assets, including Yell our focused on providing a simple and complete international directories and e-commerce business experience for our customers.
and our stakes in Japan Telecom, J-Phone Communications and Airtel the Spanish wireless operator.
In January 2003, we completed the sale of our 26% stake in Cegetel Groupe SA, the leading alternative xed-line operator in France, to Vivendi Universal for 2.6 billion in cash.
After accounting for goodwill written back from reserves, BT realised a profit of approximately 1.5 billion before an exceptional interest charge of 0.3 billion on closing out xed interest rate swaps.
Also in the 2003 financial year, we disposed of a number of non-core investments, including our stakes in BSkyB, Mediaset, Blu and SmarTone.
Acquisitions and disposals in the 2004 financial year In July 2003, BT received full repayment of loan notes issued by Yell plc, the principal and accrued interest totalling 109 million.
The notes, redeemable in 2013 9 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Our strategy in the major corporate market is to drive Group turnover by customer segment % a continued migration from traditional voice-only year ended 31 March 2004 services to managed ICT solutions.
This enables us to build closer and more integrated relationships with our 22% customers, enabling them to manage their 32% Consumer communications spend more effectively and gain competitive advantage in their markets.
Major corporate In the SME market companies with between one and 500 employees, our strategy is to provide Business business customers with tailored communications products and services that enable them to manage Wholesale UK and global carrier their business more simply and efficiently.
Although we increased the number of BT Business Plan customers, 32% 14% the contraction of the xed-call market and regulationdriven price cuts in our telephony services reduced our traditional turnover.
This reduction was only partially Consumer includes the external turnover of BT Retail from offset by robust and continued turnover growth in new consumer customers.
Overall, in the SME market during the Major corporate includes the external turnover of BT Retail 2004 financial year, revenues reduced by 4% to from major corporate customers, and the external turnover of BT Global Services, excluding the global carrier 2,600 million.
Business includes the external turnover of BT Retail from SME Wholesale customers customers.
In the 2004 financial year, turnover from our wholesale Wholesale includes the external turnover of BT Wholesale and activities totalled 4,002 million, a decline of 3%.
BT Global Services global carrier business.
In the UK, external turnover from BT Wholesale Further analysis of group turnover by customer activities was 3,445 million in the 2004 financial segment and between new wave and traditional year, compared with 3,525 million in the 2003 turnover is provided in the Financial review.
New wave revenues were 361 million, up 54% on the 2003 financial year.
This growth has been achieved Consumer customers through broadband and the provision of tailored As at 31 March 2004, BT had approximately 19 million managed services to UK wholesale customers.
UK consumer customers with more than 20 million In the coming year, our strategic emphasis for residential customer lines exchange line connections.
growth will continue to move from the capital-intensive In the 2004 financial year, consumer revenues declined products of our traditional portfolio to broadband, ICT by 2% to 5,974 million.
Our strategy in the consumer market is to defend and mobility.
traditional revenues and market share vigorously We aim to provide the right solution, be it through innovative service offerings backed by application, service or product, for our wholesale innovative marketing and excellent quality of service, customers in order that we can continue to build our at the same time as driving for new wave revenues, new wave revenues.
particularly in the areas of ICT, broadband and In our global carrier business, revenues were mobility.
557 million in the 2004 financial year, down from Underlying 12 month rolling average revenue per 585 million in the 2003 financial year.
Our global customer household net of mobile termination carrier business customers include other xed-line charges was 268 in the 2004 financial year, telecommunications operators, mobile operators and compared with 271 in the 2003 financial year.
In the consumer market, new wave revenues grew by 135% from 95 million in the 2003 financial year to Report structure 223 million in the 2004 financial year, driven For the purposes of this Business review, we are principally by broadband.
reporting on each of our strategic priorities.
The number of UK consumer DSL digital For financial reporting purposes, we continue to subscriber line lines grew by 132%.
report by line of business see Financial review.
Other businesses Business customers As at 31 March 2004, we held stakes in a number of As at 31 March 2004, we had over one million other businesses, including: business customers worldwide, with more than nine & stakes in three satellite entities Eutelsat, Intelsat million exchange lines.
and New Skies In the 2004 financial year, major corporate & a 16.6% stake in LG Telecom, a mobile cellular revenues increased by 2% to 5,909 million.
The telephone operator in the Republic of Korea increase in new wave turnover of 21% to & an 11.9% stake in StarHub, a xed and mobile 2,452 million was driven by ICT, broadband and by mobility, not only in the UK but also globally.
communications operator and pay-TV operator in Singapore.
10 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Group strategy growth of 177% on the previous year, and our Our strategy is to build long-term partnerships with target is to reach five million by 2006.
With their support, we aim to maximise 2004, we were taking an average of 50,000 orders the potential of our traditional business through a a week.
In total, 2,465 exchanges had been combination of enhanced quality of service, creative upgraded by the end of the 2004 financial year, marketing, innovative pricing and cost efficiency reaching more than 85% of the UKs homes and while pursuing profitable growth by migrating our businesses.
In May 2004, we announced further customers to new wave products and services such as broadband progress.
The number of broadband ICT, broadband, mobility and managed services.
lines increased to 2.45 million, 2,652 exchanges Our strategic priorities are to: had been upgraded and total UK coverage reached & keep a relentless focus on improving customer 90%.
& satisfaction The first step was upgrading to broadband more & put broadband at the heart of BT than 1,100 of our exchanges where there was a & create mobility services and solutions clear commercial case for doing so.
In July 2002, & transform our network for the twenty-first century we introduced a demand-driven registration & achieve competitive advantage through cost scheme, which enabled people in areas where the leadership exchange had not been upgraded to register an & lead the world in network-centric ICT solutions interest.
This hugely successful scheme attracted & reinvent our traditional business more than 860,000 registrations, helping us & motivate our people and live the BT values.
match our investment to demand.
Because the registration scheme gave us such a clear picture of Keep a relentless focus on improving customer demand, we were able to announce in April 2004 satisfaction the speeding up of the delivery of broadband Reducing customer dissatisfaction by 25% a year over services to rural communities.
The scheme is now three years, on a compound annual basis, to the 2005 closed and we intend to roll out broadband to a financial year is a key target in our drive to deliver the further 1,128 exchanges by no later than the highest levels of customer satisfaction.
This will help bring broadband to financial year, we achieved a 22% reduction in exchanges serving 99.6% of UK homes and customer dissatisfaction, based on qualitative businesses.
customer research conducted by external agencies.
& We continue to explore commercially viable ways This follows a 37% reduction in the 2003 financial of bringing wireless broadband to rural year.
In December 2003, for example, we The lines of business all reduced customer launched a trial of wireless broadband at sites dissatisfaction levels during the year.
& We are working to remove barriers to providing The commercial launch of BT DataStream customers with excellent service and to involve all our Symmetric and BT IPStream Symmetric to 150 customer-facing people in improving our service.
exchanges during the year signicantly For example, our retail customer-facing and strengthened our portfolio of business-class support teams participated in the my customer broadband services, which service providers can programme, designed to improve our customers offer their customers.
Based on SDSL symmetric experience and to promote teamworking.
digital subscriber line technology, it provides the Examples of my customer successes include the same rate upstream and downstream and is introduction of a new contact centre structure that suitable for the SME, remote ofce and enables our people to handle more calls at the first teleworking access markets.
& point of contact and enabling engineering and contact In November 2003, we introduced a new, faster centre teams directly to update customer records.
broadband service for wholesale customers.
BT IPStream Home 1000 is a self-install product for Put broadband at the heart of BT residential customers who want greater bandwidth In the 2004 financial year, we continued our drive to than the standard 512Kbit s available at present.
& enhance the awareness, availability and attractiveness In May 2004, we announced that we are to of broadband.
As at 31 March 2004, in the highly redesign and cut the price for our LLU local loop competitive retail market, BTs share of consumer and unbundling product by between 15% and up to business broadband connections in the UK was 42%, 70% in a phased series of price cuts.
that this move will benefit those companies that We aim to be a major player in wholesale are willing to innovate and invest in broadband broadband and data services in the UK.
The new LLU product will be closer to simpler continental European models and we Broadband for wholesale customers aim to bring it to the market within six months.
& In February 2004, ahead of our target, BTs Immediate price cuts should ensure that there is installed base of broadband lines reached two sustainable demand prior to launch and help million.
We achieved the second million lines in potential customers plan ahead with confidence.
As at 31 March 2004, we See Other market reviews.
had 2.2 million broadband lines, which represents 11 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 & We also announced that we will be adjusting the to customers living within approximately price of Datastream products to ensure there are 3.5 kilometres of a broadband-enabled exchange adequate margins between Datastream and around 75% of existing broadband users.
The details will be In March 2004, we launched BT Broadband Basic, announced by the end of May 2004. a simple to use, 0.5Mbit s broadband entry level service, for under 20 a month.
& From March 2004, our broadband advertising BT Wholesale DSL volumes thousands changed to focus on the range of our broadband portfolio a set of broadband products which give the consumer choice.
& In March 2004, we announced a set of broadband products and services for consumers that will be at the heart of our broadband lifestyle strategy, as the priorities in the market switch from access to content, applications, exibility and managed services.
Flexible Bandwidth, which began trials in April 2004, enables users to increase bandwidth up to 2Mbit s temporarily or permanently.
BT Rich Media, launched in April 2004, is a platform that enables content providers to make content easily available to users.
BT Communicator enables consumers to use a home PC for VOIP, Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 instant messaging, text messaging and other 2002 2003 2004 related services.
Trials will begin later this year.
Broadband for business customers & Broadband for consumers In January 2004, we rebranded our business During the year, we focused on improving sales broadband products and business broadband processes, reduced the cost of our broadband helpinformation portal, in order to simplify our offerings.
BT Openworld Broadband products desk operations and increased the number of orders became BT Business Broadband products and our placed online.
We also launched several additions to revamped business information portal became BT our family of products and announced trials and Broadband Ofce.
BT Business Broadband launches of a new set of value-added products and remained the leading ISP for SMEs in the UK.
& at March 2004, we had over 240,000 business In September 2003, BT and Yahoo!
Around 40% of these customers use the Openworld consumer internet service as BT value-added services such as the Internet Security Yahoo!
Broadband, a broadband internet service Pack and the Internet Business Pack.
combining high-quality access and a wide range of & During the financial year, BT Business Broadband content and services, for the same price as the joined forces with a number of companies to existing BT Openworld Broadband offering.
The enhance its networking and value-added services.
service combines high-quality access with These companies include: Siebel e. pages, compelling content and services such as intelligent Worldpay, Interland, learndirect, 2Wire and Lexis personalisation to help understand our customers Nexis.
needs and tailor content accordingly, & As part of our drive to break down perceived LAUNCHcast a personalised radio station, barriers to broadband adoption and to accelerate advanced security services including anti-spam, take-up rates, we offered SME customers savings e-mail anti-virus and a free rewall news, sport and activation deals worth up to 260 during the and entertainment.
& summer of 2003 on a range of broadband In October 2003, we launched a broadband access products BT Business Broadband, 500 PLUS, product for gamers Broadband from BT for 1,000 PLUS and 2,000 PLUS.
& & December 2003 saw the launch of our BT At the end of the 2004 financial year, we were Broadband Voice package, which enables cable connecting around 500 business customers to broadband every day.
broadband customers to make voice calls over the & In April 2004, we announced that we had joined internet.
This was the first move by a major UK forces with Microsoft to launch a one-stop shop IT player into the consumer VOIP voice over IP and broadband solution.
& Complete, featuring Microsoft technology, gives In January 2004, we offered our fastest-ever small businesses access to regularly updated and consumer internet service, a 1Mbit s broadband individually tailored IT software and support service through BT Yahoo!
Broadband and BT previously available only to large companies.
This is twice the speed of ordinary BT Connected & Complete will, for the first time, broadband and up to 20 times faster than provide small businesses with secure broadband traditional dial-up internet.
The service is available 66 87 124 167 277 391 555 800 1,058 1,339 1,753 2,215 12 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 access, applications service, support and in the network increase by 133%.
In February maintenance, all from a single source and on one 2004, we announced a global deal with British bill.
Airways to install Openzone access points in 80 of its main customer lounges around the world.
& Create mobility services and solutions The acquisition of Transcomm in 2004 enhanced Mobility for consumers BTs position in providing remote monitoring and In the consumer mobility market our strategy is to management information services for business build a foundation for the delivery of added-value, customers in the UK.
Remote monitoring enables xed mobile convergent solutions.
the control of electronic devices over long & The launch of BT Mobile Home Plan was a major distances, helping businesses to manage their step back into the mass mobility market and a first assets and risks.
Devices which can be remotely step towards a converged xed mobile service.
BT monitored include: re and burglar alarms, Mobile Home Plan is targeted at families and its vending machines, refrigerators, EPOS electronic features include bundled, xed-price packages of point of sale terminals, parking meters and call minutes, lower line rental and free short calls distribution eets.
Through our BT Redcare home to the family xed line.
The launch was operation, BT is already a leading player in xedsupported by a major advertising campaign.
As at line M2M machine to machine applications in the 31 March 2004, we had over 41,000 contract UK.
This acquisition enhances our M2M service customers for BT Mobile Home Plan and offering by adding wireless capabilities.
BT Mobile Sense, a previous mobile consumer offering.
BT Mobile Home Plan is available Mobility for wholesale customers through bt.
com, BTs direct voice channels and For wholesale customers, we will move towards our over 1,000 retail outlets Carphone Warehouse, strategy in the UK wholesale mobile arena which is to The Link and Phones 4U.
defend our traditional mobility revenues and to grow & In May 2004, we announced plans to launch the new mobility business.
& Project Bluephone the first step towards handset We reached agreement to provide Vodafone UK convergence.
Project Bluephone removes the need with a managed access transmission network in to own more than one phone as customers will be the UK, connecting its base stations to its core able to use a single device that can switch switches.
Vodafone will benefit from simplication seamlessly between xed and mobile networks, of processes including a formalised payment offering a better service with more guaranteed structure as well as access to any new coverage and lower overall costs.
A soft launch, technologies implemented by BT within the fiveinvolving more than 1,000 users, is planned for year term of the contract.
the summer of 2004 and a full launch for later in the year.
Transform our network for the twenty-first century Our UK network today Mobility for business customers In the UK, we have 873 local and trunk processor We are a service provider in the business mobile units, 121.7 million kilometres of copper wire and market and had over 103,000 business connections at 7.3 million kilometres of optical bre.
The network 31 March 2004. services we provide include Frame Relay, ATM BT provides a range of managed mobile services to asynchronous transfer mode and IPVPN, and we have UK and global customers who either outsource their the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
We mobile communications entirely or rely on BT to interconnect with over 100 other operators, as well as provide specic managed services, such as supplier carrying transit trafc between telecommunications management or managed billing for mobility.
& The introduction of BT Mobile Ofce a convergent, multi-access remote and exible Our global reach solution in September 2003 made it possible for In Europe, we own operations in Belgium, France, business customers to access their corporate Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, Spain, Scandinavia and networks via a single, smart log-in application.
We deliver service to our & During the year, we established our position as a customers in Italy through our joint venture, Albacom, major UK provider of public wireless broadband and our applications hosting company, I.
As at 31 March 2004, we had Americas and the Asia Pacic region, we deliver service almost 2,400 Openzone live sites throughout the to our customers through a combination of direct sales UK.
In January 2004, we reached agreement with and services operations and strategic partners.
McDonalds to install Openzone access points in Our network-based services Frame Relay, ATM more than 500 McDonalds restaurants.
We also and IPVPN extend to and across North and South started installing Openzone access points in our America and the Asia Pacic region.
This means that public telephone network.
The target is to have products are delivered seamlessly within and from 4,000 access points throughout the UK by the end Europe to our own locations in the Americas and of summer 2004.
In January 2004, we sponsored delivered locally through interconnect and supply Wireless Broadband Week, which offered seven agreements with regional carriers.
days of free access to BT Openzone and saw trafc 13 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 & & As at 31 March 2004, our agship MPLS multivariable bandwidth giving users the power to protocol label switching product, which was boost temporarily broadband speeds online, launched in 2002, had 1,000 points of presence providing access to premium content such as around the globe and could be accessed from DVD-quality streamed videos or online gaming.
MPLS-based IP virtual digital content management capitalising on private networks are the next generation of data exible bandwidth, we are launching a platform to networks for corporate customers, supporting support the management and distribution of new voice, data and video applications, offering digital content.
enhanced exibility and service performance.
& voice over IP domestic customers will be able to MPLS revenues grew by 102% during the 2004 manage all personal communications from a home financial year.
PC, enabling phone or video calls over broadband Global customer service is provided via service and connections.
network management centres around the world, During the 2004 financial year, we undertook a 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
detailed technical and economic analysis of the options for 21CN deployment.
The 2005 financial year will see Twenty-first century network the initial stages of implementation and live technical As one of our strategic priorities, we are working to trials will begin, prior to investment and deployment create an intelligent, exible and customer-focused decisions being taken.
BTs 21CN is Capital expenditure is expected to rise, but remain designed to support the next generation of services within the groups 3 billion annual target, in the 2005 and revenues for BT and for our wholesale customers, financial year as the group invests in its 21CN while enhancing the customer experience and reducing programme.
costs through greater network intelligence and automation.
Achieve competitive advantage through cost 21CN aims to support the end-to-end leadership transformation of BTs wholesale business and is Our focus on continued operational efficiencies helped designed to deliver tangible benets to our customers reduce overall group operating costs before goodwill businesses.
The multi-service capabilities of 21CN amortisation and exceptional items by 348 million in were rened during a period of consultation with many the 2004 financial year.
Some of the savings in of the leading communications operators in the traditional activities have been re-invested in growing industry, as well as technical and equipment vendors new wave activities.
Looking forward, we have identied additional The phased introduction of the new platform will efficiency savings of over 1 billion which we aim to support communication in a range of formats and achieve over the next three years by focusing on across multiple devices.
21CN will also introduce new reducing the costs of failure, complexity and levels of network simplicity, intelligence and exibility duplication and by working smarter.
For example, we and will aim to support the delivery of new revenuewill continue to use new technology to develop more generating services faster than is currently possible.
cost-effective relationships with our customers.
& This is an innovative, long-term transformation As at 31 March 2004, we had a total of 4.4 million programme which is already delivering benets for our online relationships with customers via bt.
Key developments in the 2004 financial and 1.2 million customers receiving e-bills.
& year included: During the 2004 financial year, we completed our & a programme of industry consultation to help Next Generation Contact Centre programme, rene the networks technical architecture having achieved our three-year target of requirements.
150 million annual savings by 31 March 2004.
& BTs supplier base for next-generation exchange The reduction in the 2004 financial year was equipment to support voice, video and data was 63.6 million.
We also invested 1.5 million hours expanded following comprehensive assessments in training contact centre people and continued to and trials.
rationalise the number of sites down from 104 to & advanced next-generation network component and 41 in the last three financial years.
We invested services trials will enable us to begin to move 45 million in upgrading environmental standards 21CN from the laboratory to the live network over and deploying new systems and technology.
We are driving for cost leadership within the & we continued to eradicate duplication, increase telecoms industry.
Although we currently benchmark efficiency and reduce network operating costs.
For well against many other large European example, our Hands Off Access Network project is telecommunications companies, we remain less helping to improve efficiency by minimising efficient than the best in class in our industry.
We aim manual network intervention and reducing to narrow that gap signicantly over the next three exchange visits.
We expect to launch a range of new commercial broadband services over the next 12 months.
These Lead the world in network-centric ICT solutions include: Our strategy in the ICT market is to establish BT as a global ICT player capable of competing with the 14 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 worlds best in selected growth markets outsourcing: and mental health NHS trusts in a single, secure IP infrastructure: broadband: mobility: managed national system.
These are the markets in A second contract, expected to be worth up to which communication and networking skills are 996 million over ten years, is to design, deliver significant, migration is from our traditional markets, and operate integrated local patient record our brand has value and in which partnerships applications and systems for the whole of the profitably supplement our capability.
The third, worth an estimated 533 million over ICT for business customers seven years, is to procure, integrate and manage As applications such as email and ofce productivity high-speed, broadband networking services for the software are increasingly being networked, networks New National Network for the NHS.
& are increasingly seen as vital to productivity and Capgemini UK chose BT under a ten-year competitive advantage.
sub-contract with a total sales order value of ICT revenues for the 2004 financial year were approximately 364 million as the 2.6 billion, a rise of 19% on the 2003 financial year, telecommunication and WAN supplier for service itself a rise of 8% on the previous year.
We aim to delivery to the Inland Revenue.
& deliver ICT solutions to large business customers and Other significant wins included a six-year contract other organisations particularly in the public and with ITV to create a new multimedia network and government sectors, which give them the a five-year deal with Alliance & Leicester worth communications tools they need for profitability and or 10.5 million to upgrade its existing network business improvement.
& Our larger or more complex and global customer In February 2004, we launched BT Applications contracts are delivered through or managed by our BT Assured Infrastructure AAI, designed to help Global Solutions and BT Syntegra businesses.
BT organisations understand and master the complex Global Solutions portfolio covers a number of key interactions that occur within their ICT-related areas including IP infrastructure, CRM, communications infrastructure from desktop to applications and hosting, and outsourcing.
With AAI, it becomes possible to Syntegra offers business transformation and change guarantee that the performance of our customers management services and is a key player in the global ICT systems supports their business priorities and trading systems market.
BT Global Solutions and enhances their efficiency.
This new proposition BT Syntegra won business worth more than 7 billion combines BTs extensive experience in the during the 2004 financial year.
provision of corporate data networks and hosting with our professional services capability.
& In the first quarter of 2004, BT became the first ICT sales orders billion UK-based company to introduce Siebel CRM years ended 31 March OnDemand to businesses in the UK, enabling SMEs and divisions of larger businesses to 7.0 organise, manage and streamline their sales, marketing and customer service activity through a hosted environment.
Customers can access the service either as an integrated part of BTs existing 4.4 Siebel-based Contract Central CRM portfolio, 3.3 which provides a full multimedia contact centre solution, or as a stand-alone CRM application.
& In May 2004, BT and HP announced plans to develop a strategic alliance to address mutual growth opportunities jointly in the global ICT marketplace.
As a first step, we have signed 2002 2003 2004 managed service agreements with a combined value of US$1.5 billion over the next seven years.
& The highest prole contracts in the year were Under these agreements, HP will manage BTs three NHS contracts which are expected to be mid-range and desktop ICT infrastructure in the worth more than 2.1 billion and form an integral UK, and BT will manage HPs voice and data part of the National Programme for Information network and product support call centres in Technology in the NHS.
These contracts represent Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
some of the largest BT has ever won.
One, worth up to 620 million over ten years is ICT for consumers to design, deliver and manage a national patient & Initiatives under the Home of Possibilities record database and transactional messaging programme aim to bring the benets of service for the NHS Care Records Service.
This will broadband into the home.
BT Home Networking provide all 50 million NHS patients in England with enables customers to connect a number of PCs to an individual electronic care record and connect broadband simultaneously, without wires.
And in more than 30,000 GPs and 270 acute community December 2003, we introduced a broadband- 15 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 enabled entertainment service, in partnership with also continued to offer space in our payphone Phillips, which enables customers to stream online kiosks for mobile antennas, Wi-Fi hotspots and radio stations and download music to any part of CCTV closed-circuit television.
During the 2004 financial year, we launched new & BT Home Computing is a leading provider of calling card products to serve the needs of computing technology in line with the businesses and international travellers, including a Governments Home Computing Initiative virtual card for data-only users.
legislation, which enables companies to provide & The immediate impact of the opening up to employees with the use of computers at rates competition of the directory enquiries market in signicantly below high street prices.
the UK in August 2003 was signicantly to reduce the overall size of the market.
Volumes of calls ICT for wholesale customers have continued to decline since deregulation.
To further our growth strategy, we aim to be the According to the latest gures from Ofcom, calls network ICT supplier and sales channel of choice, to all 118 service providers from the BT network in serving major corporate and government users, and to the April 2004 sample were 23% down on serve SME and consumer end-users, building on our September 2003.
However, since deregulation, existing intermediate and broadband portfolio.
calls to BT Directories 118 services have & We signed wholesale ICT deals including a performed far better than the total market.
Calls contract, estimated at 5.5 million, to provide to 118 500 are 30% up on the level experienced Fibernet, the bespoke network service provider, immediately following the 192 switch-off.
& with a fully managed voice network and a We successfully re-entered the classied managed services contract with Intelliplus Group, directories market with The BT Phone Book.
advertisers have signed up and 116 directories have been published, achieving market Reinvent our traditional business penetration of 5% in the first year.
Our online We face continued challenges in our traditional directory enquiries service, www.
com markets as a result of regulatory intervention, directoryenquiries, is the leading online player in competition and a shift in our customers buying the market, with almost 1.5 million searches patterns, as we provide them with higher-specication, business name, residential and classied a week.
The classied service is currently generating more Private circuit volumes fell, due to the switch into than one million searches a month.
lower-priced partial private circuits as a result of regulatory intervention.
Traditional services for business customers Total xed-to-xed voice call minutes in the UK & During the 2004 financial year, we introduced an market declined by an estimated two percentage enhanced version of BT Business Plan offering a points in the 2004 financial year.
This was driven by ten pence price cap on calls to the US and a customers making use of alternatives such as mobile 20 pence cap on calls to Europe and certain calls, e-mail, instant messaging, corporate IPVPNs and countries in the Asia Pacic region.
reduced the annual spend commitment to 250.
However, call minutes are less important to BT as As at 31 March 2004, BT Business Plan had over customer take-up of pricing packages continues and 175,000 customers, compared with 20,000 as at we actively migrate customers to new wave services 31 March 2003.
Our innovative BT Local Business initiative helped us gain traction in the SME market by building Traditional services for consumers closer relationships with smaller business & The BT Together pricing packages, which offer a customers, who are often more comfortable range of competitive call prices and xed-fee dealing with other small companies rather than pricing options, are an important part of our large corporations.
At the end of the 2004 traditional revenue defence strategy, and had financial year, BT Local Business was active in around nine million customers as at 31 March 73 locations around the country and managing 2004.
During the year, we announced we would 1.1 billion of annual billed turnover.
& abolish the standard rate on 1 July 2004 to give BT remains the largest supplier of public and more value for money.
Existing standard rate managed payphones, strengthening our market customers will move to join those already on BT position during the year by securing a five-year Together Option 1, which will become the deal with BAA to supply traditional and new benchmark for our xed-line call prices.
& We transformed more than 1,300 payphones in UK high streets, shopping centres, airports and Traditional services for wholesale customers stations into internet kiosks, offering internet Our strategy in the UK traditional wholesale market access, e-mail, text messaging and video.
These has been to stem the decline in traditional revenues kiosks give fast access to a range of services, from while seeking areas for revenue growth.
Our traditional news and sport to shopping, games, local maps UK wholesale business has been under pressure from and information about shops and restaurants.
We several directions over the year.
As 77% of our 16 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 traditional revenue is regulated, the impact of shares at a discount under our savings-related share regulatory changes served to reduce UK wholesale option plans.
In the 2004 financial year, 20 million revenues.
The impact of the mobile termination rate was allocated to provide free shares to employees price cuts reduced our external UK wholesale revenue under the ESIP.
Employees outside the UK receive a by 126 million 4% in the year.
The reductions from cash payment equivalent to the value of the shares.
the regulatory network charge control pricing formulae This allocation was linked to corporate performance resulted in weighted average price reductions of measures determined by the Board.
98% of eligible around 7% across the basket of relevant products.
employees participate in one or more of these plans.
New regulatory-driven products, such as carrier Most of our employees are members of the BT pre-selection and wholesale access lines, necessitated Pension Scheme or the BT Retirement Plan, both of investment to create and introduce systems and which are controlled by independent trustees.
The BT processes all of which are at a cost.
However, we Pension Scheme was closed to new members on achieved a 1% increase in our UK external revenues 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are excluding the impact of mobile termination rate cuts.
eligible to join the BT Retirement Plan.
We have further developed our product portfolio, launching products such as wholesale calls and ISDN Listening to our people 30 Service Provider.
We have continued with our cost Our annual employee attitude survey, most recently reduction programmes across the business and conducted in early 2004, gives employees the chance reduced our UK operating cost base by 4% over the to express their opinions about the company, their financial year.
managers and the work they do.
It encourages In May 2004, we announced we will be introducing managers and their teams to work together to a new wholesale calls product for carrier pre-selection implement action plans to address specic issues.
80% CPS operators that will allow them to use BT directly of people participated in the survey and the results for certain calls at a price such that their overall costs showed, for example, that 95% of employees are can be considerably reduced.
This will be developed in committed to our customers and 90% feel that their consultation with Ofcom and the industry, with interim actions align with our brand and people values.
arrangements to be put in place from July 2004.
Employees are informed about our business through a wide range of communications channels, Motivate our people and live the BT values including our online news service, monthly newspaper, Our people regular e-mail bulletins and senior management web As at 31 March 2004, we had a diverse workforce of chats and web cast briengs.
This ensures that key 99,900 people, 91,600 of whom were employed in the messages are available for everyone, with additional UK.
To support our international operations, we information sourced on an as needs basis.
employ 8,300 people in 37 countries outside the UK.
In the UK two main trade unions are recognised by the company.
In continental Europe, we have strong Workforce exibility relationships with the works councils, with which we The changing nature of the markets in which we work closely, both on an operational basis and as operate, our focus on cost leadership and our strategic stakeholders.
investment in new services have impacted the shape of our permanent workforce.
During the 2004 financial Health and safety year, 2,287 people joined BT, natural attrition was We have zero tolerance of workplace accidents and running at 2.5% and, in the UK, 4,514 people left BT have set rigorous targets to effect significant under our voluntary paid leaver package.
During the 2004 The composition of our workforce is regularly financial year, we beat our three-year targets set in reviewed and, at the end of the 2004 financial year, 2000 01.
Over the three years, we have reduced managers and professionals represented 31% of our workplace injuries by 40% and the number of cases of workforce.
occupational ill-health referred to our occupational We supplemented our long-term customer contact health service by 36%.
centre workforce in the UK with an additional workforce of 4.6% outside the UK.
This workforce is Diversity in our workforce under our direction and control.
A work environment that actively supports all our We also instigated a review of our procurement employees is central to BTs culture.
We champion contracts for the employment of temporary and agency equality of opportunity regardless of gender, race, workers.
At 31 March 2004, we were working with ten sexual orientation, disability or age throughout the agencies, with costs for contingency workers agency company.
Internal networks include the Womens and contractors reducing year on year by 17%.
Network gender equality and Kaleidoscope sexual orientation.
Shares and pensions During the 2004 financial year, we were awarded Since privatisation, we have been committed to the platinum standard by Opportunity Now for our providing our employees with a stake in the company.
work on gender equality, the gold standard by Race for Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan Opportunity for our work on race equality, and the ESIP, employees can purchase shares in the company Business in the Community Diversity Award from their pre-tax salaries.
In addition, they can buy recognising our forward-thinking and diverse approach 17 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 to equal opportunities.
We also work closely with the Regulation in the UK Employers Forum on Disability.
It is our policy to be fully compliant with the regulatory framework in which we operate.
During the 2004 Learning and exibility financial year, we reviewed our compliance activities In addition to culture change programmes, such as my because we want to ensure that we continue to meet customer, during the year we spent over 61 million the obligations imposed by the UKs Communications excluding staff and other direct costs on the training Act previously the Telecommunications Act and the and development of our employees.
Competition Act while competing fairly and vigorously We have also increased the emphasis on within the rules.
We have published an annual broadband, e-learning and self-teach opportunities.
compliance report which can be found in our social and This is particularly important as we extend our environment report at www.
At 31 March 2004, we had around 500 job sharers, 5,570 people working Ofcom part time and more than 7,900 people working from The UK regulatory environment changed materially in home.
On 25 July 2003, the Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act came into force, Research and development and IT support bringing in a new regulator, the Ofce of BT Exact is BTs research, technology and IT Communications Ofcom, and a new regulatory operations business.
It offers expertise and experience framework for electronic communications networks and in ICT, backed by a team of over 6,000 technologists services.
Ofcom did not, however, assume its and one of the worlds largest communications regulatory functions until 29 December 2003 and, in research and development facilities.
The work the transitional period, the existing regulators undertaken by BT Exact is part of an investment of continued to carry out Ofcoms functions relating to 334 million in research and development made by BT networks and services, and spectrum.
This compares with Ofcom was set up, as a result of the increasing 380 million and 362 million invested in the 2003 convergence between telecommunications, and 2002 financial years, respectively.
broadcasting and radio, to provide a single, seamless At BT Exacts core are our world-renowned approach to regulation across the whole converging laboratories at Adastral Park near Ipswich, which have marketplace.
It amalgamates the roles of five former been responsible for some of the worlds most regulatory agencies: the Director General of far-reaching advances in telecommunications Telecommunications Oftel, the Independent technology, including the advancement of single-mode Television Commission, the Broadcasting Standards optical bre and of the technology and worldwide Commission, the Radio Authority and the standards behind passenger phones on aircraft and Radiocommunications Agency.
Ofcom is headed by a board consisting of a Brightstar BTs business incubator with the chairman and executive and non-executive members.
goal of commercialising our patent portfolio was Currently, the chairman is Lord Currie and the chief created in January 2000.
In March 2003, BT Exact executive is Stephen Carter.
teamed up with Coller Capital and New Venture The main regulatory changes for providers of Partners NVP to create a new, independent corporate electronic communications networks and services are: & venturing partnership NVP Brightstar.
the regulators ability to impose conditions BT remains a limited partner and NVP Brightstar without agreement & remains closely associated with BT Exact through the possibility of fines being imposed for breach of exclusive rights to continue to spin-out companies regulatory obligations & from its R&D, professional and computing services the availability of appeals against regulatory base.
This venturing unit complements our existing decisions, based on their merits & patent licensing programme, for which we have an the creation of a new regulatory regime which, exclusive long-term arrangement with Silicon Valleyamong other things, implements the requirements based IPValue Management Inc. of the new EU Directives for general authorisations, instead of individual licences, and Regulation, competition and prices bases economic regulation on dominance, or The commercial environment in the UK and in the significant market power SMP.
countries in which BT operates is increasingly competitive and dynamic.
However, we remain subject Ofcoms duties and powers to extensive regulation, particularly in the UK, which Ofcom has a wide range of general and specic duties can materially affect the way in which we carry out our laid down in the Communications Act.
We also use inputs, such as networks and summary of those duties and functions of particular services from other regulated operators, largely outside relevance to BTs activities: the UK, and the availability and price of these inputs & the principal duty to further the interests of may change from time to time, which in turn affects citizens in relation to communications matters our business.
and, secondly, to further the interests of consumers, where appropriate, by promoting competition.
In doing so, Ofcom must secure, 18 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 among other things, the availability in the UK of a Other general obligations wide range of electronic communications services.
Other obligations corresponding to licence conditions & the duty to have regard to the principles under under the old framework now apply directly through which its regulatory activities should be provisions of the Communications Act.
These are: & transparent, accountable, proportionate, payment of administrative charges broadly the consistent and appropriately targeted.
equivalent of licence fees under the old & the duty to review regulatory burdens on a regular framework basis and ensure that they do not involve the & provision of information to Ofcom when required imposition or maintenance of unnecessary to do so.
& the functions of setting conditions of entitlement Conditions applying to BT only see Regulatory conditions, and enforcing those USO universal service obligation conditions conditions see Enforcement.
Ofcoms decisions BT has been designated as the supplier of universal are subject to appeal on the merits see Appeals.
service for the UK excluding the Hull area, where In carrying out its duties, Ofcom must consider Kingston Communications is the designated provider.
promoting competition and the use of effective The services covered by the USO are dened in an self-regulation: encouraging investment and Order issued by the Secretary of State for Trade and innovation: and encouraging the availability and use of Industry.
Our basic obligation is to provide a single high-speed data services including broadband.
narrowband connection to the xed telephone network, but additional USO conditions relate to issues Regulatory conditions such as schemes for consumers with special social Under the new framework, based on 2003 EU needs and the provision of call box services.
Directives, providers are no longer required to obtain Ofcom is to carry out a fundamental review of the licences before offering telecommunications services.
USO with a consultation expected in summer 2004 Individual licences, such as that granted to BT in 1984, and a statement towards the end of the year.
Instead, there is a general aspects of the USO will be reviewed, including schemes authorisation for anybody who wishes to provide for consumers with special social needs, electronic communications networks and services.
disconnections, payphone provision, minimum data Regulation is applied through separate sets of speeds, scope of USO and funding.
conditions made by Ofcom, of which some apply to all relevant communications providers and others are significant market power SMP conditions and market imposed individually on particular providers which, reviews following a review of the relevant markets, are found to The EU Directives on which the regulatory framework have SMP, or which are designated as universal is based require member state national regulatory service providers.
Other general obligations are set authorities in the case of the UK, Ofcom to define out in the Communications Act.
The general and and analyse markets market review and to specic obligations that form BTs regulatory determine whether any communications provider has environment are described below.
SMP, which is aligned with the competition law concept of dominance.
Economic regulation can only Conditions applying to all providers of electronic be imposed following a market review and nding of communications networks or services SMP.
General conditions In markets where Ofcom nds that a provider has The foundation of the new regulatory framework is the SMP, it must impose appropriate additional obligations set of general obligations referred to in the in the form of SMP conditions as specified in the Communications Act as general conditions.
These may include obligations to apply to all providers of electronic communications meet reasonable requests to supply certain services to networks or services, including systemless service other communications providers, not to unduly providers and internet service providers.
These general discriminate, and to notify price changes.
In some conditions are mainly concerned with consumer cases, additional obligations relating to, for example, protection, but also address matters such as general price control and regulatory accounting have also access and interconnection obligations, standards, been, or will be, imposed.
In addition, a Under provisions in the Communications Act, separate condition has been set regulating the conditions of BTs former licence are kept in force as provision of premium rate services.
necessary pending the making of new significant market power conditions following reviews of the Electronic Communications Code conditions relevant markets.
Where market reviews have not yet The Electronic Communications Code deals with been completed in relation to services for which BT powers to carry out streetworks and similar activities was formerly regulated, BT is accordingly still for the purposes of providing networks and its regulated under conditions of the former licence.
application is subject to conditions made by the In the UK, the majority of market reviews have Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
been completed, although some are still in hand, and the local loop unbundling review has only recently commenced see Other market reviews.
The current 19 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 status of the UK market review programme and its input as its downstream competitors.
This Direction implications for and effects on BT are summarised has been continued pending completion of the market below.
review, and margin squeeze tests are likely to appear as regulatory remedies in the event that BT is found to Narrowband market reviews have SMP in broadband access.
Five reviews of narrowband markets were concluded in On 3 April 2003, Oftel began an investigation into November 2003.
In four of these reviews, BT was BTs proposed price change of the IPStream products, found to have SMP in some or all of the markets on the grounds that there might be a margin squeeze concerned, and conditions were imposed accordingly, on the Datastream products regarded by Ofcom as including price controls see Pricing regulation, nonthe upstream product.
We agreed voluntarily to discrimination, publication of charges, terms and reduce the corresponding Datastream prices and, in conditions, and the publication of a Reference Offer May 2004, announced our intention to further adjust in relation to access services.
While many of these the prices to ensure there are adequate margins obligations are similar in scope of application and between Datastream and IPStream Home 500 see severity to those which applied under the old Traditional services for wholesale customers.
regulatory regime, a number of changes have been introduced.
Some of these are favourable to BT.
For Other market reviews example, BT is no longer subject to SMP conditions in Ofcom is conducting a market review of local loop retail international calls made by business customers or unbundling LLU and, in May 2004, published the first in wholesale international services on country routes consultation.
A second will take place during the accounting for 95% of call volumes.
In addition, BT summer, with completion anticipated for December was found not to have SMP in markets for wholesale 2004. unmetered narrowband internet termination.
However, On the mobile front, Oftel concluded a market these reviews also produced some outcomes less review of mobile access and origination in November favourable to BT: for example, Oftels proposal to 2003, and a final statement is awaited from Ofcom on require us to provide digital wholesale line rental the review of mobile voice termination.
Ofcom published a consultation document on financial reporting in April 2004.
This makes proposals Leased lines market review for SMP obligations relating to accounting separation In December 2003, Oftel published its second draft and cost accounting systems across all markets where Leased Lines Market Review LLMR.
Among other SMP designations have been made.
things, this continued the obligation to provide costoriented partial private circuits PPCs as a wholesale SMP apparatus conditions alternative to retail private circuits, or leased lines.
The The Government has made provision in the draft LLMR also required a further effective price Communications Act for Ofcom to review markets for reduction of RPI-7%, to take effect from August 2003. terminal apparatus eg telephones and impose We are working with Ofcom to agree a forward-looking conditions on accounting methods, systems and price control for PPCs.
separation, and to impose price controls in relation to The LLMR included a new requirement to provide hard-wired phones on any provider designated with a wholesale variant of BTs retail ethernet-interface SMP.
Ofcom is considering whether to conduct a leased line services.
We were already in negotiation review of hard-wired telephones.
with wholesale customers for provision of a wholesale product and these commercial negotiations will be Enforcement guided by our regulatory obligations.
The Communications Act sets out the enforcement process to be followed in relation to breaches of Wholesale broadband access market review conditions.
Where a breach is not remedied following The consultation period on this market review closed notication by Ofcom, Ofcom may take legally on 6 February 2004, and the publication of Ofcoms enforceable enforcement action and or impose a final decisions is awaited.
In the consultation penalty of up to 10% of relevant turnover.
In addition, document, Ofcom proposed that BT has SMP in a person who suffers loss or damage as a result of the markets for wholesale broadband origination and breach may, with Ofcoms consent, sue for damages, conveyance, and set out plans to impose a full range of and, in the case of serious and repeated SMP obligations.
contraventions, Ofcom may restrict or suspend the BT is required to pass margin squeeze tests in providers entitlement to provide electronic advance of any price change on some of the wholesale communications networks or services.
products in our broadband portfolio.
Margin squeeze The Communications Act contains similar tests are designed to address a particular risk where a enforcement procedures though with much smaller company with market power upstream is vertically penalties for matters such as non-compliance with a integrated and sells an upstream input both to its own request for information or non-payment of an downstream operation and also to its downstream administrative charge.
The test is to determine whether the company would be profitable in the downstream market if it had to pay the same price for the upstream 20 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Appeals competition from these cable operators.
However, in One of the main features of the new regulatory the 2004 financial year, BT grew its residential framework is that full appeals on the merits are now customer base by 190,000.
Current and future available against regulatory decisions.
Consequently, wholesale line rental arrangements will allow BTs appeals can be made against matters such as: xed-line customers to move PSTN lines to other & SMP, SMP apparatus see above and USO operators which are expected to be the source of more designations competition in future.
& the setting, modication and revocation of Since 2000, we have been required to provide conditions other operators with the use of the lines connecting & enforcement actions, including the imposition of a BTs local exchanges to our customers and to other penalty.
operators to install equipment in our exchanges local Any person affected by a decision may appeal to loop unbundling see Other market reviews.
However, the Tribunal must refer on to the Competition Commission Competition Act for determination any matters in any appeal which In addition to telecommunications industry regulation, relates to price controls.
BT is subject to general competition law.
In an appeal by BT, the Competition Appeal By virtue of provisions in the Competition Act Tribunal has ruled that it was wrong for Oftel to force 1998, UK competition law is in line with European us to supply mobile companies with the private circuits Community law in prohibiting anti-competitive that connect their cell sites to their main networks agreements, concerted practices and the abuse of a more cheaply, on the basis that such circuits were dominant market position.
In the case of electronic interconnection, than we had done historically.
communications, Ofcom has concurrent investigatory and enforcement powers with the Ofce of Fair Competition Trading.
Breach of the relevant prohibitions could lead The competitive environment to fines of up to 10% of relevant turnover in the UK for The UK telecommunications market is fully open and each year of infringement up to a maximum of three highly competitive.
years and or result in claims for damages in the civil Although it is some years since the courts.
A company may also be ordered to cease an Telecommunications Act abolished the monopoly of infringing activity.
There is an independent mechanism the former statutory corporation, British for appeals to the Competition Appeal Tribunal against Telecommunications, obligations placed on BT, decisions under the Competition Act.
including pricing regulation, network access, nonThe Competition Appeal Tribunal is hearing discrimination obligations and the requirement to Freeserves appeal against Ofcoms decision in which provide universal service, are generally more onerous BT was found not to have infringed the prohibition on than for other providers of electronic communications abuse of a dominant position in relation to networks and services.
BT Openworlds consumer broadband products.
Competition and the UK economy Enterprise Act The growth of mobile over the last decade has been a The Enterprise Act 2002 aims to give more major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications independence to the competition authorities, to reform landscape.
Mobile now accounts for approximately insolvency and bankruptcy laws and to tackle trading 30% of the total UK voice minutes.
BTs market share practices that harm consumers.
of the total UK voice market including mobile is The key provisions of the Enterprise Act, including estimated to be approximately 40%.
the new cartel offence and the section on director BTs share of the residential xed-voice market, as disqualification, entered into force on 20 June 2003. measured by the volume of xed-to-xed voice It is now a criminal offence, punishable by minutes, declined to an estimated 70% in the 2004 imprisonment or a ne, or both, to engage in cartel financial year, compared with an estimated 73% in the activity.
In addition, where companies infringe UK or 2003 and 2002 financial years.
CPS has been one of EC competition law, company directors can be the contributors to the loss of share in the xed-voice disqualified from acting as such for a maximum period market.
We estimate that BT had 42% of the market of 15 years.
for business xed-voice calls in the 2004 financial year, compared with an estimated 45% and 49% in the Pricing regulation 2003 and 2002 financial years, respectively.
Fixed network The estimated market shares are based on our We are subject to price controls on our xed network actual minutes, market data provided by Ofcom and services in the UK at two levels: retail and network.
an extrapolation of the historical market trends.
Fixed network competitors are generally not subject to We also estimate that BT has supplied direct price controls, although there are some controls approximately 80% of exchange lines in the UK during on mobile network operators.
the three years under review.
The growth in cable operators networks in the UK Retail price controls has historically had an adverse effect on BTs share of We are subject to two sets of UK retail price controls, the residential market as a result of increasing one on certain public-switched telephony call charges 21 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Price control formula RPI-X Years commencing 1 August 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 a % RPI movement for the relevant period 3.75 1.35 3.32 1.93 1.03 2.89 b Xin price control formula 4.50 4.50 4.50 4.50 1.03 2.89 cd % required reduction in base prices 0.73 3.15 1.09 2.45 0 0 e % reduction in base prices overall 0.73 3.24 1.20 2.50 0.22 0.16 a Annual increase in RPI to previous June b From 1 August 1997, the RPI formula covers the main switched telephone services provided to the lowest 80% of BTs residential customers by bill size c After permitted carry forward of any unused allowance or shortfall from previous years d From 1 August 2002, the RPI formula covers the change in average prices including residential discount packages e Price changes implemented up to March 2004 for all residential customers and exchange line rentals, and one on certain private minus X where X ranges from 7.5% to 13% for circuits.
Each price control is based on a formula services Ofcom considers unlikely to become calculated by reference to the UK Retail Prices Index competitive in the near future: and safeguard cap RPI and a factor, X. controlled ie no increases above RPI during any For services covered by the controls, the weighted relevant year of the overall control period for services average of base prices cannot increase in each year likely to become competitive.
Those services beginning 1 August by more than the annual change in considered fully competitive are not subject to direct RPI minus X.
The current retail price control for publiccharge controls.
Later in 2004, Ofcom will begin a switched telephony, applying from August 2002 to July review of the network charge control to determine 2006, is RPI minus RPI ie the value of X is RPI and what control should apply from 1 October 2005. prices cannot increase.
It is measured on services used by the lowest 80% of our residential customers The main network price caps are listed below: X Factor in classied by bill size.
From August 2002, the services Basket RPI X formula Duration covered by the control were extended to include BTs Call termination 10 30 Sept 2005 share of the revenue for calls to all four mobile Call origination 10 30 Sept 2005 networks, replacing the previous separate control on Tandem layer 13 30 Sept 2005 BT for calls to Vodafone and O.
The price control 2 formula and our performance against the formula are Safeguard cap 0 30 Sept 2005 set out in the table above.
Interconnect specic 8.25 30 Sept 2005 Under the new controls, we have also given an Local exchange FRIACO 7.5 30 Sept 2005 assurance that increases in line rental for business Number portability 5 31 July 2006 customers will be no more than the annual change in RPI.
Under the price controls for private circuits that The number portability charge control runs from applied from August 1997 to July 2001, prices for 1 August 2002 until 31 July 2006.
The charges are domestic analogue and low-speed digital private controlled by a RPI minus X formula, with X set at 5%.
circuits could not increase by more than the change in Under the new regime, General Condition 18 requires the RPI in any year.
For all retail analogue private all providers to offer number portability, among other circuits and 8 Mbit s digital private circuits, we have things, on reasonable terms and for charges to be voluntarily given an assurance to adhere to a RPI 0% cost-orientated.
Ofcom is currently consulting on price cap from 30 June 2003 ie applied proposals for Condition 69A, presently maintaining the retrospectively until 30 June 2006. number portability charge control, to be replaced by a As part of the review of price controls in 2002, BT non-binding undertaking from BT that we will continue was required to provide a cost-based wholesale line to comply with its terms, including the RPI-5 charge rental product to other service providers at a regulated control as though the provision was still operative until price and in a way that does not discriminate between 31 August 2006.
BTs retail business and service providers.
This product BT must publish a notication to Ofcom and other Wholesale Access has been available from BT since operators if we intend to amend existing charges or to 1 September 2002.
Further consultation by Ofcom has offer new services.
Notice periods range from 28 to resulted in an enhanced wholesale access product 90 days for regulated services, depending on the being available from 29 March 2004. degree to which they are judged to be competitive.
Network charge control FRIACO We operate under interconnection agreements with FRIACO at-rate internet access call origination is a most other operators.
The current network charge service that provides at-rate charges for internet control period began on 1 October 2001 and will last dialled access.
On 21 July 2003, Oftel issued a for four years from that date.
It requires us to set Direction on the intelligent network component of the reasonable charges based on long-run incremental FRIACO price that required BT to delete this costs for our standard interconnection services.
component from the charge retrospectively to 1 June Depending on the degree of competition for these 2002.
BT incurred rebate payments in the 2004 services, charges are cap-controlled each year by RPI financial year of around 16 million.
22 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 Wholesale access charge control The availability of cost-oriented access products from The charges for wholesale access services are also regulated incumbents remains an important element of subject to price control.
The charges for the line rental our strategy around the world and we continue to residential and business products, line transfer and press these incumbents, their national regulatory new line installations have been set by Ofcom and are authorities and at EU level for such access.
Their subject to a price control of RPI minus 2%, effective availability varies by country.
from 1 September 2002 for four years.
The control applies to the aggregate of all charges rental, transfer Rest of the world and installation as well as to line transfers separately.
The vast majority of the markets in which we operate We are also under an obligation to notify Ofcom and around the world are regulated, and in the majority of service providers if we intend to amend existing these we have to obtain licences or other charges.
Notice periods range from 28 to 90 days, authorisations and to comply with the conditions of depending on the specic service.
The degree to which these markets are On 28 November 2003 Oftel published its liberalised varies widely: while many are fully open to statement on the xed narrowband wholesale competition, others place restrictions on market exchange line market.
This statement contained new entrants, such as the extent to which foreign obligations on BT to provide business ISDN2 wholesale ownership is permitted, or restrictions on the services line rentals with cost-oriented prices.
We must also which may be provided.
The extent to which the provide residential ISDN2 and ISDN30 wholesale line national incumbent operator is effectively regulated rentals at retail minus prices.
Furthermore, the also varies considerably.
BTs ability to compete fully in wholesale ISDN2 business and ISDN30 products have some countries is therefore constrained.
to be provided in accordance with a functional specication dened by Ofcom.
Ofcom is conducting Other significant changes and issues an investigation into the prices of business ISDN2 Mobile call termination wholesale line rental.
In early 2003, the Competition Commission ruled that mobile termination rates were against the public Non-UK regulation interest and recommended one-off cuts of 15% in real BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the terms before 25 July 2003 and RPI minus X cuts for countries in which we operate or wish to operate.
The the following two years X 15% for Vodafone and O 2 obligations placed on BT and our suppliers continue to and X 14% for T-Mobile and Orange.
be relevant to our business models and have cost There are two types of mobile termination charge.
implications for our end-user services.
These rules are & When a BT xed-line customer makes a call to a generally applied by national regulatory authorities mobile phone, we incur a termination charge operating under a government mandate.
The impact of payable to the mobile operator.
This charge is the decisions of these bodies can have a material incorporated in the cost of the call.
& impact on our business models from time to time.
When a customer of any mobile operator makes a call to another mobile network, this can pass European Union through BTs xed network.
In this case, BT passes The degree to which the European directives have the termination charge on behalf of the calling been implemented varies by country.
While 2004 mobile network to the receiving mobile network.
should see a general move towards the new regime, in Oftel introduced changes to the mobile operators some countries the directives may not be fully licences to implement the one-off 15% cut by 25 July implemented until 2005.
In most, but not all, member 2003 and Ofcom is currently undertaking a market states the primary legislation that will enable the review of mobile termination rates to evaluate what, if introduction of the new regulatory regime is going any, controls should exist going forward.
Ofcoms through, or has been through, the legislative process.
latest proposals seek to implement the Competition The processes of identication of operators with SMP Commissions original findings.
and the subsequent setting of regulatory obligations The financial effect has been to reduce group on those operators are mostly in progress.
The revenues by over 200 million during the 2004 implementation process in Germany is notably behind financial year.
However, payments to mobile operators that in other major member states.
have reduced by exactly the same amount, leaving a BT will not have universal service obligations neutral effect on profits.
outside the UK, although in certain member states we may be required to contribute towards an industry Strategic Review of Telecommunications fund to pay for the cost of meeting universal service During 2004, Ofcom will be carrying out a strategic obligations in those countries.
Any findings that BT has review of the UK telecommunications sector and SMP in any non-UK market are not expected to have a published its first consultation in April 2004.
We are lobbying the European review will be comprehensive, wide ranging and will Commission and other EU bodies with responsibility for assess the options for enhancing value and choice in electronic communications for consistent and timely the UK telecommunications sector while having regard implementation of the new directives and associated to investment and innovation.
be set out in a report to be published before the end of 2004.
23 Operating and financial review BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2004 The review focuses on five fundamental issues, relating We can, however, be required by law to do certain respectively to: the key attributes of a well-functioning things and provide certain services for the UK telecoms market for citizen-consumers: the Government.
General conditions made under the achievement of sustainable competition: the possibility Communications Act 2003 require all providers of of a significant reduction in regulation: incentivising public telephone networks and or publicly available efficient and timely investment in next-generation telephone services, including BT, on the request of and networks: and the relevance of the issue of structural in consultation with the authorities, to make, and if or operational separation of BT.
necessary implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
Funds for liabilities Furthermore, the Civil Contingencies Bill, currently Under conditions relating to the Electronic before Parliament, contains provision enabling Communications Code, an electronic communications obligations to be imposed on providers of public provider which has apparatus on or in the public electronic communications networks, including BT, in highway is required to make financial provision to connection with civil contingency planning.
In addition, cover damage suffered by highway or other relevant the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require authorities, resulting from works carried out by the us to take certain actions in the interests of national communications provider, for the removal of its security and international relations.
network, if necessary, in the event of the liquidation or bankruptcy of the company.
Legal proceedings The conditions require the company to provide The company does not believe that there are any Ofcom annually with a certicate that, in the company pending legal proceedings which would have a material boards opinion, the company has fullled its adverse effect on the financial position or operations of obligations to ensure the availability of the required the group.
Proceedings have been initiated in Italy against 21 defendants, including a former BT employee, in Relationship with HM Government connection with the Italian UMTS auction.
Blu, in The UK Government, collectively, is our largest which BT held a minority interest, participated in that customer, but the provision of services to any one auction process.
The evidential hearings are continuing department or agency of the UK Government does not in Rome.
If the proceedings are successful, BT could comprise a material proportion of our revenues.
Except be held liable, with others, for any damages.
The as described below, the commercial relationship between company has concluded that it would not be BT as a supplier and the UK Government as customer has appropriate to make a provision in respect of any such been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
