08 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The external Intrinsic Creating What we have Our strategic Our 1 2 3 4 5 environment strengths and value for our achieved planning strategic challenges stakeholders over the last process journey threeyears See page 10 See page 12 See page 11 See page 13 1 2 3 4 5 See how risks associated with these factors impact upon our principal risks and strategy The external environment on page 33 Challenges Economy Regulation Households spending power has been squeezed over the past year as the rise in inflation to 3 per cent by the end of 2017 has Key messages Key messages outpaced growth in pay that has remained Given our UK focus, our prospects are closely The UK financial services sector is subdued in a broadly 2-2.5 per cent range over linked to the strength of the UK economy expected to remain highly regulated the year, partly reflecting weak productivity Despite near-term uncertainties about growth.
While inflation is expected to slow, There is increasing clarity on impending the future relationship with the EU, the it is likely to trend towards 2 per cent only regulation with a number of key regulatory UKeconomy is expected to remain resilient gradually through the next three year chapter programmes now agreed or to be finalised in 2018, growing at a similar pace to 2017. of our strategy, and whilst we expect wage in the near future Longer term growth potential is still growth to improve and end the spending expected to be faster than the Eurozone power squeeze, it is uncertain how quickly this Open banking and andsimilar to the US will happen.
Meanwhile, the economy is more customer data reliant than normal on business investment Interest rates are expected to remain low, In January 2018 open banking regulation and exports to drive growth.
with gradual rises beneficial to our savings was implemented in the UK, with the aim of customers and the Group Business investment is likely to have been enabling customers to view their personal impacted by the uncertainty around the UKs financial data in one place.
Customer future trading relationship with the EU but as Overview protection is at the heart of this and other negotiations progress and that relationship upcoming regulations regarding personal As a UK focused financial services provider, our becomes clearer, investment spending should data, with robust data systems and processes prospects are closely aligned to the strength be supported.
Operational impacts of the having been developed to ensure that of and outlook for the UK economy.
In the UKs exit from the EU present risks for some customer data can be transferred securely, and period following the decision to leave the of our customers businesses, although the only once consent has been given.
EU, the UK economy has remained resilient.
UKs continued competitive advantages in Growth has slowed only a little below its trend innovation and high value services, and the Capital regulation rate, unemployment has continued to fall flexible labour market should enable the to a 40-year low, and property prices have The Group continues to monitor and economy to prosper longer term in growing continued to rise slowly.
In the absence of prepare for a number of regulatory capital world markets.
any sudden shocks to business or consumer developments taking effect over the next confidence, this recent resilience is expected few years.
Uncertainty remains around Outlook to continue in 2018 and the next few years.
the implementation and impact of some In common with many other countries, the Barring unexpected sudden shocks regulatory developments, including the biggest uncertainty for longer term growth to consumer or business confidence, finalisation of Basel III, which will be subject is the degree to which productivity growth the near-term outlook for both the UK toEU and UK implementation.
The highly improves from its weak rate of the past decade.
economy and the Group remains relatively capital generative nature of the Group means benign.
Atight labour market and gradual that it remains relatively well-positioned  should over time tomeet any changes arising.
Opportunities underpin quickening wage growth, whilst The economys resilience bodes well for us inflation is expected to start falling through Ring-fencing and our customers.
While interest rates are 2018, the combination gradually ending the From January 2019, the Group and its peers will expected to increase only gradually, the Bank squeeze on households spending power.
have to comply with the ring-fencing regulations of Englands first increase in Bank Rate in over With unemployment remaining close to its introduced by the Financial Services Banking 10 years has benefited savers, many of whom current 40-year lows, Bank Rate is expected Reform Act 2013.
This legislation has been will have dealt with low rates for a prolonged to continue to rise, but only slowly.
House developed in response to the global financial period, and will support banking margins.
prices are expected to rise marginally, with the crisis, with the aim of ensuring that ordinary Inrecent years, low interest rates and our affordability impact of slightly higher interest depositors and other stakeholders, such as low risk approach have been reflected in low rates offset by improving disposable incomes.
shareholders, would be protected in the event and falling levels of impairments against our of a similar crisis occurring in the future.
While The Group is not immune to the challenges lending balances.
this will result in some structural and operational facing the near-term and medium-term Looking ahead, impairments are expected to changes for the Group, our simple business economic outlook, but our UK focus remain at benign levels at an industry level, model and UK focus mean they are likely to be means that the current benign conditions with contributing factors including the slow less onerous than for our major peers.
and resilience of the UK economy will be pace of expected interest rate increases, supportive to the Groups performance unemployment remaining close to its current Other through the delivery of the next chapter our 40-year low, and the benefit of both continuing strategy.
Direct operational impacts from Over the next three years a number of other to support property prices.
Meanwhile, EUexit are also limited.
regulations will be introduced or take effect business confidence has to date held up well in including the effectiveness of competition and the face of global and domestic uncertainties.
customer choice and the deadline for customers Manufacturers and exporters have been aided to claim compensation for mis-soldPPI.
by sterlings depreciation since late 2015, and businesses generally are benefiting from low Given our simple, low risk business model, we debt service costs.
are well placed to meet these requirements and welcome the positive effect that they will have on the industry, its customers, and otherstakeholders.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09 Customer Technology Competition Key messages Key messages Key messages Customer behaviours are changing, with The pace of digital adoption continues to Competition within the UK markets a greater focus on personalised customer surpass expectations and is likely to increase continues to increase experiences and instantly accessible services further in the coming years.
Addressing The competitive landscape is changing customer expectations in this area is key to Evolving demographics and life patterns with new entrants such as FinTechs and future success are changing the financial needs of our tech giants increasing disruption through customers, in particular increasing focus on Cyber security and the protection of innovation, while incumbent banks continue the ability to plan for retirement customer data are increasingly important to re-focus on the UK factors in retaining customer trust Market challenge Market challenge Market challenge The needs and expectations of our customers Our competitive landscape continues to continue to evolve, driven by changing The pace of digital adoption has surpassed evolve.
A number of domestic incumbents demographics and life patterns along with expectations in recent years and this trend is are intensifying their focus on the UK market, increased choice, both in terms of provider likely to accelerate further.
The increasing role of with restructuring phases largely complete.
The increasing use of digital has digital has heightened customer expectations addition, collaboration among non-traditional also reduced brand affinity and loyalty across a for personalisation while transforming the competitors is increasing in order to build number of sectors.
manner in which customers interact with scale and drive efficiency.
New entrants to the financial services as Apple and Google are also posing an As we have seen in a number of other market are increasing disruption through the increasing threat to the financial services industries, incumbents who do not respond innovative use of technology and data, often sector, underpinned by large customer bases, to changing customer preferences and specifically targeting small, profitable niches.
strong brand loyalty, access to significant behaviours are at the greatest risk.
customer data and a focus on delivering great Security and resilience remain important factors, customer experiences.
with the ability to respond to heightened cyber Opportunities and fraud risks key to retaining customer trust in While the extent to which non-traditional Strong customer satisfaction scores a digital environment.
lenders and tech giants will attempt to demonstrate our ability to provide products disintermediate our markets is unclear, and services that our customers value but it intensified competition within our markets Opportunities is imperative that we keep pace with market is likely.
This will place pressure on income and developments in order to maintain relevance As the UKs largest digital bank, further margins across the sector and place with our customer base.
technological improvements are an an increasing focus on innovation.
important enabler of enhancing the customer Our multi-channel offering, including the experience.
The increasing use of intelligent largest branch network and digital bank in Opportunities systems provides an opportunity to respond the UK, enables customers to interact with to customers growing expectations for With customers becoming more empowered us in whichever way they prefer.
In addition, personalisation and relevance, while the as a result of greater choice than ever before, our customer data provides the Group with automation of simple transactions increases we must be responsive to their changing a wealth of information that can be utilised our capacity to focus on complex, value adding expectations and ensure that we continue to to facilitate greater personalisation, while transactions.
In addition, the use of technology offer products and services they value.
These ensuring we meet all of our customers provides organisational benefits in terms of expectations are likely to be increasingly evolving banking and insurance needs.
efficiency, our ability to respond to an evolving influenced by non traditional competitors in operating environment, as well as aiding risk other industries as they continue to the raise Outlook taking decisions and mitigating fraud.
Changes to customer expectations and Our leading cost position, combined with our behaviour, demographics and life patterns Outlook simple business model, provides us with the mean that we cannot be complacent.
While operational flexibility to compete effectively.
Building upon our strong starting position, we we have a number of competitive advantages However, we must go further to respond to have a unique opportunity to further enhance in the current environment, including our these threats.
the customer experience and improve differentiated multi-channel and multi-brand operational efficiency through the use of propositions, securing and enhancing the technology.
In doing this, we must ensure that Outlook relationships with our customers will be we continue to respond to innovation and paramount to our future success While greater competition increases choice for meet the needs of our diverse customer base consumers and reinforces the need to further whilst ensuring system resilience and security.
improve the customer experience, the breadth of our multi-brand offering along with our efficiency and customer satisfaction means we start from a position of strength.
