26 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Environment A sustainable and responsible approach is integral to how we operate help them embrace sustainability.
In 2016, we We need to use scarce natural launched an innovative 1 billion Green Loan resources more sustainably, Initiative to incentivise commercial real estate manage our environmental to become more energy efficient and this year exceeded our target to help 2 million square impacts and support our feet of real estate.
customers by financing At the end of 2017, our UK team had financed opportunities created by the renewable projects with a combined capacity of over 2.75GW 2016: 1.78GW and transition to a low carbon internationally our existing investments in economy.
In 2017 Lloyds Bank played an important Key issues for our stakeholders part in Macquaries acquisition of the Green The impact of climate risks Investment Bank now Green Investment Managing environmental impacts Group, providing financing for a significant Delivering the science-based carbon portfolio of operational offshore wind farms reduction and climate resilience targets set including Sheringham Shoal, Gwynt y Mor, out in the Paris Agreement will have significant RhylFlats and projects in construction, structural implications for the economy and including Galloper and Rampion offshore the businesses and communities we serve.
Together the projects have a total That is why we are evolving our Group-wide capacity of approximately 2.4GW, which is sustainability strategy.
HELPING enough to power over 1.7 million homes and they will support a significant number of jobs This year, our overall carbon emissions were INCENTIVISE 292,848 of CO e, a decrease of 14per cent across the UK through the supply chain and 2 maintenance of the wind farms.
year-on-year and of 48per cent against our GREEN REAL 2009 baseline.
This is mainly attributable to the reduction in consumption of gas ESTATE The impact of climate risk and electricity, which make up the largest We welcome the recommendations of Were incentivising Unibail-Rodamco, proportion of our emissions, as a result of our the Financial Stability Board Taskforce on Europes largest commercial real estate extensive energy management programme.
In Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD business, to become more environmentally 2017, we also reduced the CO e related to our 2 and have mapped our approach to them.
We sustainable by linking the margin on their business travel by promoting our No Travel are developing a strategy and implementing five year 650 million revolving credit facility Week, encouraging travel alternatives and the processes to: to green key performance indicators.
The successful roll out of WebEx, Group-wide.
interest margins set through this innovative Assess the materiality of climate risk across Read more about our emissions in refinancing deal, will take into account the our business the Directors report on page 83 Unibail-Rodamcos performance against KPIs Identify and define a range of scenarios, based on its own Sustainability Vision and including relevant physical and transition risk Supporting the low carbon economy Better Places 2030strategies.
We are helping more of our commercial clients Evaluate the business impacts to understand and manage their sustainability Identify potential responses to manage the risks and we complete an environmental risk risks and opportunities assessment at the start of every new client We will address a number of these and will relationship.
We are currently exploring ways disclose further information on our work in this to build sustainability considerations into our important area.
policies and risk management processes.
We offer customers products and services that CO e emissions 2 1,2 1,2 Oct 16 - Sept 17 Oct 15 - Sept 16 Oct 14 - Sept 15 Total CO e 292,848 340,382 395,543 2 Total Scope 1 52,160 53,026 58,851 Total Scope 2 166,617 202,414 239,709 Total Scope 3 74,071 84,943 96,983 1 Restated 2014 2015 and 2015 2016 emissions data to improve the accuracy of reporting, using actual data to replace estimates.
2 Restated all historic years to reflect improved methodology in assigning road travel between reporting scopes.
Emissions in tonnes CO e in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard 2004.
We are in the process of transitioning to 2 the revised Scope 2 guidance.
Criteria used to measure and report Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions is provided in the Lloyds Banking Group Reporting Criteria statement available online at www.
Scope 1 emissions include mobile and stationary combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using a location based methodology, as set out by the GHG Protocol.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2017 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloittes 2017 assurance statement and the 2017 Reporting Criteria are available online at www.
com rbdownloads Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Our climate related financial disclosures Our strategy the development and implementation of a Metrics and targets In 2017, we reviewed how we integrate comprehensive environmental sustainability We are working to develop strategic environmental sustainability into our strategy strategy.
Discussions involving these commitments and targets in response to and risk management processes, taking Committees and the Commercial Banking climate-related risks and opportunities, with advice from external advisors and working leadership team were held in 2017 to start different parts of the business feeding into with all parts of the business to understand to examine the strategic implications this target setting process.
This builds on our work already in plan and where we need to do of environmental challenges, including work to reduce the environmental impact of more.
Weare committed to supporting the climatechange.
transition to a low carbon economy through Our target is to reduce our overall CO e Risk management 2 our financial products and services, including by 60per cent by 2030 and 80per cent by The Sustainability Committee will oversee renewable energy services.
2050, in line with the UKs emission reduction the assessment of our climate-related risks, targets.
This follows a science-based target escalating to the Responsible Business Governance of climate change setting methodology.
As part of our Green Committee and the Board Risk Committee as The Responsible Business Committee, a Loan Initiative, our target is to fund 5million appropriate.
Our divisions are each exposed sub-committee of the Board, will take overall square feet of commercial real estate to to different levels of climate risk.
For example, responsibility for the Groups climate-related become more energy efficient by 2020, the as a large home insurer, weareaware that impacts and risks from 2018.
It is chaired by equivalent of five London Shards.
We have global warming is projected to increase an Independent Director, Sara Weller, and set a new target to help provide power for the risk of flooding and consequently meets regularly throughout the year.
We have 5 million homes through our investment in weather-related insurance claims.
It is refocused our executive-level Responsible renewable energy by 2020. important that we continue to work with our Business Management Committee to customers, industry peers and government We will also consider the supplementary become our Sustainability Committee and to ensure this risk is minimised and mitigated industry specific recommendations for the will ensure that colleagues with operational tokeep flood insuranceaffordable.
responsibilities across the Groups key You can read more about environmental divisions are actively involved in risk management on page 133 Non-financial information statement We aim to comply with the new Non-Financial Reporting requirements contained in sections 414CA and 414CB of the Companies Act 2006.
The below table, and information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on key non-financial matters.
This builds on existing reporting that we already do under the following frameworks: CDP, Global Reporting Initiative, Guidance on the Strategic Report UK Financial Reporting Council, UN Global Compact, UN Sustainable Development Goals and UN Guiding Principles.
Reporting requirement Policies and standards which govern our approach Risk management and additional information Environmental Environmental statement Environment, pages 2627 Environmental risk management, matters page 133 1 Employees Ethics and Responsible Business Policy Equality, inclusion and diversity, page 21 Board Diversity Policy, page 72 Ethical Policy Statement Health, safety and wellbeing, page 22 People risk, page 136 1 Colleague Policy Learning and development, page 22 Governance risk, page 150 Code of Responsibility Responsible conduct and culture, page 24 1 Health and Safety Policy Diversity, skills and composition, page58 Human rights Human Rights Policy statement Human rights, page 22 1 Colleague Policy Responsible and ethical lending, page 24 1 Pre-Employment vetting standards Working with suppliers, page 25 1 Data Privacy Policy Anti-Slavery and Trafficking Statement Information and Cyber Security Policy 1 Social matters Volunteering standards Helping communities, page 19 Communities, page 25 1 Matched giving guidelines 1 Anti-corruption Anti-bribery Policy Customer privacy and data security, page 23 and anti-bribery Anti-bribery policy statement Responsible conduct and culture, page 24 Anti-money laundering and counter Operational risk, page 135 1 terrorist financing Policy 1 Fraud Risk Management Policy 2 Policy embedding, due diligence and outcomes Risk overview, pages 3233 Risk management, pages 107156 Description of principal risks and impact of Direct and indirect economic contribution, External environment, pages 89 businessactivity page 24 Creating value for our stakeholders, Addressing the issues that matter most, page 21 page 11 Risk overview, pages 3233 Principal risks, pages 3437 Description of the business model Our business model, pages 1011 Our next chapter, page 14 Non-financial key performance indicators Key performance indicators, page 7 Running a responsible business, What we have achieved over the past pages 2125 three years, page 12 Environment, pages 2627 Helping Britain Prosper, pages 1920 Doing business responsibly, page 18 1 Certain Group Policies and internal standards and guidelines are not published externally.
2 The policies mentioned above form part of the Groups Policy Framework which is founded on key risk management principles.
The policies which underpin the principles define mandatory requirements for risk management.
Robust processes and controls to identify and report policy outcomes are in place and were followed in 2017.
