Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: People People Industrial relations and Managing change Employee Communications As highlighted in Our People and Culture we have continued to make progress towards Barclays has a long-standing partnership Barclays regularly updates employees on the approach to industrial relations and we value financial and economic factors affecting the increasing the diversity of our workforce underpinned by an inclusive culture and the relationships we have with over 14 trade Companys performance and the delivery of unions, works councils and staff associations the strategy through Group CEO and senior engaged employees.
Below provides an overview of some of the programmes, globally.
Within the UK we have a formal leader communications, line manager briefing partnership with Unite which has been in packs, interviews and talking points initiatives and ways in which we are supporting our colleagues, which in turn place for over 17 years.
Following joint review, distributed to employees every quarter in the partnership agreement was extended in accordance with our financial reporting enables us to support our customers, clients and the community.
We hold a variety of events for review, Unite recognition was extended to employees to hear directly from the Group Early careers and apprenticeships cover an additional 1,500 employees.
Executive Committee and employees are kept Throughout 2017, we have continued to have regularly informed about what is happening in Our Early Careers offering includes graduate, internship and apprenticeship programmes.
In regular and constructive dialogue with their area and across Barclays through employee representatives and employees on a engagement initiatives and communications.
2017 we hired over 780 interns and 675 graduates, and since 2012 we have created wide range of topics.
Earlier this year, as part Campaigns and colleague stories throughout of our implementation of structural reform, the year highlight our Citizenship work and over 3,400 apprenticeships.
We provide pathways for progression from apprentice to we consulted with Unite and employee forums how we are supporting our customers, clients on the successful transfer of c. 53,000 and colleagues.
graduate supported by recognised qualifications and, in doing so, help to create employees to new legal employing entities.
We seek to avoid compulsory redundancies where Diversity and Inclusion an internal talent pipeline.
During 2017, we launched a new graduate programme across a possible and try to find ways in which we can We aim to ensure that employees of all achieve this during the consultation period.
backgrounds are treated equally and have the number of our business areas to attract the workforce of the future, and within We continue to place significant emphasis on opportunity to be successful.
Our global Technology and Barclays UK we increased the voluntary redundancy programmes as well as Diversity and Inclusion D&I strategy sets number of opportunities for both interns and internal redeployment through our Internals objectives, initiatives and plans across five graduates.
We also aim to keep in core pillars: Gender, LGBT, Disability, touch with former colleagues through the Multicultural and Multigenerational, in Internal Mobility Barclays Global Alumni Programme.
Our approach to By supporting internal mobility across Barclays building an inclusive work environment is and making it simple and easy for colleagues Performance Management focused on upskilling our leadership and we to move internally, we hope to successfully Barclays approach to performance provide a range of development opportunities retain and develop our internal talent.
We have management is key to the delivery of our including our Unconscious Bias Training developed multiple tools and resources for strategy and to drive a values-based culture.
which has been delivered to over 10,000 colleagues to find internal career opportunities Colleagues align their objectives what they leaders across Barclays, and Dynamic Working and for managers to find and assess suitable will deliver to business and team goals to line manager clinics which have been internal candidates.
In 2017 our rate of support our strategy and good customer attended by over 4,000 leaders.
internal hiring was 40%, a reduction on 2016, outcomes.
Behavioural expectations how which can be attributed to factors including a they will achieve their objectives are set in the LGBT strategic move to hire externally for specific context of our values.
Our global recognition An inclusive culture that enables colleagues to skill sets, particularly within Technology, and a programme provides colleagues the bring their whole selves to work is built on focus on converting temporary staff into opportunity to recognise the achievements of having leadership participation and visible role permanent roles.
those who have demonstrated our values.
Now in its third year, our Spectrum continue to see a year on year increase in the Allies campaign has identified over 8,000 Leadership and Learning number of colleagues receiving a values leaders globally who have pledged to In 2017, a consistent Barclays Leadership Thank You message, with over 210,000 challenge homophobia, biphobia and Capability framework launched across the messages sent in 2017. transphobia in the workplace and provide organisation.
Our leadership and learning support to LGBT colleagues.
Through the Colleagues are also encouraged to be involved solutions are underpinned by this framework Your View survey we provide colleagues with with the Companys performance by and our values.
The Barclays Academies and the opportunity to identify as being LGBT, with participating in our all-employee share plans, our Global Curriculum provide colleagues with 7% of colleagues identifying as LGBT in 2017. which have been running successfully for over This year was the fourth consecutive year that face-to-face, virtual and self-managed 10 years.
Further details of our approach to development resources.
All new joiners Barclays supported Pride in London as the remuneration are included in the headline sponsor.
The #lovehappenshere undertake the Being Barclays induction, Remuneration Report pages 93 and 116. providing an in-depth understanding of the theme reached over 3 million people across multiple communications channels and across values and expected behaviours through the Global Code of Conduct The Barclays Way.
the UK over 1,000 Barclays colleagues participated in regional Pride events across the UK.
Independent recognition reflects the progress we are making and the impact of our strategy.
For the fifth consecutive year, Stonewall has recognised Barclays as one of only 12 Top Global Employers.
The Human Rights Campaign has awarded Barclays with 100% on their corporate equity index.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 89 Governance: People People The multicultural profile of the organisation Disability Multicultural Under the UK Governments Department of During 2017, the Embracing Us campaign was was acknowledged externally by the City of London and the Social Mobility Commission Work and Pensions Disability Confident launched in celebration of World Cultural Day, scheme, Barclays has been recognised as a aiming to challenge global stereotypes and through the Social Mobility Employer Index as a Top 50 Employer in 2017.
Disability Confident Leader for our efforts to mind-sets in relation to nationality, faith, support those who have a disability.
This year, ethnicity, race and language.
During the Multicultural alongside PwC, we have further scaled the campaign our multicultural network, Embrace, This is Me in the City initiative along with the engaged over 15,000 colleagues through % UK Lord Mayor of the City of London.
The This Is multiple communications channels, leadership 32 Me mental health and wellbeing campaign forums and Being Colour Brave development 29 now includes over 280 organisations across workshops.
Barclays Apprenticeship % US London who have pledged to focus on Programme reflects our commitment to 49 eliminating the stigma associated with mental recruit a diverse workforce.
Since the 47 health in their workplace over 1 million programme launched, we have focused on % Global employees collectively.
In 2018, through recruiting those who are NEET Not in 50 these partnerships, we plan to expand This is Education, Employment or Training.
Continuing our our apprentices identify as Black, Asian and commitment to increase employment of those Minority Ethnic, 8% points higher than the Above shows the percentage of underrepresented populations that make up our global and regional populations.
with a disability or mental health condition, national apprenticeship average.
In addition, Underrepresented populations are defined regionally to ensure this year we expanded our Able to Enable 46% of our apprentices are female and 8% inclusion of all groups in the workplace.
For the purposes of internship in the UK.
This 13 week paid identify as a person with a disability.
Through comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays Africa Group Limited headcount.
UK includes Asian, Mixed, Black, Other and programme is aimed at recruiting talented this scheme we are making a positive impact Non-Disclosed and US includes Hispanic Latino, Asian, Mixed, individuals of all ages with a background of on youth unemployment and social mobility.
mental health conditions, providing them with opportunities to gain work experience, learn Permanent Employees by region new skills and grow their experience and confidence.
As at 31 December 2017 2016 2015 United Kingdom 48,700 46,400 49,000 Multigenerational Continental Europe and Middle East 3,600 4,700 7,400 Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to Americas 10,400 9,700 10,600 colleagues at every life stage.
It addresses the Asia Pacific 17,200 15,700 18,800 diverse needs of a workforce comprised of five Africa 42,800 43,600 generations, by encouraging the integration of Total 79,900 119,300 129,400 personal and professional responsibilities through smarter work patterns.
The campaign is having a positive impact on colleague engagement with the 59% of colleagues Gender Pay Gap Disclosure The difference between the gender pay gap actively working dynamically in 2017 reporting The gender pay gap measures the difference and Equal Pay can be illustrated by the fact 5% points higher than the Group sustainable between the average male pay and the that men and women who are paid equally engagement result.
Dynamic Working is also average female pay as a proportion of the for the same or similar roles, can still generate enabling Barclays to have a positive impact on average male pay.
For example, average male a gender pay gap driven by the relative the retention of diverse talent, examples pay of 100 per hour and average female pay proportions of men and women across the include a 13% improvement in maternity of 85 per hour would indicate a gender pay organisation.
This is illustrated in graphic B. returners retained after 12 months, and 95% gap of 15%.
The calculation does not take into of those taking Shared Parental Leave are Our gender pay gap results shown in graphic consideration the role that an employee fathers.
C reflect the distribution of men and women performs or the seniority of the employee.
As between corporate grades within Barclays.
Addressing the changing needs of a a result, gender pay gaps are often driven by As illustrated in graphic A, the percentage of multigenerational workforce will be an higher proportions of women than men in women in our more senior corporate grades ongoing focus in 2018 but we are pleased that more junior, lower paid roles and fewer is lower than the percentage of women at Working Families UK has recognised Barclays women than men in senior, more highly paid Barclays overall.
This correlates with the as one of the top 10 Employers for Working roles.
ordinary pay quartile data in graphic C, in Families in 2017. which the entire population is arranged in Equal Pay legislation in the UK specifically relates to an employees role, making it order of ordinary pay fixed pay, from lowest Multigenerational to highest, and then divided into four equal unlawful for an employer to pay individuals % 69 Veterans Traditionalists differently for performing the same or similar sub-populations.
The numbers of male and 2017 H2 0.03 female employees in each sub-population is work.
This right for women and men to 2016 H2 0.03 receive the same pay for the same, or similar then expressed as a proportion.
The ordinary % 51 to 69 Baby Boomers pay quartiles reflect the high proportions of work, or work of equal value, has been a 14 requirement under UK law since 1970.
Paying women in more junior, lower paid roles 14 particularly evident in Barclays UK within the our colleagues fairly and equitably relative to % 39 to 51 Generation X their role, skill, experience and performance is retail branch network and the high 22 proportions of men in senior, highly paid roles central to our global reward structures and 23 benefits policies, which are reviewed regularly particularly evident in Barclays International.
% 20 to 39 Generation Y to ensure that there is no unfair bias in how 62 employees are paid.
At Barclays we are 62 confident that men and women across our % 20 and Below Millennial organisation are paid equally for doing the 0.06 same job.
0.07 For the purpose of comparability 2016 figures exclude Barclays Africa Group Limited headcount.
90 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Graphic A Graphic B Illustrative example of the difference between the gender pay gap and equal pay Female representation Greater proportion of men in highly paid roles, % female staff all grades more women than men in lower paid roles: 2017 H2 47 2016 H2 48 % female analysts B1B4 Role A 58 100k 57 Equal pay All roles paid % female Assistant Vice Presidents equally 36 36 Role B % female Vice Presidents 30k 33 33 % female Directors Gender 26 pay gap 48.8% 25 Average 86k 44k % female Managing Directors 15 14 Equal proportion of men and women in highly paid roles, For the purposes of comparability 2016 headcount figures exclude more women than men in lower paid roles: Barclays Africa Group Limited.
The mean pay gap shown in graphic C is the Role A 100k difference between the average hourly pay of Equal pay men and women.
The median pay gap is the All roles paid equally difference between the midpoints in the ranges of hourly pay of men and women.
It arranges the hourly pay rates from highest to lowest Role B and identifies the hourly pay in the middle of 30k the range.
The mean bonus gap is based on actual bonuses paid and does not make any Gender adjustments to the amounts paid to employees pay gap who work a reduced number of hours.
32% Average 65k 44k The demographics of our population and the resulting gender pay gaps emphasise the importance of maintaining our firm Graphic C commitment to increasing female Barclays Gender Pay Gap Results representation across Barclays, particularly among the senior leadership population.
We Barclays UK Barclays International Service Company welcome the introduction of gender pay gap Gender pay gap Median Mean Median Mean Median Mean reporting to bring further focus to our Fixed Pay commitment to improving gender diversity a commitment that is, and will remain, at the 14.2% 26.0% 43.5% 48.0% 29.9% 25.8% core of our talent management and leadership succession processes.
Gender bonus Median Mean Median Mean Median Mean How we are addressing the gender pay gap pay gap We recognise that tackling the gender pay gap 46.9% 60.1% 73.3% 78.7% 24.0% 48.8% will take time and therefore it is key that we remain focused on improving gender diversity through a workplace environment and culture that supports and empowers women.
At Proportion of colleagues Barclays, our focus goes beyond simply receiving a addressing the gender pay gap and extends to bonus payment 95.2% 93.1% 93.4% 93.7% 92.5% 91.2% our internal and external gender equality commitments.
Across both our organisation, Gender Q4 45% 55% Q419% 81% Q4 29% 71% proportions and in the financial services industry, we are in Ordinary Q3 66% 34% Q3 31% 69% Q3 36% 64% dedicated to enabling women to fulfil their Pay Quartiles Q2 67% 33% Q2 51% 49% Q2 50% 50% career aspirations.
To achieve this goal and Fixed Pay thereby narrow our gender pay gap, we will Q1 73% 27% Q1 63% 37% Q1 58% 42% continue to focus on ensuring there is no bias in the hiring, promotion, development and Under the regulations we are required to report our gender pay data for each separate UK based legal entity that has at least 250 employees therefore the Barclays PLC data is broken down by retention of women at Barclays.
Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays UK, Barclays Bank PLC Barclays International and Barclays Services Limited Service Company.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 91 Governance: People People Gender Diversity Commitments Internally we are committed to: As a founding signatory of the HM Treasury Leadership accountability 2020 Gender Diversity Commitments Women in Finance Charter and supporter of including gender diversity Board of Directors 33% the Hampton-Alexander Review, to support our targets and the introduction Leadership 33% Group ExCo and their direct reports commitment to gender equality, we proactively of a gender taskforce set gender targets and we have made good Cultural Change progress towards these targets.
Our goal to Dynamic Working Focusing on a more inclusive improve the percentage of female Managing Progressive parental policies work environment to ensure Directors and Directors to 26% by the end of Barclays Win Gender Network all colleagues have the 2018 23% at the end of 2017 has flexibility to achieve personal Talent Management subsequently expanded with commitments of and professional goals Leadership Succession Planning 33% female representation across our Board of Ex-Officio Leadership roles Ensuring we are developing Directors by 2020 21% at the end of 2017 and Internal Mobility leaders who are equipped to 33% female representation among the Group meet the demands of a more Leadership Development Executive Committee and their direct reports diverse workforce 25% at the end of 2017.
Alongside these Unconscious Bias Training Global Women in Leadership Conference targets, Barclays has been focused on and will continue to develop, a range of extensive Enterprise Leaders Summits initiatives, programmes and policies to improve gender diversity.
Below are some highlights of Externally we are committed to: the ways in which we are increasing female Engaging men globally in UN HeForShe representation at Barclays and enabling women gender equality in partnership Global Impact Champion to fulfil their career aspirations.
with the United Nations Barclays Role Models Creating New Career Opportunities External engagement of Barclays senior women Providing enhanced across Financial Services, IT and STEM We have expanded our graduate and employment opportunities and apprenticeship programmes, reflecting our attracting diverse candidates Creating New Career Opportunities commitment to improve employment Encore!
Returnship Programme Community impact opportunities, tackle societal issues and Expanded Apprenticeship Programme attract diverse talent.
We have transformed 50% Female Graduate Hires the way we recruit for our graduate Strategic Partnerships programmes to drive diversity and inclusion Womens Business Council as students are able to demonstrate ability 30% Club and potential throughout the process, so that recruitment outcomes are based on performance and not on the basis of subjects Cultural Change further accelerate our progress against our studied, universities attended and previous Providing a workplace that encourages gender diversity commitments.
In doing so we hope to colleagues to achieve their personal and acknowledge that there is still a lot of work to increase the number of female graduate hires professional goals is key to supporting and do, but our determination and commitment to to 50% 40% at the end of 2017, up from 31% retaining our employees.
We aim to do this building a diverse and inclusive workforce in 2014.
For those looking to re-enter the through our progressive maternity, paternity, through attracting, retaining and developing workforce after taking time out of their adoption and shared parental leave policies world class professionals is paramount, and careers, our Encore!
Returnship Programme which go beyond the statutory requirements, we are working hard to foster an environment provides opportunities for experienced as well as through our flexible working in which all employees have the opportunity professionals to join a paid programme with a campaign Dynamic Working.
Dynamic Working to succeed, regardless of race, religion or view to securing a permanent role at Barclays supports colleagues in all stages of their lives in belief, age, gender, disability, sexual at the end of the programme.
More broadly, achieving an optimal work and life balance, orientation, gender identity or nationality.
we have policies and practices in place to helping them with parenthood, studies, caring ensure that all recruitment decisions are fair Further details on the gender pay gap and hobbies.
Across Barclays, our Womens and candidate shortlists are diverse.
and Barclays commitments to gender Initiative Network Win provides colleagues diversity and equality can be found at with career development and networking Talent Management and Leadership home.
barclays diversity opportunities including mentoring, career fairs Development and senior leader speaker events.
Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is The creation of ex-officio positions on the required to report on the gender breakdown of Group Executive Committee and across the Strategic Partnerships our employees and senior managers.
Of our business unit and functional Executive Barclays recognises that gender equality global workforce of 79,900 45,100 male, 34,800 Committees in 2016 by the Group CEO, has extends to the communities in which we work, female, 555 were senior managers 401 male, provided development opportunities for a support and live and greater gender equality is 154 female, which include Officers of the Group, number of our high potential female leaders integral to our long-term investments to drive certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, and has broadened the scope of the societal change.
We demonstrate this through heads of major business units, certain senior perspectives and decision making across our strategic partnerships, external engagement Managing Directors, and directors on the boards leadership teams.
Our Unconscious Bias and leadership commitment, including but not of undertakings of the Group, but exclude training, now attended by over 10,000 leaders, limited to, our multi-year commitment to the individuals who sit as directors on the Board of supports the continued elimination of bias United Nations HeForShe campaign and our the Company.
The definition of senior managers from our people processes, and successful partnership with the Womens Business Council.
within this disclosure has a narrower scope than events that we run each year such as the the Managing Director and Director female Global Women in Leadership conference and So what next?
the Enterprise Leaders Summit focus on Our existing pipeline of female talent is being building capability and upskilling leaders.
further strengthened through the launch of a global gender taskforce, comprising of leaders from across the organisation who believe passionately in gender diversity and who will focus on new and improved initiatives to 92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
