Our people and culture Our ongoing commitment to our people drives our success Fostering the right culture at Barclays is critical to our success.
By promoting respect, diversity and performance in the workplace we strive for excellence to deliver the best results for our customers and clients, taking pride in our achievements.
We continue to be focused on the importance of embedding a conduct and values-based culture throughout the organisation and this is at the core of our strategy and processes.
In recognising the significance of this coitent, conduct, culture and values remained one of our strategic priorities in 20 our strategic priorities in 20 our strategic priorities in 201 1 17 7 7...
In 2016, we developed a culture measurement This year colleagues were asked to select the framework, anchored in our values to track phrases that they would use to describe the and measure cultural progress across the current culture at Barclays and we are Group.
In 2017, we focused on embedding this encouraged that customer satisfaction, framework, ensuring it is a key component of continuous improvement and growth are the non-financial metrics reviewed to assess some of the top words selected.
Focus the performance and culture of Barclays.
continues in areas that we know are key to Through this framework, and the results from advancing cultural change, for example our our employee opinion survey Your View, Dynamic Working and employee wellbeing quarterly insights, key cultural metrics and campaigns, as well as prioritising positive performance indicators are produced, mental health awareness through our This is stimulating management discussions which Me campaign.
Our ongoing commitment result in actions and decisions to further towards increasing female representation at promote and embed a conduct and valuesall levels across Barclays remains a core focus based culture.
of our talent management and leadership succession processes and we recognise that our commitment to greater gender equality is We continue our ambition to integral to drive societal change in equality, diversity and inclusion.
Further details on our become the most accessible, gender diversity commitments and additional inclusive and sought after highlights from across our Diversity and employer, where colleagues Inclusion strategy can be found in the People section on pages 89 to 92. feel engaged and empowered We continue to run Group CEO sponsored to achieve their best in order Enterprise Leaders Summits, which seek to to deliver the best for our develop the next generation of enterprise leaders and strengthen a culture of customers and clients.
collaboration among our leaders in order to deliver improved solutions and products for We continue our ambition to become the our customers and clients.
The control most accessible, inclusive and sought after functions rotational programme launched in employer, where colleagues feel engaged and 2016, which was expanded this year, empowered to achieve their best in order to recognises that future leaders in our deliver the best for our customers and clients.
businesses must have a strong awareness and We are pleased that in 2017 the sustainable understanding of the control environment.
engagement of our employees improved to The programme provides colleagues the 78% across the Group.
opportunity to work within a control function gaining valuable perspective.
36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information We are committed to helping people succeed, During 2017 external recognition has confirmed the sustained and global impact of whether entering the workplace for the first time or as an experienced professional.
We are proud of the increased colleague engagement we are seeing across support of the Barclays Shared Growth Ambition, and youth unemployment and the organisation and both the external and social mobility, our apprenticeship programme internal differences that our values and culture has continued to provide opportunities for are having and the change we can make to candidates from a broad range of peoples lives as a result, enabling success and backgrounds.
Since the programme began we giving them access to a future where they can have hired over 3,400 apprentices, the thrive.
Our drive to continue to embed a majority with no prior qualifications or conduct and values-based culture shows the experience.
We have continued to expand the importance that we place on the positive and programme, launching in 2017 the first ever creative contributions of each and every one Agriculture Higher Apprenticeship programme of our colleagues in order to serve customer and Degree Apprenticeship in banking.
and clients and to continue to build trust and Through the Barclays Armed Forces respect in the profession of banking.
Transition, Employment and Resettlement AFTER programme we have assisted over 5,500 veterans in employment transition, hired Tristram Roberts over 500 ex-military colleagues and donated Group Human Resources Director over 4.25m to military charities to assist wounded and injured personal in employment For further information about the transition.
gender pay gap at Barclays, please see page 90.
Dynamic Working Dynamic working is empowering our colleagues to work in a way that suits their lives and supports our business, to better serve our customers and clients needs.
Every stage of life brings new priorities, responsibilities and opportunities.
Having the flexibility when, where and how colleagues work can help them integrate their professional and personal lives and fulfill all their roles more easily.
Dynamic working is not flexi-time rebranded, it is not a policy, instead it is agile, attitudinal approach to meeting colleagues wide-ranging needs while having a positive impact on productivity, engagement and retention in the following ways: Colleagues who work dynamically score higher on engagement and job satisfaction with 87% saying they would recommend Barclays as a good place to work.
Dynamic working provides agility to address the needs of clients and colleagues across the globe living in different time zones.
Dynamic working is addressing the needs of a work force that spans five generations.
ou can find out more on our Diversity and Inclusion activities reporting at: home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 37
