Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Running a responsible business for all our stakeholders We seek to run our business responsibly, sustainably and successfully, delivering value for all our stakeholders.
We continue to promote I&D through our by Euromoney: and once again, a Top 10 Addressing the issues Group Executive Committee.
Several of our Employer for Working Families and Times Top that matter most senior executives are I&D sponsors, and an 50 Employer for Women.
We also won awards This year we asked our stakeholders Operational Committee overseas how our for our approach to agile hiring.
You can read includingcolleagues, customers, investors, I&Dplans are implemented.
more about agility on page 22. community groups, special interest groups We have committed to ensure that women Gender pay gap and opinion formers to participate in hold 40 per cent of our senior roles by 2020, our materiality survey, to help us shape We recognise that supporting gender equality and to help reach this target we monitor and diversity more broadly supports the ourreporting.
gender diversity on candidate lists for senior success of the UK as a whole.
We regularly They were particularly interested in issues appointments.
Over 400 women have review our pay levels to ensure that men related to how the Group is run: building now completed our Women in Leadership and women are paid equally for doing trust: supporting communities and society: programme, with 100 achieving promotion.
equivalent roles across the Group.
We economic performance and contribution: Weve continued to develop and promote our support the governments requirement for responsible and accessible products: human Authentic Leadership Programme for Black, all large companies to publish their gender rights, diversity and equality: and people Asian and Minority Ethnic leaders.
We foster pay gap information.
We remain committed management and development.
cultural awareness through promoting role to increasing the proportion of women in models and communication campaigns.
senior roles and building a diverse senior We have structured our responsible business reporting around our key stakeholder groups.
Other achievements include being rated The issues they prioritised are listed at relevant number 1 in the Stonewall Top 100 2017 Supporting colleagues with disabilities points to help you find those of most interest LGBTemployers and included in the Stonewall This year, the Department for Work and to you.
inaugural list of Transgender Inclusive Pensions designated the Group as a Employers 2018: being named the best Disability Confident Leader for our inclusive bank in the world for diversity and inclusion recruitment process and in November, we Colleagues Our inclusion and diversity data 1 2017 2016 Our colleagues take pride in working Gender for an inclusive and diverse bank and Board members Male 9 10 with their support were building Female 3 3 a culture in which everyone feels 2 Senior managers Male 4,939 5,138 included, empowered and inspired to do the right thing for customers.
Female 2,544 2,457 2 Colleagues Male 31,216 33,149 Key issues for our stakeholders Female 42,956 45,769 Equality, inclusion and diversity Ethnic background Human rights Percentage of colleagues from a BAME background 8.3% 7.9% Health, safety and wellbeing BAME managers 8.3% 6.4% Learning and development BAME senior managers 5.6% 4.8% Equality, inclusion Disability and diversity Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability 2.6% 2.2% We continued to make good progress Sexual orientation againstour inclusion and diversity I&D Percentage of colleagues who disclose they are lesbian, gay, strategy.
The proportion of colleagues who bisexual or transgender 1.7% 1.5% agree that the Group is an inclusive place to 1 Restated to include International and parental leave colleagues comparable with other gender reporting.
Includes work increased to 89 per cent, 3 per cent more subsidiary Non-Executive Directors.
2 Reporting scope: payroll headcount includes established and fixed term contract colleagues, parental leavers and than in 2016, and almost half of our colleagues Internationals.
Excludes leavers, Group Non-Executive Directors, contractors, temps and agency staff.
Also excludes MBNA are members or supporters of one of our colleagues, who became part of Lloyds Banking Group plc in June 2017, as they are currently on a separate gradingstructure.
We met our target to Diversity scope: Payroll headcount including parental leavers.
Excludes MBNA colleagues, who became part of Lloyds Banking Group plc in June 2017, as they are currently on a separate grading structure.
Gender increase the engagement levels of Black, Asian information includes International colleagues.
All other diversity information is UK Payroll only.
and Minority Ethnic colleagues, colleagues Senior Managers: Grades F. Managers: Grade D-E. with disabilities and Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Data source: HR system HR Online.
Apart from gender data, all diversity information is based on colleagues voluntary colleagues above 70 per cent, three years self-declaration.
As a result this data is not 100 per cent representative: our systems do not record diversity data for the proportion of colleagues who have not declared this information.
earlier than our target date of 2020.
22 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Running a responsible business for all our stakeholders continued 28,000 colleagues received mental health awareness training in 2017. won a Nothing about us without us Disability We have policies, standards and relevant Smart Award, recognising the way we gather mandatory training in place to help insights about disability from colleagues, colleagueswork safely at all times.
We also customers and charities, then use them to work closely with external health and safety inform our decisions.
As a member of the agencies through our participation in the Business Disability Forum, we are proud to Health and Safety Primary Authority Scheme have retained our Gold accreditation in the and Fire Primary Authority partnership.
Our colleague disability we achieved a 7 per cent decrease in our total network, Access, ran a successful national recorded accidents compared to 2016.
You can event, while more than 2,300 colleagues read more about health and safety in our 2017 completed our industry leading workplace Responsible Business update.
Supporting colleagues mental health We offer bespoke development programmes We worked with Mental Health UK to develop and recruitment processes for colleagues and deliver mental health awareness training and job applicants with disabilities.
We aim to over 28,000 colleagues and we estimate that to appoint the best candidate into any role more than 25 per cent of colleagues discussed and give full and fair consideration to job mental health this year.
This included our applications from those with disabilities, Group Chief Executive Antnio HortaOsrio, and we are unbiased in the way we assess, who shared his story about executive stress.
select, appoint, train and promote people.
We have improved the mental health support We offer a guaranteed interview scheme colleagues receive through our thirdparty CREATING MORE for candidates who declare a disability and healthcare suppliers and are supporting our top meet the minimum requirements of the APPRENTICESHIPS 120 leaders to develop their mental resilience.
Wecontinue to run a Disability Work WITHIN OUR GROUP Experience Programme in partnership Agile working with Remploy.
This is one of the largest To respond to the changing business During 2017, we created more than 1,200 disabilityfocused work experience initiatives environment and in recognition of the apprenticeship positions within the Group, in the financial services sector: weve increased changing ways colleagues live and work, we bringing the total to more than 5,500 our number of candidates from 96 in 2016 to encourage our colleagues to embrace agile since 2012.
Around 44 per cent of the new 392 in 2017. working.
Approximately 41 per cent of them apprenticeships were taken up by external are now working in a flexible way compared to candidates from some of the UKs most 33 per cent two years ago.
In2017 we launched Human rights disadvantaged areas.
We are proud of the a workforce agility Line Manager toolkit to help fact that many of our apprentices flourish We aspire to conduct business in a way that teams implement new ways of working.
with us after qualification including Vickie values and respects the human rights of all McRae, a mother of two who joined the the stakeholders we work with.
Learning and development and support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, together with Investing in learning and development the International Labour Organisation ILO equipscolleagues to do their best for Fundamental Conventions, covering freedom customers.
During 2017, colleagues spent of association, the abolition of forced labour, more than 410,000days on learning, an equality and the elimination of child labour.
We made it easier We improved our digital offer, enhancing Wecomply with all relevant legislation, for them to access learning by creating our Skillsoft resource, which won a Gold including the UK Modern Slavery Act.
We also new business learning catalogues and International Brandon Hall Excellence Award, support relevant voluntary standards, such as Groupwide Learning Resource Centres.
and adding a video library, Lynda.
com, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and We also ranValues in Action sessions for all toresources.
Human Rights and take steps to make sure colleagues, supporting the introduction of colleagues understand our position on these our new Group and Leadership Behaviours, Engaging colleagues issues and can help us live up to the standards We want colleagues to be engaged and and unified our learning for line managers they demand.
You can read our AntiSlavery andleaders in a new Leadership Academy.
enthusiastic about our strategy, responsible and Trafficking statement online.
We regularly and This offers a new curriculum for senior colleagues, pathways to guide those systematically update them on the Groups performance and changes in the economic preparing for a new line management role, Health, safety and wellbeing and leadership apprenticeships.
and regulatory environment including matters We care about the physical and mental that concern their role.
We also want them Our Strategic Leaders Programme, which health, safety and wellbeing of our colleagues.
to share their ideas and views to help us Weprovide them with a growing range of 175 colleagues completed, concluded this shape our future.
One of the most effective year.
From 2018, colleagues in our Strategic health and wellbeing resources, including ways they do this is through the Best Bank company paid private medical cover, Leadership Group will undertake a new for Customers and Building the Best Team Horizon development programme that occupational health services and an employee surveys that are run by an independent third assistance programme.
We publish advice supports our Bank of the Future objectives.
They give colleagues the 80 per cent of colleagues who completed our about health topics on our intranet and opportunity to share their thoughts in order to actively encourage colleagues to support Building the Best Team survey confirmed that inform decisions and support improvements they get the support they need to improve external health and wellbeing campaigns.
This year, 86 per cent of their skills and meet customer demands, an colleagues participated in the two surveys annual increase of 3 per cent and 18percent 2 per cent more than in 2016 and 5 per cent above the UK norm.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 89% of colleagues believe the Group is committed to being a responsible business 2016: 86%.
above the external best practice response rate.
Support for Britains We believe the surveys confirm that colleagues businesses and entrepreneurs are engaged and believe the Group is moving forward in key areas.
We helped 6,800 clients to export for the first time in 2017, as part of a wider commitment to Rewarding colleagues help 25,000 businesses trade overseas for the We offer a competitive and fair reward first time by 2020.
We also supported more package that supports our aims as a than 124,000 start-up businesses.
In 2017, we responsible business with customer-facing handled over 54 million payments totalling in colleagues in Retail incentivised on the basis excess of 1.4 trillion in digital transactions for of actions and behaviours that put customers our commercial clients.
We offer colleague share schemes to We met our 2017 target to provide 1 billion encourage shared ownership of our Group.
in funding support for the manufacturing Read more on sector and launched a 500 million fund pages 84 to help manufacturers access asset finance to invest in new capital to improve productivity.
Wevealso supported more than 500apprentices, graduates and engineers Customers at the Lloyds Bank Advanced Manufacturing Training Centre in Coventry.
We aim to treat our customers fairly MEETING Through our partnership with the School for and inclusively, making it easy for Social Entrepreneurs, weve helped more them to find, understand and access CHANGING than 1,500 social entrepreneurs to start-up responsible products that are right for or grow their businesses since 2012.
Our CUSTOMER NEEDS them, whatever their circumstances.
colleagues have worked with more than 250 social entrepreneurs as mentors to help them We are investing significantly in a major Key issues for our stakeholders build sustainable social businesses.
In 2017 branch transformation programme to better Customer privacy and data security the Group became the first financial services serve our customers now and for many years Support for Britains businesses and entrepreneurs company to partner the pioneering Match to come.
We have expanded our mobile Trading initiative: a new funding model branch service this year and we now have Widening financial inclusion and supporting vulnerable customers which incentivises social entrepreneurs to grow 28 mobile branches, which visit 169 different their business through trading.
locations to support rural communities Responsible and accessible products across Scotland, England and Wales.
Responsible and ethical lending Widening financial inclusion Customer privacy and supporting customers in and data security vulnerable circumstances We use advanced technology to protect Through our financial inclusion strategy and Supporting customers with disabilities customers money and data, including secure financial education programmes we focus Digital access can transform banking for log on and log off features and systems on improving access to financial services and vulnerable customers, particularly for those that prevent fraud or that detect fraudulent building skills.
Read more about financial with health conditions and disabilities that payments in real time.
In 2017, as part of the education on page 25.
This year we opened make it difficult to get to a branch.
Following multi-stakeholder Joint Fraud Task Force, almost 271,000 new basic bank accounts a review in 2016, the charity Abilitynet we helped to set the strategic direction for and helped 99,700 customers upgrade from accredited our Halifax and Lloyds Bank fraud prevention.
We also championed the basic to mainstream products.
We also digital platforms based on their accessibility national rollout of the Banking Protocol, which simplified our unplanned overdraft approach.
This enables More than 9 in 10 personal current account colleagues to request immediate police support We are piloting a new Easy Read format, customers of Lloyds Bank, Bank of Scotland when customers are at risk.
An estimated endorsed by the RNIB, to make bank and Halifax are now better off or unaffected 9million of fraud was prevented through the statements accessible and understandable for financially by the changes.
Protocol this year and 100 arrests were made.
customers with a range of learning difficulties We want all customers to have easy access and disabilities.
This year we agreed our We help and educate customers to improve to our products and services.
Weve worked Autism Friendly plans for customers and their own banking and data security and hard to track vulnerable customers needs, colleagues, which we have developed in champion industry-wide public information particularly in our Community Bank, and partnership with the National Autistic Society.
campaigns, including Take 5, a national developed a Group-wide dashboard to education and awareness campaign.
We identify emerging vulnerability trends.
In offer support to colleagues to protect our 2017, our specialist support team helped customers and they can access our Anti- 1,900customers with cancer, through Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist financialadvice and with medical and Policies and specialist training if required.
emotional support from our partners Macmillan.
To help colleagues do more Looking ahead, our key priorities are to further for vulnerable customers, we provided strengthen our cyber defences and to meet 90,000hours of vulnerability training.
the requirements of the upcoming EU General Data Protection Regulation which will apply from May 2018.
24 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Running a responsible business for all our stakeholders continued Responsible and Responsible conduct accessible products and culture We have made significant progress over the We are building a responsible, inclusive and last three years to improve the customer diverse culture based on our values, which experience across many of our key products help colleagues consistently do the right and services as part of our far-reaching thing for customers.
The 2017 launch of our Customer Journey Transformation initiative.
Group and leadership behaviours has given In 2017, we launched the last two of our colleagues clear guidance about how to live 10journeys, each of which is intended to our values at work.
Throughout the year we put customers at the heart of any changes reinforced our values and behaviours through we make.
This year, we issued colleagues in numerous initiatives and embedded the branches with more than 4,000 iPad Pros so behaviours in our processes and policies.
they can open accounts faster and introduced We equip and encourage colleagues to new digital services to help colleagues advise work in line with our values, our Code of customers about corporate pensions or loan Responsibility and all other standards relevant eligibility and to process mortgage offers and to their role.
We also encourage them to speak accounts and small loans for SMEs in less time up, challenge and act if they witness or suspect than ever before.
wrongdoing by contacting our Colleague Conduct Management Team or using our Responsible and independent whistleblowing service Speak MOBILISING Up, which is accessible by phone, online or ethical lending mobile app.
During 2017, colleagues reported COLLEAGUES As a lender and pension provider we play 372concerns of which 181 were progressed an important role in promoting responsible TO SUPPORT to investigation.
57 per cent of the concerns lending and investment decisions that take investigated were upheld and remedial action into account a broad range of environmental, MENTAL HEALTH taken where appropriate.
The Group In September, a group of 62 colleagues We aim to comply with all laws and remains a signatory to the Equator Principles, completed the Fourtitude Challenge and regulations wherever we operate and have the Stewardship Code and the UN Principles raised over 317,000 for our charity partner a comprehensive anti-bribery policy that of Responsible Investment.
As an active Mental Health UK.
Our Fourtituders tackled applies to all colleagues, including directors, and responsible asset owner, we consider a mental agility challenge, hiked up the contractors and others acting on our behalf.
our obligations during the selection, highest peak in their home nation, cycled All colleagues and contractors complete appointment, monitoring and retention of 100miles through the Peak District and annual anti-bribery training and we encourage our fund managers.
The management of risk completed a half marathon.
Anadditional them to report suspected bribery.
The Group for investment funds offered to customers 250 colleagues took part as day participants is a member of Transparency International by Scottish Widows is effected through a and Mental Health UKs Chief Executive, UKs Business Integrity Forum, a network of robust and comprehensive process, including Brian Dow, also participated, running the major international companies committed to our Responsible Investment Governance half marathon.
anti-corruption and high ethical standards in Framework.
In 2017 we completed an initial business practices.
assessment of the responsible investment capabilities of our lead asset managers and the Building trust majority of external fund managers, and we Our performance as a responsible business launched a social bond fund in addition to the during the past year has helped to rebuild root causes of customer complaints reducing ethical and environmental funds in our range.
trust in our Group and in the future stability incoming complaints by 18per cent from 2016 and sustainability of the banking sector.
In to 2017 excluding PPI and claims management May we returned to full private ownership and companies.
the sale marked the successful delivery of our strategy to transform into a simple, low risk, UK Partners Direct and indirect focused retail and commercial bank.
In 2017 we continued to build trust by taking steps to economic contribution As a direct and indirect economic become even more transparent in the way we We make significant direct and indirect contributor to the UK economy, communicate with our stakeholders, providing contributions to the economy.
We employ we value our relationships with them with greater detail about where we stand approximately 68,000 colleagues full external stakeholders and partners, on environmental, social, governance and time equivalent and are helping to create includingsuppliers, government ethical issues.
additional jobs and bring talented people bodies and legislators.
into our business through our Graduate and Customer satisfaction Apprenticeship schemes.
Weve created more Key issues for our stakeholders We measure customer satisfaction using the than 5,500 apprenticeships since 2012.
In 2017, industry standard Net Promoter Score.
In 2017, Responsible conduct and culture 38 per cent of our new apprenticeships were this was 62.0, down slightly from 62.7 in 2016 Direct and indirect economic contribution offered to external candidates.
but remains nearly 50 per cent higher than at Working with suppliers the end of 2011.
When customers do complain, we act as quickly as possible, focusing on achieving fair outcomes.
We continue to target understanding and eradicating the Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 2.5bn of taxes paid in 2017 We are helping the housing sector as a whole.
Working with suppliers In 2017 we lent more than 42 billion to home We aim to source responsibly and sustainably, buyers and exceeded our target to build requiring our suppliers to comply with our 1,500 homes through our Housing Growth Code of Supplier Responsibility.
We also helped the construction a range of products and services from an sector acquire skills through the Londonactive supply base of around 4,000suppliers.
based Construction Skills Centre, where 166 In2017, our supplier expenditure was people obtained an industry recognised 5.0billion 5.3billion in 2016 with 94percent qualification.
We also provided a further of this spent with UK-based suppliers.
2billion of new funding support to the social Our responsible business objectives are housing sector.
embedded into our sourcing and supplier activities.
For example, we further enhanced Our tax contribution the questions we ask prospective and existing The Group continues to be one of the largest suppliers in our Financial Supplier Qualification contributors to UK tax revenues.
We were System in relation to issues such as human ranked as the highest payer of UK taxes in trafficking and slavery, and have implemented the most recent PwC Total Tax Contribution new contractual requirements.
We have also Survey for the 100 Group, which is broadly worked with key suppliers to build partnerships the FTSE 100 and some large UK private with social enterprises and embed social companies.
In 2017, we paid 2.5billion in tax responsibility practices.
We are also a major tax collector, gathering 1.7 billion on behalf of TACKLING SOCIAL HMRC in 2017 2016: 2 billion.
DISADVANTAGE Our approach to tax is governed by our Tax Policy which is part of our Board-approved Communities ACROSS BRITAIN Group Risk Management Framework.
We have discussed this Policy with HMRC and we Through the Lloyds Bank Foundation for the We invest in local communities Channel Islands, we are supporting Autism comply with their Code of Practice on Taxation across Britain to help them prosper for Banks and the Confederation of British Jersey, a charity that provides much-needed economically and build social advice and respite for people on the autism Industrys Statement of Tax Principles.
We do cohesion by tackling disadvantage.
not interpret tax laws in a way that we believe is spectrum, their families and carers.
The charity, which is using a grant of 50,000 over contrary to the intention of Parliament, and we Key issues for our stakeholders do not promote tax avoidance products to our three years to help pay salaries, has grown Financial education and inclusion significantly in the past five years and has customers.
You can read more about our Tax Community investment Strategy online.
helped many individuals obtain care for the first time without travelling to the mainland.
Shareholders Financial education Engaging with our shareholders helps us and inclusion understand their issues, shape our strategic Our award winning Money for Life programme thinking and improve our corporate is specifically designed to help vulnerable reporting.
We held more than 800 meetings Groups profits annually.
Through the Groups 16-25 year olds to improve their financial with investors in 2017, including a number Foundations, we reach and help some of the competencies.
Since the programme was with SRI investors.
We also ran a number of most disadvantaged communities in Britain, relaunched in October 2016 we have engaged webinars, roadshows and meetings to update giving more than 20million in 2017. more than 450,000 young people and over shareholders, investment analysts and ratings 11,300 money masterclasses have been agencies about our performance.
Our charity partner delivered face-to-face in youth centres across In 2017 we raised 4.8million for Mental Health Government England, Wales, Scotland and Northern UK.
This money will have a significant impact We engage with government bodies, Ireland.
In addition to this colleagues have across the UK and has funded the first helpline including central and local government and delivered financial literacy sessions in primary dedicated to supporting people experiencing the devolved governments in Scotland, Wales and secondary schools in local communities.
mental health and money management issues, and Northern Ireland.
We keep them informed Thanks to our StandingOut programme we which was launched in November 2017.
We about our activity as a responsible business, remain one of the largest providers of school also aim to increase awareness and reduce the which in 2017 included party conference fringe and academy governors in Britain, with 577 stigma associated with mental health so that meetings held with Mental Health UK, the colleagues currently involved.
our colleagues can support themselves, each launch of a report on the challenges facing other and our customers.
the private rental sector, and briefings on Community investment Read more on economic development.
To support the UKs page 22 Our support for local communities focuses nations and regions, our 10 Ambassadors, on education, employability and enterprise.
who are all senior colleagues, have a mandate I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 revised Our total community investment in 2017 from the Group Chief Executive to support assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2017 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
This includes our economic and social progress in their local assurance statement and the 2017 Reporting colleagues time, direct donations, and the area.
In 2017, our Ambassadors focused Criteriaare available online at lloydsbankinggroup.
com money we give to our independent charitable on issues connected to housing, skills RBdownloads Foundations, which receive a share of the development and business growth.
