com Responsible business Keeping our momentum in 2017 The energy and passion of our people We began a conversation across the Our vision is to use contributed to making a difference, business on how we can design more within our communities and in the wider products that are not only profitable ourexpertise, influence world, in 2017.
Four years ago we but that also benefit society and the and passion as a force launched our global Make a Difference environment.
month with 75 employees taking action for good in our local in our communities.
This year almost We are determined to keep our 500 employees took part.
We raised momentum going throughout this year communities and the over $115,000 for our global charity our volunteering increased by 14% and partner, All Hands and Hearts, and by we want to keep building on that next wider world supporting the fundraising efforts of year.
We plan to do more environmentally our people we donated a further next year as well as delivering products $33,000 to charities around the world.
We also launched our first ever global volunteering with All Hands and Hearts, which saw eight Beazley employees spend two weeks in Nepal building a much-needed community school.
Marketplace Products with a purpose At Beazley, we pride ourselves on our ability to think creatively Beazleys Marketplace workstream and provide innovative solutions to challenges.
Weare now focuses on the impact that we have on the world through our business, bringing this innovative force to bear on some ofthe challenges insurance.
We strongly believe that the world faces.
The insurance industry is well positioned insurance in itself is a force for good facilitating economic activity and todo this our business is managing risks.
Beyond helping development, helping to protect people, property and businesses from the worst tomeet the financial costs of insured events, we can use our effects of adverse events, and enabling expertise to promote sustainability efforts through managing them to recover more swiftly when risks materialise.
and mitigating risks, and promoting resilience.
However, beyond this, we think there Christian Tolle is a huge amount of scope for the Head of political, accident & contingency insurance industry to bring its expertise in risk management to bear in improving outcomes for our insureds and the societies and environment in which they operate.
Our insurance products can work harder to achieve this.
We call them Products with a Purpose a positive purpose, beyond the direct cover provided to the insured.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 63 I a m very proud of the way we at Beazley contribute toour communities, our charities and the environment.
It is a key partof Being Beazley and something that matters enormously to our people.
Andrew Horton Chief executive Marketplace This year we have formalised our Finding products Emma Whiteacre participation in the Lloyds Disaster Risk with apurpose Lloyds Disaster Risk Facility Facility DRF with a consortium Our new Marketplace strategy prioritises agreement with six other syndicates, the pursuit of positive externalities.
With although this was not utilised in 2017. the support of the executive committee, With a headline capacity of $425m underwriters from across the business for any risk, the facility can support are embarking on a process to explore governments or organisations in how, through our insurance products, emerging markets to improve resilience we can improve environmental and and deal with the economic social outcomes, not just for our clients consequences of natural disasters.
but for the uninsured people and places Through the DRF, we are represented affected by an insured event occurring.
on the Insurance Development Forum, an industry body focused on increasing Using the United Nations Sustainable the use of insurance and its associated Development Goals to inspire and risk management capabilities to motivate participants, we are working increase resilience and protection for with an external sustainability consultant vulnerable countries and communities.
to run workshops to raise our business teams understanding of global environmental and social challenges.
Through this process we will consider how we can make changes to existing policies to incentivise better outcomes, create new policies addressing these issues, and or design additional risk mitigation services to help our insureds Capacity of Lloyds Disaster Risk Facility better manage their risks while continuing to meet our clients needs and maintain profitability.
com Responsible business continued Keeping our momentum in 2017 continued Charity and community All Hands and Hearts have offices in This is the first time Beazley has had both the UK and US and respond to one global charity partner and we the needs of communities impacted have seen strong engagement from by devastation from natural disasters, our employees in the partnership.
which encompasses the following steps: In addition to supporting Beazley organised fundraising, we have seen Respond engaging and leveraging employees fundraise for All Hands and volunteers, partner organisations Hearts through individual and group and local communities to take part activities.
We have also seen the benefit in activities like mucking and gutting of choosing a charity partner that links after a flood, clearing after an $417,000 to our business, with Texas based earthquake or safe demolition for colleagues being able to work with Donated to charity buildings that are dangerous: All Hands and Hearts to make a difference immediately in Houston Recover working together with Our charity efforts are overseen communities to meet their longer following Hurricane Harvey.
by two charity and community term needs by rebuilding the basic committees, one for the US and one hubs of a community, including As part of our partnership agreement for UK, Asia and Europe, made up Beazley donated $52,000 to All Hands homes, schools, daycare facilities of volunteers across the business.
and community centres: and and Hearts in 2017, a sum which The committees manage our charity was supplemented by fundraising and partnerships and this year launched Renew becoming part of the fabric matchfunding from our employees.
our global charity partnership with of the communities they serve.
We chose this Projects have included weekly movie Our committees also encourage and charity because of their innovative nights for kids in Malawi to offset the support Beazley people to participate approach focused on deploying devastation with smiles and laughter, in charitable activities.
The most volunteers to areas in need and holding weekly English tutoring significant change this year has been their relatively small size, which sessions in the Philippines or hosting the introduction of a business means that our involvement can a Thanksgiving dinner for hundreds sponsored volunteer event.
We offered be more impactful.
of flood victims in Detroit.
the chance for eight employees to volunteer on an All Hands and Hearts project to rebuild a school in Nepal.
This was very well received by employees with over 150 colleagues registering interest and then almost 50 applying.
A working group was established to select the volunteers.
Eight colleagues from across the business were then chosen, including a charity committee member to lead the group.
The volunteers were in Nepal for Nepal volunteers two weeks from Saturday, 4 November to Saturday, 18 November.
W e are truly thankful to Beazley for their support over the past 11 months.
All Hands and Hearts Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 65 Charity and community Also in 2017 we increased our employee In addition, examples of other T heir Team Beazley matchfunding threshold from $500 employee led events in 2017 included: contribution to the two to $750 or local currency equivalent Numerous Cycle for Survival events per employee.
We match employee projects was commendable to raise funds for rare cancer fundraising efforts so that employees research: are encouraged to make a difference on and is highly appreciated.
a local level for charities close to their Singapores first fundraising event We miss them all and would own hearts.
Weve continued to promote of a broker quiz night: this benefit thoughout the year and have love to have them back.
Members of the New York office seen a consistently strong level of take up.
teamed up with Marsh and All Hands and Hearts volunteered to serve a catered lunch The charity committees help support for families with sick children, employees who would like to organise including donating toys to children: internal fundraising activities or activities for groups of people to get Farmingtons chilli cook-off: involved in.
Members of the Dallas office Ten Beazley colleagues, led by partnered with Lockton to help feed Dan Jones, took part in the Rocky children in need for the Childrens Mountain Colorado challenge, raising Hunger Fund in Dallas: they over $10,000 for All Hands and supported Arthur J. Gallagher at Hearts, which went towards helping a charity sand volleyball game to families recover from severe flooding support children in need and have in Louisiana, US.
been working with our charity partner, All Hands and Hearts, Also, in September, the All Hands to support those recovering from No Legs team of seven Beazley Hurricane Harvey: and employees took part in the 75km Thames Kayak Challenge over Over 80 employees took part in two days, raising over 4,000 for All the JP Morgan Run, raising money Atlanta volunteers Hands and Hearts to support their for the Macmillan Trust in London.
work in Nepal, Peru and Houston.
Colleagues in Farmington and Paris also took part in similar 5K runs to raise money to support local cancer charities.
These events not only raise donations and awareness for All Hands and Hearts and other charities, but also help strengthen employee engagement.
Beazley volunteers 66 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Responsible business continued Keeping our momentum in 2017 continued Charity and community continued Hurricane Irma aftermath Global Crises Response With the support and encouragement of our people, we respond during Intern graduation large scale disasters, particularly if it affects the communities where we work.
We have donated over In the US and the UK we have facilitated $33,000 to charities, including the Educating and supporting relief efforts for the flooding in and hosted four workshops for over the next generation 90 young people to increase their Peru, South Asia, Quebec, and the We continued our mentoring programme aftermath of Hurricanes Harvey knowledge of the insurance sector and for a third successful year with 35 Beazley how to build their careers as part of our and Irma.
volunteers mentoring Year 10 aim to inspire interest in the insurance 15-16 year old students in East London.
We have Celebrating making a expanded our community focus in the difference in our communities Nineteen local young people were hired US, after initially focusing on our offices We successfully delivered our global as summer interns in our UK and US in Farmington and Atlanta.
Make a Difference volunteering offices, with seven being returnees from initiative for a fourth consecutive year, last year.
Also, 10 Beazley volunteers We hosted a stall at the Lloyds Careers which gives employees up to one helped improve reading and numerical Fair event for school leavers and day to volunteer in their communities.
skills for six children in Tower Hamlets.
undergraduates in our community, This year we had nearly 500 employees with six volunteers taking part.
take part, including employees Beazley was awarded the Employer from Canada and Birmingham who of the Year award for the second time participated for the first time.
by the Brokerage CityLink to recognise Activities were selected at a local our work on their internship programme.
level, with the support of the Charity and Community Committee, in order Beazley volunteers in mentoring to ensure that our people could select programme activities they were passionate about.
Activities ranged from working at a farm to harvest crops for local food 35 pantries, sorting food at food banks, preparing and serving meals to the homeless, spending time with local pensioners, upgrading community Volunteering in London facilities likes crches and parks through to supporting young people to get back to school with school supplies.
The Farmington office also hosted 60 of our employees children who helped assemble care packages and thank you notes for members of the military.
The children also drew pictures for an All Hands and Hearts initiative for families in Nepal.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 67 Environment To ensure we support and protect the We refreshed our Environmental Policy We are tenants in all our buildings environment as effectively as possible, in November 2017, renewing our globally and, working closely with we focus on three key areas: commitment to managing our our landlords, we lead and support environmental impacts, including: on environmental initiatives in 1.
Our offices: ensuring the our offices.
environmental impact from our Monitoring environmental offices is minimal and finding ways performance Since 2008 we have In January 2018 we will be moving to to enhance our buildings so they monitored a range of environmental a new office in Birmingham and have have a more positive impact: key performance indicators including created a green environment which 2.
Our procurement: leveraging our energy consumption and greenhouse features recyclable furniture and buying power and working with gas emissions, and are using this energy-saving initiatives.
suppliers to make a positive information to identify and realise environmental impact: for example opportunities to improve our This year, the New York office adopted reviewing packaging from lunch performance: more stringent recycling procedures, providers to ensure minimum Sustainable procurement We have following the enactment of a local packaging used: if feasible sharing law in August 2017, which enforces developed and implemented suppliers with other tenants to formal procedures to ensure that more rigorous procedures within the decrease deliveries: and building and enables Beazley as a environmental impacts are considered 3.
Our people & communications: and managed during the procurement tenant to recycle more effectively.
engaging our people to help achieve Also, in our London office we have process: our goals, encourage them to implemented follow me printing consider their environmental Waste management We actively technology and installed hand approach outside of work and keep facilitate recycling of our office dryers in our bathrooms to reduce them informed of what we are doing.
waste at all Beazley office locations our paper usage.
and review regularly our waste management practices and identify opportunities to improve.
Our focus is on reduction and on implementing methods to support this: and Latest Greenhouse Gas Emission figures ClimateWise Beazley has been a 1 signatory to the insurance sectors tonnes CO equivalent 2 ClimateWise initiative since 2007.
1 1 For further information, please refer to page 72.
com Responsible business continued Keeping our momentum in 2017 continued Workplace #BeBoldForChange Diversity & Inclusion We are proud of the  Diversity in our workforce progress were making on Having a talented workforce that Beazleyplcboard  Male ourjourney to an inclusive  10 culture that capitalises on of our vision.
Our diversity and inclusion Female vision is to inspire and develop people thediversity of our people.
with diverse perspectives to thrive at 3 .
We know there is still a Total 2017 13 fairdistance to travel but During 2017, we continued with our Seniormanagement focus on enhancing gender diversity, weare confident that the Male  steps were taking will organisation.
Aspartofthat, webecame 76  Female leadus to our vision.
30  Rob Anarfi Total 2017 106  %by Chairman of diversity steering group Allemployees theendof2020.
com including the other 720 , suchas Female  607 directorsvariablepay.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 69 Workplace  Statement on the Modern Health & Wellbeing cover other areas of diversity.
The 2017 Beazley supports and encourages Slavery Act 2015 .
Weactivelyensureour  Our 2017 staff survey showed that  noslavery,   workplace, even down to providing .
engaged with our diversity and inclusion .
Anti-corruption and  anti-bribery       networks, each of which is sponsored  : andhonestmanner, andtoensuring   ouroffices,  PROUD@BEAZLEYforourLGBT  sessions on healthy living through : legislation,  tomassagesessions.
  representing the interests of   ouryoungtalent:and  corruptionpolicy, whichiscommunicated .
Empowered, whichsupportsthe  varying cultures represented within with appropriate training.
health and featured a different article   Stonewall  with colleagues opening up and  .
sharing their stories including of Stonewall who will work with us   disorder.
share experiences on living with type  DisabilityForum family.
     safety and correct protocols are in smart.
Acknowledging  calendar helps to reinforce our inclusive .
