42 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OVERVIEW RESPONSIBLE SEGRO We take a long-term view of our business and place great importance on trying to SEGROs purpose is to create the space understand and foresee opportunities and to enable extraordinary things to happen challenges which might affect our business and we are committed to achieving this and that of our customers.
in the most sustainable way possible.
By anticipating future trends, we are Whilst our business focuses on returns able to adjust our business accordingly from real estate, we fully understand and make quick and informed decisions our wider responsibilities and prioritise a for the benefit of our people, communities, commitment to sustainable practices.
This holistic approach not only ensures Our Responsible SEGRO model helps that our buildings are sustainable, but guide our business decisions as well also that they fit well with their local as providing a framework for how we surroundings and communities.
Our application of Responsible SEGRO The model helps reflect our committed should ensure that both our portfolio approach to our people, communities, and our business is well positioned for environment and stakeholders.
time to fully understand the implications of our decisions and always aim to exceed expectations of those with whom we work.
WE ARE COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING OUR PURPOSE IN THE MOST SUSTAINABLE WAY POSSIBLE.
DAVID SLEATH CHIEF EXECUTIVE OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT 98 per cent of our shareholders participated in the Rights Issue in March, and we thank Our people are integral to our business We continued to make good progress against them for their support.
and we are committed to making our 2020 targets in 2017 and our second working at SEGRO an enjoyable and zero carbon development, at SEGRO Park WHAT TO EXPECT IN 2018 rewarding experience.
Amsterdam Airport, reflects our commitment In 2017, we continued to enhance the to environmental sustainability.
The project We have the following objectives for 2018: culture of the organisation to ensure that we which is explored further on page 49 In 2018, we will repeat our Your Say remain an employer of choice.
showcases our vision to develop with the all employee survey and will report our future in mind.
findings and actions next year.
OUR COMMUNITY We are in the process of reviewing our sustainability targets and strategy to make We will launch new supply chain initiatives SEGRO continues to make substantial sure we continue to challenge the business.
in Hounslow, Enfield and Slough.
investments into the communities in which This review is summarised on page 51 and we operate, through an approach based on We will target zero waste to landfill and www.
promote the re-use of materials.
Our successful London Community Fund OUR STAKEHOLDERS We will expand our investor relations is an excellent example of our commitment to offering to incorporate greater information our communities and can be seen in further We work hard to build and maintain strong for our, and SELPs, bond holders.
detail on page 47. relationships with our customers, suppliers and investors, always keeping in mind the impact of our strategic decisions on these important stakeholder groups.
43 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Culture Jobs and Skills Talent and Community Diversity Investment Health and Giving Safety Customers Materials Suppliers Energy Investors Resources CODE OF ETHICS It is a condition of each employees terms Our Code of Ethics was updated in 2017 to of employment and reflects the framework reflect the Companys new policies aimed at SEGRO operates to the highest ethical of acceptable behaviour to ensure that our ensuring that modern slavery is not taking standards throughout our business employees always act in the Companys place anywhere within our organisation or in activities.
Our Code of Ethics is aligned with best interests.
Our Slavery and applicable laws and regulations, as well as All employees receive information Human Trafficking statement is available on our Purpose and Values.
on our Code of Ethics and are required our website at www.
com csr slaveryThe Code incorporates policies on to complete an online training course .
bribery, corruption and fraud, gifts and within a month of joining the Company.
hospitality, insider trading, confidentiality, All employees must certify annually that conflicts of interest, relationships with they continue to understand and adhere to stakeholders, political and charitable the Code.
Any breaches of the Code are donations, raising serious concerns and fully investigated and managed accordingly modern slavery and human trafficking.
by the General Counsel or Group Human Resource Director as necessary.
44 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR PEOPLE GENDER EMPLOYEES SERVING DIVERSITY 1,080 CUSTOMERS 1 1 300 2016: 285 2 STAFF TURNOVER IN 2017 2 9% BOARD LEADERSHIP TEAM 2016: 4% 1.
Male 67% HOURS OF TRAINING Total 100% Total 100% DELIVERED IN 2017 1 1 2 3,3 5 3 2016: 6,422 WE ARE COMMITTED TOENSURING THAT SEGRO CONTINUES TO BE AN 2 WORKFORCE WORKFORCE COMPOSITION EMPLOYER OF CHOICE.
Part-time 7% Board figures include Carol Fairweather who was LIZ REILLY appointed anindependent Non-Executive Director Total 100% Total 100% GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR from1 January 2018.
CULTURE OUR PURPOSE We have a collaborative and expert team WE CREATE THE SPACE THAT ENABLES EXTRAORDINARY THINGS TO HAPPEN.
of 300 employees working across Europe OUR VALUES serving our 1,080 customers.
Our strong and distinctive culture, which has evolved and adapted over our long history, enables us DOES IT KEEP ONE to work successfully as One SEGRO across SAY IT STAND SIDE IF THE DOOR MAKE EYE ON our geographies.
We are committed to ensuring that SEGRO is a great place to work and invest significant time and resources bringing our culture to life through our Purpose economic and technological changes TALENT AND DIVERSITY and Values.
impacting our sector and our customers.
We believe that being fair, open minded and Since our Purpose and Values were Our internal communication programme free from bias helps us to attract and retain refreshed in 2015, we have made excellent ensures that our employees are kept up the best employees, and ultimately leads to progress in integrating them into our business to date about information relating to their better business decisions.
and as an indication of our progress, our benefits, as well as what is happening around We have robust policies in place with regard last employee survey reported that 99 per the business and how this might affect the to equal opportunities which assist us in achieving cent of employees said that they understood Companys performance.
We hold quarterly our objectives in this area.
Our Diversity and SEGROs Purpose and Values.
webcasts to provide business updates from Inclusion Policy is published on our website As an example of bringing our Values to the Executive Directors, as well as employee www.
Every employee life, we invited all employees to a Conference briefings across our Business Units and, in receives diversity training as part of our in Barcelona in 2017 to work Side By Side 2017, we launched a new interactive intranet, induction process and in our last employee with the theme of One Eye On The Horizon.
which was designed to help employees work survey, 93 per cent of employees said The conference enabled our employees more efficiently through knowledge sharing.
that SEGRO respected their individual to understand and engage with the social, 45 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HEALTH AND SAFETY difference of race, disability, sexual We have publicly committed to increasing orientation, gender, etc.. diversity both within the sector and in Health and safety remains central to the We are committed to ensuring that we our own business through our support execution of SEGROs business strategy.
offer equal opportunities to people with of Pathways to Property, Real Estate We take our responsibilities in this area very disabilities.
If an employee becomes disabled Balance and more recently, the 30% Club.
seriously and are committed to continuing while in our employment, we will offer We are Gold Level sponsors of Pathways to improve on our strong health and safety appropriate support, retraining and facilities to Property and offer work experience to record in the future.
to enable them to continue in their role.
individuals who would not otherwise have We seek to embed health and safety SEGRO believes in treating all employees access to property as a career.
Our Chief within our culture, as well as influencing equally, including in respect of pay.
During 2017 Executive has signed up to the Real Estate our supply chain.
This is achieved through we commissioned an independent audit by Balance CEO Commitments for Diversity managing risks by prevention, tighter controls, our remuneration consultants, Mercer, who http: www.
org ceotraining and raising awareness.
confirmed that there are no differences in the .
html and has In 2017, we were awarded a RoSPA Gold pay of men and women at SEGRO who are recently pledged our support to the 30% Medal for achieving five consecutive Gold doing the same or similar roles.
Club which aims to increase the number Awards.
The award recognised our Group Differences in levels of pay between men of women on boards and leadership teams commitment and practical application of and women in our UK organisation are driven to a minimum of 30 per cent by 2020 health and safety procedures across all our by the make-up of our workforce where we https: www.
currently employ more men in senior roles Our approach to developing talent is In association with our Construction than women.
pragmatic and straightforward we want Standard, SEGRO worked increasingly SEGROs median pay gap is 54 per cent.
everyone to be able to maximise their closely with contractors and health and This calculation represents the average pay potential during their time with SEGRO safety consultants in 2017 to enhance of all men compared to the average pay of supported by meaningful and stretching work understanding of our expectations.
As a result, all women we employ in the UK.
We have experiences and through formal training and more than twice the number of inspections disclosed this number as we believe it is coaching where appropriate.
were undertaken across projects in Europe important to be transparent, despite not Our employee turnover, at a Group wide to educate and, when required, enforce the level, increased during 2017 but continues being obliged to do so because we employ Standards requirements to great effect.
to remain in line with the sector average, significantly fewer than 250 people in In 2017, whilst our Accident Frequency meaning that we are able to successfully the UK, which can create distortion in the Rate for employees was zero and there were retain valuable knowledge and expertise analysis.
The relatively high figure reflects this no fatalities, there were a small number within SEGRO.
distortion and the current make-up of our of health and safety incidents which we workforce as described above.
thoroughly investigated and implemented SEGRO is dedicated to increasing the improvement plans where required.
We also gender diversity in the business through conducted many specific health and safety a combination of actions aimed at raising projects, one being featured below.
conscious awareness of diversity issues Our Group Health and Safety policy amongst our employees, through our andmore details on our initiatives in recruitment and training interventions this area are featured on our website and our talent review process.
SAFETY IN DEVELOPMENT Daily inspections on safety performance The safety culture changed dramatically on took place across the site, with findings site during the early stages of the project During 2017, we undertook a complex reported in weekly and monthly reports.
with an increase in the dedicated health development project which, on initial and safety presence and the proactive inspection, highlighted some concerns If there were any non-conformities monitoring and engagement with the onrelating to contractor engagement, training noted during inspections, the contractor site workforce.
and the control of high risk works.
involved would be required to stop From the initial findings of 18 priority SEGRO made the decision to expand working and could be issued with a fine.
issues that required addressing at the very the safety team and implement more They would also be required to meet start of the project, this fell to one by the last robust safety procedures that included with their supervisor and re-take the visit.
Equally, the number of good practices the following: health and safety test to ensure their noted began at two and finished at nine, full understanding of the safe method Each contractor had to be fully approved showing a shift in the understanding and of working.
and inducted in health and safety before need for good health and safety for all.
being issued with a unique coded A register was kept and tracked The lessons learned from this project ID badge and permitted entry to the concerning any individual company that have already been used on other projects construction site.
was continually breaching the site safety across the Group.
rules and action taken accordingly.
46 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR COMMUNITY DONATED TO CHARITY IN 2017 SEGRO is committed to supporting the communities in which we operate through a range of funding 1,117,760 interventions, volunteering, training andemployment programmes.
2016: 880,420 By working with local partners we are able to provide a multitude of benefits EMPLOYEE DAYS DONATED to members of the community and TO CHARITY IN 2017 ensure our impact goes beyond the development and ownership of modern 283 industrial space.
2016: 315 We believe that active engagement and an understanding of the needs of each community we work with will help us NUMBER OF EMPLOYMENT deliver better longterm physical and OPPORTUNITIES CREATED THROUGH social benefits.
NEW COMPLETED DEVELOPMENTS IN2017 400 WE ARE COMMITTED NUMBER OF PEOPLE BENEFITTING TO ENHANCING AND FROM THE LONDON COMMUNITY FUND IMPROVING THE AREAS INWHICH WE OPERATE.
1,797 NEIL IMPIAZZI PARTNERSHIPS DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR JOBS AND SKILLS SEGRO Supply Chain Initiative Newham Workplace to help local people benefit from our regeneration plans through As a demonstration of our commitment to In partnership with our contractors and a dedicated training and employment job supporting local businesses and generating customers, SEGRO aims to invest in areas in brokerage service, whilst ensuring our local growth, SEGRO launched a new Supply which we operate through the provision of contractors and customers are able to secure Chain Initiative as part of the construction of education, training and employment.
Once fully let SEGRO Park SEGRO Park Rainham.
Readie Construction, We aim to create jobs in the construction Newham is expected to create 350 jobs.
the main contractor on the development, stage of our developments as well as in the committed to the Initiative which is designed occupation of our buildings, creating a range Gateway to Skills to help local SMEs to compete for a range of diverse employment opportunities.
Inspiring young people to prepare them for of tender opportunities as part of the the world of work is important to SEGRO SEGRO Park Rainham construction process.
As a result, more as well as its customers.
Through our Once complete, we estimate that the than 15 businesses located in the borough partnership with the Centre of Excellence SEGRO Park Rainham development, part of successfully provided a range of high quality for Manufacturing and Engineering CEME our East Plus scheme, could deliver 1,000 services and construction work packages on and Havering College, SEGRO is funding direct and indirect jobs.
SEGRO is working the site.
the Gateway to Skills initiative, a 70,000 with Havering Council, Havering College SEGRO Park Newham and Workplace investment package aiming to promote and Havering Job Centre Plus to deliver a careers in science, technology, engineering Through our East Plus partnership with the dedicated skills, training and employment and manufacturing STEM.
Since its launch Greater London Authority, SEGRO is working service for local people to support both in 2015, 467 students from 11 schools in diligently to attract new investment and create construction and occupation of the Newham, Barking & Dagenham and Havering jobs in East London.
The service will be available to have participated, with 530 pupils expected to At our SEGRO Park Newham site, we all industrial occupiers in the surrounding area take part in 2018. are constructing a new facility for DPD and to help people in the local community access hotel for Travelodge, which will generate up a wider range of job opportunities.
SEGRO has teamed up with 47 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMUNITY INVESTMENT The successes of the fund prompted the house for young people leaving care, launch of our Thames Valley Community whomay otherwise face homelessness.
Our commitment to regeneration shapes Fund this year see case study.
We aim to enhance In Northern Europe, SEGRO employees the communities in which we operate by helped homeless and vulnerable children GIVING collaborating with local charities and social in Hamburg through the Streetwork enterprises.
These grass-root community SEGRO takes a proactive approach towards Kids charity.
groups have the knowledge and expertise to giving and encourages all employees to In Central Europe, SEGRO worked help local vulnerable people and by offering participate in charitable events, providing their throughout the year with the Iskierka financial support to these organisations, we time and skills.
In 2017, SEGRO donated the Foundation, supporting Polish children help people return to employment.
equivalent of 240,400 in the form of direct withcancer and their families.
donations, 107,540 through employee SEGRO Community Award volunteering and 769,820 through In Southern Europe, nine SEGRO A new SEGRO Community Award was assistance in kind.
SEGRO employees also employees took part in Pariss Mud Day created in 2017 to fund innovative projects donated 283 days of their time to charity.
obstacle course challenge, raising funds that benefit the community in Slough.
In June 2017, 190 SEGRO colleagues for Positive Planet, a charity that helps The 2,000 award this year was given to from seven different countries participated in fight poverty across the world, through Learning to Work, a charity that facilitates our second Day of Giving to help a number thedevelopment of microfinance.
the links between education and businesses.
Alongside the theme of In They will use the award to create The SEGRO the community, colleagues built, mended, Volunteer Passport Programme in which 12 painted, advised, helped, befriended, cooked, young, vulnerable people from Slough will THAMES VALLEY weeded and planted during the course of gain a recognised volunteering qualification COMMUNITY FUND the day.
Numerous other activities were In November 2017, SEGRO launched undertaken across the Group in 2017, London Community Fund the Thames Valley Community including: Fund to help local charities in the Since its launch in 2015, SEGRO has Slough, Reading and Bracknell contributed over 150,000 to grass-roots In the UK, SEGRO donated 40,000 to area.
Partnering with The Berkshire community groups and charities in the LandAids Habitat for Humanity GB Homes, Community Foundation, 25,000 will London boroughs in which we operate.
which will help bring an empty property be available for community groups to The fund helps to provide training and in East London back into use as a shared continue their efforts to help vulnerable volunteering opportunities to the local community to help people into employment people back into education, training or education.
Up to 5,000 will be In 2017 alone, 253 volunteers gave available to groups supporting residents over 8,400 hours of their time.
To date, the to develop the skills needed to access London Community Fund has celebrated a the job market.
number of achievements as detailed below.
Community regeneration Jobs and Giving Skills Community Investment Slough Aspire is a skills and training facility dedicated to enabling SEGROs contribution of 150,000 to its London Community SEGRO proactively encourages all employees to participate in the Slough community to develop employment skills relevant to Fund in 2017 has been used to provide education, training and charitable causes through time and skills.
In 2017, SEGRO donated local businesses.
Since its launch, the centre has: employment opportunities to enhance employability of vulnerable, the equivalent of: young, and homeless people.
Outcomes from the London Community Fund so far are as follows: Enabled 11,416 people to engage with business professionals 1,797 people have directly benefited 240,400 in the form of direct donations to improve their awareness of potential career paths 30 organisations have benefited 107,540 through employee volunteering Facilitated 3,705 skills and employment interventions for 209 project participants have secured employment 769,820 from assistance in kind residents to access training, qualifications and jobs 162 beneficiaries have undertaken work experience Supported the career progression of 1,338 business professionals via networking, and training opportunities Supported the creation of 40 new businesses 48 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR ENVIRONMENT SEGRO is committed to owning a high SPACE ENVIRONMENTALLY CERTIFIED IN 2017 quality portfolio of modern warehouses which deliver sustainable performance.
In order to achieve this goal, we have to 466,447 sq m ensure that our projects deliver a positive impact for our local communities, our 2016: 250,000 sq m customers, our stakeholders and the environment around us.
REDUCTION IN ENERGY INTENSITY IN 2017 FROM BASELINE In 2017 we reported the results of our SEGRO 2020 targets for the seventh year, which focus on building 64% design, refurbishments, energy and water efficiency and obtaining 2016: 61% building certifications that support our sustainable approach.
ONSITE RENEWABLE ENERGY CAPACITY In 2017 we continued to apply the targets to our asset management activity and have delivered strong results across 13.9 mw the Group.
2016: 9.2 mw We remain committed to communicating our performance transparently and we CARBON DISCLOSURE PROJECT WE ARE COMMITTED TO adhere to the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
ENSURING ENVIRONMENTAL ASUSTAINABILITY IS FULLY EMBEDDED THROUGHOUT ACHIEVED FOR THE 2ND CONSECUTIVE YEAR OUR BUSINESS.
BEN BRAKES GROUP SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER SEGRO 2020 PERFORMANCE VS 2012 BASELINE In 2017 we continued to improve our performance against our SEGRO 2020 Reduce energy intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 40 per cent 64% targets see table.
Reduce water intensity for SEGRO responsible space by 20 per cent 16% We also continued to perform strongly across Environmental Social and Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of construction demolition waste 80% Governance indices: Reuse or recycle 60 per cent of excavation waste 100% In Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Install water efficient technology in all new buildings and qualifying major refurbishments 90% wemaintained an A score which puts 100 per cent of qualifying buildings to be at least 40 per cent more efficient SEGRO in the leadership category.
78% than our 2009 baseline In Global Real Estate Sustainability 100 per cent of qualifying new developments by SEGRO over 10,000 sq m to be 93% Benchmark GRESB we achieved a BREEAM certified Very Good or equivalent three green star rating and an A for 100 per cent of new buildings to be EPC B rated or better 100% ourpublic disclosure.
100 per cent of qualifying refurbishments to be EPC C rated or better 89% We were a participant of FTSE4Good.
Increase renewable energy generating capacity across the Group 51% We were awarded European Public Real Estate Association EPRA Silver for our Target met On target to meet SEGRO 2020 objectives 2016 reporting.
We did not receive a Gold award because we do not report on aspects that are not material to our business, such as operational waste.
49 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MATERIALS ROME FC1 The chart below shows the main sources of carbon within the construction phase, In order to be Europes leading owner and The integration of Building Information the dominant contributor being concrete, developer of industrial properties, as well Modelling into our development assessments focusing our attention on how to change the as an excellent partner for our customers, allows us to identify the sources of a use of these elements to improve the carbon we want to help our customers reach developments carbon footprint during footprint within our control.
their sustainability targets by providing construction and over its life cycle.
low carbon buildings which can also This means we can target the main reduce operational costs and create areas of embodied carbon to reduce our 1 financial savings.
We aim to provide high carbon footprint.
specification, high performance buildings, For example, at our Rome FC1 site and ensure they are cost effective to run in Italy our biggest development to date and have as low an environmental impact around 12 per cent of the buildings as possible.
lifetime carbon footprint is associated with 6 We recognise and encourage the construction and demolition, the remainder 5 specification of responsibly sourced being dependent on how the occupier uses 4 materials.
For example, our development the building.
at SEGRO Logistics Centre Mitry-Mory, which has a floor area of 57,400 sq m, utilises sustainably certified timber by using 3 2 glue laminated beams for the structure.
Other 25% Total 100% SEGRO PARK AMSTERDAM AIRPORT LC1 Following the success of Navigation Park, system which utilises the temperature of an As the long-term asset manager, we will London, our LC1 development at SEGRO underlying aquifer to provide heating in the maintain and monitor the panels and sell Park Amsterdam Airport is our second zero winter and cooling in the summer.
the energy to the occupier through a power carbon development, meaning it generates The building also benefits from a 520 purchase agreement.
more energy than it is designed to use.
kWp rooftop solar photovoltaic PV array The renewable energy features will Completed in November 2017, the most that will yield 425,000 kWh of clean energy help the development achieve a BREEAM impressive feature of the development annually, enough energy to power 31 Excellent rating.
is the renewable heating and cooling homes, saving 230 tonnes of CO annually.
2 50 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED ENERGY In 2017 we completed our biggest rooftop solar PV array yet.
We retrofitted 3.4 MWp of solar PV capacity to a building in Tilburg, Netherlands, one of the greenest buildings in our portfolio.
The solar array will provide 2,975 mWh of clean energy each year.
The building has already been certified BREEAM Outstanding and with the solar array becomes one of our most sustainable buildings.
In 2017, 100 per cent of our developments had an Energy RESOURCES 225 BATH ROAD Performance Certificate EPC rating of at least a B, or a primary energy In 2016, we achieved our target for The 4.9 ha site of our 225 Bath demand less than 200 kWh per m sq excavation waste, and reused or recycled Road development was formerly a per year and 89 per cent of our UK 77 per cent of construction and demolition manufacturing facility that we demolished refurbishments achieved at least a waste across the Group.
In 2017 we to make way for 20,000 sq m of Crating.
decided to go further and understand urban warehousing.
Working with our We have further reduced the what was possible to re-use or recycle suppliers, we managed to send just number of F and G rated EPC assets from a development and see how far we 0.6per cent of the waste to landfill see in the UK portfolio in response to the could feasibly go.
We hope to repeat this level of Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards development provided an ideal opportunity.
recycling in as many projects as possible and have developed a programme for in future.
those outstanding to either improve the energy efficiency of the building or re- 6 7 1 Waste Description Tonnes 5 develop at the earliest opportunity.
Recycled Concrete, bricks, tiles and ceramics 10,508.6 70.7% 2.
Recycled Metallic waste, including cable 3,142.4 21.1% 3 4.
Landfill Hazardous Waste 70.0 0.5% Total 14,870.3 100% 51 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS GHG REPORTING SEGRO 2025 AND BEYOND To ensure our Responsible SEGRO strategy GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS DATA IN TONNES CO e 2 continues to meet stakeholder expectations Emissions from: 2017 2016 in environmental sustainability, in 2017 we Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 1,992 6,040 began an in-depth materiality assessment to Scope 2 emissions purchased energy location based 4,456 13,005 understand the views of our senior business Scope 2 emissions purchased energy market based 3,780 13,095 leaders, external partners, non-governmental Total CO e footprint using location based 6,449 19,045 2 organisations, customers, shareholders and Chosen intensity Measurement other interested parties.
The materiality 2 assessment is being undertaken in line with Emissions from like-for-like estate normalised to tonnes CO2e m of responsible space 0.005 0.009 best practice methodologies, such as those supported by the Global Reporting Initiative E lectricity emissions are calculated using location based method.
Emissions calculations are taken from GRI guidance used here for GRI and is looking at the environmental illustration purposes only.
sustainability categories aligned to the United M arket based Electricity emissions are included here for comparison purposes only.
Nations Sustainable Development Goals, S EGROs chosen intensity measure is a like-for-like comparison for sites in the portfolio in both 2016 and 2017.
This comparison uses EPRA guidance on best practice for real estate companies.
Total gross emissions from like-for-like estate normalised to tonnes alongside other external, global and local CO2e m2 of responsible space: 2017 1,725, 2016 3,021. initiatives, such as the new Draft London Plan S elected information within the scope of limited assurance.
We define issues to be material to our The table above provides information on REPORTING METHODOLOGY business in terms of: SEGROs greenhouse gas emissions for 2017, This section has been prepared in accordance The degree to which an issue is aligned in which we are pleased to report a reduction with our regulatory obligation to report with our vision, Purpose and Values, brand in like-for-like Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section portfolio and geography: from 2016.
7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic The reduction is concentrated in Scope The potential impact on our operations, or Report and Directors Report Regulations 2 location-based emissions, which is largely on our sourcing and consumers: 2013.
As well as fulfilling these mandatory due to improvements in our reporting Greenhouse Gas reporting requirements, The extent of SEGROs influence on the methodology.
In particular, we have changed SEGRO is committed to EPRA Best Practice issue: and the reporting period for this year and future Recommendations for sustainability reporting.
years to the 12 months ending 30 September.
The importance of an issue to our We report our data using an operational This means that we can use actual billed data key stakeholders.
control approach to define our organisational rather than estimated data and, in 2017, boundary, as per the Greenhouse Gas Early results show that areas such as the dataset contains less than 10 per cent Protocol.
The market based methodology operational waste and water consumption are estimations.
Further improvements have also has been applied to calculate the Scope 2 not considered to be material impacts to the been made by the increased occupation of emissions, however supplier-specific emission business, although they will still be considered assets, predominantly in Europe, equating to factors have been collected for UK only.
in the development of buildings.
afurther move of emissions from being Scope For the non-UK portfolio, the IEA emission To ensure we continue to challenge the 2 to being Scope 3. factors have been applied.
We disclose business, we are reviewing our sustainability Although Scope 3 emissions relate data for both our like-for-like and absolute targets and strategy to reflect those issues primarily to our customers use of our portfolios in this report and a detailed identified as material.
New medium-and longbuildings and are therefore not fully within description of our methodology and a full term key performance indicators, including our control, we have completed a number disclosure of emissions factors used can Science Based Targets are being investigated of projects to help reduce these emissions.
and developed to drive action in the areas For example, in Poland we undertook a SEGROs chosen GHG intensity metric is defined as material and our new strategy will project to replace light fittings with LED calculated using the Scope 1 and Scope 2 underpin the way that we do business and technology that will save over 1,500 tonnes emissions within a like-for-like sub-set of define our vision of Technical Sustainability.
ofCO e per year for our customers.
The like-for-like portfolio is defined as sites which have both been in the portfolio for 2016 and 2017, and have remained either fully occupied or fully vacant for both years.
52 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE SEGRO OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our approach to our stakeholders is NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS central to our business.
In order to achieve our goal to be the best owner manager and developer of industrial 1,080 property in Europe, we keep in close contact with our customers, suppliers 2016: 1,200 and investors to ensure that we are aware of each others priorities so we can OCCUPIER SATISFACTION IN OUR 2017 SURVEY be confident that we are acting in our mutual interest.
87% We always seek to improve our stakeholder engagement and have 2016: 79% done so again in 2017, reflecting in particular a significant improvement in SUPPLIER SPEND the results of our customer satisfaction PER ANNUM survey and awards for our marketing, communications and investor relations teams.
OVER 600m Only through regular communication and 2016: OVER 400m the pursuit of continuous improvement in our engagement and service can REPRESENTATIVES FROM INSTITUTIONAL we ensure that we have supportive SHAREHOLDERS MET BY SENIOR WE ARE COMMITTED TO MANAGEMENT IN 2017 stakeholders and partners for the ENSURING THAT WE ACT IN long term.
THE BEST INTEREST OF ALL 181 OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
2016: 148 ANDY GULLIFORD CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER CUSTOMERS strategies to ensure we meet and exceed Overall all categories and Business Units customer expectations and make certain that improved in 2017 from 2016.
Our customer relationships are critical to our strategies are closely aligned.
the success of our business and we aim to Customer willingness to recommend In 2017, we initiated and completed deliver excellent customer service at all times.
several strategy workshops which involved Through strong and enduring relationships representatives from SEGRO and individual We also launched a Strategic Customer with our customers and an informed customers.
These workshops facilitated Survey in 2017 which aims to engage with understanding of their businesses and mutual sharing of opportunities and senior decision makers within our customer markets, we strive to be seen as a partner in challenges enabling us to grow our customer base.
The survey aims to provide unique their business rather than simply a landlord: relationships through trust, collaboration insights and understanding of the strategic our success is dependent on their success.
issues that our customers face, particularly the We have continued to invest in our This work has been reflected in the results major disruptive market drivers that might Key Account Management programme of our Customer Satisfaction Survey which we impact businesses, and has helped us better throughout 2017, with our strategy to now conduct three times per year on a rolling appreciate the future requirements and needs broaden our services to customers as well as basis, rather than once annually.
This has of our customers.
We intend to discuss the deepen our customer knowledge.
We have allowed us to achieve a more accurate year on results at our 2018 Customer Futures Forum established a number of strategic crossyear comparison and to respond more quickly and use them to stimulate discussion on how border key accounts which have assisted us to any issues which arise.
we can better serve our customers.
in working in partnership with customers Some of the key highlights from our In practical terms, during the year we and have resulted in mutually beneficial 2017 results are as follows: introduced Customer Co-ordinators in each opportunities arising over the course of Business Unit to share best practices across the year.
A total of 293 surveys were completed the Company, while also providing consistency Our Key Account Management teams including 13 of our Key Accounts.
This collaborative approach incorporate employees from across the Overall Occupier Satisfaction was 87 per has improved our customer intelligence and Group who proactively share information cent 8 per cent up on 2016. streamlined our operations, delivering benefits and material through a number of channels.
for both our business and our customers.
This allows them to draw up customer specific 53 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLIERS INVESTORS During 2017, the Executive Directors and the Investor Relations team met with SEGRO is committed to ensuring a secure and Our shareholders confidence in our business representatives from 181 institutions.
safe supply chain in all parts of the business.
is critical to our success.
We therefore ensure Further information regarding our We spend over 600 million per annum that all shareholders from large institutions to investors can be found on page 82 of the working with approximately 2,500 suppliers individual shareholders are regularly updated Governance section.
across the Group, ranging from small local about our performance and are given businesses to large multinational companies.
opportunities to interact with us.
We remain dedicated to only doing business Our dedicated Investor Relations team with suppliers that have been thoroughly has an extensive engagement programme checked and approved as legitimate, which enables shareholders to meet competent, safe and appropriately insured management throughout the year and gain and require all suppliers to adhere to our a better understanding of our business Code of Ethics, which is summarised on strategy and performance.
The programme page43 of this report.
includes an Annual General Meeting, Compliance rates for new suppliers is management meetings with institutional 100 per cent, and for the entire supply chain investors, attendance at investor conferences, INDUSTRY BODIES it was 86 per cent at 31 December 2017. presentations to investment banks and site During the year we added compliance with visits, as well as more informal events.
SEGRO continues to be represented UK modern slavery legislation to certain The Investor Relations team works closely on key industry bodies to support the of our suppliers following a due diligence with the Marketing and Communications improvements of sector standards and to risk review.
team to ensure that existing and potential ensure the importance of the industrial We continue to be a signatory to the UK investors are kept informed about our sector is fully understood.
In 2017, David Prompt Payment Code and 82 per cent of business.
This was reflected in the teams Sleath was President of the British Property invoices received in 2017 were paid within success in winning Best Investor Relations Federation BPF and a number of the allocated timeframe.
awards from the Investor Relations Society SEGRO employees participate in a range During 2017 we implemented a system and Institutional Investor magazine and of industry bodies locally and nationally change that reduced the time to register new Property Marketing Team of the Year and Best in the markets in which we operate, suppliers by two days.
Marketing Campaign: Retail, Industrial and and internationally in our membership Logistics at the Property Marketing Awards.
of EPRA, the European industry body representing listed property companies.
LEROY MERLIN SEGRO is now working with the company Leroy Merlin is delighted to be to provide an urban logistics facility close continuing our longstanding SEGRO works in close partnership with to Paris.
The companys decision to work relationship with SEGRO, through Leroy Merlin to enhance our understanding with SEGRO in France and in a new area of its subsidiary VAILOG.
The SEGRO of their strategic goals and enable us to its supply chain reflects the strength of the teams understanding of our business offer appropriate solutions for the company relationship and the benefits SEGRO has has enabled us to make investments within our markets.
gained from building a strategic partnership.
into new parts of our supply chain to In line with our expansion plans in Italy, help future proof our business.
SEGRO extended the companys building in Milan from 93,000 sq m to 140,000 sq m. ERIC DEWITTE DIRECTOR SUPPLY CHAIN & CSR AT LEROY MERLIN
