Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review 41 Corporate Responsibility The Corporate Responsibility Report is anintegral part of our Annual Reports andFinancial Statements.
This section highlights progress on our 2017 corporate responsibility objectives.
The full 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
com go CRReport 42 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Corporate responsibility scientific, Technical & Medical We define corporate responsibility Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical and medical information, plays an important role in advancing CR as the way we do business human welfare and economic progress through its science and health information, which spurs innovation and enables critical andour efforts to increase our decision-making.
To broaden access to its content, Elsevier supports programmes where resources are often scarce.
positive impact and reduce Among them is Research4Life, a partnership with UN agencies and approximately 200 publishers: we provide core and anynegative impact.
It ensures cutting-edge scientific information to researchers in 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner and the leading good management of risks and contributor, Elsevier provides over a quarter of the material available in Research4Life, encompassing approximately 3,000 opportunities, helps us attract Elsevier journals and 20,000 e-books.
In 2017, there were 2.4m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
andretain the best people and In the year, we expanded Research without Borders which pairs our strengthens our corporate colleagues research expertise with the needs of the African health science community.
Working with the African Journal Partnership reputation.
Program, Elsevier contributed 20 volunteers for a total of 48 weeks to help African journals boost their research impact through the It means performing to the highest commercial and ethical Elsevier Foundations Research without Borders programme.
standards and channelling our knowledge and strengths, as According to Dr. Lucinda Manda-Taylor, Editor-in-Chief of the global leaders in our industries, to make a difference to society.
Malawi Medical Journal who worked with Cynthia Clark, Director of Digital Journals at Elsevier, I cannot stress enough how helpful We regularly survey key stakeholders, including in 2017, it was to have a volunteer Elsevier publisher for the Malawi Medical shareholders, employees, governments and communities Journal.
It helped the editorial team implement some key tasks that where we operate, to help us identify our material corporate will improve our digital connection with the outside world through responsibility issues and to set and test our CR objectives.
interactions on our website and social media pages.
The Board of Directors, senior management and our Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee CR objectives and performance.
Risk & Business Analytics Risk & Business Analytics tools and resources help law We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business enforcement keep communities safe and help protect society and on good management of the material areas that affect by detecting and preventing fraud across a range of business all companies: sectors and at the US federal, state and local government levels.
For example, since 2015, the city of Stockton, Californias police 1.
Our unique contributions department has been using LexisNexis Accurint Crime Analysis 2.
Governance predictive analytics to help reduce violent gun crime.
People In the year, colleagues at Accuity, which provides comprehensive data and software to support financial processing risk and 4.
Customers compliance, collaborated with policy makers on the European 5.
Community Unions 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive, to halt money laundering and terrorist nancing.
Supply chain We developed the ADAM programme more than 17 years ago to 7.
Environment help the National Centre for Missing & Exploited Children in the US nd missing children.
ADAM distributes missing child alert We are committed to the United Nations UN Global Compact posters to law enforcement, hospitals, libraries and businesses to which we are a signatory and are dedicated to advancing the within specic geographic search areas.
The system was expanded UNs Sustainable Development Goals SDGs by 2030. to allow individuals to receive an alert via email when a child is reported missing near to them.
In 2017, 14 children were found through ADAM, bringing the total number of children recovered to 1.
Our unique contributions 177 since the start of the programme in 2000.
We also worked with We make a positive impact on society through our knowledge, Amber Alert Europe and Portsmouth University to scope a training resources and skills, including: course for UK police forces and other agencies involved in missing cases such as social services, schools and health professionals.
universal sustainable access to information In 2017, Proagrica, dedicated to feeding the world sustainably advancing of science and health through its content and solutions, launched Future Farming, to protection of society help farmers use local, national and international eld, crop and other data to make better farming decisions.
promotion of the rule of law and justice fostering communities Business review Corporate Responsibility 43 RELX Group SDG Resource Centre: informing the world In 2017, we launched the free RELX Group SDG Resource Centre What we do impacts the world.
com to advance and services shed light on some of the most awareness, understanding and pressing global issues.
TheRELX Group SDG implementation of the 17 UN Sustainable Resource Centre will aid researchers and the public by giving them access to critical content Development Goals SDGs which aim that informs understanding about the SDGs.
toend poverty, protect the planet, and Erik Engstrom ensure prosperity for all people by 2030.
CEO, RELX Group To illuminate the SDGs, the site provides leading edge articles, reports, tools, events, videos and legal practical guidance fromacross RELX Group.
It also features content from partners, the United Nations Global Compact and theUnited Nations Development Programme.
It contains unique research from Elsevier on the state of science underpinning the SDGs: Risk and Business Analytics content fromProagrica that combines data and analysis to improve 77,000 agricultural yields and ensure sustainable land use: the Rule sources in the RELX of Law Impact Tracker developed by LexisNexis Legal & Group SDG Resource Professional and the World Justice Project: and information Centres SDG News on shows like ReedExhibitions World Future Energy Summit Tracker for up to the focused on affordable, clean energy and World Travel Market minute news on the SDGs from around the world dedicated tosustainable tourism.
The SDG Resource Centre is also fostering rich discussion about SDG solutions through our Mendeley reference management andonline social networking platform.
44 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 mobile and contactless payment technology for accountable 1.
Our unique contributions continued revenue collection and data management to sustain urban and During 2017, RBI continued to support the Tech Talent Charter, rural water systems throughout the developing world.
They will committed to increasing the ratio of women and under-represented use the prize to install 60 eWATERtaps and to repair three large groups in technology.
RBI women in technology, who comprise 26% solar pumped water systems, benefiting over 8,000 people in the of the business units UK technology workforce 17% national Upper River and Lower River of The Gambia.
average, held a Tech Day for girls from local schools.
2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement Advance of science 20 Elsevier research experts spent Legal and health: expand a combined 48 weeks training LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and Research Without African health journal teams in access to justice through its products and services.
During 2017, Borders to build DRC, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, we collaborated with the Republic of Fiji to consolidate the editorial skills through Malawi, Mali, Rwanda and Uganda countrys laws and make them publicly available for the first time.
journal mentoring and Additional training held in We assisted the United Nations Global Compact UNGC and other training Amsterdam for editors from Mali UN agencies to promote business engagement on the rule of law Medical Journal and the DRCs throughout the year, including by supporting the documentation Annales Africaines fide Medecine of land rights in Myanmar.
In the year, we launched the Rule of Law Protection of society: ADAM programme platform Caf, in partnership with the UNGC Network UK, giving peers and help broaden reach of extended to allow individuals to members of the legal community an opportunity to share their ADAM programme: new receive missing child email alerts: efforts to advance the rule of law.
In 2017, LexisNexis Legal & training programme on 14 children found through ADAM Professional received Freedom Houses Corporate Leadership missing people for UK Award for its work to advance the rule of law.
Supporting new missing child law enforcement cases training course for UK Exhibitions policing Reed Exhibitions events strengthen communities and support Promotion of the rule Micro-site created on SDG our CR focus areas.
of law and access to Resource Centre for Global justice: assist UNGC in Alliance on Reporting Progress on Each year, World Travel Market WTM, Reed Exhibitions agship embedding Business for Just, Peaceful and Inclusive show for the travel and tourism industry, holds World Responsible the Rule of Law and work Societies as a repository to aid Tourism Day, which includes the Responsible Tourism awards.
with UN Development member state reporting on SDG16 In recognition of the 2017 International Year of Sustainable Programme and Tourism for Development, leaders were chosen for how they Created Business for the Rule of Member States to are demonstrating impact and their alignment with one or more Law Caf in partnership with support reporting UNGC Network UK with of the SDGs.
Winners included Village Ways, India, named best progress on SDGs participation from customers, for poverty reduction and Chobe Game Lodge, Botswana, named peers, academia and colleagues best for carbon reduction.
In 2017, WTM also held a roundtable at to share information on going the UK House of Lords, hosted by Baroness Morris of Bolton, with beyond legal minimums to leaders in tourism and other elds to discuss tangible ways of advance the rule of law addressing child trafcking and tourism and orphanage tourism.
Fostering communities: Largest responsible tourism Also in 2017, more than 1,700 science and marine technology World Travel Market programme at WTM London to professionals from 46 countries attended Reed Exhibitions WTM to convene travel date with 27 sessions, including inaugural Oceanology International North America conference industry roundtable two focused on increasing and exhibition in San Diego.
Among conference topics was for collaboration on awareness of modern slavery, sustainable port management and environmental protection.
responsible tourism key trafficking, human rights and challenges, including orphanage tourism Across RELX Group antitrafcking Roundtable at House of Lords with In 2017, we launched the free RELX Group SDG Resource Centre initiatives leaders in tourism and other fields www.
com to advance awareness, to discuss tangible ways of understanding and implementation of the 17 SDGs to end poverty, addressing child trafficking and protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all people by 2030. tourism and orphanage tourism The site features articles, tools, news, events, networking and Universal, sustainable RELX Group SDG Resource Centre original research, including in 2017, a review of education and access to information: launched at Inspiration Day sustainable development SDG 4 with citable statistics on launch free access SDG drawing 100 attendees scholarly output, impact and collaboration.
Resource Centre Nearly 10,000 unique visitors 2017 marked the seventh year of the RELX Group Environmental by year-end: 34% of visitors via Challenge, focused on providing improved and sustainable organic search access to water and sanitation where it is presently at risk.
The $50,000 first prize winner, eWATER, uses leading-edge Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 45 In 2017, we took a number of steps to further enhance and embed 2018 OBJECTIVES our culture of compliance across RELX Group, including reorganising Advance and make publicly available, research on the state the RELX Group Compliance function around globally recognised of science underpinning the SDGs compliance principles and creating a central compliance team Partner with the National Centre for Missing and Exploited devoted to training, communications and investigations and a Children to expand ADAM programme email alerts to US second team devoted to risk assessment and monitoring: increasing consumers: advance training course for UK policing on the number of employees devoted to compliance and increasing missing cases collaboration among RELX Group compliance committees.
Roll out RELX Group Rule of Law Cafes across multiple Reports of violations of the Code or related policies are promptly jurisdictions investigated, with careful tracking and monitoring of violations Advance sustainability content across show portfolios and related mitigation and remediation efforts by Compliance New functionality for SDG Resource Centre including teams across the business.
In 2017, we continued training of integration of UN and other partner content investigators who handle employee relations and financial misconduct matters.
OUR 2030 VISION We remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance Use our products and expertise to advance the SDGs, among them: with applicable bribery and sanctions laws and to mitigate bribery SDG 3: Good health and well-being risks.
We continue to monitor and assess the implementation of our SDG 4: Quality education anti-bribery requirements, including developing detailed, risk-based SDG 10: Reduced inequalities internal policies and procedures for key compliance-related business processes and functions: conducting periodic risk assessments: SDG 13: Climate action establishing gift and entertainment limits: and enforcing clear SDG 16: Peace, justice and strong institutions rules on doing business with Government ofcials.
In addition, Enrich the SDG Resource Centre to ensure essential content, intermediary relationships and acquisition targets are specically tools and events on the SDGs are freely available to all.
evaluated for risk using third-party questionnaires, references and detailed electronic searches.
Similarly, in the area of sanctions compliance, we refreshed our internal policies and guidance to 2.
Governance comport with changes in applicable regulations, implemented Know Your Customer tools to enhance customer screening efforts, Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct the Code is and enhanced quality assurance reviews and risk assessments.
disseminated to every employee and sets the standards for our corporate and individual conduct.
Among other topics, the Code In 2017, we expanded fraud prevention and cyber security continues to address fair competition, anti-bribery, conicts of awareness efforts and continued to tighten related controls interest, employment practices, data protection and appropriate through mandatory training Group-wide, with risk-based use of company property and information.
It also encourages information security presentations for finance and HR teams reporting of violations with an anonymous reporting option across the business and employees in Manila and Chennai.
and prohibits retaliation against anyone who believes and reports We also began rolling out a PhishMe button integrated into our a potential violation of the Code or law.
email client to allow employees to make an immediate report, and provided a Group-wide phishing simulation.
The Code incorporates the principles of the UNGC and stresses our commitment to human rights.
In accordance with the UNs As a signatory to the UNGC and its principles, encompassing Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have labour, environment, anti-corruption and human rights, we considered where and how we operate and have concluded that demonstrated leadership by becoming a LEAD company, taking there is low human rights risk in our direct employment activities part in their SDG Action Platforms, including the Blueprint for SDG for more information on human rights see Supply chain on Leadership.
We also served in the year on the Board of the UNGC page 49.
In 2017, we updated our Modern Slavery Act Statement UK Network and spoke on panels at their Making Global Goals which highlights how we are working internally, through our Local Business conference in New Delhi and the Leaders Summit supply chain and externally with partners to address the risk during the UN General Assembly in New York, when Teresa of slavery and human trafcking.
Jennings of LexisNexis Legal & Professional was named an SDG Pioneer for her efforts to advance the rule of law.
UNGC peers We maintain a comprehensive set of compliance policies and judged our Communication on Progress, required of signatories procedures in support of the Code.
These are reviewed at least annually, to have attained Advanced Level.
We were also active annually to ensure they remain current and effective.
They help us in the Dutch UNGC network.
comply with the law and conduct our business in an open, honest, ethical and principled way.
In the case of our anti-bribery efforts, In 2017, the RELX Group global business paid 449m in corporate they comprise part of our adequate procedures for compliance taxes.
We are a responsible corporate taxpayer and conduct with applicable laws.
our tax affairs to ensure compliance with all laws and relevant regulations in the countries in which we operate.
Tax is an important Employees receive mandatory training on the Code both new hires issue for our stakeholders and society at large.
We have set out and at regular intervals for all employees in order to maintain a our approach to tax in our global tax strategy.
This incorporates respectful workplace, prevent bribery and protect personal and our Tax Principles along with additional disclosures around where company data.
Mandatory periodic training covers key Code topics we pay taxes and our broader contribution to society.
This is made in depth, such as competition law and records management, which publicly available on our website www.
is supplemented by in-person training for higher-risk roles.
46 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 2.
People In addition, the RELX Tax team continued to engage with Our people are our strength.
Our workforce of about 30,000 people policymakers and special interest groups on all sides of the debate is 51% female and 49% male, with an average length of service of to provide practical experience on how companies interact with nine years.
There were 43% female and 57% male managers, and tax laws and to suggest ways such laws can advance governments 29% female and 71% male senior operational managers.
Female Male The Statement of Investment Principles for the UK pension Board of Directors 4 36% 7 64% scheme indicates that the extent to which social, environmental Senior operational or ethical issues may have a financial impact on the portfolio, 93 29% 223 71% managers or a detrimental effect on the strength of the employer covenant, All employees 15,850 51% 15,150 49% is taken into account when making investment decisions.
CR issues are relevant to other investment decisions we make.
Senior operational managers are dened as those managers up to and including three reporting lines from the CEO Among our sustainable investments is Agworld, a farm Full-time equivalent management software platform that allows farmers, agronomists and farm contractors to capture, manage and share on-farm data At year-end 2017, women made up more than 35% of the members and recommendations to improve the sustainability of land and of the RELX Boards.
The two Executive Directors on the Boards better yields.
The Nominations Committee considers the knowledge, experience and background of individual Board directors.
2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement Our Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement articulates our Expand fraud prevention Continued programme of commitment to a diverse workforce and an environment that and cyber security technology controls, training, respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of gender, awareness efforts and reporting and investigations, with race or other characteristics.
Our D&I Strategy is focused on continue to tighten employee simulations to reduce translating the Statement into practical action.
Among its related controls susceptibility to phishing attacks commitments is maintaining a D&I Advisory Group composed of a Less than 4% susceptible on a senior business and HR leader from each business unit, supported benchmark simulation industry by a broader D&I Working Group.
We encourage more than 35 average 21% Employee Resource Groups ERGs across the Group, such as More structured Established resource library womens forums and pride groups, to facilitate support, approach to compliance containing 35 presentations mentoring and community involvement.
encompassing competition law training for employees In 2017, we expanded our women in technology mentoring anti-bribery, culture of in higher risk roles and programme for mid-career women in technology across our four compliance, harassment, trade locations across the business units to participants in the US as well as the UK.
All sanctions and management Group mentors are internal, and 44% of mentors are women in technology.
More than 2,400 employees A webinar series for participants showcases the tech career received advanced in-person journeys of senior women, including members of the RELX Group compliance training conducted by Boards, and is made available to all employees.
Based on the RELX Compliance in collaboration success of our women in technology mentoring, in the year, with business unit leads we launched a mentoring programme for high potential women.
Broaden awareness Tax Principles refreshed and RELX Group is a signatory to the Womens Empowerment of RELX Tax incorporated into tax strategy published on RELX Group website Principles WEPs, a UNGC and UN Women initiative to help Principles in external companies empower women and promote gender equality.
communications, with Briefings for key internal In the year, we tested a WEPs benchmarking tool to understand internal training for stakeholders: roll-out of interactive gaps between the principles and our performance.
relevant staff training underway Elsevier has attained the first level of the EDGE gender equality certication, which involved employee surveys across eight 2018 OBJECTIVES countries, an external review of policies and procedures and gender Expand corporate security incident response preparedness pay benchmarking.
An EDGE focus area is exible working and in using a combination of technology, awareness training and 2017, we mapped our exible working policies across the business simulations as the first step in creating a RELX Group exible working policy.
Establish risk mitigation framework for monitoring operational effectiveness of key internal compliance controls Engagement on rule of tax law OUR 2030 VISION Undertake consistent actions that reinforce excellence in corporate governance, data privacy and security, and compliance with all applicable legislation and our principles and policies Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 47 We comply with all employee-related reporting requirements.
2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement From 2018, this will include the new UK requirement to publish Scale women in New cohort of 27 mid-career our UK gender pay gap data.
technology mentoring women in tech mentees and programme: mentor pilot 27 tech mentors from US, UK In 2017, we conducted pulse surveys across the business to hear for high-potential women and China 16 mentors mentees from employees about how we are doing to make RELX Group a in 2017 great place to work.
Mentoring programme for Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace, high-potential women as outlined in our Global Health and Safety Policy.
We concentrate co-sponsored by two senior on areas of greatest risk for example, warehouses, events and female leaders: RELX Group exhibitions.
As a primarily ofce-based company, we also focus Global HR Director and Reed on manual handling, slips, trips and falls.
To reduce our severity Exhibitions EMEA President rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk Enhance exible working Mapping of flexible working assessments and work with a third party in the US to assign policies policies across all business units a nurse case manager to each complex or severe claim.
There to understand policies and were 17 lost time reportable cases in the year.
tracking in place In the US, where we have the largest concentration of employees, Flexible working case studies the CareConnect and REACH programmes promote workplace highlighted on global intranet well-being through health screenings, online assessments, Introduce a workplace 60 applications received for stress awareness training and smoking cessation courses, with well-being award scheme wellness project funding financial incentives for participation.
Review by RELX Group Wellness Champions Our annual Fit2Win global well-being competition encourages employees to establish tness teams to compete for cash prizes for charities of their choice.
Across the Group, 106 teams took 2018 OBJECTIVES part and ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 93,457 miles Conduct a Global Employee Opinion Survey including 150,405 km, to win $1,000 for the charity of their choice.
questions on culture, ethics and well-being Dedicated health and well-being programmes are now available Update D&I Strategy including launch of D&I progress to more than 19,000 employees around the world, equating to over indicators 60% of our employees.
We also maintain a network of more than External partnership to raise awareness of mental health 90 Wellness Champions.
We introduced a workplace well-being across RELX Group award scheme which allows all employees, in partnership with OUR 2030 VISION their local Wellbeing Champion, to submit a proposal for a wellbeing initiative at their location.
The proposals are judged Respect the human rights of all our employees, with a focus with the winning proposals granted funding.
on talent development, diversity and inclusion and well-being, to ensure a high-performing and satisfied workforce.
48 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Gender: in the Global Research Landscape In 2017, Elsevier released Gender in the Global Research Landscape, providing insight and guidance on gender research and policy for governments, funders and institutions worldwide.
It covers 20 years, 12 geographies and 27 subject areas.
Download Gender in the Global Research Landscape at elsevier.
com genderreport The report uncovers progress between 1996 and 2000, among the 12countries and regions studied, only Portugal had a women researcher population greater than 40%: by the period 20112015, Gender in a Global Research Landscape brings there were nine countries and regions with 40% or more.
empirical insight to gender disparity.
It is data The study leverages the power of Elseviers Scopus citation thatcan be used by those including researchers database and SciVal research performance tool, among other and policy makers working on issues critical sources, including input from the World Intellectual Property toscience.
It shows the global share of women inventors listed in patent applications increased between 1996-2000 10% and Dr. Holly J. Falk-Krzesinski 2011-2015 14%, yet women remain strongly underrepresented Vice President, Research Intelligence, Global across all intellectual property comparators.
The report is Strategic Networks, Elsevier available for free download worldwide.
25% less than 25% of researchers in physical sciences are women Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 49 2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement 4.
Customers Pursue Philippine Application submitted: PQA site In 2017, we surveyed approximately 450,000 customers through Quality Award PQA as visit following: decision in 2018 Net Promoter Score measuring customer advocacy and a demonstration of drive business dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen for quality excellence our understanding of customer needs and drives improvements.
Create role plays for CR as a Sales Tool video featuring Results are reviewed by the CEO and senior operational managers sales staff showing CR colleagues across RELX Group and communicated to staff.
To aid colleagues, during the year our as a Sales Tool in action Created CR at RELX Group desk CR as a Sales Tool Working Group produced short videos on the drop: guidance to sales colleagues competitive advantage of our CR focus, with role plays showcasing on fostering CR dialogue with how to engage customers on CR issues, helping build deeper customers relationships through discussion of shared values.
Improve reporting New accessibility report breaks Our 2017 CR Forum Stakeholder Session, Truth and Trust and on compliance with down customer Voluntary Product Reliable Content, engaged members of our CR Forum, Editorial Accessibility Template VPAT, customer accessibility Policy Working Group employees, peers and sector stakeholders showing alignment with each requests for a practical discussion on this key issue for RELX Group.
"criteria of Section 508 Standards of Participant Charlie Beckett, founding director of POLIS, the the US Workforce Rehabilitation Act think-tank for research and debate in international journalism and society at the London School of Economics noted, ""it is entirely 2018 OBJECTIVES the responsibility of anybody who produces information, not just RELX Group Editorial Policy update and training journalists, but governments and corporations, to make their New CR as a Sales Tool curriculum: Customers and the SDGs information intelligible, accessible and critically accountable."
The event was simulcast for employees and made available for Introduce RELX Group Accessibility awards to recognise download on the RELX Group global intranet.
exceptional employee efforts to advance accessibility We advanced our Quality First Principles QFPs in the year to OUR 2030 VISION include more areas of the business including supplier management Increase our customer base across our four business units and customer support.
In 2017, we applied for a Philippines Quality through provision of critical products, services and events, Award which involved demonstrating excellence in managing and with active listening and engagement, and a focus on editorial delivering quality throughout the business.
and quality standards and accessibility.
We are committed to improving access to our products and services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
Our Accessibility Policy aims to lead the industry in providing accessibility solutions to 5.
Community customers, with products that are operable, understandable and RE Cares, our global community programme, supports employee robust.
In 2017, members of the Accessibility Working Group logged volunteering and giving that makes a positive impact on society.
over 200 accessibility projects and Elseviers Global Books Digital In addition to local initiatives of importance to employees, the Archive fullled more than 5,000 disability requests, 77% of them programmes core focus is on education for disadvantaged young through AccessText.
org, a service we helped establish.
people that advances one or more of our unique contributions as In the year, to improve our reporting on compliance with customer a business.
Staff have up to two days paid leave per year for their accessibility requests, we rened our accessibility review toolkit own community work.
We donated 3.4m in cash including to include product scorecards with ratings on process maturity, through matching gifts and the equivalent of 9.2m in products, x lists, customer inquiries and revenue at stake.
services and staff time in 2017.
45% of employees were engaged in volunteering through RE Cares and we reached more than 24,000 disadvantaged young people through time, in-kind and cash donations.
"In 2017, we increased skills-based volunteering, as dened as ""applying business knowledge and expertise to benefit communities."
For example, colleagues at Risk & Business Analytics built the Global Business Coalition for Educations Rapid Education Action REACT database to record private sector educational contributions and assets that can be deployed quickly in an emergency.
50 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 partners.
The tracking list changes year-on-year based on the 5.
Community continued number of suppliers we do business with who meet the required A network of over 220 RE Cares Champions ensures the vibrancy criteria.
We ended 2017 with 91% of suppliers on the SRS tracking of our community engagement.
In 2017, 72% of our ofces across list as signatories to the Supplier Code vs. 89% in 2016.
We have the world had an RE Cares Champion.
embedded signing the Supplier Code into our sourcing process as a criterion for doing business with us, and have an additional Each September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our 2,624 suppliers not on the SRS tracking list who have signed the community commitment.
During the Month, we raised funds Supplier Code.
$96,700 to date to help global fundraising partner, SOS Childrens Specialist supply chain auditors, Intertek, undertook 83 external Villages, enable girls working in dangerous conditions in audits of suppliers as part of their comprehensive Workplace Yamoussoukro, Ivory Coast to pursue an education.
We held our Conditions Assessment and Corrective and Preventative Actions annual global book drive, yielding over 6,600 books for local and programme.
Any incidence of non-compliance identied in the developing world readers, and announced the winners of the audit process triggers a corrective action plan agreed with the seventh Recognising Those Who Care Awards to highlight the supplier, with remediation required on all issues.
exceptional contributions to RE Cares of ten individuals and four RE Cares teams.
Individual winners from across the business The roll-out of our US Supplier Diversity programme continued travelled to our ofce in Durban, South Africa to work with several in 2017 with efforts to improve the mix of diverse suppliers.
local charities with a focus on anti-human trafcking, including Our focus was on minority, woman, and veteran-owned survivor rehabilitation.
The trip has been led since its inception businesses and in 2017, resulting in an 8% increase in spend by senior leader Youngsuk YS Chi, Director of Corporate Affairs.
with suppliers in these categories.
Overall, 11.4% of total US spend was with diverse suppliers.
2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement Ensure at least 60% of 72% of offices have an RE Cares 2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement ofces have an RE Cares Champion Increase number of 91% on tracking list versus 89% Champion Expansion to new locations suppliers as Code in 2016 including Russia, South Korea, signatories Taiwan and the UAE Continue using Corrective 83 audits completed Increase skills-based Six percentage point increase and Preventative Actions volunteering tool to ensure continuous 34% of RE Cares Champions improvement in audit organised at least one skillsresults based volunteer event vs. 28% in 2016 Continue to advance US Minority, woman, and veteranowned spend increased by 8% Supplier Diversity and Inclusion programme 2018 OBJECTIVES Spend with diverse suppliers Foster development of youth employability skills was 11.4% of total US spend Research impact of RE Cares on staff retention 2018 OBJECTIVES OUR 2030 VISION Increase number of suppliers as Code signatories Use our unique contributions to advance education for Continue using audits to ensure continuous improvement disadvantaged young people, tracking the impact on our in supplier performance and compliance communities near and far.
Continue to advance the US Supplier Diversity and Inclusion programme 6.
Supply chain OUR 2030 VISION We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for Reduce supply chain risks related to human rights, labour, ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to the environment and anti-bribery by ensuring adherence to all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour our Supplier Code of Conduct through training, auditing and and the environment.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier remediation: drive supply chain innovation, quality and SRS database, in 2017 we tracked 344 key suppliers and those efficiencies through a strong and diverse network of suppliers.
located in high-risk countries as designated by our Supplier Risk Tool incorporating eight indicators, including human trafcking information from the US State Department and Environmental Performance Index results produced by Yale University and Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Corporate Responsibility 51 2017 OBJECTIVES Achievement 7.
Environment 35% of locations to achieve 36% of locations achieved five Our environmental targets, reecting our impact, with five or more new Group or more standards input from stakeholders, can be found along with full Environmental Standards performance data in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report Purchase renewable Achieved through purchase of at www.
Targets are science-based, European green tariff, green-e electricity equal to 70% and include a commitment to certify 50% of the business certified US RECs and Gold Power of Global consumption against the ISO 14001 environmental management system Achieve ISO 14001 Achieved at three additional standard by 2020.
In 2017, we purchased 72% of our electricity Environmental locations in the UK and US, from renewable energy and Renewable Energy Certicates.
total coverage of the ISO 14001 Management System We attained A-, in CDPs Climate Change programme.
certified system is now 19% certication at three Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green by headcount additional locations Teams and networks such as the Publishers Database for Responsible Environmental Paper Sourcing provide significant 2018 OBJECTIVES insight into managing our environmental impacts.
Our Purchase renewable electricity equal to 80% of global Environmental Standards programme sets benchmark consumption performance and inspires green competition between ofces.
In 2017, 37 sites 36% of key locations achieved five or more 40% of locations to achieve five or more new Group standards and attained green status.
On World Environment Day, Environmental Standards the Chief Financial officer wrote to all staff to share these results Achieve ISO 14001 certification at an additional three and to recognise the achievements of Green Heroes from across locations the Group chosen by peers for their environmental efforts.
In addition, Green Teams submitted environmental engagement OUR 2030 VISION ideas and winners received funding to carry out their plans.
Meet long-range environmental targets that will contribute to We have a positive environmental impact through our keeping global average climate warming to below two degrees environmental products and services, which spread good Celsius and help others do so through our environmental practice, encourage debate and aid researchers and decision content and services.
The most recent results from the independent Market Analysis System show that our share of citations in environmental 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE science represented 40% of the total market, and 65% in energy Absolute performance Intensity ratio and fuels.
The winner of Elseviers 2017 Green and Sustainable 2017 variance 2016 2017 variance 2016 Chemistry Challenge was Dr. Dnis Pires fide Lima from the Scope 1 direct 8,231 3% 7,966 1.12 -3% 1.16 Federal University of Mato Grosso do Sul in Brazil for his project emissions tCO e 2 using natural waste from locally sourced cashew nuts and castor Scope 2 84,590 -8% 91,913 11.50 -14% 13.33 oil to produce environmentally friendly insecticides against location-based mosquitoes carrying Zika and Dengue fever, a sustainable emissions tCO2e alternative to conventional toxic insecticides.
Environment continued ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS 2017 Focus area Targets 2020 performance Climate change Reduce Scope 1 and 2 location based carbon emissions by 40% against a 2010 baseline -42% Energy Reduce energy and fuel consumption by 30% against a 2010 baseline -32% Purchase renewable electricity equivalent to 100% of RELX Group's global electricity consumption 72% Waste Decrease total waste generated at reporting locations by 40% against a 2010 baseline -47% 90% of waste from reporting locations to be diverted from landfill 87% Production paper 100% of RELX Group production papers, graded in PREPS, to be rated as known and 100% responsiblesources Environmental Achieve ISO 14001 certification for 50% of the business by 2020 19% Management System All paper we graded in 2017 - 90% of total production stock - was graded 3 or 5 stars known and responsible sources.
We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have included emissions from all operating companies within the Group.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the data has been assured by an independent third party, EY.
Details on methodology and the assurance statement can be viewed in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
2017 investor and other recognition Constituent of the Ethibel CDP EPA Green Power Leader FTSE4Good Index Sustainability Index Climate programme score: ATop 100 Included in Included in Forest programme score: AFTSE4Good Global Index Excellence Europe Water programme score: B FTSE4Good UK Index Excellence Global FTSE4Good Europe Index RE100 Euronext Vigeo ISO 14001 STOXX Global ESG member UK 20 Benelux 20 certied LeadersIndices Eurozone 120 Europe 120 included ECPI Indices SEAL award for Business Oekom Corporate Corporate Responsibility included Sustainability Responsibility Rating Reporting Awards 17 2017 winner for Prime status Top 10 Best Corporate Organisational Impact Responsibility Report Top 10 Best Carbon Reporting The full 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report is available at www.
