Our approach Our Stakeholders RBS exists to serve customers well and we put our customers at the heart of everything we do.
This means having an understanding of our impact across all stakeholders of the bank.
Understanding who our stakeholders are and their views helps inform our overall strategy.
Below is an overview of some of our stakeholder groups.
Topic Specialists Media & Public Voices Includes consumer groups, nonIncludes journalists and social Customers governmental organisations, and media influencers.
They research, advocate All individual and affecting customers, communities and and campaign to influence change on business customers, the environment to public attention behalf of customers, communities and past, present through multiple channels.
and future Investors Bank Representatives Policy Makers Includes UK Financial Investments, Includes employees, suppliers, Includes politicians, government and retail and institutional investors.
They take issues through They are interested in financial and for product and service delivery and consultations and into policy reform.
non-financial performance in the are the face of our brands.
They make recommendations, short, medium and long term.
We have provided three examples below of how we work with different stakeholder groups: Shareholder engagement sessions Working together to tackle fraud Closed Loop feedback and scams Individual shareholder views on We are listening, learning and acting our plans to build a better bank are To help our customers protect on our customers feedback.
themselves against fraud and scams taken customer feedback on board and we have been working with various acted on it.
Closed loop feedback is In 2017 we hosted events in Edinburgh partners across the industry.
about continuously seeking customer and London for our retail shareholders.
feedback and closing the loop on the NatWest sponsored the production A diverse group, selected by postcode, issues that our customers raise with us.
of a Code of Practice on protecting were invited to learn more about customers from financial harm.
The Examples include: our business and participate in an specification, launched in November It would be good if you could diarise interactive Q&A session with a panel 2017, included input from Financial payments.
Customers can now make of senior management and Board Fraud Action UK, the National Trading diarised payments via their mobile app.
Standards Scams Team, the Office of Customers living abroad are unable to These events gave those in attendance the Public Guardian, the Metropolitan use the mobile app with an international the opportunity to hear from different Police, and two other major UK banks.
Customers can now use parts of RBS, ask questions about NatWest continue to support Friends our mobile app in various countries progress so far and learn more about Against Scams run by National Trading including Australia, Gibraltar, Hong our plans for the future.
We set up Standards and in 2017 trained over Kong, New Zealand, Singapore and market stalls on topics of interest 20,000 colleagues.
In 2018 we will be the South Africa.
including customer experience, official bank partner of the One Million innovation and security.
They could talk I want all audio statements to have a Friends Against Scams initiative.
with employees from different parts of braille section that allows the customer the bank on progress and our plans for to know who and what the audio tape the future.
is for and what month this relates to.
All our audio statements now have Additionally, we held four external a date so that customers can easily stakeholder engagement sessions with differentiate between them.
our Sustainable Banking Committee on Financial Capability, UK Housing, In addition, as part of our net promoter Climate Risks and Technology system in 2017 we sent out 11.5 million Innovation for Social Good.
28 option to discuss the matter face-toOur national contract with the Post face or by video.
Office means that customers can undertake everyday banking in any We are working hard to develop new of the 11,500 Post Offices throughout services to respond to the changing the UK.
In many areas, we operate needs and expectations of our mobile branches, which bring our customers.
All our personal customers banking services direct to local can bank with us using our mobile communities, many of which have app and online banking services and not had a branch before.
we have Bankline for business and commercial customers.
We also provide We acknowledge that some of our a 24 7 webchat service for personal customers are not comfortable with customers, telephony and secure text using online or mobile banking, and for messaging for when customers want to those customers who would value some contact us quickly, digitally and securely.
support we have created a specialist Changing face of banking taskforce of TechXperts who are Closing branches is always a difficult Since 2014, customers are choosing to dedicated to supporting our customers decision and one we do not take lightly.
with training and support with digital do their banking in different ways that When these decisions are made, we suit them and reflect what they do in skills.
Our TechXperts support look at each branch and take into customers with the varied ways to bank everyday life.
The number of customers account a range of factors including, using our branches across the UK has and for example accompany customers how customers are choosing to bank to the local Post Office to show them fallen by 40% and during the same with us: how often customers are using period mobile banking transactions how their banking can be done.
the branch: the impact on customers increased by 73%: in the first half of who currently use the branch: other We have introduced a number of roles to 2017, there were 1.1 billion mobile and options available to customers including provide personal, face-to-face banking online transactions carried out by our online, mobile, telephony, webchat, services in communities, assisting customers.
cash machines, video banking and local customers with access to our nonPost Offices and, the proximity of our We are committed to ensuring that cash services, offering support with other branches, including our network our customers have a wide range of financial planning and education.
Our of mobile branches and local transport ways in which they can bank with us.
Community Bankers base themselves routes and timetables.
Every customer is individual and that in places like libraries, local businesses is why customers can choose from a We know that for some customers, in and community centres so as to best combination of digital, telephone and particular vulnerable customers, closing serve local communities.
Business face-to-face banking options, each branches can be unsettling.
We are Growth Enablers focus on our small designed to suit their preferences and committed to ensuring that we support business customers.
Customers might carry out all customers with these changes.
trained to help source advice that will simple everyday transactions using We aim to provide six months notice help local businesses with banking our mobile app but still preferring to before we close a branch the industry support, as well as harnessing their own speak to someone over the phone or norm is 12 weeks and we proactively network to support business needs.
via webchat for other banking queries.
contact our regular branch users and Business Growth Enablers work with For more complex needs, such as a vulnerable customers to talk to them industry partners to run free events Financial Health Check or mortgage about our decision and the options for customers on issues such as fraud, advice, customers value having the available to them.
scams and digital tax returns.
Community Bankers - taking the branch to our customers As more and more customers choose to use mobile banking instead of traditional branch counters, our branch network needs to change.
Our Community Bankers are ensuring that we can still play an active role in communities, even when we no longer have a dedicated building.
Our team of Community Bankers take the branch to the places where it is convenient for our customers, including libraries, rugby clubs and church halls.
They also deliver community events on fraud, scams and online security, to help people keep their money safe.
Aby Evans is a Community Banker on the Kent coast.
I run regular drop in clinics in the local libraries, she explains.
Although Im not in a bank building, customers know where and when they can find me each week.
I wear a purple branded fleece and I get stopped in the street because people spot me and want to ask a quick question.
Its really nice to feel part of the community.
29 Our approach We believe there is a need to support Relative to our size, our operational our customers to reduce their footprint from serving our customers emissions, save energy and manage is quite small, but still significant.
Over the last decade, we primary emissions impact comes from have become one of the leading lenders the energy used to heat, cool and power to the UK Sustainable Energy market, our buildings and data centres.
We with expertise and services designed for have set targets using a science-based customers from small businesses up to method in order to align our efforts large corporations.
RBS was recognised to reduce emissions with the climate by InfraDeals as the leading lender to science that sits behind the Paris the UK renewables sector by number Climate Agreement.
Our target for 2020 of transactions over the past six years is to reduce our direct carbon emissions 2012- 2017. by 45% from a 2014 baseline and at the Climate change end of 2017 we had already recorded As we have refocused our business on a 39% reduction.
The table below We recognise climate change is a the UK, Ireland and Western Europe, provides more detail.
significant global issue and we fully weve also substantially reduced our support the objectives of the Paris lending to carbon intensive parts of the We have also set 2020 targets to reduce Climate Agreement and the emissions global economy such as coal mining water use by 10% and paper use by reductions strategies set by the UK and oil extraction.
Our total exposure 60%, whilst continuing to target zero and devolved governments.
We to the oil and gas industry, for example, waste to landfill.
We engage colleagues, have publicly pledged our support for now accounts for just 0.5% of our suppliers and customers in these efforts the Financial Stability Boards FSB lending exposures.
In 2017 we did not and in 2017, 3,200 colleagues logged Taskforce on Climate-related Financial directly finance any new coal mining over 24,000 activities to reduce our Disclosures TCFD and we have or coal power projects.
More details of environmental impact via our green included more detail on our approach our lending to the energy sector will be reward app.
More information on our to the TCFD recommendations in the published on our Sustainable Banking targets and initiatives can be found Additional Information section of the webpages on rbs.
com in April 2018. on the Sustainable Banking webpages 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
We also plan to announce further details of our long term approach to climate change.
2014 Change 2014 GHG Emissions 2016 2017 Baseline to 2017 % Location-based CO e emissions Scope 1, 2 and Business 2 512,583 388,648 311,583 -39% Travel tonnes Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 36,857 29,131 27,172 -26% 2 Scope 2 Market-based CO e emissions tonnes 391,105 159,629 76,197 -81% 2 Scope 2 Location-based CO e emissions tonnes 370,374 270,481 215,959 -42% 2 Scope 1 and 2 Location-based CO e emissions per FTE tonnes 4.16 3.32 3.18 -24% 2 Scope 3 CO e emissions from business travel tonnes 105,352 89,036 68,452 -35% 2 We have reported on all emission sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
To our knowledge there are no material omissions.
Independent Limited assurance has been provided by Ernst & Young LLP over total reported CO e emissions tonnes Scope 1, 2 and 3 location based 2 emissions.
Our reporting year runs from October 2016 to September 2017.
These emissions have been calculated using the methodology advised in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition 2004.
The boundary of reporting is set as all entities and facilities either owned or under operational control.
Emissions factors used are from UK Governments GHG Conversion factors DEFRA, IEA, or relevant local authorities.
Scope 1: Emissions from fluorinated gas loss and fuel combustion in RBS premises vehicles.
Scope 2: Emissions from electricity, district heating and district cooling used in RBS premises.
market-based emissions have been calculated using the GHG Protocol guidelines.
Scope 3: Emissions associated with business travel air, rail and road by RBS employees.
30 NatWest Markets energises the SSE Green bond deal NatWest Markets continues to build its presence in the sustainable finance market with an active role on the issuance of a landmark Green bond by SSE.
SSE, one of the UKs leading energy suppliers, issued its first Green bond raising EUR600 million, the largest ever Green bond by a UK company.
It will use the proceeds to re-finance existing  projects, in particular onshore windfarms.
SSE has invested around GBP 3.2 billion in renewable energy since 2010 and has the largest renewable energy capacity in the UK and Ireland.
31 Our approach slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory We are committed to the labour and human trafficking together implementation of the United Nations under one piece of legislation.
In 2017 Guiding Principles on Business and we published our first annual statement Human Rights and participate with on the MSA on rbs.
This built our peers in groups such as the Thun upon our interim statement which was Group and United Nations Environment published in December 2016 and our Programme Finance Initiative.
have been adopters of the Equator Principles since their inception in 2003 to manage social and environmental Our approach is underpinned by risks, including human rights, in projectOur Values and Our Standards.
employees this is via the RBS Code of Conduct Our Code.
Our Code includes Human rights and Modern a clear commitment to respect human We have sector-specific Environmental, Slavery Act rights, supported by the Yes Check, Social and Ethical ESE risk policies RBS takes a proactive approach to a tool to guide good decision making.
com sustainable which upholding our commitment to respect Employees are consulted on key aspects include human rights considerations human rights and our approach is of their working environment, and they for high-risk sectors.
For customers centred on identifying and mitigating can utilise a confidential helpline to outside these sectors, our general potential human rights risks across discuss any matters of concern.
ESE risk concerns policy ensures due our business and our wider sphere of diligence is carried out on clients when influence.
The Modern Slavery Act human rights risks are identified.
We Our commitment to the international 2015 MSA forms part of our approach expect our customers to share our progress of human rights includes to human rights as this regulation brings commitment to respecting human upholding the principles of the United together the serious criminal offences of rights within their operations.
Our Customers Our People Our Suppliers We are aware that as a High Street All of our people are recruited legally We expect our suppliers to uphold the bank we come into contact with and must meet the 1998 Immigration same values and commitments that millions of customers, some of whom Act requirements.
we have made in relation to social and may be victims of modern slavery.
Adherence to RBS is a fully accredited Living Wage Our relationship with our customers these policies is required as part of our Employer.
We gained accreditation in is governed by a wide range of supply chain tendering process and 2014.
RBS commitment as a Living risk considerations, including our within our supplier contracts.
Wage accredited employer applies to Anti-Money Laundering AML and everyone working for the bank in the Our Sustainable Procurement Code Environmental, Social, and Ethical UK and has been extended to staff sets out the international human ESE risk assessments on current or who are employed via suppliers rights commitments we expect of new customers, to consider whether e. g. cleaning, security and catering the companies that we work with, any of their activities carry human staff.
Employees are regularly including labour standards and rights infringements.
consulted on their working conditions non-discrimination.
and a confidential helpline is available at all times.
