REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE Steering Team at www.
com sustainable-living ourCOMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE strategy  ATTENDANCE MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises three NonStrive Masiyiwa Member since April 2017 Executive Directors: Strive Masiyiwa, Feike Sijbesma and Youngme Chair 2 2 Moon.
Strive Masiyiwa succeeded Louise Fresco as chair of the Louise Fresco Member until April 2017 2 2 Committee at the AGM in April 2017.
Laura Cha retired from the Laura Cha Member until April 2017 2 2 Committee at the AGM.
The Chief Marketing & Communications Youngme Moon 4 4 Officer and the Executive Vice President for Sustainable Business Feike Sijbesma 4 4 & Communications attend the Committees meetings.
The Chief Business Integrity Officer also attends part of each meeting.
This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their attendance at meetings during 2017.
If Directors are unable MEETINGS to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required - four meetings discuss any agenda items with the Committee Chair.
The Committee Chairman is responsible for is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the reporting the findings from meeting to the Boards.
number eligible to be attended.
Following the Committees terms of reference, Unilevers principal risks and the priorities the Committee sets itself, the Committees agenda covers Unilevers Code of Business Principles the Code, HIGHLIGHTS OF 2017 alongside litigation, occupational and product safety, the USLP and Compliance with Code of Business Principles corporate reputation as well as a range of strategic and current issues.
Progress on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP To help the Committee meet its oversight responsibilities, each year - Climate strategy management organise knowledge sessions for the Committee on - Enhancing livelihoods subject areas within its remit.
In 2017 a joint session was held with Product quality and safety the Audit Committee to brief members on progress in developing Unilevers Sustainable Living brands.
These are brands which combine a strong purpose delivering a social or environmental benefit with PRIORITIES FOR 2018 products contributing to at least one of the goals in the USLP.
Competition and anti-bribery compliance CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Third-party compliance The Code and associated Code Policies set out the standards of conduct Product quality and safety expected of all Unilever employees in their business endeavours.
Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP Compliance with these is an essential element in ensuring Unilevers continued business success.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE for implementing these principles, supported by the Global Code and The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers conduct Policy Committee which is chaired by the Chief Legal Officer and as a responsible global business.
As the Unilever Sustainable Living Group Secretary.
Plan USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to grow its business whilst decoupling its environmental footprint from its growth and The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and increasing its positive social impact, the Committee tracks the progress Code Policies, ensuring that they remain fit for purpose and are and potential risks associated with the USLP.
The Committee is also appropriately applied.
It maintains close scrutiny of the mechanisms charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is protected and for implementing the Code and Code Policies.
This is vital as enhanced.
Therefore a central element of its role is the need to identify any compliance is essential to promote and protect Unilevers values external developments that are likely to have an influence upon Unilevers and standards, and hence the good reputation of the Group.
At each standing in society, and to ensure that appropriate and effective meeting the Committee reviews an analysis of investigations into communications policies are in place to support the companys non-compliance with the Code and Code Policies and is alerted reputation.
to any trends arising from these investigations.
Committee members report their findings to the Boards, thus PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS FOR THIRD PARTIES ensuring that the Boards can fulfil their oversight responsibilities.
In 2017 the Committee placed special emphasis on third-party The Committees discussions are informed by the experience of compliance and was briefed on how Unilevers programmes seek the senior leaders invited to the Committee to share their views on to ensure business integrity.
a variety of topics and external trends.
Many of these leaders are Extending Unilevers values to third parties remains a priority, not only members of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team, the to generate continued responsible growth and a positive social impact on group of senior executives accountable for driving sustainable growth the industry, but to counter the significant risk that non-compliance by through Unilevers brands and operations.
These discussions ensure third parties can pose, particularly in the context of increasing regulation the Committee stays abreast of current and emerging trends and any around the world, as exemplified by the UKs Modern Slavery Act and potential risks arising from sustainability issues.
In return, Committee initiatives seeking to fight corruption and other forms of economic crime.
members bring their own diverse perspectives to the table.
This To this end, Unilever is working to harmonise its programmes across enables the Boards to draw on a well-rounded view of issues.
Central to this is ensuring that these evaluate risks and During 2017 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference and provide the right measures to address the diversity of market conditions the Boards approved minor changes to the terms.
it operates in and the range of third parties it works with.
Using external indices as well as internal expertise, Unilever is able to first target The Committees responsibilities are complemented by those of relationships presenting the highest risk for assessment.
the Audit Committee, which is responsible for reviewing significant breaches of the Code of Business Principles as part of it remit The Committee monitors compliance with Unilevers Responsible to review risk management and for overseeing the independent Sourcing Policy RSP for suppliers and the roll-out of its Responsible assurance programme for the USLP.
Business Partner Policy RBPP for customers.
Both policies share 12 fundamental principles.
They form the basis of ongoing dialogue The Committees terms of reference are set out with suppliers and customers on the standards Unilever expects them www.
com corporategovernance and details of the USLP to meet - and will work with them to achieve.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Report 43 REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE CONTINUED materials and avoiding disruption from extreme weather events.
By SAFETY proactively cutting its greenhouse gas GHG footprint, Unilever also The Committee reviews quarterly scorecards of progress on occupational reduces exposure to environmental regulation and taxes.
These are complemented by regular in-depth discussions so that Committee members may reassure The Committee also reviewed Unilevers plans for sustainable themselves that Unilevers systems and processes remain robust.
agricultural sourcing: its environmental compliance programme for factories: and progress on sustainable packaging - as in January Unilevers focus on safety supports its growth ambition: sustainable 2017 Unilever announced it would commit to 100% recyclable plastic growth is only achieved if Unilever also grows responsibly by packaging by 2025 and called on the FMCG industry to accelerate providing safe, high quality products, and protecting employees progress towards a more circular economy.
and the people and communities in which it operates.
At the end of the year, the Committee reviewed Unilevers human A priority for Unilever in 2017 was to ensure occupational safety is rights ambitions, which are part of the Enhancing Livelihoods goal recognised as the personal and everyday responsibility of all those of the USLP.
Unilever is working to embed human rights across its working at Unilever.
A mandatory safety leadership programme business and in tandem, is working with suppliers to ensure that supported this by building awareness of safety from the top down: the fundamental principles of its Responsible Sourcing Policy are designed to help managers demonstrate and embed best practice in met and that best practice is advanced.
By addressing strategic every team, its aim is to ensure that everyone who works at Unilever human rights issues and helping the business tackle and prevent gets home safely every day.
endemic abuses in global value chains, it is seeking to deliver a Process safety in factories is an equally important priority.
Improved positive social impact alongside business growth.
Unilevers second standards, enhanced qualifications for employees and a Safety to Win Human Rights Report was published in December 2017, setting programme for partners all contributed to safer manufacturing sites in out its progress and challenges in this complex area available at 2017.
Unilevers approach, which is based on the identification of risk, www.
com sustainable-living  fairness-inresulted in a 46% reduction in process safety incidents versus 2016. the-workplace.
And overall, these initiatives contributed to a lower Total Recordable Highlights of Unilevers consumer research are published in Making Purpose Frequency Rate TRFR with accidents decreasing from 1.01 accidents Pay at www.
com sustainable-living our-strategy  per 1 million hours worked in 2016 to 0.89 in 2017 measured 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
MONITORING REPUTATION A global business working in many countries experiences many issues On product safety, the Committee was briefed on the comprehensive that may impact the business.
So it is crucial that the Committee has processes Unilever has in place to ensure its products and services a sound understanding of how Unilevers reputation is viewed by are safe for their intended use.
Like occupational safety, the approach others, and of the processes in place for managing any issues that may is based on risk identification and mitigation which covers all aspects harm its good standing in society.
To this end, the Committee studied of the value chain from development, sourcing, manufacture and the impact the USLP has had on Unilevers reputation, as reflected in transport to consumer use and disposal of the product.
Unilevers the annual GlobeScan Sustainability Leaders Survey and elsewhere.
It approach is centred on the application of rigorous standards based was also briefed on Unilevers well-established system for identifying on sound science and the principle of Safe by Design and Safe in and responding to short and longer-term issues.
It has a comprehensive programme in place to drive to this system include: a sharper focus on priority issues in market: performance improvements at its own manufacturing sites, issue-handling training for teams: and a more sophisticated approach manufacturing partners and raw and material pack suppliers.
to tracking issues across social media.
It also studied the most The learnings from this programme are being embedded across significant issues managed through this system and the lessons Unilevers functions.
The outcome represents a step change in learned from them.
performance with marketplace incidents reduced by 46% in 2017.
LITIGATION REVIEW UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN USLP The Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary reports to the Committee Unilever is putting sustainable living at the heart of its brands to on litigation and regulatory matters which may have a reputational inspire consumers, grow sales and deliver on its purpose of making impact including environmental issues, bribery and corruption sustainable living commonplace.
Consumers are becoming much compliance and competition law compliance.
For further information more aware of the positive difference brands can make to social and please see notes 19 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
environmental issues, and also the difference they themselves can make through their everyday shopping choices.
The Committee was EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY briefed on Unilevers extensive research to understand whether COMMITTEE consumers views on sustainability translate to actual purchasing As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2017, the Boards choices.
The research showed that sustainability is no longer a niche evaluated the performance of the Committee.
The Committee also issue and that 54% of consumers want to buy more sustainably.
More carried out an assessment of its own performance in 2017.
Whilst people are taking action to live more sustainably, and sustainability overall the Committee members concluded that the Committee is issues are relevant to consumers in both developed and emerging performing effectively, the Committee has agreed to further enhance markets.
Against this backdrop, Unilevers 18 Sustainable Living its effectiveness by reviewing how the USLP has been embedded into Brands grew 50% faster than the rest of the business and delivered Unilever and how it should evolve.
more than 60% of the companys growth in 2016.
In 2017 the Committee scrutinised the delivery of the USLP goal to halve the GHG emissions of its products across the lifecycle by Strive Masiyiwa 2030 and the climate change strategy that drives action towards Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee this goal.
Committee members were briefed on the plans in place Youngme Moon to grow the business while meeting the UNs goal of staying below Feike Sijbesma a 2 degree Celsius rise in temperature.
These plans encompass Unilevers own manufacturing, its suppliers and its objectives for brands and innovation.
Taking action on climate change brings Further details on the USLP will be set out in Unilevers online Sustainable Living Report 2017, to be published in April 2018. benefits such as lower operational costs and greater resilience in energy supply, as well as improving the security of supply of raw www.
com sustainable-living 44 Governance Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
