Trust is essential for any business, but it must be earned.
The USLP SOCIETY AND ENVIRONMENT is a key driver of trust among our employees and potential recruits.
We are number one FMCG graduate employer of choice in 44 countries THE UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN IS OUR where we recruit.
We have been ranked first in the annual Globescan BLUEPRINT FOR SUSTAINABLE AND INCLUSIVE GROWTH.
survey of sustainability leaders for seven years.
We want our growth to reward shareholders but we want society to benefit too.
Our 161,000 employees received 5.4 billion in pay in 2017, IMPROVING HEALTH & WELL-BEING and our retailers and distributors who sell our products in more than 190 Our activities impact the health and well-being of millions of people countries generated income and employment.
Our suppliers also through brand-led health and hygiene, and nutrition interventions.
benefited from the 34 billion we spent on goods and services in 2017.
Significant progress has been made against our first USLP goal of The taxes we pay are another important contribution.
Total taxes borne helping more than one billion people improve their health and well-being by Unilever in 2017 were 3.9 billion, of which 2.2 billion was by 2020.
By the end of 2017, we had reached 601 million people, making corporation tax.
Unilever fully complies with the tax laws in the countries a significant contribution to the Sustainable Development Goal on Clean where we operate.
Where tax law is unclear, or has not kept pace with Water and Sanitation SDG6.
modern business practice, we interpret our obligations in a responsible Lifebuoy leads with one of the worlds largest handwashing behaviour way, guided by our Tax Principles.
Our website has further details.
Since 2010, its programme has reached 426 Our vision of inclusive growth which delivers value for multiple million people through schools, health clinics and community outreach.
stakeholders, is encapsulated in the Unilever Sustainable Living Lifebuoy currently only counts those people reached through on-ground Plan USLP.
The USLP represents a simple idea that business programmes.
However, we have long believed the totality of our should put itself at the service of society.
By doing so it will generate marketing efforts contribute to changing handwashing behaviour, consistent and profitable growth.
The USLP has three big goals: including mass scale TV advertising.
To test this, we ran a study in our improving the health and well-being of more than one billion people biggest market, India, to assess the effectiveness of specific Lifebuoy by 2020: halving our environmental footprint by 2030: and enhancing TV adverts with the same methodology used to evaluate our on-ground livelihoods for millions by 2020.
These goals, detailed below, are programmes.
The study showed a significant increase in frequency of supported by a transformational change agenda.
This combines our handwashing with soap after watching the adverts.
The result shows own actions and our partnership approach to external advocacy, mass media can impact health behaviours at scale, giving Lifebuoy the with public policy goals, to create change on a systemic scale which opportunity to reach millions more people and potentially bringing us contributes to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals closer to our 2020 target of reaching 1 billion people.
As a next step, we see page 15 for more.
Our Sustainable Living Report is available on are progressing peer review publication and aim to include TV reach in our website and contains extensive disclosure on our activities and our Health & Well-being performance figures for 2018 alongside our onactions across all USLP commitments.
Our Vaseline brand is helping to heal the skin of people affected by THE BUSINESS CASE poverty or emergencies.
The Vaseline Healing Project, in partnership The USLP drives value for Unilever, generating more growth, lower with Direct Relief, is providing dermatological care, skin health training, costs, less risk and more trust in the business.
Our Sustainable Living Vaseline Jelly and other medical supplies.
Its ambition is to help heal brands, which combine a powerful purpose with products contributing the skin of five million people by 2020 and has reached over two and a to the USLP, are a key differentiator in this regard.
In 2016, 18 of our top half million people since 2015.
Marketing activities featuring the Vaseline 40 brands were Sustainable Living brands including Ben & Jerrys, Dove Healing Project have had measurable, positive impacts on sales growth and Signal.
Our Sustainable Living brands grew 50% faster than our and brand equity.
In 2017 the programme sent dermatologists to Syrian other brands, and accounted for 60% of total growth.
refugee camps in Jordan and conducted healing missions in India, the Business benefits are also delivered through product innovation US, Philippines, Thailand and Mexico.
which responds to environmental issues such as water scarcity and The second pillar of our Health & Well-being goal is our commitment greenhouse gas emissions at the same time as helping consumers.
on nutrition: to double the proportion of our portfolio that meets the For example, Sunlights breakthrough SmartFoam technology, highest nutritional standards, based on globally recognised dietary delivering superior performance, less suds and half the amount guidelines.
This will help hundreds of millions of people to achieve of water needed, continues to grow in South Africa and expanded a healthier diet, a key part of the Global Goal on Zero Hunger SDG2.
It provides a critical benefit for waterSo far 39% of our products have reached this standard and are on stressed areas and contributes to our USLP target of halving the track to meet our 2020 commitment.
In support of our Code Policy on water associated with consumer use of our products by 2020.
Responsible Marketing, in 2017 94% of our Foods and Refreshment The USLP delivers significant benefits to our business.
For example, by portfolio had full nutrition labelling on pack that aligned with using less energy we have avoided energy costs in our factories of over Unilevers product labelling criteria based on 97% of global sales from 490 million since our baseline year of 2008: and by using fewer materials 1 April 2017 to 30 June 2017. and producing less waste we have avoided costs of over 260 million over the same period.
REDUCING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our activities impact the environment, principally through the use The USLP responds directly to a number of macro forces see page 8 of water, energy and land as well as the production of waste and that are both risks and opportunities in our markets such as a lack greenhouse gas emissions, largely as a result of consumer use.
of access to water and sanitation, strains on the food system and the climate and the environment, and rising inequality.
Sustainability is one In 2016 we stopped buying GreenPalm certificates for palm oil which of our principal risks.
Further disclosure on mitigating actions which resulted in a temporary dip in our overall sustainable sourcing relate to this risk and the three big goals of the USLP can be found on performance compared to 2015.
By the end of 2017, the total volume page 28.
Another one of our principal risks is climate change see pages of our agricultural raw materials that were sustainably sourced 32 and 33 and mitigating its physical impacts is critical because we increased to 56%.
We are one of the major buyers of palm oil in the depend on raw materials sourced from countries that are particularly world and it is one of the most significant raw materials we source vulnerable to rising seas and temperatures and changing weather by volume.
Our goal to source 100% of our palm oil sustainably from patterns.
We have performed high-level assessments on our business physical, certified sources by 2019 is on track with 56% of our of 2C and 4C global warming scenarios which show that without palm oil volumes already physically certified in 2017.
As part of the action, both scenarios represent financial risks by 2030, mainly arising agreement to dispose of our global Spreads business to KKR, they will from higher costs.
That said, in managing these financial risks our business model would not require material change.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 13 DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED continue to work towards the goal of sourcing 100% sustainable palm Assam, India, and developing employment opportunities through oil by 2019. the Shakti programme.
We believe that growth cannot come at the expense of the planet.
By 2017, we had enabled about 1,175,000 women to access initiatives That is why our goal by 2030 is to halve the environmental footprint of aiming to develop their skills.
Radiant, our laundry detergent brand, the making and use of our products as we grow our business.
This is has formed a Career Academy initiative in India and Brazil to equip a challenging target requiring action across our value chain on waste, aspiring women with the skills to realise their potential.
water and greenhouse gas emissions.
In doing so we will contribute As well as directly creating wealth and jobs, our business supports to a number of the Sustainable Development Goals, principally Climate millions of people who source, make and sell our products we call Action SDG13 and Responsible Consumption & Production SDG12.
In 2017, we enabled about 716,000 smallholder Our manufacturing operations have seen a reduction in total waste farmers and around 1.6 million small-scale retailers to access initiatives disposed to landfill, or incineration without energy recovery, of to improve agricultural practices or increase incomes.
The Philippines around 98% per tonne of production since 2008.
We maintained zero Kabisig programme, for example, trains both retailers and their non-hazardous waste to landfill across our global factory network suppliers in stock control, financial management, sales and customer during 2017.
We are more than half way towards meeting our 2020 service increasing the earning potential of small-scale retailers at the commitment to reduce waste associated with the disposal of our same time as growing turnover for Unilever.
This has reduced by about 29% since 2010 due to increases Our Responsible Sourcing Policy RSP is at the heart of our ambition to in consumer recycling and changes in our portfolio.
source 100% of procurement spend responsibly and through suppliers In 2017, we made a further commitment on waste, ensuring that all that meet our RSP requirements.
In 2017, we relaunched our RSP our plastic packaging will be fully reusable, recyclable or compostable programme to strengthen our approach and to drive an increase in the by 2025.
Our investment in innovative technologies such as CreaSolv is number of suppliers committing to the programme.
This technology makes it possible to recycle small, multi-layered includes improved verification and remediation requirements, and antisachets in which many of our products are sold, especially in emerging bribery and corruption compliance processes.
We are focusing on markets.
If our initial pilot proves commercially viable, we will open addressing high risk issues in our supply chain and building capacity for source the technology.
our procurement function and our suppliers.
In 2017, 55% of procurement spend was through suppliers who were assessed as We have made significant reductions in the water used in meeting the mandatory requirements of the RSP.
manufacturing 39% per tonne of production since 2008.
Our biggest water impact occurs when consumers shower, bathe and clean We continue to focus on the eradication of forced labour in global clothes with our products.
Our target is to reduce by half the amount supply chains through supplier awareness raising and training events, of water per consumer use by 2020.
We have reduced water use by 2% and have made progress on the removal of worker recruitment fees through innovations such as low rinse laundry products.
However, this through the Leadership Group for Responsible Recruitment and has been offset by the growth of products with higher water use in the Consumer Goods Forum.
As part of our global Framework for Fair portfolio, including conventional laundry products.
Compensation, we brought forward our ambition for no direct Unilever employee to earn less than a living wage, to the end of 2018.
We joined We are committed to implementing the recommendations of the the Ethical Tea Partnership to drive improvements for tea workers and Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures on the risks and farmers.
We have also created Global Land Rights Principles and opportunities faced by Unilever see pages 32 and 33 for more.
carbon reduction targets, officially approved by the Science-Based Targets Initiative a partnership between CDP, UN Global Compact, We continued to embed human rights with a focus on our eight salient WRI and WWF are a key part of our climate risk disclosures.
issues ie those at risk of the most severe negative impact through Unilevers activities or business relationships as described in our Since 2008, we have cut CO from energy in our manufacturing by 47% 2 Human Rights Report.
This report was updated at the end of 2017 per tonne of production.
As with water, our biggest greenhouse gas to include disclosure on our human rights issues activities and due impact comes through consumer use.
The greenhouse gas impact diligence processes.
Human rights risks are included as part of our of our products across their lifecycle continues to edge up and has sustainability and ethical principal risks see pages 28 and 30. now increased by about 9% since 2010.
The acquisition of some skin cleansing and hair care brands which have a higher greenhouse DRIVING TRANSFORMATIONAL CHANGE gas impact per consumer use, remains the main reason for this.
While we are on track to achieve most of our USLP commitments, See pages 7, 32 to 33 and 39 for more climate-related disclosures.
we are also aware that the biggest challenges facing the world cannot be addressed by one company alone.
We are changing ourselves as Our efforts on the environment have received external recognition.
a business but we want to help change the system in which business CDP, the non-profit global environmental disclosure platform, has is done.
We want to act as catalysts for change more broadly, as awarded Unilever with a place on the 2017 A Lists for Climate, Water, convenors to facilitate progressive discussion and bring others Forests and Supplier Engagement.
This recognises our actions in the together, and as collaborators in partnerships to deliver positive last year to tackle climate change and the associated challenges of business, social and environmental impact at scale.
By being part of water scarcity, sustainable agriculture and sustainable energy use the solution to the world's challenges, businesses have the opportunity across our value chain.
to win the trust of consumers while helping create societies and ENHANCING LIVELIHOODS economies in which they can grow and succeed.
Our activities have the potential to impact the livelihoods of not only We aim to use our scale and influence to help bring about transformational our employees, but the millions of people who are involved in our change in four areas where we can make the biggest difference and value chain notably smallholder farmers and small-scale retailers.
which represent the biggest market opportunities for Unilever: Climate By 2020, we aim to enhance the livelihoods of millions of people as Change & Forests: Sustainable Agriculture, Land Use & Livelihoods: we grow our business.
Health & Well-Being and Womens Empowerment.
To understand the In 2017, we made steady progress across the three pillars of our challenges that are preventing society and our ecosystems from thriving, Enhancing Livelihoods goal.
We believe that women's empowerment and to find ways to help address them, we take a multi-stakeholder is the single greatest enabler of human development and economic approach.
We engage with shareholders, governments, NGOs and civil growth.
We are building a gender-balanced organisation page 16 society organisations and we shape the business landscape through while promoting safety for women by working with UN Women in advocacy.
By leveraging our partnerships, blended finance, digital and new business models, we believe transformational change is possible.
14 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
