successful delivery of the SDGs will create market opportunities of at REALISING THE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY FROM least $12 trillion a year.
We are working to make progress across many of the SDGs through the USLP, which is our blueprint for sustainable THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS growth.
In doing so, we are unlocking new markets and investing in OUR SCALE AND REACH MEAN WE ARE WELL PLACED brands with purpose and innovation.
Below we provide four examples TO CAPTURE VALUE FROM THE GLOBAL GOALS.
where we are taking action.
The interdependence and mutuality of the The Sustainable Development Goals SDGs are fundamental to goals ensures that progress against one leads to progress against future economic and business growth.
More details and examples of our approach and how we are Development Commission, co-founded by Unilever, concluded that benefiting from the SDGs can be found on our website.
SDG5: GENDER EQUALITY SDG12: RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Related Goals: SDG4: Quality Education: SDG17: Partnerships Related Goals: SDG2: Zero Hunger: SDG15: Life on Land: SDG17: for the Goals Partnerships for the Goals According to McKinsey, as much as $28 trillion could be added to Unilevers Making Purpose Pay research shows that over 50% global GDP by 2025 by advancing womens equality.
However, based of consumers want to choose brands that are more sustainable, on current trends, the World Economic Forum predicts that it will and that demand for sustainable products cuts across take 217 years for the workplace gender gap to close.
Addressing demographic and socio-economic groups.
gender equality is a moral and economic imperative.
For Unilever, Unilevers brands are well-placed to meet consumers growing gender equality delivers tangible business benefits by widening the desire for more sustainable products.
Our Sustainable Living pool of experience and expertise across our supply chain and in our brands are the gold standard in our portfolio, combining a workforce.
The majority of our shoppers globally are also women.
strong social or environmental purpose, with products that Our brands are seizing the opportunity through education and contribute to achieving the USLP goals.
In 2016, they grew 50% empowerment programmes.
Dove, one of Unilevers biggest faster than the rest of the business, delivering more than 60% brands which grew at 6% in 2017, has reached around 29 million of Unilevers growth.
young people since 2004 through its Self-Esteem Project.
As well One such brand is Knorr, which grew 4% in 2017, with a farm as raising awareness about body confidence, our data reveals that to fork consumer proposition.
Ninety-eight per cent of the top 13 awareness of the Project correlates with higher purchase intent.
vegetables and herbs in our Knorr sauces, soups and seasonings We are also taking action within our business on gender equality.
Knorr is also addressing Forty-seven per cent of management are now women and our undernutrition and creating growth opportunities, selling four Framework for Fair Compensation is helping to ensure equal billion vitamin A fortified seasoning servings in 2017. pay for equal work.
Signal is another Sustainable Living brand which grew at 7% in Across our distribution network and supply chain we are 2017.
It is harnessing its purpose to encourage people to brush supporting small-scale retailers and smallholder farmers many day and night through TV advertising and on-ground programmes of whom are women to extend our reach and secure supply of in a number of markets.
In doing so, it reaches new populations vital agricultural raw materials.
Around 370,000 women have with vital health interventions and potential consumers.
accessed Unilever smallholder farmer programmes and smallscale retailer initiatives such as Shakti and Kabisig Summits.
SDG6: CLEAN WATER AND SANITATION SDG13: CLIMATE ACTION Related Goals: SDG3: Good Health and Well-being: SDG17: Related Goals: SDG7: Affordable & Clean Energy: SDG15: Life Partnerships for the Goals on Land: SDG17: Partnerships for the Goals Nearly a billion people defecate in the open and around two and a Few now seriously challenge the need for urgent action on climate half billion people live without sanitation.
Addressing water, change from greening the grid to eliminating deforestation.
Thanks sanitation and hygiene needs is a significant opportunity for to the Paris Agreement nearly 200 countries are pressing ahead Unilever since several of our brands directly address these needs with low-carbon reforms, helping to open up around $23 trillion through innovative partnerships which drive growth and deliver in opportunities for climate-smart investments by 2030.
Investing positive impact at scale.
to eliminate carbon emissions from our operations is the smart choice for Unilever, reducing costs and risk.
Domestos, which grew 10% in 2017, has committed to help 25 million people gain improved access to a toilet.
Through our We have already increased the amount of energy purchased partnership with UNICEF, over ten million people between 2012 from renewable sources and aim to eliminate coal from our and 2016 gained access to a toilet through behaviour change energy mix by 2020 with a goal to become carbon positive by interventions and capacity building initiatives contributing 2030, making the surplus energy available to the markets and positively to consumer sentiment around the brand.
Our eco-efficiency savings have avoided cumulative energy costs of over 490 million since 2008.
Pureit, our water purification business, is another brand that is well positioned to address clean water needs in India.
It has Unilever has long recognised the interdependency of climate and provided 96 billion litres of safe drinking water since 2005 forests.
We helped lead the Consumer Goods Forum towards a zerothrough the sale of water purifiers, well on its way towards deforestation commitment across four commodities, including palm its ambition of providing 150 billion litres by 2020. oil.
We are tackling deforestation in the palm oil industry through our own sustainable palm oil commitment and partnerships.
Unilever, Lifebuoy is the worlds number one antibacterial soap, sold in nearly along with others, will invest up to $25 million between 2018 and 60 countries which grew 6% in 2017.
It has championed the message 2022 to support sustainable commodity projects.
Our investment will of better health through hygiene for well over a century.
Since 2010, focus on smallholder palm oil farmers in Indonesia, thereby securing its programme has reached 426 million people through schools, the supply of sustainable palm oil.
health clinics and community outreach boosting sales in countries with high rates of diarrhoea-related child deaths, such as India.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 15
