DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED The USLP sets out clear targets for expanding opportunities and OUR PEOPLE enhancing access to skills and training for women in our value chain.
It also sets out our ambition to build a gender-balanced workforce WE ARE CREATING AN ORGANISATION AND CULTURE within Unilever, with 50% of women in management positions by 2020.
WHERE OUR EMPLOYEES ARE EMPOWERED TO ACT Our Opportunities for Women white paper, published in 2017, contains LIKE ENTREPRENEURS AND BUSINESS OWNERS.
more details on these targets.
We run programmes across Unilever We are helping our people develop new skills, new ways of working aimed at attracting, retaining and developing female talent.
This and new entrepreneurial leadership qualities within a culture that includes developing candidates for potential future roles, maintaining values diversity in all its forms.
In turn this helps us attract and retain balanced slates, and practical help such as a minimum 16 weeks the best talent which is vital to accelerate long-term value creation.
paid maternity leave as a global standard more than the regulatory requirement in over 50% of countries where we operate.
The macro forces described on page 8 have a fundamental impact on the workplace.
Competition for talent is intensifying.
The workforce Pay and overall reward is intended to be gender neutral, with any is increasingly freelance and a job for life is no longer the norm.
Once differences between employees in similar jobs reflecting performance employed, people require continuous learning to reinvent themselves and skill.
Unilever has a long-standing commitment to gender equality and they expect more flexibility in working practices.
The growth of and fairness in the workplace based on equal pay for equal work and artificial intelligence and robotics is disrupting work in ways that achieving greater gender balance, particularly at management levels.
Anxiety at work is on the rise and the Gender pay gaps develop where there is a representational imbalance composition of the workforce is changing.
Millennials will be 60% of between genders.
Our Framework for Fair Compensation reviews Unilevers own workforce by 2020.
At the same time the workforce average pay differences between genders at each work level.
is ageing and five generations may be working together in the same By the end of 2017, 47% of total management were women, up from company in the 18-80 workforce.
In short, a one-size-fits-all human 46% in 2016.
Among the top 93 executives, 22% were women 22% resource strategy no longer works.
If you include employees who are statutory directors of the Our strategic approach to managing our workforce is: more simple, corporate entities whose financial information is included in the Groups more human, more impact.
We want to reduce complexity, understand 2017 consolidated accounts in this Annual Report and Accounts, the our people as individuals, not by job titles or work levels, and number increases to 510 males and 192 27% females.
38% five out personalise interventions to build the right leaders and teams.
We of 13 of the Board is female, compared with 43% six out of 14 in 2016. are taking action across a number of areas to make this happen.
DEVELOPING AN OWNERS MINDSET C4G, our largest organisational change programme in more than SAFETY a decade, was fully implemented during 2017 with the benefits to be We continue our efforts to achieve our Vision Zero strategy: Zero realised progressively during 2018 and 2019.
C4G encourages and Fatalities: Zero Injuries: Zero Motor Vehicle Accidents: Zero Process equips people to adopt an owners mindset by giving them more Incidents: and Zero Tolerance of Unsafe Behaviour and Practices.
control through a simplified organisational and reward structure.
An This vision is supported by our Code Policy on Occupational Health & owners mindset means more ownership and collaboration, clarity of Safety.
Unilever reports safety data from October to September.
Our purpose, more test and learn, embracing failure to gain insight, and an Total Recordable Frequency Rate TRFR from 1 October 2016 to 30 obsession with customers and consumers ultimately driving longSeptember 2017 went from 1.01 accidents per 1 million hours worked term value creation and financial rewards for our employees.
This to 0.89, as a result of the continuous focus on safety in high risk areas.
mindset hands teams in local markets responsibility for business In manufacturing, we focused on process safety through standards results.
They are encouraged to treat resources as if they were their and enhanced individual qualifications as well as through our partner own, helping ensure we maintain the highest levels of efficiency.
As a result of these initiatives, we achieved a 46% reduction in process safety incidents versus prior years.
On our Our C4G programme is the platform through which people are construction sites, we have focused on a global Work at Heights training now empowered to deploy our zero-based budgeting approach to programme.
We continue to promote safe driving with the help of our allocating resources and our 5S programme of supply chain margin new standards on safe travel to help mitigate road related risks.
This drives simplification, partnerships with third parties, and smarter pricing policies in our channels.
Part BUSINESS INTEGRITY of developing an owners mindset, and coping with the quicker pace We communicate our Code and Code Policies internally and externally.
of change in our markets, is adopting an always on learning culture.
Our employees must undertake mandatory annual training on our Learning and building capability is critical in a hyper-connected world.
Code and Code Policies via online training modules as well as making In 2017, we launched 'My Learning' powered by Degreed, a social an annual business integrity pledge.
The Code and Code Policies learning platform with a daily feed of materials customised to reflect our desire to fight corruption in all its forms.
We are committed individual profiles, combining Unilever content with external sources to being a no-bribe business and eradicating any practices or including TED Talks and MIT.
This zero-tolerance policy extends to our employees, contractors, third parties, new acquisitions and jointBehavioural change requires the right incentives.
In 2017 we deployed new mandated interactive training management employees, incentives have been simplified to include on anti-bribery for all employees.
Our Business Integrity guidelines fixed pay, a bonus as a percentage of fixed pay and a long-term include clear processes for managing Code breaches.
In 2017, we management co-investment plan MCIP linked to financial and USLP closed 1,654 incidents across all areas of our Code and Code Policies, performance see pages 6 and 7.
In addition, the long-term MCIP will with 709 confirmed breaches.
be rolled out to the remainder of management employees in 2018. Business integrity risks are included as part of our ethical and legal For non-management employees, we have a share purchase scheme and regulatory principal risks see page 31. so that everyone can have a stake in Unilevers long-term success.
Unilever also requires its third-party business partners to adhere to GENDER DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION business principles consistent with our own.
These expectations are We are developing an inclusive culture, promoting gender balance set out in our Responsible Sourcing Policy RSP and Responsible and respecting the contribution of all employees regardless of gender, Business Partner Policy, which underpin our third-party compliance age, race, disability or sexual orientation.
Consistent with our Code programme.
We identify high risk partners who undergo specific Policy on Respect, Dignity & Fair Treatment, Unilever aims to ensure due diligence via our third-party compliance programme.
In 2017, that applications for employment from everyone are given full and we closed 85 key incidents across all areas of our RSP.
fair consideration and that everyone is given access to training, development and career opportunities.
16 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
