Our market environment We have leading positions in large and growing chronic care markets What this means for us Our markets are underpinned We provide products and technologies to support people living with a number of chronic conditions.
The areas each of our by structural growth trends franchises focus on is detailed below.
which are driving and increasing The increasing prevalence of chronic conditions, which are often experienced over a long period of time and generally progress demand for our products and slowly, is driving demand for our products.
In 2017 we generated technologies approximately 76% of our revenues from products used by people with chronic care conditions.
c. 76% revenue generated from products used Growth trend by people with chronic conditions Populations are getting older Advanced Ostomy Continence & Infusion By 2050 the number of people in the world over 60 is Wound Care Care Critical Care Devices projected to more than double in size source: United Nations, Diabetes Colorectal Multiple Diabetes World Population Prospects, the 2015 Revision.
and vascular Cancer Sclerosis disease Bladder Cancer Benin Prostatic Chronic ulcers Crohns Hyperplasia 2015 2050 Disease BPH Global population aged 60 0.9 billion 2.1 billion Ulcerative Spinal Cord Colitis Injury Diabetes What this means for us There is a strong correlation between age and the incidence of chronic conditions that require wound, ostomy and incontinence treatment and infusion products source: Gist, Tio-Matos, Falzgraf, Cameron, Beebe 2009.
People are living longer In 2006 c. 73% of adults aged 65 and older in the US had Due to earlier detection and more effective treatment, people multiple chronic conditions source: US Department of Health with chronic conditions are living longer.
Average life expectancy 53 69 Chronic conditions are on the increase of people with type 1 diabetes 19501964 19561980 The incidence of lifestyle-related chronic diseases is increasing.
Source: The Pittsburgh Epidemiology of Diabetes Complications Study Since 1975 the proportion of the worlds population that is Cohort 2012. overweight has almost doubled to todays figure of roughly 40% source: World Health Organisation WHO.
In the US around What this means for us 36% of the population is estimated to be obese and in the UK Many of our customers stay with us throughout their lives, and 28% source: WHO and the prevalence of obesity is forecast to as they live longer, the period during which they are reliant on continue to increase.
For example in the US it is forecast to our products is extended.
Commercially this gives us long-term increase by 33% by 2030 source: Finkelstein 2012. visibility of the underlying demand for our products.
The global population with diabetes, the treatment cost for which is estimated to be over $800 billion globally source: WHO, is forecast to increase from 8.4% to 9.7% by 2030 source: Euromonitor.
Globally there are 50 million source: Frost & Sullivan reported cases of patients suffering from hard-to-heal wounds, including foot ulcers and venous leg ulcers, which affect over 600,000 people source: Espicom in the US alone each year.
By 2020 chronic diseases are expected to account for 73% of all deaths and 60% of the global burden of disease.
In 2002 chronic diseases accounted for almost 60% of all deaths and 43% of the global burden of disease source: WHO.
86% of all US healthcare dollars are spent on treating chronic and mental health conditions.
source: Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.
ConvaTec Group Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Our chronic care markets We operate in a $10 billion chronic care market which is projected to grow, on average, at 4%5% per annum over the next five years.
1 We hold leading positions in each of our markets 2 3 5 Advanced Wound Care Ostomy Care Continence and Infusion Devices 4 Critical Care Market size Market size Market size Market size $5.3bn $2.6bn $1.9bn $0.5bn Market growth Market growth Market growth Market growth 45% 45% 35% 56% Key competitors Key competitors Key competitors Key competitors Acelity Coloplast Coloplast Smiths Mlnlycke Hollister Dansac Bard Ypsomed Smith & Nephew Others Wellspect Others 2017 revenue 2017 revenue 2017 revenue 2017 revenue $577.8m $528.9m $382.9m $275.0m Market position Market position Market position Market position market share market share market share market share Global advanced wound dressing Global ostomy Retailer in intermittent catheters Global disposable infusion sets for #2 17% #3 20% in the US insulin pumps #1 31% #1 85% Global silver dressings US #1 32% #2 US fecal management systems #1 67% Global hydrocolloid dressings UK and France #1 45% #3 Global alginate and gelling fibre dressings #1 44% Operational review Operational review Operational review Operational review Page 40 Page 42 Page 44 Page 46 1.
Information is based on publicly available sources and internal analysis.
The CCC market comprises the US and Europe intermittent catheter and 2.
The AWC market includes advanced dressings global alginate and gelling fibre fecal management market.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2015 to dressing sectors combined, contact layers, hydrogels, hydrocolloids and 2022 in the United States and 2015 to 2019 in Europe.
Source: iData Research super absorbents other advanced dressings : silver antimicrobials: and foam, and GHX.
biologics and negative pressure wound therapy.
The Infusion Devices market size refers to disposables for insulin infusion period from 2017 to 2022.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2016 3.
Th e Ostomy Care market includes pouching systems and ostomy care to 2020 and refers to the insulin pump market.
accessories including deodorants, skin barriers and clothing but excludes irrigation products.
Expected CAGR is for the period from 2016 to 2021.
ConvaTec Group Plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our market environment continued Our markets are affected by How we are responding a number of evolving dynamics to the trends and dynamics in our markets Market dynamics We are well positioned to respond to the dynamics that shape our markets.
Innovation with proven outcomes The increasing prevalence of chronic conditions is driving Our world-leading Research & Development R&D team demand for products which better enhance quality of life and is dedicated to delivering the most effective products and reduce the risk of more serious health problems.
Because of solutions for our customers and is continually focused on this, both treatment protocols and markets are moving from improving clinical outcomes and advancing clinical practice.
traditional products to more advanced offerings, which provide Further information about our R&D capabilities is set out on the optimal outcome for the customer.
These offerings combine page 19. best clinical performance and ease of use, and often include advice and support services.
We engage with people who use our products and the healthcare professionals who treat chronic conditions.
We Pressure on healthcare costs listen to their feedback and use it to inform our R&D process Our customers include hospitals and long-term care facilities to ensure that we deliver innovative products, technologies and individuals who have acute and chronic conditions.
Funding and solutions that address their needs.
of our products varies by country but generally includes government sponsored healthcare and private medical insurance.
Due to the increasing demand for care and treatment, combined with worldwide government austerity programmes, healthcare systems around the world are accelerating efforts to reduce overall spending.
In particular, many healthcare systems are moving beyond simply imposing pricing pressure on suppliers to reduce costs.
Increasingly they are now putting more emphasis on value-based healthcare initiatives which focus on solutions that deliver better patient outcomes at lower costs across the entire care continuum for each patient.
Greater access to healthcare A large proportion of the growing middle class in emerging markets are gaining access to private medical insurance and the use of healthcare products and services is increasing.
Consumer influence Consumers are becoming more engaged in their healthcare and On the next page are some examples of how we are are actively seeking out products and technologies that not only responding to the trends and dynamics in our markets.
address their needs, but do so in a convenient way that fits with their lifestyle.
Increasing regulation and compliance Our industry is subject to rigorous and diverse regulation by governmental authorities such as the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, notified bodies in the European Union and other national and local governmental authorities in the countries where we manufacture and sell our products.
These regulations, which are subject to change, cover all aspects of our business, including the safety, clinical efficacy and effectiveness of our products, their packaging and our sales and marketing activities.
Generally the regulatory obligations we must comply with are becoming more onerous and across our industry, enforcement is increasing.
We must also comply with a wide range of anti-competition, anti-fraud and anti-bribery laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the US, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws in other countries that relate to anti-corruption compliance.
ConvaTec Group Plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 ConvaTec Delivering innovative products and technologies Providing value-based healthcare solutions with proven outcomes Wound care management is a high-cost area for healthcare providers.
In Our AQUACEL Ag Surgical dressings deliver both clinical and economic response in our UK market, we have developed ConvaTec Complete which benefits.
They are used across a range of surgical indications to provide an supports all aspects of wound care provision and helps deliver better optimal wound healing environment and reduce the risk of infection.
outcomes at a lower cost by driving efficiencies and cost savings across the entire wound care supply channel.
Surgical site infections SSIs, such as post-operative joint infections, can be devastating for patients health and costly for health care providers, especially ConvaTec Complete offers healthcare providers a range of services which if patients need to be readmitted for surgery.
Published in 2017, an independent they can customise to their specific needs.
The full range of services available study undertaken by researchers at The New York Presbyterian Hospital via ConvaTec Complete include: Columbia Medical Centre found a four-fold decrease in the incidence of post-operative joint infections with the use of AQUACEL Ag Surgical Supply dressings, compared with a standard gauze dressing.
Also published in 2017, Using our online toolkit, healthcare providers are able to order dressings for a clinical study undertaken in Taiwan, reported that AQUACEL Ag Surgical individual patients exactly when they need them.
Supplied from our dressing was an ideal dressing that was cost effective and reduced SSIs.
dedicated wound care supply and service hub Amcare, which is based in the UK in Sunderland, products are delivered within 24 hours across the country.
A substantial proportion of post-operative complications leading This effective supply chain ensures that the right treatment is available at the to readmission are associated with surgical site infection SSI.
right time and avoids delays in patients treatment.
As supplies can be topped Interventions that can control the infection rate will lead to cost savings up daily, it also avoids the need for healthcare facilities to carry large amounts in the short term, while also achieving long-term savings in routine of stock and significantly reduces dressing wastage.
dressing costs and nursing time.
Bidhan Das, MD, Colon & Rectal Clinic of Houston, Insight The Methodist Hospital, Texas As our ordering system is fully integrated within our online toolkit, wound care spend can be easily monitored and costs effectively managed and reported.
In addition, the toolkit enables healthcare providers to ensure that they are only prescribing the specific products that are approved to be prescribed in their clinic.
Audit We make available a full range of audit services which provide real world insight into clinical governance and patient care protocols ensuring best practice use of wound care products.
Education To promote best practice and the efficient use of wound care products we offer a wide range of non-promotional medical education and support which we tailor to each customers specific needs.
Formulary management We help healthcare professionals deal with the day-to-day challenge of formulary management by providing a range of services including clinical support, product training and formulary communications.
Addressing customers needs and helping them live the way they want Following its launch in 2016, the Esteem Flex Convex system has continued ConvaTec Complete is helping us develop strong partnerships and to strengthen its market position as demand for all-in-one systems continues collaborative working relationships with our customers, delivering effective to grow, driven in part by ageing populations.
clinical and commercial solutions and positive patient experiences.
Developed to address growing consumer needs, particularly from older people ConvaTec Complete provides an opportunity to tear up established with uneven peristomal skin, the Esteem Flex Convex system, which pathways and redesign systems that are more effective for patients and combines baseplate and pouch in a single unit, is ergonomically designed to more efficient for staff, ultimately providing better patient care in a more provide a simple and secure solution which is gentle on the skin.
The system is timely fashion.
designed to fit contours of the body, moving with the wearer and help give Stuart Lakin, Medicines Management, Rotherham CCG people with a stoma the confidence to live life the way they want.
Easy to position on the body and comfortable to wear, the Esteem Flex Convex system has been launched in over 20 markets and has been very well received.
For example, the product has significantly increased our new customer capture in the Japanese market and helped secure new hospital contracts.
Commenting on his life after surgery one of our Japanese customers, Ken, said: After surgery I lost weight, so much so there was a lot of slack on the Our strategy abdomen.
A leak occurred easily when I was lying down and I couldnt turn over Page 22 in my sleep.
However, when I used Esteem Flex Convex the leaks stopped.
I feel like I can enjoy whatever I want.
Principal risks and uncertainties Page 30 ConvaTec Group Plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
