GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DISCUSSIONS IN 2017 Jack Thompson The committee met four times in 2017.
At each meeting, the Chairman, Sustainability Committee committee reviews a detailed quarterly report covering the Groups performance across a range of sustainability areas, including: safety, health, political and regulatory risk, and environmental and social performance.
Significant social, safety, health and environmental incidents are reviewed at each meeting, as are the results from operational risk reviews.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS In 2017, nine members of the workforce lost their lives at See pages 65-67 for biographies and Board experience details Group operations.
Preliminary observations from each of these fatal incidents were reported to the next committee Jack Thompson Chairman meeting following their occurrence, noting the factors Ian Ashby appointed 25 July 2017 surrounding the incidents, mitigation steps being taken and Stuart Chambers appointed 1 November 2017 the process for formal investigation.
Following completion Mark Cutifani of independent investigations, findings are presented to the Nolitha Fakude appointed 25 April 2017 committee.
Tony ONeill Sir John Parker resigned 31 October 2017 In addition to the committees standing agenda items, the Mphu Ramatlapeng following matters were discussed during 2017: Jim Rutherford development of AngloAmericans new Sustainability Business unit heads, Group directors of people and Strategy organisation, and corporate relations, the Group general business unit and business function reports on safety and counsel and the Group head of safety and sustainable sustainability performance, including: Platinum, Copper, development also participate in meetings of the committee.
fide Beers, and Group Discovery and Geosciences workforce engagement and development ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES engagement with faith-based organisations The committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, material management policies, processes, and strategies designed tailings storage facility risk management to manage safety, health, environment, socio-political and air quality management at Kumba Iron Ores Sishen mine people risks, to achieve compliance with sustainable development responsibilities and commitments and strive mercury monitoring at fide Beers Victor mine for an industry leadership position on sustainability.
safety intervention plan at Coal South Africa operations The committee is responsible for reviewing the causes of the new integrated AngloAmerican Safety, Health and any fatal or significant sustainability incidents and ensuring Environment Way learnings are shared across the Group.
2016 Social Way assessment results improvements in The committees terms of reference are available to performance on managing the social impacts of mining view online.
For more information, visit sustainability benchmarking comparing performance www.
com aboutus governance and global trends across the industry climate change: progress on actions to meet disclosure commitments under the Aiming for A During 2017, the committee held one of its shareholder resolution four meetings in South Africa, and committee members visited Platinums Precious Metals water management Refinery, the site of a fatal incident during the mine closure liabilities year.
In addition, committee members visited two social projects supported by AngloAmerican key legislative developments in the sustainability area in Peru and participated in the Groups annual Sustainability Committee annual evaluation and Global Safety Day campaign at the Quellaveco action plan.
copper project in southern Peru.
78 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017
