Corporate Responsibility CR Committee report Dear Shareholder Behaving responsibly underpins This is the report of the CR Committee the Committee our ability to deliver long-term for 2017. sustainable value.
Key areas of responsibility The Committees key areas of responsibility include to: Define the Companys obligations under the headings of economic responsibility, community responsibility and environmental responsibility, and to oversee the Companys conduct in the context of these obligations.
Approve a strategy for discharging these responsibilities in a manner which commands respect and confidence.
Monitor relevant external trends and assess how these may affect the Companys reputation or its ability to operate, and review how best to address these trends.
Oversee the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures and oversee their implementation across the Group.
Monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and other interested parties.
Ensure that appropriate communications policies are in place and working effectively to build and protect the Groups reputation both internally and externally.
Detailed responsibilities are set out in the Committees terms of reference which can be found at www.
Activities of the Committee During the period, the Committee discharged its responsibilities listed above and in particular: Sir Christopher Gent Reviewed and approved our high-level CR strategy which is Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee being implemented on a phased basis over the next three years.
Received written updates on, and discussed progress Committee membership, meetings and attendance relating to, implementation of the strategy in March, July The table below sets out the Committees membership.
It met via a presentation to the full Board and October 2017. once during 2017 and attendance is shown.
In addition, updates Received an update on the results of a stakeholder survey have been provided to the full Board and written updates have and subsequent enhancement of the materiality assessment, been provided to the Committee on a periodic basis throughout covered in more detail in the 2017 CR Report.
Shortly after the year end, reviewed and approved our first, standalone, CR Report for the year ended Attendance 31 December 2017, which is available on our website, Eligible to www.
Director Attended attend This included review and approval of our first set of Sir Christopher Gent 1 1 CR-related targets.
Rick Anderson 1 1 Paul Moraviec 1 1 Regina Benjamin appointed 11 August 2017 1 1 Margaret Ewing appointed 11 August 2017 1 1 On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee From time to time other members of the Board may be invited Sir Christopher Gent to attend all or part of any Committee meeting if it is deemed Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee appropriate.
14 February 2018 ConvaTec Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
