STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and link Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment Long-Term Incentivises Annual grants of performance shares 150% of salary The Committee determines Shareholding Aligns executive Executive Directors to retain at least N A N A Incentive sustained which vest subject to performance 200% of salary in performance conditions and guidelines Directors interests 50% of the shares that vest under the Plan LTIP performance over measured over three years and exceptional weightings at the start of each with those of other LTIP and Deferred Bonus Award, after the longer term continued service circumstances, such year, providing that the targets shareholders in allowing for tax liabilities, until a The use of Executives are entitled to receive the as upon recruitment are not materially less the Company shareholding equivalent in value to longer-term value of dividend payments that would challenging 200% of base salary is built up performance have otherwise been paid in respect of For 2017, the awards were targets and vested deferred shares based on a mix of: The measures currently used in the LTIP are Adjusted EPS and relative RECRUITMENT OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS deliveryof awards All awards are subject to the discretions Relative Total Shareholder TSR.
Adjusted EPS is a measure of the Companys overall financial in shares rewards contained in the plan rules Return 50% of the award : Salaries for newly appointed Directors will be set to reflect their success and TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys the achievement The Committee may review the and skillsand experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and performance against its competitors.
It also aligns the rewards of theCompanys performance conditions from time to Group adjusted earnings themarket rate for the role.
receivedby executives with the returns received by shareholders.
strategic goals time growth targets 50% of the Where it is appropriate to offer a below median salary initially, the TheCommittee will review the choice of performance measures and andincreases in The Committee has the discretion in award Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant.
shareholder value certain circumstances to grant and or In respect of each performance over time for newly appointed Directors, even though this may involve settle an award in cash.
In practice, element, performance below In particular, the Adjusted EPS targets are reviewed prior to each increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
thiswill only beused in exceptional the threshold target results in grantby taking account of internal and external expectations of future circumstances for executive Directors zero vesting.
Vesting of each Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other Adjusted EPS growth for the business.
The Committee reserves the A two-year post-vesting holding performance element starts at employees, with national or international relocation expenses discretion to set different targets for future awards, without consulting period will be applied to LTIP awards, the 25% threshold and rises to arrangements e. g. schooling, tax equalisation provided for if necessary.
with shareholders, providing that, in the opinion of the Committee, the creating a five-year period between 100% for maximum level of new targets are no less challenging in light of the circumstances at the The aggregate incentive offered to new recruits will be no higher the grant of the awards and their performance time than those used previously.
The targets for awards granted under thanthat outlined in the Policy report on pages 55 and 56.
This revised holding Subject to clawback at the this Remuneration Policy are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Committee has flexibility to grant share awards of up period policy shall apply to LTIP Committees discretion during Remuneration.
Different performance measures awards to be granted in early 2018, the period of three years may be set initially for the annual bonus and LTIP, taking into account even though this precedes the date following the date of vesting RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year of approval of the new policy ANDEMPLOYEE PAY that they joined.
All-Employee Employees The Sharesave Plan has standard terms Employees can N A The Remuneration Policy for the executive Directors is designed under which participants can normally normally elect for Current entitlements benefits, bonus, share schemes may be bought Share including executive with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
out on terms that are no more favourable than a like-for-like basis with Schemes Directors are enter a savings contract in return for a three-year savings There are some differences in the structure of the Remuneration Policy which they are granted options to contract under acomparable time horizon, fair value and subject to performance encouraged to for the executive Directors and other senior employees, which the conditions.
Existing incentive arrangements will be used to the fullest become acquire shares at the market value of standard terms and Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different the shares at the start of the within HMRC limits extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside these shareholders levels of responsibility of employees across the Company and reflect schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the through the performance period The option price for different market norms for different roles.
The key differences in operation of the The rules for this plan were first Sharesave awards case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation remuneration policy between the executive Directors and employees to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of Sharesave Plan, approved by shareholders at the 2006 can be set at a across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance-related the HMRCAGM and the updated rules were discount of up to 20% grant adjusted as relevant to take into account the Board appointment.
pay and the inclusion of a share-based long-term incentive plan for approved allapproved at the 2016 AGM to the market value of executive Directors.
RATIONALE BEHIND PERFORMANCE METRICS employee the shares at the start Executive Directors are provided with a competitive package of share plans of the savings AND TARGETS benefitsthat includes depending on role participation in the Groups contract, although no The performance-related elements take into account the Companys occupational pension arrangements, provision of a fully expensed car awards granted under risk policies and systems and are designed to align the Directors orcar allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and income the 2006 Sharesave interests with those of shareholders.
Variable pay elements aim to protection.
Plan have been set at reward executive Directors for performance at the highest levels and, a discount assuch, the Committee aims to set targets that are both stretching The majority of Seniors managers are eligible to participate in annual Pension Provides The executive Directors may participate 20% of basic salary N A andachievable.
All targets are set on a sliding scale.
The Committee bonus arrangements with challenging targets tied to the performance competitive in the Senior plc Group Flexible either as a Company reviews the annual bonus measures set for all the Companys senior of their employing entity, Division and, for the most senior executives, retirement benefits Retirement Plan Senior GFRP, a contribution to Senior executives not only the executive Directors every year in order to the Groups performance.
A collaboration bonus is also available to for the Groups contract-based, money purchase GFRP or as salary in ensure that they are aligned with the Companys strategy and annual senior management, who contribute to the Groups performance due employees pension plan and or receive cash lieu of pension goals and to ensure that bonus arrangements amongst the Companys tocallaboration between the Groups autonomous business units.
allowances senior executive team are consistent.
Long-term incentives are provided to the most senior executives Bonuses are not included in calculating The annual bonus may include a mix of financial and non-financial and those anticipated as having the greatest potential to influence retirement benefits measures reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial performance levels within the Company.
A lower aggregate incentive The value of benefits N A Other Provides a Benefits include provision of a fully metrics currently include two of the Companys KPIs: free cash quantum operates at below executive level with levels driven by the benefits competitive expensed car or car allowance, private is based on the cost flow, which is a key measure of the businesss ability to fund future impact of the role and market comparatives.
to the Company and package of benefits medical insurance, life insurance and acquisitions: and Adjusted EPS, which will reflect the Groups ability that assists with income protection, tax equalisation and is not predetermined In 2017, the Board adopted a new share plan, the Restricted Share toexpand into new regions and product markets and increase the There is no monetary recruitment and relocation benefits Award Plan, a deferred share award plan without performance profitability of the existing operations.
From 2018, Adjusted EPS will be retention Any reasonable business-related cap on other benefits conditions.
Awards under this Plan are made to selected individuals measured on a constant currency basis to reduce the impact of expenses including tax thereon can be who were not in receipt of other long-term incentives but are exchange rate movements on bonus outcomes.
If non-financial reimbursed considered to have significant potential or are key contributors.
measures are selected, these may include reference to the Groups environmental, safety and organisational goals.
In order to encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company operates a Sharesave Plan in which employees in the UK, North America and continental Europe, including executive Directors, may participate.
56 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED HOW EMPLOYEES PAY IS TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT WHEN SETTING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR DEPARTURE FROM OFFICE The Committee also reviews the salaries of corporate, divisional and senior operational managers and therefore is fully cognisant of pay levels in On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing executive Directors duty to mitigate the Group when determining the pay of the executive Directors.
his or her loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive Directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company, taking into account the interests of shareholders: In addition, the Committees policy is that salary increases for the executive Directors and senior executives should not normally be greater than the general level of increases awarded to other senior managers in Europe and North America, other than when an executive changes role or Component Voluntary resignation Death, ill health, disability, retirement Departure on when it is necessary in order to ensure levels of remuneration remain market competitive.
Increases for the general workforce in Europe and of pay or termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms NorthAmerica for 2018 were approximately 3.7% 2017 approximately 3.4%.
Base salary, Paid for the proportion of Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken pension and the notice period worked holidays prorated to such date.
In the case of ill health, a payment in The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy set out in this part of the Remuneration Report.
benefits lieu of notice may be made and, according to circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such circumstances, some benefits such as POLICY ON OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of The Remuneration Committee believes that it is beneficial both for the individual and the Company for an executive Director to take up one the notice period external non-executive appointment.
Fees paid for the appointment may be retained by the executive.
Annual bonus Cessation of Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the year-end cash employment during a but prior to the normal bonus payment date will result in cash and EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS Treatment will normally bonus year will normally deferred bonus being paid and prorated for the relevant portion of The table below summarises the key provisions of each executive Directors contract: fall between the two result in no cash bonus the financial year worked and performance achieved treatments described in Provision Detailed terms being paid the previous columns, Employment contract dates David Squires 5 January 2015 Annual bonus Unvested deferred In the case of the death of an executive Director, all deferred shares subject to the discretion Bindi Foyle 3 May 2017 deferred share awards will lapse will be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death.
of the Committee shares In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the executive Director and the terms of any unvested deferred shares will be transferred to the individual Termination payment Contracts may be terminated without notice by the payment of a sum equal to the sum of salary due for termination agreement on a date determined by the Committee the unexpired notice period, and the value of pension contributions and other benefits such as use of LTIP share Unvested LTIP share Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested LTIP share awards company car, life cover and private healthcare awards awards will lapse will remain subject to the relevant performance conditions and normally There are no provisions in the agreements, or otherwise, for additional termination payments be measured at the original vesting date.
The awards will normally Payments may be made in monthly instalments and, in these circumstances, there is a requirement be prorated for the relevant proportion of the performance period for the Director to mitigate loss worked.
However, in the case of the death of an executive Director, Change of control There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12months of the date of death Copies of the executive Directors service contracts are available from the Group Company Secretary at the Companys Registered Office during Options under As per HMRC As per HMRC regulations normal business hours.
The Committees policy in the event of early termination of employment is set out on the following page.
Sharesave regulations Other None Statutory payments and disbursements such as any legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company e. g. for unfair dismissal etc that might arise on termination.
b There are no enhanced provisions in relation to a change of control.
HOW SHAREHOLDER VIEWS ARE TAKEN INTO DISCRETIONS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACCOUNT The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the receivedin relation to the AGM each year and guidance from Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include shareholder representative bodies more generally.
Shareholders the following: wereconsulted in 2013 when formulating the Remuneration Policy, andin 2016 and 2017 when updating the Policy.
Consultation with selecting the participants for the annual bonus plan and LTIP awards: shareholders was constructive and did not result in any significant determining the timing of grants and or payments: changes being made to the Remuneration Policy.
determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits The Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders set out in the policy table commencing on page 55 : and intends to continue working closely with shareholders in future.
adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment For the avoidance of doubt, having received shareholder approval of performance: atthe2014 AGM of this Policy Report, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the former Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding case of the LTIP and deferred shares: oflegacy share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders determining the extent of vesting in the case of the LTIP in the event inprevious remuneration reports.
of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : and undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year.
58 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Committee may vary the performance conditions to apply to LTIP From 2018, the Committee proposes that it be explicitly be provided SUMMARY OF THE COMMITTEES TERMS OTHER ATTENDEES AT REMUNERATION awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that with the discretion to adjust bonus target outcomes if deemed OF REFERENCE COMMITTEE MEETINGS it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided appropriate, for example to take account of material M&A activity or The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, available The Group Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend meetings the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable other exceptional circumstances when they arise.
in full on the Companys website, are summarised below: by invitation and the Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would the Committee but no executive Director or other employee is present have been but for the event in question.
determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy during discussions relating to his or her own remuneration.
for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the executive Directors and other members of the executive management as POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ADVISERS it is designated to consider: Purpose and link Performance Before recommending proposals for Board approval, the Remuneration Element to strategy Operation Maximum assessment within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Committee may seek advice from external remuneration consultants Non-executive Takes account of The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities Other than when N A Chairman and or Group Chief Executive, as appropriate, determine to ensure that it is fully aware of comparative external remuneration Directors and recognised practice asdetermined by the Remuneration Committee.
The anon-executive the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, each practice as well as shareholder, legislative and regulatory developments.
Chairman fees and set at a level that non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
The Senior Director changes executive Director, and other designated senior executives including The Committee also considers publicly available sources of information is sufficient to attract Independent Director and the Chairs of the Audit and role or where bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other share awards: relating to executive remuneration.
and retain high calibre Remuneration Committees receive additional fees to reflect benchmarking approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performanceAll advisers to the Remuneration Committee are appointed and non-executive their extra responsibilities indicates fees related pay plans operated by the Company and approve the total instructed by the Committee.
During the year, the Committee was Directors When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market require annual payments made under such plans: advised by New Bridge Street part of Aon plc in relation to producing movements in non-executive Director fees, Board realignment, fee the Restricted Share Award Plan rules and ad hoc remuneration matters, Committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments and increases will not review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board Slaughter and May in relation to advice on salary sacrifice and employee the general economic environment normally exceed and shareholders.
For any such plans, determine each year whether benefits, and by Korn Ferry in relation to the revision of the Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from the general level of awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such awards, Remuneration Policy.
During 2017, the Company incurred fees of 1 January increases for the the individual awards to executive Directors, and other designated 13,004 from New Bridge Street, of 16,500 from Korn Ferry and The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not participate Groups employees senior executives and the performance targets to be used: of4,560 from Slaughter and May, and these costs were based on in any pension, bonus, share incentive or other share option determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for acombination of hourly rates and fixed fees for specific items of work.
plans each executive Director and other designated senior executives: New Bridge Street and Slaughter and May have no other connection The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is with theCompany.
In addition to Korn Ferrys work on the revision of determined by the Board of Directors.
The non-executive ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments the Remuneration Policy, it assisted the Company in the recruitment of Directors do not participate in any discussion or decisions made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not Chairman-designate.
In addition to Slaughter and Mays advice to the relating to their own remuneration rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is recognised: and Remuneration Committee, it provided advice to the Company on the Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures Groups financing arrangements.
thereon can be reimbursed throughout the Group.
The Committee does not have a formal policy of subjecting its remuneration consultants to a regular fixed-term rotation, although the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT MEMBERS Committee remains cognisant of the need to achieve objective advice The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive and good value whilst also benefiting from the consultants knowledge expected, are recorded in letters of appointment.
The Chairmans appointment may be terminated on providing 12 months notice by either party.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has The appointments of the other non-executive Directors may be terminated by the Company or non-executive Director on providing one months received during 2017 has been objective and independent.
Number of Number of notice.
Copies of the Chairmans and non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available from the Company Secretary at the Companys meetings meetings Registered Office during normal business hours.
Member during term attended 1 Celia Baxter Chair 4 4 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF APPOINTMENT 1 Charles Berry 4 3 Date Expected Susan Brennan 4 4 Date original current term expiry date of Giles Kerr 4 4 Name term commenced commenced current term 2 Ian King 4 1 Charles Berry Chairman Joined the Board March 2012 and became Chairman in April 2012 Mark Vernon 4 4 Celia Baxter September 2013 September 2016 September 2019 1 The full Committee met four times in 2017.
In addition, authority was delegated 1 Susan Brennan January 2016 December 2021 totwo members of the Committee, Celia Baxter and Charles Berry, to hold four additional meetings to confirm the grant and vesting of share awards.
Giles Kerr September 2013 September 2016 September 2019 2 Ian King joined the Committee upon appointment to the Board on 13 November Ian King Joined the Board November 2017 and will become Chairman in April 2018 2017.
He attended the only Committee meeting that was held in 2017 following 1 Mark Vernon April 2011 April 2018 April 2019 hisappointment.
1 The first three-year term of appointment of Susan Brennan expires in December 2018.
In February 2018, the Nominations Committee agreed to extend her appointment forafurther three-year term, expiring in December 2021.
2 The second three-year term of appointment of Mark Vernon expired in April 2017.
In February 2017, his appointment was extended for another 12 months, expiring in April2018.
In February 2018, the Nominations Committee agreed to extend his appointment for a further 12 months, expiring in April 2019.
60 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND MATTERS ADDRESSED DURING 2017 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION The Committee has a calendar of standard items within its remit and in addition it held in-depth discussions on specific topics during the year.
The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2017 financial year for each executive The Committee typically meets three times each year, or more as required.
The full Committee met four times in 2017.
In addition, authority was Director, together with comparative figures for 2016.
Aggregate Directors emoluments are shown at the end of the Single Total Figure of delegated to two members of the Committee, Celia Baxter and Charles Berry, to hold four additional meetings to confirm the grant and vesting Remuneration section.
The table below shows the standard items considered at each meeting, leading up to the meeting in February where the key Pension benefits decisions regarding performance, outcomes and grants for the coming year are determined.
Salaries Taxable including and benefits and Long-term cash in lieu of Standard agenda items Ad hoc items 4 5 6 7 8 fees allowances Bonus incentives pension Other Total February Review of performance and outcomes under the 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s AnnualBonus and Deferred Bonus Award.
David Squires 483 475 26 22 400 155 0 0 97 95 3 43 1,009 790 2 Bindi Foyle 214 13 178 0 43 0 448 Determine incentive structure for the next financial year 3 including finalisation of targets.
Non-executives Confirmation of LTIP, Deferred Bonus Awards and Restricted Charles Berry Share Awards.
Chairman 155 155 1 1 156 156 April Adoption of Restricted Share Award Plan.
Celia Baxter 52 52 52 52 Review of Remuneration Policy.
Susan Brennan 43 43 1 1 44 44 Determine Group Finance Director Remuneration Giles Kerr 52 52 52 52 package.
9 Ian King 6 6 May Grant of Sharesave award.
Grant of LTIP award following appointment Mark Vernon 50 48 1 50 49 of new Group Finance Director Total remuneration 358 350 2 3 360 353 August Grant of LTIP awards 1 September Review of Remuneration Policy David Squires salary was increased from 475,000 p. a. to 490,000 p. a. with effect from 1 July 2017.
2 Bindi Foyles figures reflect her being appointed to the Board on 3 May 2017. Review of CEO salary 3 Derek Hardings 2017 figures reflect him resigning from the Board on 30 June 2017.
December Review and approval of Directors and senior managers Review Remuneration Policy and shareholder 4 Taxable benefits include the provision of a fully expensed company car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
5 salary and total remuneration packages for the following consultation.
Awards under the deferred bonus award, the Enhanced SMIS, in respect of 2017 performance will be granted in March 2018.
The deferred bonus element that is to be granted in the form of shares to David Squires and Bindi Foyle in March 2018 is included in the Bonus figure and will be equivalent in value to 27.7% of 2017 base salary, financial year.
Performance update on outstanding incentive and 6 The performance conditions attached to David Squires and Bindi Foyles 2015 LTIP Awards were not achieved and no shares will vest under this award in March 2018. bonus awards.
Further details on the performance conditions can be found on page 65.
7 David Squires received a re-location allowance of 43,375 in 2016 and 2,507 in 2017.
Determine remuneration of Chairman and Chairman- 8 The aggregate amount of remuneration paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of qualifying services as per paragraph 9 of SI 2008 40 Schedule 5 was 1,847,404. designate.
9 Ian King was appointed to the Board on 13 November 2017.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING At last years AGM, held on 21 April 2017, votes on the Directors Remuneration Report were cast as follows: Reason for vote against, Action taken 1 Voting For Against Total Withheld if known by Committee Remuneration Report Votes 316,783,191 20,893,739 337,491,578 1,391,446 N A N A % 93.81% 6.19% 100.0% N A 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
62 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 63
