20 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Delivering for stakeholders The number of customers in our insurance lines was lower than in 2016 as we focused on offering higher quality products at Customers lower volumes and the brand continued to support retention of loyal customers at renewal: The proportion of new product sales made to existing We delivered further significant customers increased to 12.2 per cent, from 10.7 per cent improvements in customer advocacy in in 2016: and 2017.
More customers than ever before As a result of improving the Virgin Money Giving VMG customer journey we now have 1.4 million registered users would recommend Virgin Money to ofour not-for-profit online donation service.
their friends and family, with oNet P ur ov re omot rall er Score NPS Net Promoter Score NPS Net Promoter Score NPS increasing to Overall customer NPS improved to 40, up from 29 at 2016.
40 in 2017 2017 40 Aim We provide our customers with good value products, 2016 29 supported by outstanding service, with the aim of driving 2015 19 stronger customer relationships, deeper product engagement and increased cross-product holdings.
Customer achievements 2017 Increased our customer base to We delivered 8.2 per cent growth in mortgage customer 3.34 million numbers during the year, to more than 350,000.
Supported by investment in our digital capability, we improved retention at 30.80 24.64 18.48 12.32 6.16 0.00 maturity to 72 per cent, from 68 per cent in 2016.
Increased total registered VMG users to We now have 1.2 million customers in our credit card business following another year of strong growth.
Customer 1.4 million engagement increased as we improved our online service for mobile usage and we now regularly have more than one million visits per month to our online servicing platform.
Virgin Money Back, our customer cashback platform, supported an 8per cent increase in average retail spend per active account: We continue to offer our 1.3 million savings customers both good value and sustainable savings rates in the context of the market.
This approach continues to deliver improvements to our average cost of retail funds whilst supporting strong retention levels.
Average savings accounts per customer increased to 1.3, average balances per customer rose to around 24,000, and retention levels on fixed rate maturities remained strong at 89 per cent: Our investment and pensions customers continued to demonstrate brand loyalty and engagement.
While customer numbers were stable year-on-year, we achieved a 13 per cent increase in the number of active investment customers: Virgin Money Lounge, Edinburgh Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 21 I Customer priorities for 2018 Supported by our national Store We will: footprint and contact centres, our Build on our high levels of mortgage retention and continue digital channels continued to be to focus on prime segments of the mortgage market.
This will include support for first time buyers and custom build a significant factor in growing the mortgages.
We also expect to enter the specialist buy-to-let business cost effectively.
portfolio landlord market during 2018: Launch our Virgin Atlantic Airways retail financial services partnership.
The partnership will offer propositions to a Digital engagement in core products significant number of customers who are already heavily Our digital channels continued to be a significant factor in engaged with the Virgin brand: growing the business cost efficiently in 2017.
Our website Strengthen the relationship with our savers through good remains the most popular channel, with over 28 million value products and pricing that rewards customer loyalty: website visits, up from 22 million in 2016.
78 per cent of sales were delivered digitally during the year and the use of mobile Leverage the strength of the Virgin brand as we broaden our devices to access products and services increased to 52 per SME savings range in 2018: cent of all our digital interactions, up from 50 per cent in 2016.
Build significant potential for growth and value through developing our investment and pensions business: Our aim is to offer our customers access to our products and services using the device of their choice.
We will continue to Build deeper relationships with our VMG customer base by improve our digital capability and customer journeys across looking to meet their financial needs beyond charitable current platforms and we are focused on meeting the needs of donations: our customers in a rapidly evolving digital landscape.
Launch an initial beta model of our digital bank this year, in We continue to attract a younger, more affluent and advance of full launch in 2019: and digitally active customer base and our new digital bank will Continue to recognise issues relating to accessibility, financial make it simpler, faster and more convenient to meet their inclusion and responsible lending.
28 million 78% 52% website visits of our sales are use their mobile through digital to access channels products and services Stores and Lounges We continue to value face-to-face interactions with our customers.
Alongside our network of 74 Stores, we aim to offer our customers a differentiated banking experience with access to our exclusive customer Lounges.
Our seven Lounges continue to deliver strong customer satisfaction with an NPS of 87 and Stores co-located with a Lounge broadly outperform the overall network based on sales performance.
As a result of this success we plan to open our eighth Lounge in Cardiff in 2018.
22 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Delivering for stakeholders We were accredited as a Best Employer for Race by Business in the Community.
Colleagues Colleague diversity data We believe a diverse workforce will drive better business outcomes and create a workplace that is engaging, Virgin Moneys success is built firmly on inclusive and accessible.
We saw increased minority the commitment, skill and attitudes of representation across all groups in 2017.
The table below details our colleague diversity and the progress made in 2017. all our people and our shared purpose 2017 2016 of being a better bank which makes Gender everyone better off.
Board members Female 4 40% 3 37% Male 6 60 % 5 63% Aim Senior managers Female 42 29% 31 21% Our colleagues are integral to our success: it is through their excluding CEO engagement and advocacy that we are able to deliver strong Male 105 71% 114 79% and sustainable business performance.
We aim to provide Colleagues Female 1,854 56% 1,758 56% an environment which nurtures a high performing, diverse and committed workforce where colleagues can reach their Male 1,436 44% 1,381 44% full potential.
Percentage of colleagues who identify as LGBT Colleague achievements 2017 LGBT 3.5% 3.2% Investing in colleague development Percentage of colleagues from an ethnic minority We launched a digital degree-level apprenticeship as part of a wider programme to extend our use of apprenticeships: Ethnicity 4.9% 4.4% Percentage of colleagues who disclose they have a disability We gave colleagues access to our online learning materials through their mobile devices: and Disability 4.1% 3.0% We launched two new development programmes targeting Colleagues aged 50 or more colleagues at different stages of their careers, complementing Multigenerational 568 546 our award-winning Future Business Leaders programme.
Note: The LGBT, ethnicity and disability data is derived from the annual colleague survey, Building colleague engagement for which the 2017 response rate was 89 per cent of permanent colleagues.
Colleague engagement remains strong at 76 per cent: The appointment of Irene Dorner as Chair from April will result in a 50:50 gender balanced Board in 2018.
We launched our new internal mentoring programme, including maternity and diversity related mentoring: and Gender Pay Gap We launched an Aspiring Managers programme, to prepare Virgin Money welcomes the UK government initiative to future people managers ahead of promotion.
improve equality through collecting and reporting gender pay data.
Our mean gender pay gap reduced by 10 per cent, to Creating a diverse workforce 32.5 per cent during 2017.
We signed the Time to Change pledge, aimed at making At Virgin Money men and women are paid equally for doing Virgin Money a better place to work for colleagues who have a the same or similar jobs.
The Virgin Money gender pay gap is mental health disability and we achieved the highest 3rd tier caused by under-representation of women in senior roles and Disability Confident accreditation: under-representation of men in customer service positions.
We signed the Business in the Community pledge to increase The under-representation of women in senior roles accounts by 12 per cent the number of older people defined as over 50 for approximately one-third of the gender pay gap.
years we employ by 2022: The under-representation of men in customer service We were ranked 95th in Stonewalls Top 100 companies positions accounts for approximately 50 per cent of our workplace index for LGBT inclusivity, advancing 244 places gender pay gap.
within a year, reflecting our commitment to being an LGBT friendly employer: and Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 23 I It remains a priority to achieve gender balance throughout the obtaining interim feedback more regularly to enable company, achieving 50:50 balance by the end of 2020 within us to action new priorities quickly.
As we make further progress towards Creating a diverse workforce a 50:50 balance, our gender pay gap will continue to reduce.
Business decision making and colleague engagement will Details of our gender pay gap can be found on our website.
be enhanced by providing an inclusive environment.
Our diversity and inclusion activity will continue to be Colleague priorities for 2018 overseen by the People Director, with executive sponsors Investing in colleague development for each minority group.
We will continue our investment in colleague In 2017 we improved representation across all minority groups development through: see table on page 22.
To maintain this progress expanding our new coaching skills programme to provide in 2018, we will: tailored development for colleagues: continue to promote Virgin Money as an inclusive employer, launching an online tool kit to enable personalised career setting targets and deploying recruitment strategies to drive a planning: and greater diversity of candidate interest in roles: expanding our development programme for maternity extend our support to enabling flexible working, including the returners following a successful pilot scheme in 2017. use of technology to improve working from home: and Building colleague commitment drive greater diversity and inclusion with our corporate We will continue to seek increasing levels of engagement partners, including launching The Accelerator with the British from all colleagues through: Black Business Awards to enable greater progression of ethnic promoting our enhanced pay approach to shared minority managers.
parental leave: Initiatives relating to gender equality are covered in the enabling colleagues to make a difference through the Women in Finance update on page 14. roll out of our work experience programme: and Virgin Money Red Hot Awards 2017 24 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Corporate Partners We work with a number of corporate partners to provide mortgages, investments, insurance and currency services to our customers.
Intermediary partnerships remain a key part of our strategy.
Improvements to our award-winning intermediary proposition in 2017 led to new highs in our intermediary NPS, which increased to 61 from 55 in 2016.
We also operate strategic partnerships with established providers to provide a broader range of financial services products.
Corporate Partner achievements 2017 Corporate Partner priorities 2018 Won the Best Lender for Partnership with Mortgage Club Maintain outstanding levels of service to our network at the L&G Mortgage Club annual awards for the third year of professional mortgage intermediary partners in an running: increasingly competitive mortgage market: Awarded Five Stars in the Mortgage category at the Financial Launch our new strategic partnership with Virgin Atlantic Adviser Service Awards: Airways.
The first products will be launched in the first half of 2018: and Recognised as the Best Mortgage Lender at the Mortgage Strategy awards: and Build on the strength and success of our partnership with Manchester United Football Club.
Partnered with BGL Group to relaunch our Life Insurance proposition.
Mortgage balance growth to 33.7 billion up 13% in 2017 Working with Virgin Money to launch their new 2017 2016 2015 life insurance product is a natural partnering of two innovative brands which both put the Intermediary Net Promoter Score 61 55 40 customer at the very heart of the proposition.
Mortgages Balances bn 33.7 29.7 25.5 Peter Thompson, Group Director, BGL We're pleased to be partnering with Virgin Money on their Custom Build proposition.
Together with our intermediary partners we'll give customers real choice and put them in control of designing and building their dream home.
Rachel Pyne, Operations Director, BuildLoan Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 25 I Human Rights and Modern Slavery statement Virgin Money has zero tolerance of slavery, servitude, forced labour and human trafficking Modern Slavery.
We are committed to conducting business with honesty and integrity and treating everyone with dignity and respect.
Aimed at further reducing the risk of slavery within our supply chain, we have focused on deepening our understanding of the risks involved and delivered training to key areas of the business.
This has driven further review and improvements to our sourcing and procurement processes.
We will continue to measure the effectiveness of our approach and improve the mapping of our supply chain to identify areas of risk.
The policy applies to both Virgin Money colleagues and the employees of our partners and suppliers.
New suppliers are required to sign a Code of Conduct stating our minimum expectations of human rights standards and labour conditions with which providers are expected to treat employees.
To read our Modern Slavery statement in full please visit virginmoney.
Anti-Bribery statement We have a comprehensive Anti-Bribery policy in place which complies with laws and regulations wherever we operate, and applies to all directors, colleagues, and anyone else acting on our behalf.
All colleagues, including contractors, complete annual anti-bribery training and are encouraged to report confidentially any instances of suspected bribery.
When we engage in business relationships with third parties, we make sure they have the necessary skills and experience to provide the services we pay them for.
All our business partners have to be reputable, reliable and charge a fair market price for their services.
We expect all our existing and potential business partners to have the same ethical standards as Virgin Money.
They must comply with the UK Bribery Act and be able to meet our due diligence requirements.
To read our Anti-Bribery statement in full please visit virginmoney.
26 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Community We are committed to supporting the communities in which we work to help them flourish, both socially and economically.
Our work covers four key areas fundraising: investing in education: employability and enterprise: and supporting colleague engagement in their local communities.
Community achievements 2017 Community priorities 2018 95 million was donated to charities through Virgin Money Continue to invest in Virgin Money Giving to help charities and Giving, our not-for-profit online donation service: fundraisers raise more for good causes in the UK: Runners in the 2017 Virgin Money London Marathon raised Support our Charity of the Year for 2017 2018 and the official 62 million for charity, setting a new world record for an charity of the 2018 Virgin Money London Marathon, Teenage annual, single day charity fundraising event for the eleventh Cancer Trust: successive year: Extend the reach of The Virgin Money Foundation beyond the Our Charity of the Year for 2016 2017 and the official charity North East of England, and launch the Heart of the Community of the 2017 Virgin Money London Marathon was Heads Fund through Virgin Money Lounges: Together.
As well as changing the conversation on mental Continue to invest in a range of programmes which support health, they raised 1.94 million through the partnership young people in developing financial, entrepreneurial and with Virgin Money, including 250,000 raised by colleagues: employability skills: and The Virgin Money Foundation awarded grants of nearly Support colleagues engaging in national and local community 3million in 2017 to organisations working in areas including projects and use their business skills to help young people and housing, employability, youth social action and financial young businesses flourish.
inclusion: Our support for the LifeSavers financial education programme has helped over 14,000 young people learn more about money, and our Make 5 Grow programme gave over 24,000 young people the experience of starting a small business: Our Strive to Thrive programme has helped 600 young people aged 14 to 19 increase their chances of finding employment through improving their confidence and self-awareness and giving them employability and life skills: and Colleagues volunteered 1,555 days to support community activities.
More than 600 million raised through Virgin Money Giving, since launch in October 2009 Make 5 Grow Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 27 I Jazmin Sawyers, GBR Olympic Athlete, congratulates the medalists of the Mini Marathon.
Photo: Virgin Money London Marathon 28 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Managing and reducing environmental impacts We are committed to taking positive action to eliminate the impact our activities have on the broader environment and continue to target Net Zero Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions by 2030.
Environment achievements 2017 Environment priorities 2018 Secured 100% renewable energy for electricity contracts Improve our property efficiency by investing in ways to reduce within our control: our energy and water usage and the way we dispose of waste: Increased awareness of environmental initiatives across the Build colleague awareness and engagement on the measures Company, including the provision of new tools such as that they can take to support and contribute to our Skype for business which reduces the need for corporate sustainability agenda: travel: Build upon the insight we gained from the CDP submission Completed our first Carbon Disclosure Project CDP by analysing and interpreting our emissions data to ensure submission and worked with industry experts to identify we optimise energy usage: and how environmental issues relate to our business: and Further review our policies and procedures with a focus on Incorporated environmental assessments into our reducing the environmental impact of our corporate travel procurement process to ensure suppliers understand the part and the goods and services we buy.
they can play in reducing their impact on the environment.
Managing our emissions Emissions The Group is required to report on GHG emissions under the The data gathering process for figures within our Scope 1 Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report and 2 reporting is continuous and calculated using the most Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The Group follows the accurate information available at the time.
If more accurate principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and the data becomes available or updated CO e emission factors are 2 Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA applied, this may lead to a restatement of data.
Voluntary Reporting 2012 Guidelines the Guidelines to GHG emissions CO e tonnes 2 calculate its emissions in Scope 1, 2 and 3.
We have reported comprehensive data on GHG emissions within Scope 1 and 2, Scope 2017 2016 and business travel within Scope 3, since 2014.
Scope 1 1,741.2 1,753.8 Scope for disclosure Reported Scope 1 emissions: cover emissions generated from Scope 2 4,619.2 4,933.0 the gas and oil used in all buildings from which the Group operates: emissions generated from Group-owned vehicles Scope 3 1,027.2 998.8 used for business travel: and fugitive emissions arising from the use of air-conditioning and chiller refrigerant equipment to service the Groups property portfolio: Total 7,387.6 7,685.6 Reported Scope 2 emissions: cover emissions generated from the use of electricity in all buildings from which the Group operates: and Reported Scope 3 emissions: relate to business travel undertaken by all colleagues using rail, private vehicles, hired vehicles, contracted taxi services and air travel.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 29 I Intensity ratio We have chosen to use an intensity ratio of GHG per Full Time Equivalent FTE.
FTE is straightforward to calculate and verify and also normalises consumption in a growing business.
We are encouraged by the reduction in this ratio in 2017.
Scope 2017 2016 GHG emissions 2.50 tCO e 2.66 tCO e 2 2 per average FTE Independent assurance Although not required by the Regulations, we appointed  LLP PwC in 2017 to undertake a limited assurance engagement using the ISAE 3410 assurance standard over the Scope 1 and 2 GHG data highlighted in this report with a.
Their assurance report is available on virginmoney.
Use of resources The table below shows actual consumption in 2017 compared with 2016.
2017 2016 Stated in Gwh 21.8 19.6 Energy % from renewable sources 58% 56% Travel Total miles travelled 5.8m 5.7m Tonnes produced 508.2 567.6 Waste % sent to landfill 2% 2% Water Cubic metres per FTE 10.8 12.7 Energy % renewable energy use stated for office, Store and Lounge locations.
Travel includes all air, rail, taxi and public transport processed through either our corporate travel provider or claimed through personal expenses.
Waste includes trade and secure waste for offices, Stores and Lounges.
Water consumption is for metered sites only.
1 The level of assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than a reasonable assurance agreement.
A summary of the work PwC performed is included within their assurance opinion.
Non-financial performance information, GHG quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent limitations than financial information.
It is important to read the data in the context of PwCs full statement and Virgin Moneys reporting guidelines available at virginmoney.
