Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities Our stakeholders Our stakeholders To drive commerce and prosperity across our footprint, we need to Regulators take a long-term view.
Listening Clients and governments and responding to stakeholder issues or concerns is critical to How we serve and engage How we serve and engage achieving this.
We strive to maintain We enable individuals to grow and protect We engage with relevant authorities to open and constructive relationships their wealth.
We help businesses to trade, play our part in supporting the effective with a wide range of stakeholders transact, invest and expand.
We also help functioning of the financial system and the a variety of financial institutions including broader economy to help us operate as a responsible banks, public sector and development and sustainable business organisations with their banking needs We engage in regular dialogue with stakeholders, and track and assess longand short-term issues based on their impact on our business and level of stakeholder concern.
Stakeholder feedback is shared with the senior leaders within the Our strategy is dependent on our ability to We are committed to complying with all Group and progress is communicated develop deep, long-term relationships with legislation, rules and other regulatory annually through channels such as this our clients.
We aim to deliver fair outcomes requirements applicable to our businesses report.
This helps inform our business for clients by designing products and and operations in the jurisdictions within strategy and build sound relationships in delivering services that meet their needs which we operate.
Our compliance with the markets where we operate.
and are appropriate to their circumstances.
legal and regulatory frameworks across Where issues arise, we aim to deal with our markets ensures that the Group meets complaints in a fast, fair and ef cient way.
In turn, this supports the We have sector-speci c procedures resilience and effective functioning of the and processes in place to handle client Group and the broader financial system complaints in each business segment.
On a day-to-day basis, our Compliance and Public Affairs functions Engagement with clients in 2016, through are responsible for identifying changes to surveys, client experience forums and financial services regulation, ensuring that third-party studies, identi ed a need to COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT we comply with all requirements, and help simplify our processes.
As a result, in 2017, to manage relationships.
we improved the customer experience Empowering girls across our businesses through continued We actively engage with governments, investment in technology innovation and regulators and policymakers at a global, and young women streamlined processes.
Client feedback regional and national level to share insights More than 130 delegates from the on this indicates we are moving in the and technical expertise on key policy issues.
public, private and not-for-pro t sectors right direction.
This engagement supports the development attended our first Beyond Girls of best practice and the adoption of For more information about our clients, read the Education Summit in South Africa consistent approaches across our markets.
Client segment reviews on pages 18 to 21 in 2017.
The event provided insights We comply with all relevant transparency from advocacy, technology and requirements and engage with governments education programmes including Goal, and regulators in many ways, including our programme to empower girls through ongoing dialogue, submission of through sports and life-skills training, responses to formal consultations and and generated 45 new commitments by joining and participating in industry to help young women move from working groups.
In 2017, we engaged with policymakers at all levels to exchange information on topics such as prudential rules, Brexit and trade promotion, Fintech, cyber security and ghting financial crime.
Standard Chartered 36 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Investors Colleagues employee networks and three How we serve and engage How we serve and engage Global Networks Women, Disability and We aim to deliver robust returns and We offer colleagues opportunities to learn LGBT & Allies.
These networks raise long-term sustainable value for our investors and progress.
We encourage them to awareness and offer professional improve and innovate, to take ownership development, mentoring, networking of their careers and succeed together and connections to our communities.
In 2017, the Board Remuneration Committee agreed a Fair Pay Charter, which sets out the principles that guide all of our reward and performance decision making.
One of these principles is our ongoing commitment to rewarding colleagues in a way that is free from The Group receives capital from equity and The strength of our diversity discrimination on the basis of diversity, debt investors.
This supports the execution With more than 86,000 colleagues in 63 including gender.
Full details of our Fair of our business model.
Our investor base markets, we are proud to represent the broad Pay Charter are set out on page 84 in includes active traders and long-term range of cultures across the communities we the Directors remuneration report.
stakeholders, those interested solely in serve.
Harnessing the inherent diversity of financial returns and those who are also thoughts, views and experiences across the Gender pay gap concerned with environmental and social Group is critical to our business success We have analysed our gender pay gap for issues.
As such, we engage with investors and fundamental to our purpose.
We are the UK and for four of our major markets.
about all aspects of our financial, committed to creating a work environment The gender pay gap compares the average environmental and social performance.
that enables our colleagues diverse strengths pay of men and women, without taking into Whatever the nature of the investor, we to impact our clients and communities.
account some of the key factors which treat them equally and aim to balance their in uence pay, including different roles, skills, Our vision is to create a culture of inclusion diverse interests and expectations.
seniority and market pay rates.
Our gender where talents and individuality are valued We communicate with investors in several pay gap is caused by the lower number and respected, and we are working hard to ways, including presenting scheduled results of women in senior roles and in business realise this.
Our global Diversity and Inclusion and via ad hoc media releases.
We also meet areas where market rates of pay both xed Council ensures we continue our collective investors at the Annual General Meeting and and variable are highest.
focus on creating an organisation where at investor meetings and conferences, while everyone feels supported and empowered.
When adjusting the hourly pay gap for men our inclusion in sustainability indices, such and women carrying out roles at the same In 2017, we introduced a standard exible as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and level in the same business area across working practice to ensure all colleagues the FTSE4Good, provides investors with the same markets, the gender pay gap have the opportunity to choose how they independent benchmarking data on our is signi cantly smaller ranging from no work, whether that is part-time, exible time, performance in these areas.
discernible gap to three per cent.
During 2017, acting on investor feedback Equal pay is a more detailed measure of We increased the bene ts we offer new for more access to the people running our pay equality than the gender pay gap.
parents globally, fully paid maternity leave businesses, we hosted two investor seminars We also analyse equal pay as part of the from a minimum of 40 days to a minimum of at our London of ce.
These seminars annual performance and pay review 20 weeks, and increasing fully paid parental presented an opportunity to understand process globally.
leave for the spouse or partner increasing better the strategy for our largest geographic from a minimum of two days to two weeks.
Download our gender pay gap report at region, Greater China & North Asia, and sc.
com genderpaygap We also support over 50country-based our largest client segment, Corporate & Institutional Banking, and to hear directly from the teams managing them.
For more information about Board engagement UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US with shareholders in 2017, see page 61 in the Corporate governance section Mean hourly pay gap 30% 33% 39% 31% 24% Mean bonus pay gap 57% 56% 55% 64% 53% UK Hong Kong Singapore UAE US Jobs at same level and business area 3% -1% 2% 0% 3% 37 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued Our stakeholders Colleagues continued The Group does not discriminate based on colleagues to determine the valued In 2018, as part of the commitments in our gender and we have made progress in behaviours that clearly set out how we Fair Pay Charter, we will be rolling out a new addressing the gender pay gap, but we are achieve these goals, and ultimately our bene ts platform which will empower our clear that we have more to do.
We have a purpose to drive commerce and prosperity colleagues to choose the bene ts which most range of actions in place.
In 2018, we will suit their needs.
This will accompany our fully embed these valued behaviours in how Wellbeing programme, which supports the We have signed the UK HM Treasury Women we select, on-board, recognise and reward physical, mental, social and financial health of in Finance Charter and are committed to people, beginning with integrating them into our colleagues.
We have a strong belief that if women occupying 30 per cent of our senior our performance management process.
we treat our colleagues well by looking after all leadership roles by 2020.
Since signing the aspects of their wellbeing, they will be happier Charter, we have seen an increase in female Our aim is to create a truly differentiated and more productive at work.
representation in our senior management working environment and we are committed from 25.5 per cent to 25.7 per cent during to measuring progress against this goal.
At Board level, 30.8 per cent of We aim to increase the engagement and members are women and our Management retention of our colleagues and mitigate Board Team is comprised of 42.9 per cent women.
against our key people risk of attrition.
Female Two of our four regions and five of our largest We have developed a culture dashboard 30.8% markets Hong Kong, Singapore, India, to track progress against these measures.
2016: 23.1% China and Nigeria are run by female CEOs.
Developing colleagues Alongside improving our exible working We continue to focus on the development, practices and parental leave, we have built engagement and wellbeing of our colleagues requirements into our policies and processes and we have maintained a strong focus on to ensure that managers are making objective talent and succession management.
and fair decisions, including gender balanced candidate lists for hiring.
We review promotion In 2017, we introduced a talent evaluation tool Management Team lists and succession plans to ensure we have which was completed for over 22,000 of our Female adequate diverse representation.
colleagues and used as an input to mid-year 42.9% performance and career conversations.
At We have also introduced training for 2016: 38.5% senior levels, we completed succession plans managers with the objective of minimising for 16 roles at Management Team level and unconscious bias.
Beyond gender, we are their direct reports, and development plans also committed to ensuring our colleagues are in place for all individuals appearing on are re ective of the communities we serve, these plans.
We successfully completed a including nationality, ethnicity, disability, regional talent development programme for generations and sexual orientation.
our Africa & Middle East region, which will act Senior management Bands 1-4 All our diversity and inclusion initiatives, as a blueprint for our development of country, Female including the management focus on region and global business talent pools.
increasing the number of women in senior 25.7% In 2018, our focus is on building line manager roles in line with our Women in Finance 2016: 25.5% capabilities and developing role-based Charter commitment, implementing exible learning curricula, as well as developing working practices globally, providing our assessment tools to hire more people leadership development and mentoring, internally, with an internal target of lling and extending our parental leave bene ts 70 per cent of Band 4 Grade 7 roles with will help us to improve our diversity in senior internal candidates.
management roles and across all our business areas.
Our efforts to increase the development All employees and career opportunities of our colleagues Female Transforming our culture are re ected in an improvement in our 45.8% In 2016, we began the process of employee Net Promoter Score, which is four 2016: 46.4% transforming our culture ensuring we percentage points higher year-on-year.
We become truly focused on our clients, more have also started to track satisfaction with innovative and ef cient in a sector undergoing development opportunities through our profound change, as well asbeing an engagement survey and realise there is employer of choice across our markets.
potential to make more improvements In 2017, we engaged with over 70,000 this year.
Standard Chartered 38 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Society opportunities associated with sustainable How we serve and engage Employee development are captured in our engagement KPI We strive to operate as a responsible and Aspirations.
They include targets to expand sustainable business, collaborating with digital and financial inclusion, support local partners to promote social and Employee Net Promoter Score infrastructure and clean technology economic development eNPS development, and support micro finance Aim Increase engagement across the Group institutions.
by creating a better working environment for our colleagues, that should translate into an Managing environmental improved client experience.
and socialrisks Our most signi cant environmental and social E&S impact comes from the 5.9% 146% businesses we finance.
We have E&S risk management procedures that guide how Responsible and sustainable we identify, assess and manage the risks 2016 2.4% business impacting our clients operations.
We apply 2017 5.9% This section outlines our response to sector-speci c standards, which draw on reporting requirements on environmental and the IFC Performance Standards, Equator social matters, human rights, and anti-bribery The proportion of participating colleagues that are Principles and global best practice, to the promoters would recommend the Group as a great and corruption.
We will continue to enhance financial services we provide to clients.
place to work compared to detractors our reporting on these issues over time.
These are set out in 17 sectoral and Analysis In 2017, the first year that the Group three thematic Position Statements Our sustainability priorities contributing introduced this measure, the eNPS was that are embedded through our core to sustainable economic growth, being 5.9 per cent, meaning that more participating banking processes.
colleagues would promote the Group than a responsible company and investing in would not.
communities provide a framework for how Mechanisms in our origination and credit we respond to the social and environmental processes enable us to identify and concerns of our stakeholders, and create assess environmental and social risks in Diversity and opportunities to improve livelihoods.
accordance with our Position Statements.
inclusion KPI In 2017, our dedicated Environmental and These are supported by 11 Sustainability Social Risk Management team reviewed Aspirations, which set out measurable Gender diversity in senior roles 487 transactions that presented potential actions to achieve sustainable outcomes.
Aim Improve gender diversity in the Groups speci c risks against our Position Aligned to the UN Sustainable Development top levels of management by supporting, Statements.
For all risks identi ed, we seek Goals, the Aspirations were launched in developing, promoting and retaining senior to develop effective mitigating measures.
2017 to help address environmental and women colleagues.
Where this is not possible, transactions social matters identi ed by stakeholders and have been, and will continue to be, colleagues in our key markets.
progress against the Aspirations in our separate Sustainability Summary.
25.7% 0.8% We work collaboratively with clients, other financial institutions, industry bodies, and Download our Sustainability Aspirations at civil society groups, to promote, develop 2016 25.5% sc.
com  and encourage leading E&S standards.
In 2017 25.7% 2017, we engaged with these stakeholders Contributing to sustainable primarily on palm oil and climate change.
economic growth This dialogue contributed to the update of The total number of women in the most senior band 1-4 roles expressed as a percentage of our Palm Oil Position Statement in 2017.
We use our core business of banking total band 1-4 roles to promote sustainable development in We continued to advance the commitments Analysis In 2016, we signed the UK HM our markets.
This means managing set out in 2016 in our Climate Change Treasury Women in Finance Charter and environmental and social risks associated Position Statement.
This includes work announced an overall target of having women with our lending, and nancing key sectors with the University of Oxford to develop occupy 30 per cent of our top four levels of that drive sustainable economic growth.
The and implement a framework for assessing 25.7 per cent result in 2017 was an improvement energy utilities clients power generation Our approach to managing environmental on 2016 and takes us closer to our target.
assets against a range of physical and and social risks is set out below.
Additional transition risks, under different climate information on how we finance the scenarios and time horizons.
39 Stakeholders and STRATEGIC REPORT responsibilities Stakeholders and responsibilities continued Our stakeholders Society continued Additionally, we welcomed the Our whistleblowing channels are available to In 2017, 99.3 per cent of colleagues recommendations by the Financial Stability anyone colleagues, contractors, suppliers completed ABC training and 99.2 per cent Boards Taskforce on Climate-related and members of the public to raise completed anti-money laundering training.
We joined a United concerns con dentially and anonymously.
For more, visit Nations Environment Programme for Following the re-launch of our Speaking Up sc.
com ghting nancialcrime Financial Institutions initiative to develop programme in late 2016, we have seen analytical tools and indicators to strengthen an increase in the number of concerns Respecting human rights assessment and disclosure of climateraised, which were investigated accordingly.
We are committed to respecting human related risks and opportunities.
In 2017, we also introduced Speaking Up rights and seek to ensure they are not Advocates in three pilot countries to help In 2017, we started a review of all our Position adversely impacted in our role as an raise awareness and ensure Speaking Up Statements, with updated and revised employer, financial services provider and is culturally relevant across our diverse statements due to be published during 2018. procurer of goods and services.
recognise that our footprint and supply chain Read our Position Statements at Download our Group Code of Conduct at sc.
com positionstatements give us the opportunity to raise awareness of sc.
com codeofconduct human rights and modern slavery in a wide range of markets and industries.
Being a responsible company Fighting financial crime Our Position Statement outlines our Being a responsible company is about how Financial crime hinders economic progress approach to human rights, re ecting we manage our business and promote the and harms communities.
We are committed international standards including the behaviours, values and principles that enable to building and maintaining robust defences International Bill of Human Rights, the UN us to make the right decisions.
to combat money-laundering, terrorist Guiding Principles, and the UK Modern nancing, sanctions compliance breaches, Good conduct management practices are Slavery Act.
This is then embedded across bribery, and other forms of corruption.
embedded across the Group through our a range of policies and risk management conduct management framework, which frameworks, including our Group Code of Our financial crime risk management sets out our approach to identifying, Conduct and Supplier Charter.
activities, which include adherence to controlling and governing conduct-related anti-money laundering and sanctions In 2017, we reviewed our exposure to risks.
The framework aims to ensure we policies and the application of core controls modern slavery risks via a cross-function have appropriate governance in place with such as client due-diligence screening and working group, and assessed how these a transparent business model, robust monitoring, are led by a dedicated Financial are addressed by our existing controls for infrastructure and exemplary business Crime Compliance FCC team.
Our colleagues, suppliers and clients.
This creates an environment that anti-bribery and corruption ABC policies Modern Slavery Statement details the supports ethical behaviour.
Governance aim to prevent colleagues, or third parties actions we are taking as a result.
These measures support leaders in hiring and working on our behalf, from participating in include updating contractual language to recognising colleagues with good conduct, active or passive bribery or corruption, or strengthen supplier obligations to address while performance objectives and reward from making facilitation payments.
modern slavery, and incorporating modern mechanisms for colleagues are directly slavery awareness into our Correspondent In 2017, we strengthened our ABC policies linked to behaviours and values.
Managing Banking Academy training programme.
around employing referred candidates, the business in this way helps us to achieve screening suppliers, third-party payments, Read our Supplier Charter at fair outcomes for clients, and to operate sc.
com suppliercharter and our 2017 Modern gifts and entertainment, sponsorship and effective markets.
com modernslavery donations, and risk management of Colleagues participate in mandatory training intermediaries.
We also extended training on the Group Code of Conduct and in 2017, for FCC country heads to equip them with 99.4 per cent recon rmed their commitment better knowledge, skills and tools to manage to the Code as part of our annual process.
and oversee ABC risk mitigation activities.
Failure to adhere to the Code can result in disciplinary action and potentially dismissal.
Employees who completed Colleagues who committed to the anti-money laundering Employees who completed Group Code of Conduct in 2017 training in 2017 anti-bribery training in 2017 99.4% 99.2% 99.3% Standard Chartered 40 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Managing our environmental footprint months.
We avoid sending non-recyclable ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE waste to land ll, instead composting it or We aim to minimise the environmental using it in energy generation, where possible.
Our major impact Managing our footprint comes from the resources we consume in Our of ce in Nairobi, Kenya, is trialling serving clients energy, water and paper Investing in communities a carbon-neutral biofuel for its on-site to allow our of ces and branches to function, We seek to promote sustainable economic diesel generators that is made from and as such we measure our energy, and social development in our communities.
the abundant, but inedible croton nut.
water, paper and non-hazardous waste Our programmes focus on health and It is one of several initiatives to boost performance.
In 2017, we invested $49.8 million the buildings environmental ef ciency: in the communities in which we operate.
We have targets against which we measure others include LED lights and solar All of our donations are guided by our and manage our greenhouse gas emissions, photo-voltaic panels to offset power Sponsorship and Donations Policy.
and reduction targets for water and energy usage, and a water recycling plant use.
Our reporting criteria sets out the Seeing is Believing, our agship global to reduce resource use.
principles and methodology, and our programme to treat avoidable blindness and Scope 1 and 2 emissions are independently visual impairment, raised $5.6 million in 2017 audited by The Carbon Trust.
through employee fundraising and matching by the Bank.
Between 2003 and 2017, Between 2008 and 2017, we reduced Seeing is Believing raised $98.4 million energy consumption by 34 per cent by and reached 163.5 million people through introducing LED lighting, more ef cient plant, medical intervention, screening, training and by increasing on-site solar generation and education.
In 2017, greenhouse gas emissions for fuel combustion fell by Goal, our programme to empower girls and 42 per cent as we reduced our reliance on young women through sport and life-skills diesel generators in those countries with training, re ects our belief that education is limited access to mains electricity.
the foundation for economic opportunity.
In 2017, more than 95,000 girls and young We take a responsible approach to sourcing Annual energy use of our property women participated in Goal, and the and using water, especially given that its 2 kWh m year programme reached more than 381,000 availability is a growing challenge facing 1 girls between 2006 and 2017. our markets.
Across the Group, between Tropical climate 2008 and 2017, we reduced water use by We encourage colleagues to effect positive 355 36 per cent by installing lowow water change in their communities by providing 2008 devices and where appropriate, boreholes three volunteering days per year, and in 2017, 256 and water recycling plants.
2017 colleagues contributed more than 66,000 230 days.
Through our financial education We are committed to reducing waste and 2019 target programmes, we trained more than in 2017 a reusable cup initiative in the 117,000 young people and just over Singapore and London of ces cut single- 1,500 entrepreneurs in 2017, of whom use plastic cup use by 100,000 in six since 90 per cent were women.
28% 2008 Our community expenditure 2017 % 1 Temperate climate 1 1 1.
Gifts in kind 4 275 non-cash item 0.2% 2019 target 4.
Employee time since non-cash item 36.3% 2008 30% 5 1.
Leverage data relates to the proceeds 1.
Tropical energy usage relates to cooling: temperate energy from staff and other fundraising activity usage relates to both heating and cooling 41 Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity Building long-lasting relationships in Brazil How our local market knowledge has One of our biggest success stories in Brazil is our helped us build our partnership with LGEBR long-standing relationship with LGEBR Treasury We have always used our knowledge of local Management.
They specialise in financial services markets to support LGEBR in developing their including: international payments, digital banking, brand and grow their customer base in an increasingly competitive market.
Over the past import nancing, market trading and legal expertise 10 years our relationship has strengthened into a strategic partnership built on trust, understanding and an appreciation of local and international economies.
Our competitively priced products and services, experienced employees and commitment to a seamless banking experience are just a few of the reasons why LGEBR remain one of our most loyal and valued clients.
