Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility It is important that we understand that the groups social purpose extends beyond lending responsibly and sustainably to our customers, and that we continue to take account of the wider impacts that our business has.
The rest of the Board and I know that an important part of our licence to trade is to provide a comprehensive account of the impacts which relate to the internal governance of our business: the way we treat our employees, our suppliers, local communities, wider society, and the environment: and how we deal with regulators and tax authorities.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer The group has always sought to ensure corporate responsibility It means continuing with our primary role of supplying credit in a CR was a strategic priority for the business and therefore an responsible manner to our customers those with lower incomes, integral part of the groups corporate strategy.
The difficulties the those with no credit history, or a very limited credit history, and group experienced throughout 2017 mean that it is essential that those who have had problems with credit in the past but are now we reinforce and build on the importance of our social purpose over those problems.
in the way that we do business and treat our stakeholders.
It will also be important for us to earn back the trust and The groups social purpose is the promotion of financial confidence of our customers and other stakeholders by ensuring inclusion for those who are not well served with mainstream that the social purpose informs the culture throughout the group.
credit products or who may otherwise beexcluded altogether.
51 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued What CR means to Provident Financial Group Our mission is Our social purpose is Our CR strategy involves... to refocus on customer solutions financial inclusion for those who are operating our core business and continue to be the leader in the not well served by mainstream credit of lending to our customers non-standard market responsibly products or areexcluded altogether.
inaresponsible manner, providing access to credit to and actingresponsibly and customers who are not well served by sustainably in all our other mainstream lenders.
We will develop stakeholder relationships.
our culture and governance to build better regulatory relationships and play a positive role in the communities we serve.
This commits us to This commits us to This commits us to being a responsible providing non-standard credit putting the needs of our corporate citizen.
customers with appropriate amounts customers at the heart of of credit, maintaining close contact everything we do: creating a working with them throughout the term of environment that is safe, inclusive and their loan, and working with them meritocratic: treating our suppliers sympathetically if they experience fairly: supporting our communities: difficulties.
The terms and conditions for engaging with the investment our products are also designed to meet community on sustainability matters: their particular needs, and rigorous and minimising the environmental checks are made to ensure customers impacts of our business.
ensuring that the policies, procedures, CR governance systems and behaviours of groups operating andmanagement companies are consistent with the groups social purpose, and ensuring that any To further underline the importance of our material issues which relate to the culture social purpose across our business and and ethics of the group are reported to other enhance the Boards governance framework relevant Board committees.
to ensure that the group conducts and The groups governance and management develops business responsibly and structures are underpinned by a range of consistently in accordance with the social corporate and division-specific policies.
purpose, we have begun the process of These policies set out the codes of conduct, establishing a new Board committee, to be controls, processes and requirements chaired by a new non-executive director, of all employees and divisions within the focusing on the customer, and culture and group, as well as at the corporate office.
ethics, to help drive changes in behaviour The policies cover a wide range of issues that and attitudes across the group.
are relevant to our CR programme, including This committee will, among other things, treating customers fairly, environmental provide oversight and challenge to the management, community involvement, groups executive committee, which procurement, health and safety, equality, includes the executive directors and senior diversity and inclusion, bribery and management and is chaired by Malcolm corruption, and whistleblowing.
Le May, to deliver real cultural change.
Our group CR team are responsible for the The executive committee will oversee the CR programme and are supported by several development, embedding and monitoring working groups made up of representatives of the culture and ethics of the group, from the operating companies.
consistent with being a trusted, responsible and sustainable business.
This will involve 52 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Employee engagement Materiality matrix Our employee engagement activities involve carrying out surveys across the operating companies to assess employee Customer vulnerability satisfaction levels and also to provide Responsible lending practices employees opportunity to feedback to the Employment Customer satisfaction business anonymously.
In 2018, we aim to practices and customer care Macro social trends Living standards Shift to digital Financial inclusion and improve our internal communications and financial well being form a group-wide approach to determine employee satisfaction levels, so that each of the businesses can address employee Community contributions Ethical business conduct satisfaction data from both an individual business and group perspective.
Governance and Accountability and transparency management Diversity and inclusion Shareholder engagement Environmental impact Responsible procurement We have a dedicated in-house investor relations team who engage regularly with the companys largest shareholders on a oneto-one basis to discuss strategic and other issues as well as to give presentations on the groups results.
This is done through reports Importance to the business like this and on the corporate website, one-to-one meetings, running roadshow Business Social Environmental programmes and attending conferences.
The group also engages with investors through its participation in the mainstream Our stakeholders Engaging with sustainability indices such as the Dow Jones ourstakeholders Sustainability Indices, FTSE4Good and The groups key stakeholders are our Carbon Disclosure Project refer to page57 customers, communities, employees, for more information.
The group engages with its stakeholders suppliers, shareholders, investors and on a regular basis to listen to their views regulators.
These individuals or groups and concerns, and gather feedback on our Community partner engagement have an interest in, or are affected by, the activities.
This means we can take account of activities of our business.
We engage with In 2017, we undertook a review of our different perspectives as we deliver on our these groups regularly to ensure that we community engagement activities in order to mission, social purpose and strategy.
It also are aware of their views and concerns with identify how we could better communicate enables us to gather data and information regard to a wide range of issues.
We do this the impact of our Social Impact Programme to improve our business, products and through surveys and focus groups, and by and the value it adds to the business.
As part services, our workplace and our relationships participating in consultation exercises.
of this, we developed new employee and with shareholders and investors.
We engage community partner impact evaluation and We also engage with our stakeholders to in a range of stakeholder activities each year feedback methodologies.
This involved ensure that we manage and report on the and the below sets out some of the work we adopting the platform developed by the CR issues that matter most to them and our undertook in 2017. social enterprise thirdbridge that enables business.
In 2017, this involved repeating charities and companies to connect, form the exercise we last undertook in 2015 to Customer engagement partnerships and manage the programmes identify and prioritise the CR issues that are they run together.
The platform will give us Each of the groups operating companies material to the group.
This helps to inform the ability to engage our employees, manage conduct surveys and focus groups to the groups social purpose and ensures that community investment programmes and determine levels of customer satisfaction our CR reports respond to the interests of employee volunteering opportunities, and with our products and services, and also our stakeholders and comply with the Global ultimately to accurately measure, report and to gather information on the profiles of our Reporting Initiatives G4reporting guidelines.
communicate their impact on society.
They also use online review and Our second, most recent materiality feedback systems, such as Feefo and Trust assessment was carried out by the Pilot, which allow their customers to review independent sustainability management their services and products.
The issues that were identified as a result of the materiality assessment exercise have been plotted on the materiality matrix above.
53 Importance to stakeholders Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Serving our customers Our core business: Responsible and sustainable lending inaresponsible manner The groups products are tailor-made for our customers.
Our operating companies The groups core business is to provide provide customers with simple products in a way that suits their particular needs: customers who are not well served Vanquis Bank: by mainstream credit products or are excluded altogether with opportunities to Vanquis Bank credit limits start as low as 250 and we only extend a limit if it is appropriate borrow a sensible amount in a transparent, to do so.
We use a tailored underwriting process which we have developed over the last responsible and sustainable way, and 13 years.
Our decision to lend to applicants is based on a combination of external credit thereby improve their relationship with reference data and our own credit scorecards.
We follow up approved applications with a credit.
This is the groups social purpose.
welcome phone call: this helps develop our relationship with the customer from the outset, and allows us to collect more information.
New customers also receive an information pack Many of the groups customers typically with their new credit card, which offers advice on how to increase their credit rating through have a poor credit history or no credit financial behaviours.
Customers receive text messages to remind them of payment dates, history at all, or may have had past and we follow-up on missed payments with a phone call, which is an effective way to keep problems with credit, often due to periods in touch.
of unemployment, family break-up, ill health, or through the use of financial products and Provident home credit: services that did not meet their particular needs.
The products that the group offers In July 2017, the operating model of the Provident home credit business was changed so to its customers through its three divisions that customers were served by employed Customer Experience Managers CEMs rather are therefore tailor-made to meet these than self-employed agents.
The business now offers home credit loans, typically of between particular needs.
100 and 2,000, through a network of CEMs who call each week to customers homes in the UK.
CEMs are at the heart of the Provident home credit business.
Often, they come from In general, the approach the group takes the same communities as their customers so have a real understanding of their customers to providing credit to customers involves needs and circumstances.
The weekly visits made by the CEM to the customer are not lending smaller amounts over shorter only convenient: they are also a useful reminder to put the money aside for the repayment periods of time.
In the case of Moneybarn, too.
If customers get into difficulty, they know theyll get a sympathetic response and help where a vehicle is held as security, we are from their CEM to reschedule their repayments.
Unlike other forms of lending, home credit able to lend more credit for longer periods.
includes all the costs up front.
There are no extra charges whatsoever, even if a customer Under this approach, new customers to misses a payment.
For those managing on a tight budget, its important to know that the Vanquis Bank, Satsuma and Provident amount to be repaid is fixed at the start andwillnevergo up.
home credit get lower credit limits, or smaller, shorter-term loans to begin with.
Satsuma: This enables us to observe and understand Satsuma is based on a modern model of online lending.
It is differentiated from other similar the behaviour of our customers before we products through our long standing knowledge of issuing Provident home credit loans and consider granting further lending and also Vanquis Bank credit cards.
Lending decisions are made using external credit bureau data enables the customers to experience our and our own credit scorecard which collects invaluable information on behavioural and products and see if they suit their needs.
social data before making credit decisions.
Like our other products, Satsuma loans uses It also enables our customers to enter or the low and grow lending approach.
The Vanquis Bank contact centre collections team re-enter the credit market, stay in control in Chatham are responsible for collecting Satsuma loans repayments.
The team keeps in andbuild credit scores for greater future regular contact with customers, including contacting them by phone and text message, and access and choice.
working with them to ensure the best possible outcome if they get into difficulty.
Moneybarn: Most Moneybarn customers come to us through a network of well-established brokers.
Moneybarns underwriting process is highly automated to allow for rapid provisional approvals.
Lending decisions are based on external credit data, our own credit scorecards, and affordability assessments.
Brokers only earn commission on each lead they provide which qualifies for a loan.
Customers can source their vehicle from any car dealership, and payments are made through monthly direct debit.
Any missed payments are followed up with contact from Moneybarn.
Formally, the vehicle is owned by Moneybarn until the final instalment has been paid by the customer.
If a customer gets into financial difficulties during the term of their loan, our customer services team will work closely with the customer to help them get back on track.
This may include a temporary or longer term payment arrangement to cover short-term financial difficulties including the possible option to place any arrears onto the end of the agreement rescheduling payments due.
However, if the customer can no longer afford the ongoing repayments, the most appropriate response is often through the surrender and subsequent sale of the vehicle to offset the sales proceeds against monies owed before the vehicle depreciates further.
In cases where a balance remains outstanding, a suitably affordable long-term payment plan can be agreed to address the remaining balance according to the customers affordability and sustainability.
54 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report This figure translates to 3% 2016: 2% of the Customer satisfaction Dealing responsibly with total number of our customers.
This rise customer complaints in the number of customer complaints is One of our key performance indicators is mainly attributed to the disruption that was customer satisfaction.
Measuring this data Ensuring that we keep customer complaints experienced during 2017 which impacted year-on-year allows us to see how we are to an absolute minimum is another key customer service levels, particularly in the delivering against our social purpose and indicator of how we are delivering against our Provident home credit business.
whether or not we are delivering products social purpose.
Understanding the reasons and services to the level that our customers We provide the contact details of the behind complaints helps us to improve the expect and deserve.
The groups operating Financial Ombudsman Service FOS to services we offer.
We have well-established companies do this by conducting online, all our customers, so they have another complaint-handling processes, procedures phone and face-to-face customer surveys option if we are not able to resolve their and timescales to guide our customer and through focus groups.
complaint to their complete satisfaction.
relations teams in resolving issues in a During 2017, the total number of new cases professional and timely way.
received by the FOS from our customers In 2017: was 1,792 2016: 1,194.
Of these, 367 or 20% During 2017, the number of complaints 2016: 27%, were upheld in favour of the received by Vanquis Bank, Consumer 87% customer.
Despite there being an increase in Credit Division covering Provident home the number of customer complaints referred Vanquis Bank customer satisfaction credit and Satsuma and Moneybarn was to the FOS during 2017, the number of 2016:89% 70,713 2016: 48,651.
Of these, 33,768 complaints upheld in favour of the customer 2016: 29,371 complaints were received by continues to be well below the average for Vanquis Bank, with 33,254 2016: 16,325 85% all businesses within the financial services received by Consumer Credit Division and Provident home credit customer satisfaction sector which currently stands at 36%.
2016:93% Our response to the Modern SlaveryAct 4.8 out of 5 Satsuma Reviews.
co. uk score As a business with a turnover of more than 36m, the group is required to produce an 2016 not available annual statement which sets out the steps that have been taken by the business to ensure our direct business and supply chains are free from modern slavery and human trafficking.
4.7 out of 5 Our first statement on the Modern Slavery Act was published in 2016.
The groups second statement has now been published to reflect the improvements and changes made to our Moneybarn Feefo score procurement processes throughout 2016 and 2017.
Some of the key improvements that 2016:4.7 out of 5 have been made since the first statement include: understanding the employee-related The disruption that was experienced during 2017, processes that are in place to minimise the risk of modern slavery or human trafficking resulted in a reduction in the customer satisfaction occurring within the direct operations of the group, and reviewing and updating the due rates in the Provident home credit business.
We are aware of what has caused this decrease and through diligence processes used by the groups operating businesses to ensure that there is the recovery plan to turnaround the Provident home consistency in the approaches used to identify suppliers that are viewed as a higher risk credit business we are improving the operating model in terms of a range of human rights and labour issues including: child, forced or bonded in order to re-establish relationships with customers labour, freedom to form join trade unions, collective bargaining, disciplinary grievance and restore collections and stability in the business.
This will enable us to work towards returning the levels practices, payment of a minimum living wage and working hours and overtime.
of customer satisfaction in the Provident home credit business to the levels they were previously.
In terms of our plans for 2018, and to ensure that there is a high level of staff awareness of issues relating to modern slavery and human trafficking, particularly within the groups procurement and partnerships teams, we will engage a third party consultancy to deliver a workshop.
This workshop will focus on: raising awareness and understanding of the changing expectations around human rights and modern slavery risks: reviewing current procurement practices across the group and assessing risks and opportunities for human rights in the groups supply chains: and providing examples of good practice and recommendations that will help the groups procurement teams mitigate risks of modern slavery and human trafficking breaches occurring in the future.
We will also continue to harmonise the due diligence processes and procedures used by the groups operating companies to manage supply chain-based risks, and develop metrics to measure the effectiveness of the groups approach to ensuring that its supply chains are free from modern slavery and human trafficking.
You can find the groups statement on the Modern Slavery Act at www.
55 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Creating an inclusive workplace Gender Pay Gap Treating our suppliers fairly The changes that we made to the Provident From 6 April 2017, all companies employing Compared to other businesses from other home credit business model which, among 250 or more employees in England, Scotland sectors, our supply chain is relatively other things, involved employing full-time and Wales are required to complete a straightforward.
Most of our tier one Customer Experience Managers to serve gender pay gap analysis based on pay data suppliers are based in the UK and Ireland.
customers rather than self-employed on the snapshot date of 5 April of a given Despite this, our approach to CR means agents, means that the average number year.
Three individual legal entities within treating our suppliers fairly, and using of people employed by the group in 2017 the group: Provident Financial Management our purchasing power carefully.
Our people are Services Limited, Provident Personal Credit our spend on products and services was a significant stakeholder group.
Every one and Vanquis Bank are obliged to calculate 335.2 million 2016: 318.0 million.
of them contributes to our performance.
and publish this information by 4 April 2018.
This expenditure can provide us with Partly through their diversity, they drive the purchasing power to choose more The Human Resources functions within the development of new services and sustainable products or services, or to the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis products to suit the varied needs of our set an expectation of our suppliers that Bank are currently finalising the analyses 2.4 million customers.
motivates them to demonstrate and of the gender pay data and will upload implement values that make them a more Our continued success relies on having a their disclosures onto the Governments responsible business.
To recruit and retain the Gender Pay Gap Reporting Service best, it is essential we provide our staff with ahead of the deadline referenced above.
Approximately two-thirds of our a safe and inclusive working environment The information will also be published procurement spend is on services such as that encourages everyone to reach their on individual websites of the operating mailing, marketing, security, debt recovery, potential, and develops them to meet their companies as well as on Provident credit scoring and professional services personal goals.
Financial Group website in a manner that e. g. legal and accountancy services.
is accessible to employees and the general The second highest spend relates to our We are keen to ensure that our workforce public.
Accompanying information will also information technology infrastructure is representative of the many communities be published which provides a voluntary i. e. hardware, software and support.
we serve across the UK and Ireland.
contextual narrative that tells our people We use a high number of suppliers, ranging Our operating divisions have diversity what gender pay gap reporting is, explains from small to medium-sized enterprises policies and processes which enable us to any pay gaps and sets out what actions will SMEs, to large multinational corporations.
comply with the Equalities Act 2010 in the be taken to address them.
These organisations, which are based UK and the Employment Equality Act 1998 in predominantly in the UK and Ireland, will the Republic of Ireland.
Provident Financial National Equality Standard inturn, use their own suppliers too.
Groups corporate equality, diversity and inclusion policy sets out our commitment The procurement teams in the groups In 2015, the group signed up to the National to support diversity and to create an operating companies continue to factor Equality Standard.
As a signatory of this inclusive culture for employees and other CR considerations into the due diligence fines, the groups operating companies stakeholders, including customers, suppliers processes they use with prospective were assessed against 49 equality, diversity and contractors.
At the root of this is the and existing suppliers.
This enables and inclusion competencies.
This involved understanding that everyone can bring value the businesses to identify and manage undertaking an initial self-assessment to the workplace, regardless of their age, potential supply chain risks, and engage review and gap analysis against the fines gender, marital or family status, race, sexual with suppliers to ensure that they comply framework and hosting assessor visits orientation, religion or belief, or any disability with our policy requirements and meet from EY to carry out interviews with key they may have.
legislative requirements such as the employees in order to validate the findings ModernSlavery Act.
made during the self-assessment phase in The 2016 figure has been restated to more accurately Snapshot of diversity performance in 2017 the Consumer Credit Division, Moneybarn reflectthe procurement costs for that year.
The fines assessment Female Male allowed us to gain an overview of our areas of Proportion of female male 15% 85% strengths and weaknesses both at individual company directors % business level and from a group perspective.
Proportion of female male 29% 71% To address the findings revealed via the fines employees in senior assessments, and also to support the work management positions % currently being undertaken on talent and Proportion of female male 41% 59% enable the management of any gender pay in other management gap issues, a governance and management positions % framework is being developed which will Proportion of female male 55% 45% focus on the effective management of EDI employees at all other levels % issues across the group, with a particular Proportion of female male 51% 49% focus on ensuring that there is alignment employees % between our employment practices and social purpose and culture.
Percentage of employees from 15% Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic We have now formed a working group with BAME groups representatives from each business and are delivering an action plan of how best to move Percentage of employees who 0.36% have declared a disability forward with a group-wide EDI agenda.
56 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Engaging the investment community in CR Sharing information with the investment FTSE4Good Following the annual review Euronext Vigeo On 22 November community and being represented within undertaken by the FTSE4Good Advisory 2017, Provident Financial was notified specific investment indices and registers Committee in June 2017, Provident that it continues to be included within which focus on sustainability matters is Financial was informed on 27 July 2017 the following three Euronext Vigeo an important part of our approach to CR.
that it continued to be included as a indices: TheEuronext Vigeo World 120 It enables us to provide investors and constituent of the FTSE4Good Index the 120 most advanced sustainability other stakeholders with demonstrable Series.
The FTSE4Good is an extra-financial performing companies in Europe, North evidence or the groups commitment to market index, created in partnership by America and Asia Pacific: the Euronext operating in a sustainable and responsible the ethical research agency EIRIS and the Vigeo Europe 120 the 120 most advanced manner.
It measures the performances of sustainability performing companies in over 800 companies against a range of Europe: and the Euronext Vigeo United environmental, social and governance ESG Kingdom 20 the 20 most advanced CDP The group made its annual criteria.
It is designed to provide exposure sustainability performing companies in submission of climate change data to CDP.
to companies that are managing their social the UK.
In order to be included within CDP requests information on the risks and environmental risks, while also helping these Euronext Vigeo indices, Provident and opportunities of climate change from ethical investors avoid companies that Financials policies, processes and the worlds largest companies, on behalf are not.
To be included in the FTSE4Good performance have been reviewed by of 827 institutional investor signatories Indexes companies must: support human analysts against 330 indicators within seven with a combined US$100 trillion in assets.
rights, have good relationships with the sustainability domains including the human Through the CDP submission, we can various stakeholders, be making progress to rights domain, environment domain, inform investors of any material climate become environmentally sustainable, ensure human resources domain and community change-related risks and opportunities good labour standards, not only for their involvement domain.
The information and how we manage them.
Our 2017 own company but for companies that supply that is held on the Euronext Vigeo indices CDP submission was rated CAwareness them as well, and seek to address bribery will be used by institutional investors, demonstrating that we have knowledge and corruption.
and pension fund and asset managers of our impacts on climate change and as a reference guide for incorporating of climate change issues more broadly.
environmental, social and governance Our CDP submissions are published at factors into investment decision-making www.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indices Forum ETHIBEL With effect from Provident Financial was notified of its 20 September 2017, the group was continued inclusion in the Dow Jones reconfirmed as constituent of the Ethibel Sustainability Europe Index DJSI Europe.
Sustainability Index ESI Excellence Europe Also, having last year been notified that index.
The ESI Excellence Europe index is an it had not been selected as a member of investment register of companies that show the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index the best CR performance.
Inclusion is based DJSI World, the business was informed on our performance against a wide range that has been added back into the DJSI of CR parameters and consultation with World.
Provident Financials score in the relevant stakeholders.
Companies are only DJSI in 2017 was 77 2016: 65 which was included if they achieve an above-average higher than the sector average for the assessment score and have not been Diversified Financial Services and Capital involved in any serious controversies.
Markets industry sector, which stood at 40 2016: 43.
The DJSI World represents the top 10% of the largest 2,500 companies in the S&P Global BMI, and the DJSI Europe selects the top 20% of the largest 600 European companies in the S&P Global BMI based on long-term economic, environmental and social criteria.
57 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Supporting our communities Community impact in 2017 2017 community investment figures The groups community investment strategy 2.6m invested to support community 1 Cash 2,354,863 2016: 2,700,944 is aligned to the groups social purpose and programmes, money advice programmes seeks to invest in activities and initiatives and social research.
2 Management costs 227,581 2016: 285,744 which address some key factors which, on 16,374 people benefited directly from their own or acting together, tend to reduce 3 Value of employee 9,552 ourcommunity investment.
time 2016: 66,756 someones likelihood to be accepted for credit.
These factors include: unemployment 9,711 people experienced a positive Total 2,591,996 or underemployment: low, uncertain 2016: 3,053,444 change in their behaviour or attitude or fluctuating incomes: low educational as a result of their involvement in our 2 attainment: and physical or mental community investment programmes.
9,337 people developed new skills or The groups strategy is to therefore invest improved their personal effectiveness incommunity activities that seek to alleviate as a result of our community these underlying problems.
1 delivers support in five ways: 11,241 people experienced a direct 1.
Supporting local projects which address positive impact on their quality social inclusion issues: of life or wellbeing through our community programmes.
Supporting accredited community intermediaries such as Community 220 hours were volunteered by Foundations, to deliver programmes in employeesduring work time.
the communities in which we operate: 43 partnerships supported on 3.
Providing employees with matched alonger-term basis.
funding for fundraising and promoting We have also distributed grants to volunteering activities: a further 31 organisations through 4.
Encouraging our employees to take community foundations.
Supporting the money advice sector to address financial education issues, and carrying out research into broader, societal matters that relate toour customers.
The groups community investment activities are delivered through the group-wide Social Impact Programme which we established following the review that was undertaken in 2016.
During 2017, we built on this review and developed and rolled out a new operating model for the programme.
This will ensure that all community activities address the social inclusion issues of the groups customers by focusing on the core themes of education, customer vulnerability issues and local community initiatives which support the employability agenda.
We also carried out a social return on investment assessment on the Bradford Literature Festival to better understand the socioeconomic impacts that our funding has on the city of Bradford and beyond as aresult of this festival.
58 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Community case study Small Charities Week To underline the groups aim to support localcommunity initiatives, the group sponsored Small Charities Week in 2017.
Small Charities Week was established in 2010 by the Foundation for Social Improvement FSI with the aim of: Celebrating the contribution that the UKs small charity sector makes to the lives of millions of vulnerable individuals and communities.
Improving the knowledge, representation and sustainability of small charities.
Highlighting the work of the small charity sector to the broadest possible audience.
Working with the small charity sector to develop political engagement at a national and local level.
Big Advice Day The 2017 Small Charities Week saw six days of free activities and initiatives for small charities, including Big Advice Day.
Through the groups support, the first Big Advice Day in Bradford was delivered.
Working with long-term community partner, Participate Projects, the group brought together volunteers, employees and trustees Big Advice Day was extremely useful from small charities across West and North Yorkshire with industry experts for a day and gave me clarity and confidence aimed at providing inspiration, advice and information.
I have written a Through this event, local charities were fourmonth plan which helped me to given access to specialist one-to-one advice and attended a range of workshops stop feeling overwhelmed, be realistic on topics including branding and communications, impact measurement, about my capacity and review my sustainable revenues, inspiring workplaces scattergun approach to funding.
Delegates left with information and advice on how to feel more focused, professional, positive increase revenue, be resilient, increase visibility, improve team morale and measure and lessscared.
A marketplace area also offered opportunities for networking and ideas sharing.
Julie Walker Founder, Words for Wellbeing Nationally, 975 hours of advice were given to 290 charities, of which the Big Advice Day in Bradford contributed 293 hours to 80 organisations.
Delegate feedback showed that 100% of those who responded received feedback that they found useful.
84% changed something as a result of attending, with 79% reporting that these changes had apositive impact within three months.
59 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Community case study Since I started my role, I am very confident and love helping to support others with learning disabilities, as I understand their struggles as I faced them myself.
I am happy that I am less dependent on my benefits and can earn my own money now.
Katy Mencap participant The partnership also provides a good aged 813 with and without a learning Mencap development package for the participants disability together and encourage In 2016, Vanquis Bank signed a threeas it gives them the opportunity to positive experiences.
year partnership with Mencap to help develop communication, problem support people with a learning disability Research suggests children with learning solving, management and organisational into employment.
Through direct funding, disabilities are less accepted and have skills.
As well as volunteering with the Vanquis Bank has enabled Mencap to fewer friends than typically developed programmes themselves, Vanquis establish new employment programmes children.
The latter tend to express more employees have been supporting Mencap inareas with limited employment support.
negative attitudes towards peers with by getting involved in a variety of fundraising learning disabilities.
As attitudes are still events including The Big Massif Trek, Nationally the number of people with a developing in childhood early intervention Dodgeballdayer, Tough Mudder and the learning disability in paid employment is likely to be more successful.
remains chronically low, eight out of 10 could work but only two out of 10 do.
The project has been tested in 11 London During 2017, these programmes supported Mencap All In Award schools so far and will be continued to 184 people with learning disabilities in roll-out to over two years in Bradford and As part of the Banks charity partnership Bradford, Medway and London with 32 Medway.
Outcomes are being measured with Mencap, Vanquis provided funding gaining paid employment and a further in partnership with the Research to enable Mencap to launch a pilot project, 41 securing volunteering opportunities or Department of Clinical, Educational the All In Award, a project bringing children work trials.
and Health Psychology at University College of London, with a full feasibility study scheduled to be published in February 2018.
Comments from children taking part in the All In Award We talk about our friends from the All In Award to our class friends and they always say that it sounds like you have a good time.
We say we do, we help each other and now they all want to come.
Comments from a facilitator of a participating school I think theyve benefited hugely, theyve worked really well with the boys but not only that, its built a relationship between the two schools to the point that I not only do this, but I do other things with other schools as well.
Weve built up a really great working relationship so its opened doors and avenues.
60 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Community case study Literacy programme A key area of focus for Provident Financial Group under the education element of the groups Social Impact Programme continues to relate to contributing to tackling the UKs literacy challenge.
This is why Provident Financial Group is a signatory to the National Literacy Trusts Vision for Literacy Business Pledge.
This commits the group to help raise literacy levels in Bradford by taking practical action within our workforce, in our local community and at a national level.
Through this commitment, the group can help improve the chances of young people leaving school with the skills they need to go on to employment or further education.
The practical action that the group took in 2017 involved creating a communal book space at our Bradford head office where staff could read and share books.
The group also established partnership with the National Literacy Trusts Bradford Literacy Hub and local education consultancy Leading Children Limited to deliver a Parent Reading Power session where tips and resources were shared Like many schools in the Bradford area, with employees who are parents or carers to help develop their childs literacy and alarge number of our students have low levels communication skills.
of literacy as they start secondary education.
The partnership also connected with local schools to help improve local childrens We know that running this innovative reading and writing skills.
In 2017, 43% partnership in our school and across the city of primary school pupils in Bradford left primary school unable to read at is having a positive effect on teaching and the expected level for their age source: National Literacy Trust.
the partnership also celebrated the opening of a brand new library in a local free school, One In A Million, and a school Combined with our new library, funded book giveaway scheme both of which were funded by Provident Financial bythe group, this is exposing young people Group.
20 primary schools across the city received the National Literacy Trusts tohighquality learning materials that is Literacy Toolkit, which included a range of childrens books and guidance materials having a massive impact on unlocking their for teachers to encourage further reading potential by improving their ability to read in schools and at home.
The free books reached thousands of children in schools andunderstand thewrittenword.
across Bradford, encouraging them to read for enjoyment.
Philip Grant Head teacher at the One In A Million Free School inBradford 61 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Community case study I have more energy to work and play because I get my breakfast at school.
Student, aged 10 62 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Supporting the money Community case study Community case study advicesector Fareshare Case study Debt and relationships research We work with a number of money advice Vanquis Bank has been working with In 2017, the group sponsored the providers who offer free support to FareShare since April 2016.
FareShare is relationship support charity, Relate, to consumers some of whom may be our own the UKs largest charity collectively fighting carry out research which examined the customers who may find themselves having hunger and food waste.
link between debt and relationships and difficulty in managing their debt repayments.
the impact both have on each other.
We understand the impact this can have on Vanquis Bank is supporting FareShare The research drew upon a wide variety of their lives both in the short term and longer to save fresh, in date and good to eat, information including surveys of people in term, and therefore make this commitment surplus food from the food industry.
debt, feedback from debt advisors, focus to the money advice sector to ensure access In the first year of this partnership a total groups and national polling.
The research to free, reputable, and independent advice.
of 2,115 tonnes of food was saved from found that debt can have a powerful waste, supporting 504 frontline charities By providing funding and support to a wide impact on both the quality and stability and community groups in Bradford, Kent range of money advice organisations, we can of relationships.
These community groups be confident that were contributing to the turned this food into over four million For example: one in four people who provision of advice to those customers who nutritious meals for vulnerable people have been in debt say debt had a negative find themselves in financial difficulty.
impact on their relationship with their we supported the Money Advice Trust, partner: 36% of debt advice clients said Money Advice Scotland, The Money Charity, relationship breakdown was a cause Deptford Park Primary School Advice UK, Christians Against Poverty, of their problem debt: overone in 10 Step Change, Income Max, the Institute The breakfast club at Deptford Park people have experienced a relationship ofMoney Advisers, and the Money Advice Primary School serves up a brainpower breakdown due, at least in part, to Liaison Group.
boost to the 35 children who attend each debt: one in 10 people argue with their morning.
Helpings of yoghurt, cereal, In addition, we have a number of partner about debt or finances at fruit and juice, which have been saved partnerships through which we support least once a fortnight: and conversely, from waste and delivered to the club by the commissioning of publicly-available, negative relationship dynamics were FareShare London, ensure the students independent research into areas which are shown to actively worsen and create go to their classes with full stomachs and material to our social purpose by exploring debt problems.
The breakfast club is in an the financial behaviours of those on The research made a number of area of South East London where there is modest incomes.
recommendations on addressing these a high rate of child poverty.
It is estimated findings, including for relationship that 37% of children in London live below support and debt advice providers to the poverty line source: Child Poverty work together more closely.
Since this breakfast club also recommended workforce training for was launched, the school has seen a debt advisors and relationship support marked improvement in punctuality of the practitioners, on the links between children attending.
We will use the insights provided by this research to enhance the skill set of our own customer-facing staff within Provident Financials businesses whilst sharing the findings and recommendations more widely.
You can find this report at www.
63 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Our approach to environmental Environment case study management Like any other company, the groups business activities impact the environment, whether these occur directly as a result of the energy that is used by our offices and by our people when they travel, or indirectly The implementation of biomass cookstoves through the activities in our supply chains.
We are absolutely committed to minimising notonly reduces GHG emissions but our environmental impacts, in particular reducing carbon emissions to address alsoimproves families health.
Action on climate change We recognise the importance of acting on climate change which poses a significant risk to the global economy and to society in general.
In response, we have developed a low carbon strategy to help us reduce the carbon intensity of the groups operations, products and services.
The groups low carbon strategy aims to: Demonstrate commitment and leadership in working towards achieving significant reductions in greenhouse gas GHG emissions: Continue to measure and benchmark our energy usage and carbon dioxide performance to ensure that we adhere to best practice in carbon management and reduction: Establish challenging targets to enable us to be more efficient with the energy we consume and to reduce the emission of GHGs that arise from our operations, products and services: Influence our customers, employees and Three Provinces Clean and Efficient Cookstoves project in China suppliers to act on climate change and During 2017, we continued to offset the The implementation of biomass cookstoves reduce their carbon footprints: and GHG emissions associated with our not only reduces GHG emissions, but also Engage positively and proactively with total operational footprint.
The groups helps to improve families health.
The key stakeholders to ensure that the voice operational carbon footprint in 2017 was features of project are that it enables of business is heard in the debate on 9,758 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent families to save money by using biomass climate change.
CO e. We offset this total footprint instead of charcoal as their predominant 2 through carbon credits, which were cooking fuel, reduces indoor air pollution, certified to the Gold Standard, in a project and reduces reliance on fossil fuels and that delivers clean and efficient biomass puts agricultural waste to good use.
cookstoves to households in rural areas of China.
Charcoal is the traditional fuel used for cooking and heating water in China.
64 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Carbon offsetting GHG emissions 4,101 We continue to offset all the GHG emissions During 2017, our scope 1 and 2 emissions 2016: 5,115 which we currently capture.
These emissions and associated scope 3 emissions accounted are offset through our financing of renewable for 4,101 tonnes of CO e. We have also 2 Total scope 1 and 2 and associated energy projects around the world which help voluntarily reported some of our scope 3 scope3 emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 to mitigate the effects of climate change.
emissions: in particular, indirect well-to-tank emissions from the extraction, refining, During 2018, we offset 9,758 metric tonnes 1.71 distribution, storage, transport and retail of ofCO 2e, which accounted for most of our the fuel we use.
These emissions were offset through carbon credits, which Scope 1 and 2 and associated were certified to the Gold Standard, in a GHG emissions in 2017 tonnes of CO e scope3 emissions intensity ratio 2 project that delivers clean and efficient kgofCO e 1,000 of receivables 2 1 Direct CO2 scope 1 1,791 biomass cookstoves to households in rural CO2eemissions 2016: 1,422 areas of China.
Through our purchase 2 Indirect CO2 scope 2 1,486 The business travel of our employees of credits in this project, greenhouse CO2eemissions 2016: 2,728 continues to make a significant contribution reductions are achieved by displacing 3 Associated indirect CO 824 2 to the groups overall carbon footprint.
carbon-intensive sources of energy with scope3 CO e emissions 2016: 965 2 During 2017, the business-related journeys cleaner, renewable energy.
Total 4,101 made by employees and the self-employed 2016: 5,115 agents across the group accounted for 7,651 Scope 1 and 2 and associated tonnes of CO e. 2 scope 3 emissions intensity ratio kg of CO e 1,000 of 1.71 2 receivables 2016: 2.22 Business travel GHG emissions tonnesofCO e 2 3 1 Air travel 162 2 Rail travel 88 1 3 Car travel own vehicles 3,699 4 Company car fuel use 1,611 2 5 Self-employed agent car use 565 6 Extracting, refining and transportation of raw fuel Our emissions are reported in accordance with associated with business travel 1,526 WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
Total 7,651 We usean operational control consolidation approach to account for our GHG emissions and use emission conversion factors from Defra DECCs GHG Conversion 6 1 2 Factors for Company Reporting 2017.
Our GHG emissions are calculated using energy use data accessed via meters and energy suppliers, and from 5 3 records of fuel use.
These are the emissions the group is 4 required to disclose in order to meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports We also monitor the GHG emissions Regulations 2013. that are associated with the waste that is generated and managed by our businesses.
During 2017, the group generated 729 tonnes of waste.
Of this, 94% 685 tonnes was recycled.
The GHG emissions associated with was 16tonnes.
9,758 tonnes of CO e 2 overall operational carbon footprint 2016: 8,435 tonnes of CO e 2 65 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Reshaping our framework The Board has identified where changes are needed to ensure greater Board effectiveness, clarity of group purpose and better interaction between the group and its divisions.
Introduction from the Chairman 67 Our directors and officers 68 Leadership 70 Effectiveness 74 Shareholder engagement 77 Risk advisory committee 80 Audit committee and auditor 85 Nomination committee 91 Directors report 96 66
