ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CREATING FANS, CREATING CAREERS, CREATING A LEGACY opportunities that might inform the Our approach Our AMAZEING behaviours decisions we make.
The six priorities are Environmental, social and governance detailed in the materiality matrix below: ESG at Metro Bank comes down Attend to A to doing the right thing.
And for a 1 every detail Our FANS business focused on customers and colleagues, for the long term, Brand awareness Make every M thats in our DNA.
Our AMAZEING Our business is built on our FANS wrong right behaviours underpin everything we recommending us to their friends, do.
We focus on putting FANS first, family and colleagues.
To do this, its Ask if youre not A making Metro Bank a great place to clearly essential that people know sure bump it up!
work, supporting our communities who we are and in London, the and managing the other impacts we Zest is contagious, area where we have the majority Z have, for example on the environment.
of our stores, we have brand We are open and transparent about recognition of 89%.
A fantastic our responsible business activities.
Exceed performance for an organisation E expectations which attracts new customers Learn more about our approach at solely through word of mouth.
co. uk Inspire colleagues I to create FANS!
Knowing about Metro Bank is just Our priorities half the story.
For a brand that wants Nurture colleagues its customers to be FANS, the Net Our long-term success depends on N so they grow Promoter Score NPS, provides creating value for our customers and helpful insight on whether were wider stakeholders.
Knowing what Game change achieving that ambition.
During matters to them helps us to evolve G because this is 2017, our NPS was over 80%.
our vision and approach keeping a revolution stakeholders at the heart of what we do.
Total sample size was 1004 adults.
Fieldwork was undertaken between 8th 12th In 2017, we asked Deloitte to assess our February 2018.
The figures have been weighted most material ESG priorities to inform and are representative of all London adults aged18.
our reporting on responsible business, See page 136 for further details.
and to highlight potential risks and Our priorities Materiality matrix Priorities Description More info Medium materiality High materiality 1 Our FANS Providing excellent service to Page 38 Our FANS customers each and every time 2 Our Creating FANS by providing Page 39 Our colleagues colleagues excellent service to each and Our planet every customer Our communities 3 Our Engaging with the communities Page 40 communities we proudly serve Low materiality Medium materiality 4 Data privacy Protecting our customers data Page 40 Data privacy and security just as we do their money and security 5 Our planet Being aware of our impact on Page 41 Our suppliers the environment 6 Our suppliers Treating everyone fairly and Page 41 doing our bit to make sure our partners do too Relevance to Metro Bank 38 Importance to stakeholders ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Were proud of our ethnic diversity: Listening to colleagues 2 Our colleagues Our colleagues are the heart of Asian British 24.3% our business, so we work hard to Culture and diversity Asian Other 6.9% understand how they feel about We are all equal at Metro Bank, and Black British 8.2% Metro Bank as an employer, as a our inclusive approach celebrates Black Other 2.1% place to work and as a provider of diversity.
Our colleagues represent Mixed British 2.1% banking services.
Every year we run a the communities we serve and the Mixed Other 2.4% Voice of the Colleague engagement locations where were based.
In our 2017 survey, over 92% know that our supportive culture White Irish 0.7% of colleagues took the time to share is one of the reasons we attract, White Other 8.0% their views.
We use the results to retain and develop our colleagues, Undisclosed 4.2% help us to continuously improve and importantly allow everyone to our colleagues experiences.
bring their whole selves to work.
We have gender diversity at every level We partner with a text analytics in Metro Bank: We have a number of colleague company to give us deep insight around networks, including WOW Women the free text questions we also ask Executive Leadership Team ELT on Work, Mpride for our LBGT every colleague as part of the survey.
colleagues and our most recent 4 44% 5 56% group Mbrace for our Black, Asian and The headlines from this years Minority Ethnic BAME community.
Senior leaders surveyare: All groups are open to all colleagues, 97% of colleagues understand how 22 28% 57 72% regardless of race, gender or sexual their role contributes to the overall orientation and all have the aim of All colleagues success of Metro Bank helping everyone be at their very best.
96% of colleagues feel encouraged to 1,441 47% 1,649 53% escalate an issue, or bump it up Learn more about our AMAZEING culture and colleagues on page 24.
1 ELT are deemed to have responsibility for planning, 96% of colleagues think that Metro directing or controlling Metro Bank or a Bank is a good place to work strategically significant part of it.
Figures exclude 89% of colleagues believe there are Executive Directors.
Information on Board level opportunities for career progression diversity can be found on page 63.
2 Senior leaders are defined as members of the ELT and promotion including Executive Directors as well as those in a senior management position who report directly to a member of the ELT 39 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED ranging from financial education for young people and networking events, through to pumpkin carving, Christmas crafts and our legendary new store Grand Openings complete with celebrity dogs, community disco and stilt walkers.
We clocked up hundreds of hours worth of Days to Amaze, where our colleagues give time out of their working day to support the causes close to their hearts.
Our customers also supported three charities: Place2Be, Alzheimers Research UK and Battersea Dogs Home, through donations via our Magic Money Machines.
2017 also saw us extend our work supporting dementia sufferers with the roll-out of Dementia Friends training.
Devised by the Alzheimers Society, this initiative helps colleagues learn more about dementia and how we can help Recruiting talent more than 640 colleagues.
Were our customers and friends or family We are the only bank to feature in the committed to supporting colleagues members suffering from the disease.
2017 Glassdoor Employees Choice and investing in their careers, and Awards Top 50.
The awards, now in their over the past 12 months have helped 4 tenth year, rely solely on the feedback 60 new leaders Learn to Lead, Data privacy and security of current and former colleagues, who supported 100 colleagues on fast As well as trusting us with their provide insight into their jobs, work track schemes and specialist studies, money, FANS also trust us with environments and companies through and enabled 350 colleagues to gain something just as important, their the Glassdoor site.
In addition, the professional banking qualifications.
We do everything we can to website also included Craig Donaldson, keep our customers details safe and our CEO, in its list of Most Highly Rated Also in 2017, we became an to reduce the risk of financial crime, CEOs for the second year running.
Apprenticeship Training Provider, both against us and our customers.
allowing us to deliver This accolade, along with the Most .
We achieve this through continuing to People Focused CEO award at HR invest in market leading technology.
Magazine HR Excellence Awards 3 Our communities During the year we implemented and the Progression Programme of Pindrop, spoof detection software the Year award at the Social Mobility We are proud to be an integral part of which analyses each call made to our Awards 2017, validate our continuous the communities we serve.
Because contact centres to identify any noises focus on culture.
By empowering of our store footprint, over 3,000 which are not consistent with our colleagues and creating the conditions dedicated colleagues and the FANS knowledge of the customer calling.
for them to exceed customers who visit us every day, we were able to This helps give us confidence that we expectations, we allow them to thrive.
make a tangible difference to the towns, are speaking to a genuine customer, cities and communities we call home.
therefore keeping their data and During the year, we created nearly We hosted over 2,500 events in our their money safe from fraudsters.
600 new jobs and promoted stores and local schools and businesses, Its never too soon to learn about The programme is hosted over three money sessions in class, with the fourth At Metro Bank, were passionate about session being a store visit which really making sure the young people in our brings banking to life.
The sessions are communities have the opportunity to hosted by Metro Bank Prefects.
Our Money Zone Colleagues go through intensive programme, launched in 2011, helps training to be able to deliver this KS2 age 8 to 10 children acquire programme and many report that it is financial skills and develop an one of their highlights ofthe year.
Since understanding of how money, saving launching the MoneyZone programme, and banking works and the role it plays weve helped more than 100,000 in their everyday lives.
In 2017 we young people become more confident hosted over 900 sessions, reaching around money.
40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC 5 Our planet Were a growing bank, and are conscious of our impact on the environment.
Across our entire store network, we give our FANS the choice to go paperless, reducing the amount of excess waste produced.
As cards are printed in store with current account opening, our walk out working approach means there is little need for extensive bureaucracy and paperwork.
Where possible we aim to minimise our impact on the environment.
This includes encouraging recycling and using energy efficient lighting in our branches and offices and introducing hybrid vehicles for our peoples business travel.
Our emissions during the year grew by 9%, significantly less than the growth of the bank.
Emissions per FTE are down 12% thanks to the During 2017, we introduced a number initiatives we have introduced.
6 Our suppliers of initiatives and processes to support Weve reported on our emissions our Modern Slavery Policy, including: Building a revolution in British in line with the requirements of the Publishing Metro Banks Modern banking takes a lot more than just Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Slavery Statement, approved by the our colleagues.
We pride ourselves Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Board and signed by Craig on doing the right thing and Donaldson, CEO, on our website in maintaining the highest values in Summary table for GHG emissions June 2017 metrobankonline.
co. uk everything we do and this extends Appointing a Modern Slavery to the suppliers we engage with.
Tonnes Tonnes Champion, who is a member of the CO2e CO2e GHG emissions 2017 2016 Board, and whose responsibilities Anti-bribery and corruption include: ensuring and overseeing Scope 1 emissions 1,312 1,158 We are committed to maintaining the the integrity, independence and highest standards of ethics and integrity.
Scope 2 emissions 4,668 4,303 effectiveness of the Policy: ensuring Any act of bribery or corruption is Total Scope 1 and colleagues receive annual training unacceptable and we take the same 2 emissions 5,980 5,461 to raise awareness of the Policy: approach with our suppliers.
and reporting to the Board at least once a year on the operation and In 2017 we established a specific The assessment period is aligned effectiveness of the Policy.
The supplier assurance function to with our financial year 1 January firstreport to the Board is due in ensure we maintain our high values 2017 to 31 December 2017.
May 2018 in all aspects of our supply chain Details of the reporting criteria can be found Using the Financial Services and conduct due diligence on in our separate ESG document which is Supplier Qualification System new third party suppliers, including available at metrobankonline.
co. uk FSQS to conduct due diligence preventing bribery and corruption.
on suppliers before contracting, on We selected operational control as a risk basis, as appropriate Modern slavery ourconsolidation approach, and our Developing a standard modern Our philosophy is to conduct all boundary includes all entities and slavery clause for supplier business in an appropriate manner.
facilities either owned or under relationships to ensure that Slavery, servitude, forced labour and ourcontrol.
suppliers are obliged to comply human trafficking modern slavery is with the requirements of the a crime and violation of fundamental We understand that we have Modern Slavery Act human rights.
We have zero tolerance the opportunity to reduce our Implementing an e-learning to modern slavery and are committed environmental impact not only directly module, which was completed by to acting professionally, fairly and with through our operations, but also colleagues in December 2017 integrity in all our business dealings and indirectly, through the customers relationships wherever we operate.
We we lend to and the products we Our Modern Slavery Statement is aim to enforce appropriate systems and provide.
We will consider how best available at metrobankonline.
co. uk controls to help us to ensure modern to report more on these indirect slavery is not taking place anywhere in impacts in future reporting.
our business, in any of our suppliers or, through them, in our supply chains.
41 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUED model.
The CRO is responsible The CRO has access and a dotted Our policies for ensuring that appropriate risk reporting line to the Chairman of the Our risk management policies and management processes, policies Risk Oversight Committee.
No material controls are reviewed regularly to and controls are in place, and that instances of non-compliance were reflect changes in market conditions, they are sufficiently robust, thereby identified in 2017 in relation to our risk regulations, and our activities.
Through ensuring that key risks are identified, management policies.
A summary of regular training and additional assessed, monitored and mitigated.
our policies relating to our material standards, guidance and procedures, All policies are approved by the Board ESG priorities can be found below.
we aim to develop a robust and at appropriate Board committees effective control environment in following recommendations by the This report was approved by the Board which all our colleagues understand relevant management committee.
and was signed on its behalf by: their roles and obligations.
The CRO is also responsible for Craig Donaldson The Chief Risk Officer CRO is providing assurance to the Board and Chief Executive Officer Directors that the principal risks are 1 March 2018 accountable for leading the Risk function, which is the second appropriately managed and that the Bank is operating within its risk appetite.
line in our three lines of defence ESG Policy Description Priorities Treating Customers Fairly The policy reflects our goal to create fans through the delivery of consistently AMAZEING 1, 2 outcomes.
This philosophy is embedded in our culture and is an integral part of our business model and strategy.
Our zero tolerance for unfair customer outcomes is underpinned by our Conduct Risk framework which was approved by the Board.
Lending Policies including These policies make sure that were lending in the right way.
They ensure the effective and prudent 1 residential mortgage, retail management of credit risk, in-line with the risk appetite defined by the Board, regulatory unsecured finance, private requirements, statutes and industry good practice.
banking credit, commercial, arrears management Anti-Money Laundering The policy sets out the systems and controls to identify, assess, monitor and manage financial 1, 2 Counter Terrorist Financing crime risks and the procedures in place to assess their effectiveness.
Diversity and Inclusion The policy means that we treat our colleagues fairly.
It sets out our commitment to employment 2, 3 policies which follow best practice, based on equal opportunities for all employees and the Board.
Recruitment and selection The policy relates to all recruitment related activities and is relevant for all colleagues and any 3rd 2 party recruitment partners.
The policy outlines responsibilities in accordance with Recruitment related legislation, regulation and company objectives.
Health and Safety The policy protects our customers and colleagues.
It recognises our statutory duties and 2 responsibilities under the relevant Health and Safety and Welfare legislation.
Whistleblowing The policy encourages colleagues to disclose information, in good faith and without fear of unfair 2 treatment, when they suspect any illegal or unethical conduct or wrongdoing affecting the Bank.
Anti-bribery and Corruption The policy outlines our approach in managing the risk of bribery and corruption and to ensure we 2 conduct business in an honest and ethical way, with a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
Conflicts of Interest and The policy provides consistent practical guidance to all relevant parties in relation to the 3 related parties identification, recording and maintenance of actual and perceived conflicts of interest.
Business continuity The policy makes sure we are able to continue delivering services to our customers at acceptable 4 levels if something unexpected were to happen.
It addresses impacts to the continuity of critical business activities in the case of man made disasters, natural disasters or other material events.
Data The policy sets out our objectives and expectations in managing data and data governance 1, 4 practices.
It makes sure that data is managed, governed, accessed, protected, utilised and disclosed appropriately.
It also focuses on the quality of key data elements and their ongoing maintenance.
Outsourcing The policy ensures that when we rely on a third party for key processes and activities, we take the 3, 6 reasonable steps to avoid any unfair customer outcomes and unnecessary operational risk.
Modern Slavery The policy describes our approach towards preventing slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory 6 labour and human trafficking in any of our operations or at any of our suppliers and, through them, our supply chains.
Our planet priority 5 is managed through our various policies.
Learn more about our policies with our separate ESG document which As a growing bank, we recognise the need to also minimise our impact on is available at metrobankonline.
To date we have successfully driven progress without a bespoke environmental policy, but we will continue to review this approach for appropriateness.
