STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information function of fewer new mines and more frequent disruptions, helping to Market environment support prices.
Aluminium prices started 2017 at around US$1,700 tonne and increased by more than 20 per cent during the year to average around Global economy US$2,100 tonne in the fourth quarter.
Chinese smelter capacity closures The ongoing recovery is expected to have produced global growth in the and tightened environmental regulations contributed to improving region of 3 per cent in 2017, up from 2.4 per cent in 2016.
There was profitability and sentiment.
However, margins were partially eroded by reduced volatility, with both advanced and emerging economies gaining higher energy, carbon and alumina costs.
Alumina prices rallied strongly, momentum.
Manufacturing output, global trade, and business and up over 75 per cent from lows of around US$275 tonne FOB free on consumer sentiment picked up, while inflationary pressures remained board in the second quarter to over US$480 tonne in quarter four, as largely muted.
declining bauxite availability within China constrained alumina output.
Developed economy growth improved moderately in 2017, driven by Bauxite did not match these increases, and average Chinese import prices rising investment, inventories and manufacturing exports, with the US fell moderately to just under US$50 tonne, as new supply from Guinea, and EU enjoying a manufacturing recovery over the first three quarters.
Australia and Brazil replaced volumes lost to Malaysias export ban.
Stronger demand, and dwindling spare capacity combined with higher After a strong start to the year, iron ore prices corrected sharply in the input costs in the US, caused some manufacturers to implement price second quarter, falling from over US$90 dry tonne CFR cost and freight to increases late in the fourth quarter.
In the US and EU, many around US$55.
This volatility was partially attributed to market concerns on macroeconomic indicators are now at levels not seen since before the improving seasonal iron ore availability, growing inventories and a less global financial crisis.
optimistic outlook on Chinese growth.
Iron ore prices have since recovered, Although the US Federal Reserve increased rates three times in 2017, in line with the broad price strength observed in the commodity space.
other major central banks maintained highly accommodative monetary Outlook policies.
With inflation under control, both the European Central Bank and Bank of Japan were able to maintain loose monetary conditions to support Global economic growth is expected to improve further to around 3.2 per continued recovery.
In response, ten-year Treasury bond yields drifted cent in 2018.
 macro economic performance in gradually down to a low of 2.06 per cent in September before reversing 2017, benign central bank monetary policies, and improved global trade course for the remainder of the year on concerns the US Governments are increasing optimism that the global recovery will continue.
Risks fiscal agenda would drive inflation higher.
related to a rapid deceleration in China also appear to be somewhat reduced.
There are, however, a number of unresolved issues around Chinas economic performance peaked in the first half, with full year Brexit and concerns over both overinflated asset prices and potential US growth of 6.9 per cent supported by export recovery, strong property trade measures.
Geopolitical tensions in the Middle East, Iran and sales and improved corporate earnings.
By the fourth quarter, however, between the US and North Korea also remain in a heightened state.
Chinese property sales were slowing, while supply-side reforms and tightened environmental controls increased pressure on production.
The The US tax reduction package is improving business sentiment and government also redoubled efforts to reduce credit growth, in particular investment, creating upside risks for US GDP growth.
Prospects for a local government borrowing.
This latter element is expected to exert government infrastructure construction plan are less clear, however, downward pressure on infrastructure investment growth.
given funding constraints and implications for the federal deficit.
Downside risks include further monetary normalisation, rising inflation Other emerging markets also experienced better economic conditions and the high valuations of US equities.
Rising bond yields and higher due to improved global trade, higher commodity prices and supportive inflation triggered a correction in the US equity market in late January monetary policy conditions.
While aggregate credit growth in key 2018, signalling an end to a period of low volatility.
emerging markets remains weak, Brazil still recovered from recession, Russia adjusted to lower oil prices over the year, and India moved past an Eurozone growth prospects remain positive, at least into the first half of extended period of weak corporate performance.
2018, given high capital spending and strong consumer and business sentiment.
In Japan, quantitative easing and supportive fiscal policy Drivers of commodity prices should also help boost business investment and prevent further deflation.
Long-term structural economic trends are important drivers of Emerging market prospects are supported by solid world trade growth, commodity prices through their effects on demand.
The economic higher commodity prices, stronger capital inflows and a weaker US dollar.
development and urbanisation of emerging countries goes through an Further gradual rises in US interest rates could inhibit capital inflows in initial investment-led growth phase, benefiting commodities such as steel the second half, however.
and copper used in construction and infrastructure.
As economies evolve, In Chinas case, growth is likely to slow only modestly due to slower other commodities such as light metals, energy products and industrial property sales, construction and investment growth.
Supply-side minerals tend to take over as the main enablers of consumption-led reform, tighter local government financing restrictions and growth.
environmental policies may reduce macro expenditure.
Even so, The long-term nature of mining tends to result in cyclical investment downside pressures are likely to be offset to some extent by healthy patterns, translating into commodity price cyclicality.
Over the past two external demand driven by stronger global growth.
years, the industry has recovered from a cyclical low.
Investments made Overall, the reflationary conditions that dominated global commodity during the previous cycle have mostly been delivered and peak supply is markets over the last two years may be reaching their limits, though evident in some commodities in a context of resilient Chinese demand positive sentiment and further capacity cuts in China could provide and stronger global growth.
With markets for most metals and minerals support.
Consensus now points to a moderate downside risk for moving into balance, the industry remains focused on cash accumulation, commodity prices in the short to medium term, favouring producers at conservative investment strategies and a rebalancing of asset portfolios.
the lower end of the cost curve and those that can improve productivity.
A focus on maintaining strong balance sheets while delivering cash returns to shareholders remains.
Productivity and cost reduction Longer-term prospects remain positive.
The industry is watching initiatives continue as global reflation increases cost headwinds.
developments in new markets, such as electric vehicles, with interest.
Growth opportunities in some commodities are amplified by mine Commodity markets depletion resulting from capital expenditure cutbacks.
Rising costs are Commodity markets continued to strengthen in 2017, supported by driving a renewed focus on productivity, particularly in steelmaking, stronger economic growth, particularly in China.
Restructuring and improving premiums for higher-grade furnace feedstocks.
For example, capacity closures across the Chinese heavy industry complex led to over the fourth quarter of 2017, the price of iron ore with a 62 per improved profitability and supported significant increases in commodity cent iron ore content was 70 per cent higher than iron ore with a prices.
Copper prices rose over 20 per cent from the start of the year to 58 per cent iron ore content as steel mills minimised their average around US$3 lb in the fourth quarter reaching a three-year high environmental impact and maximised productivity.
Strong supply growth in 2016 eased during 2017, a 7 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
