CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Highlights for 2017: COATS IS A GLOBAL BUSINESS, OPERATING IN MORE Materiality assessment update and supply chain risk analysis THAN 50 COUNTRIES ACROSS SIX CONTINENTS Launch of first ever 100% post WORLDWIDE.
OUR BUSINESS REPUTATION IS ONE consumer recycled core thread Continuing decline of energy OF OUR MOST VALUABLE ASSETS, AND ONE WHICH and water usage rates and GHG emissions impact WE CONTINUALLY STRIVE TO PROTECT.
The values and standards that we subscribe to as a company are at the core of our Corporate Responsibility CR programme.
They are embodied in the five principles that describe the Priorities for 2018 way we work: respectful and inclusive, openness and honesty, energy for change, freedom Establish plans and targets to operate and positive teamwork.
Our CR activity is focused on seven strategic themes, all for top 10 material issues of which support and contribute to the achievement of our business goals, and across all of Continue to develop renewable which we strive to deliver a positive impact every year.
energy programmes Our activities are co-ordinated by the Head of Corporate Responsibility and monitored by Complete more detailed a CR Advisory Group which is chaired by the Chief Supply Chain Officer.
Human Rights assessment across all operations Developing a new strategy This year we have taken a new look at whats important to us as a business and to establish some key areas of focus for our CR programme.
We repeated our global materiality assessment and have undertaken a specific human rights risk assessment to identify the areas of highest For more about our Strategic risk both in our own business operations and in those of our supply chain.
We have mapped our operations and those of our supply chain to identify particular industry sectoral risks as Themes see the CR section www.
com cr well as risks from their geographical location.
To identify particular country risks, we took account of a number of external benchmarks and indices in our risk assessment process, including the UN Human Development Index, ITUC Global Rights Index, Freedom House Freedom in the World Civil Liberties, UNICEF % of children aged 5-14 years engaged in child labour, US State Department Trafficking in Persons, and Transparency Internationals Corruption Perceptions Index.
The chart below illustrates those areas identified as important both to our business and to our stakeholders: Our top 10 material issues are: Water consumption Energy consumption Environmental footprint Waste generation and recycling Health & Safety Resource scarcity Child labour Forced labour Transparency and reporting Environmental legal compliance For each of the key material areas identified we have reviewed our policies and procedures to identify any gaps in our processes.
Both key and less material areas are covered in more detail on our website.
During 2018 we will continue to develop plans and targets to enhance our impact on material issues and will carry out a more detailed human rights assessment of our operations.
18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Economic contribution $m HIGHLIGHTS AND IMPACTS ACHIEVED FROM OUR 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME.
The following highlights are a summary from the year.
For more detail on our approach to CR, our activities and outcomes during the year see our website www.
com cr Our Standards We have updated and re-issued our anti-bribery and corruption policies and reinforced For more information on our whistleblowing policy and hotline economic contribution see www.
com cr In October, we ran a global Ethics Day, to reinforce our programme for Doing the Right Thing.
Special events took place across the world to share views on what doing the right thing means to our employees.
All 4,500 senior employees and those with external facing roles are trained in ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, and competition policies and laws 4,000 Our People Employees took part in Diversity & Inclusion Our health, safety and welfare programmes have been successful in keeping our recordable activities in the year 2016: 350 accident rates 83% lower than the latest average reported by OSHA for US textile mills.
Over 700 employees have either completed or are currently working their way through our 18-month Management Capability Programme.
We launched Minerva, our new online digital platform which provides over 700 resources and is accessible to more than 5,000 people worldwide.
Since the launch in June there has been a 14%take-up, delivering new training opportunities to a wide group of employees.
Over 6,500 employees now have access to our global D&I network and more than 4,000 of our employees took part in Diversity & Inclusion initiatives during 2017.
We provide training courses in safety for our employees on their journey to work which has a direct positive impact on the welfare of our workforce 100% Post-consumer recycled core spun thread developed and launched for the first time ever, under the EcoVerde brand family Our Products We have developed and launched the first ever 100% post-consumer recycled core spun thread, under the EcoVerde brand family.
We have also successfully trialled Coats Verifi products, in bulk manufacturing, which helps ensure garment seam integrity and hence an extended life cycle for the garment.
We are members of the Zero Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals ZDHC Programme which aims to eliminate hazardous chemicals from the global footwear and textile supply chain.
Our Manufacturing and Product Restricted Substances Lists RSLs have been refreshed and communicated to all our global suppliers.
We believe these are the most comprehensive in the Water usage litres per kg of industry and incorporate the requirements of all the major internationally recognised dyed product environmental standards eg ZDHC, REACH, Oeko-Tex, CPSIA.
Our Manufacturing We have continued to reduce our water usage per kg of dyed product by 5% compared to 2016 26% reduction in last 5 years through improvement in process technology.
We also continue to increase the recycling of process water which now represents 11% of our water consumption up from 8% in 2016 This reflects the continued implementation of water recycling projects at our major plants at India, China, and Sri Lanka Our energy use per kg of dyed product has also continued to reduce 3% down compared to 2016 and 20% reduction in the last five years, reflecting investments in more efficient process equipment and higher utilisations.
19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Energy use Our Environment Kwh per kg of dyed product Greenhouse gas GHG, as measured in kilos per kilo of dyed product, went down by over 5% in the last year 4.3 kg CO2e per kg of dyed product compared to 4.6 in 2016.
This reflects both reduction in energy use and more use of renewable energy.
In 2017, the total carbon footprint of our manufacturing operations Scope 1 and Scope 2 was 310,578 tonnes, a decrease of 2% compared to the previous year, even though production volumes increased by 3% in the year.
Our emissions intensity is shown in the graph to the left and shows a 17% reduction over the last six years.
We are looking at ways of reducing our GHG emissions, both by increased efficiencies, but also through the generation and purchase of renewable energy.
Over the past five years the Emissions intensity proportion of energy usage from renewables has increased to almost 29%.
Biomass boilers in tonnes CO2e $m sales India and Vietnam and solar panels in India and the USA have all contributed to this.
We have updated our environmental policy and made a commitment to achieving ISO14001 across all our operating units, 10 sites are already accredited.
We will be establishing a global environmental management system standard across all our units during 2018.
Our Partners We have further consolidated our Supplier Code programme, holding additional supplier training workshops in Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, and Vietnam, and extending our internal For a table of results ranging from 2011-2017 auditing programme from China to four additional units.
This is the first phase of a more robust see Directors Report page 75 supplier management programme that we will be developing during 2018.
Our Supplier Code covers labour practices, environmental management, responsible sourcing of materials and products, and business conduct.
Renewable energy So far we have carried out over 30 face-to-face supplier engagement workshops across % of total energy used in year 15 countries, targeting over 80% of our key suppliers and carried out more than 100 audits during 2017 1% of our supplier base across five high-risk locations.
Our Communities Our activity rate in the community has continued to increase and during 2017 we completed 140 plans in the year with almost 7,500 volunteer hours dedicated to the communities in which we operate.
These activities took place in 45 different operating units and helped lay the foundations for exciting community projects in the future.
More details can be found at www.
