69 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY DEAR SHAREHOLDER, ETHICS & COMPLIANCE I am pleased to present the 2017 report of the Ethics &Compliance Committee.
COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Our work falls into the following two general areas: Ethics & Compliance Overseeing ethics and compliance programmes, strategies and plans.
Monitoring ethics and compliance process improvements and enhancements.
Reviewing compliance performance based on monitoring, auditing and internal and external investigations data.
Reviewing allegations of significant potential compliance issues.
Receiving reports from the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee meetings and from the Chief Compliance Officer and the Chief Legal Officer.
Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs QARA Membership Overseeing the processes by which regulatory and quality Member Meetings since attended risks relating to the Company and its operations are identified and managed.
Michael Friedman Chairman August 2014 4 4 Receiving and considering regular functional reports and Vinita Bali April 2015 4 4 presentations from the President of Global Operations, SVP of Ian Barlow October 2014 4 4 Quality Assurance and other Officers.
1 Joseph Papa April 2008 4 4 The terms of reference of the Ethics & Compliance Committee describe 1 Joseph Papa will be retiring from the Board and the Committee at the Annual GeneralMeetingtobe held on 12 April 2018. our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on our 2 Marc Owen will join the Committee on 1 March 2018. website: www.
com 2018 focus ACTIVITIES OF THE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Continue to monitor the impact of the EU General Data COMMITTEEIN2017 AND SINCE THE YEAR END ProtectionRegulation GDPR and the EU Regulations for In 2017, we held four physical meetings.
Each meeting was attended MedicalDevices MDR.
by all members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary, the Chief Conduct select reviews of the compliance programme Legal Officer, the Chief Compliance Officer, the SVP of Quality, and the inkey markets.
President of Global Operations also attended all or part of the meetings Continue to monitor progress against key compliance by invitation.
Our programme of work in 2017 included the following: February Reviewed various quality metrics including the level of complaints, the number and nature of field actions and the results of US Food andDrug Administration FDA inspections.
Noted the progress made on the Global Compliance Programme Planfor 2016 and noted the plan of action for 2017.
April Reviewed various quality metrics and approved the Global Quality Plan for 2017, noting the additional work to be done in implementing the EU Medical Devices Regulation MDR.
Reviewed the actions taken to mitigate risk in new business ventures.
70 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY OVERSIGHT OF ETHICS & COMPLIANCE July in Hull, UK Doing the right thing is part of our licence to operate.
Reviewed various quality metrics including the results of inspections Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to increasing by the FDA and Notified Bodies, progress on handling complaints and scrutiny by government authorities in many countries.
During the year, in preparing for the MDR.
we oversaw the ethics and compliance activities of our business.
Reviewed the progress being made to address findings identified by At each meeting we received a report on ethics and compliance matters the Internal Audit function.
from the Chief Compliance Officer and a legal update on these matters Received an update regarding the Companys readiness for the new from the Chief Legal Officer.
EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
We regularly review our compliance programme as it relates to healthcare professionals and third party sellers such as distributors November in Dubai, UAE and sales agents, particularly in higher risk markets.
For healthcare Reviewed various quality metrics including the results of inspections professionals, this includes policies, training and certification, as well by the FDA and Notified Bodies, progress on handling complaints and as pre-approval of consulting services and grants and fellowships.
preparations for the implementation of the MDR.
For third parties, our programme includes due diligence, contracts Reviewed the progress against the 2017 Compliance Plan of Action with compliance terms, compliance training and certification, and site and the follow up actions to findings identified in compliance audits.
assessments to check compliance controls and monitoring visits to review books and records.
At each meeting we noted and considered the activities of compliance and enforcement agencies and investigation of possible improprieties.
We ensure that comprehensive due diligence is carried out prior to an At every meeting a report on the Quality Assurance Regulatory acquisition and we ensure that following acquisitions new businesses Assurance QARA function was provided along with updates of product are integrated rapidly into the Smith & Nephew compliance programme.
complaint trends regularly discussed in 2017.
We also reviewed a report During the year, we received a report from management on the ethics on the activities of the Groups Ethics & Compliance Committee and and compliance lessons learned from our mergers and acquisitions reviewed the progress of the Global Compliance Programme.
process over the last five years.
We oversee the employee compliance training programme, ensuring OVERSIGHT OF QUALITY & REGULATORY that all new employees are trained on our Code of Conduct, which Product safety is at the heart of our business.
Regulatory authorities sets out our basic legal and ethical principles for conducting business.
across the world enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that We are updated on significant calls made to our whistle-blower line, govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, which enables employees and members of the public to contact us marketing and sale of healthcare products.
During the year, we oversaw anonymously through an independent provider where allowed by the quality and regulatory activities of our business.
At each meeting, local law and are updated on allegations of potentially significant we received a report on quality and regulatory matters from the SVP improprieties and the Companys response.
Quality and the President of Global Operations.
We reviewed the results of inspections carried out by the FDA and other regulators and monitored the progress of improvements following some of these inspections, using a dashboard, which highlighted progress being made.
We also monitored the work being undertaken to help our manufacturing sites to prepare for future inspections.
Michael Friedman Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee We requested an in-depth report from management into our complaint handling process.
This report explained our approach to complaint handling including, how we categorised different complaints, how we trained our staff to recognise and escalate complaints received by the business appropriately, and our planned and ongoing process enhancements.
We reviewed the results of quality audits undertaken during the year, approved follow up actions and monitored progress made to address these actions.
