STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS PRIORITISING RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS As a responsible operator, Tullow manages above-ground risks with thesamerigour andfocuswithwhich it manages the below-ground technical challenges of exploring forandproducing oil and gas.
Overview selection, design and construction through to commissioning, Tullow is committed to sustaining high levels of safety, operations, modifications and decommissioning.
In 2017, environmental and social performance across our operations.
Tullow undertook PSM audits for Jubilee and TEN, which To facilitate this, we have enacted mandatory policies and willbe closed out in 2018. standards to guide operational responsibility and to which In Tullows approach to PSM, lessons from earlier projects are wehold all employees and contractors accountable.
Our learnt and applied to others.
For example, the TEN project organisational structure makes clear the accountability of which came onstream in 2016 drew valuable lessons from Business Delivery Teams for operational delivery in accordance Jubilee, which have resulted in robust PSM arrangements with these requirements and the Corporate Centres accountability being well established early in the operational life of the TEN for structured and independent assurance.
There were no Tier 1 or Tier 2 process safety events continued to strengthen and clarify these policies and standards recorded at TEN or Jubilee in 2017. to ensure compliance and robust risk management at all our operational sites, among staff and contractors.
Regrettably, Tullow experienced a third-party fatality in 2017 when a pedestrian was struck by an off-duty vehicle at a town Occupational safety near to one of our locations in Kenya.
The incident was Providing a safe working environment for our staff and comprehensively investigated by Tullow.
Following this we contractors is a core value and abusiness priority.
Safe and instigated additional controls to mitigate recurrence and we sustainable performance is also incentivised through Tullows continue to work with our contractors to prevent such incidents.
Our objective is to achieve sustained top quartile safety performance and in 2017 we achieved a decrease Environment in the TotalRecordable Injuries and High-Potential Incidents Tullows environmental management approach incorporates across our operations.
Unfortunately, we also experienced Environmental and Social Impact Assessments ESIAs, fourLost Time Injuries LTIs in the course of the year, which associated Management Plans ESMPs, resource use prompted the establishment and execution of focused minimisation, waste management, protected areas management, improvement planswith our staff and contractors.
biodiversity management, greenhouse gas GHG and emissions management, and close-out decommissioning remediation.
Process Safety Management PSM Tullows total Scope 1 emissions were 1.1 million tonnes of CO e Major accident events MAEs represent a material risk to Tullow.
To address this, Process Safety Management PSM 2016: 754,338 tonnes and 127 tonnes 2016: 142 tonnes of CO e policies, standards and plans are applied to all drilling and per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon produced.
Although the total production activities and are incorporated in planning and air emissions increased by 46percent from last year, the flaring decision making throughout the project life cycle, from concept normalised by production has decreased because of increased 3.4% REDUCED SIGNED score achieved out of a 5% allocation recordable injuries in the last Memorandum of Understanding between forsafe and sustainable operations 12 months to 8 Tullow and Kenya National Police inthe Group scorecard Service, aligned with Voluntary Principles 2016: 9 on Security and Human Rights 2016: 4.1% 36 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts % of Group lost hours 1 LOST HOURS RESULTING FROM COMMUNITY STOPPAGES LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY LTIF RATES 6,000 1% 1 Los R educ t man hour ed man hour s resulting fr s resulting om 0.9 c frommunity s om community s toppages toppages 5,000 % r educed man hours compared 0.8 to total man hours Group 0.7 4,000 0.6 0.5 3,000 0.5% 0.4 2,000 0.3 0.2 1,000 0.1 0 0% 0 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 16 17 17 Tullow LTIF OGP average LTIF 2017 OGP data not available at time of publication combined production from TEN and Jubilee.
The increase in air In Ghana and Kenya, Tullow has large-scale operations which emissions is mostly accounted for by the increase in flaring at currently receive direct support from national security services.
our Ghana operations during commissioning of the TEN facility In both cases, the nature of this support is captured in a and periods of reduced capacity onshore to receive gas.
Despite Memorandum of Understanding MoU that is aligned with the the increase, all operations remain within statutory flaring limits.
Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR towhich Tullow is a signatory.
The MoU between Tullow and The quality of our ESIAs has continued to improve and reviews theKenya National Police Service was signed in July 2017. of associated management plans show an improving level of Weare also working towards VPSHR application in relation adherence to identified mitigation measures.
In Kenya and toshort-duration exploration activities.
Uganda, we have continued to collect baseline data to support operations and planned development work.
In Kenya, we have Throughout the year, we undertook a number of Crisis & recently completed a Waste Management Infrastructure Study Emergency Management preparedness exercises across the toinform development planning on waste management options.
business, which increased awareness among members of the A review of all planning to date shows alignment with IFC Crisis Management Team and in-country Incident Management Performance Standards.
Work was also completed in Kenya Teams, and which generated useful feedback for further onoption selection for sustainable water supply to full field improvements to the Crisis Management process.
development and this work has highlighted preferred options whichcontinue to be progressed.
Social Performance Building a robust social licence is fundamental to our ability to Tullow acknowledges the global threat posed by climate change operate.
Without the engaged support of our host communities, and recognises the need to reduce GHG emissions.
We accept we would be unable to undertake the technical, infrastructural our responsibility to comply with emerging climate change and logistical work associated with exploration, development legislation and regulation, and to reduce our GHG emissions as and production of hydrocarbons onshore and offshore.
Focal far as is reasonably practicable through appropriate initiatives.
areas of our Social Performance therefore include stakeholder In 2018, Tullow will be undertaking a strategic benchmarking engagement, management of community grievances and exercise to ensure that our initiatives and commitments are land sea access all led by focused Stakeholder Engagement inline with the legitimate expectations of our stakeholders.
Teams with emphasis dependent on project context and proposed activities.
Asset Protection Security, Business Continuity and Crisis & Emergency Management In Kenya, a key focus of our engagement is to aim for Free, Prior Tullows approach to Asset Protection incorporates the and Informed Consent FPIC with affected communities.
The traditional corporate security function, business continuity, E&A Stakeholder Engagement Framework is available on our andcrisis & emergency management.
Tullows ongoing focus on stakeholder identification and plans in this area are applicable to all employees and and analysis to inform the establishment broad-based and contractors.
They are designed to protect Tullows assets representative stakeholder platforms will be a key factor in people, physical assets and reputation from sources of achieving FPIC forthe development.
A development-focused potential and actual harm, while ensuring that Tullow can Land Access and Resettlement Framework has been developed rapidly adapt and respond in a resilient way to unforeseen for discussion with national and county government.
events that could impact normal business operations.
com 37 Lost hours Jan 17 Feb 17 Mar 17 Apr 17 May 17 Jun 17 Jul 17 Aug 17 Sep 17 Oct 17 Nov 17 Dec 17 LTIF per million man hours
