PEOPLE Highlights for 2017: PEOPLE ARE THE BIGGEST ASSET OF OUR New training programmes developing skills for the COMPANY.
THEY ENABLE US TO ACHIEVE digital age IMPACT BY DELIVERING VALUE TO CUSTOMERS, Maintained 83% engagement score, in top 10% globally SHAREHOLDERS AND SUPPORTING COMMUNITY Be the One campaign to increase H&S risk reporting INITIATIVES.
The pace of change in the business world and the constant pressure to adapt to new technologies means that we must be more agile than ever before.
Our employees are Priorities for 2018 constantly refreshing and updating their skills and expertise to keep pace.
Competition Further strengthen H&S for talent in the digital age is increasing and the traditional concept of a career is management programme being challenged.
Develop Doing the right thing Employees are looking for more from their careers than simply job satisfaction and so our campaign to cover wider ethics Employee Value Proposition EVP has to be competitive in the marketplace: offering fair and human rights issues rewards and recognition and opportunities for development, supporting health and wellbeing Continue development of and enabling employees to make a difference throughout their careers.
Our new five-year leadership and management People strategy tackles these issues head on, underpins our business goals and aims to capability programmes lead all our employees from the Industrial to the Digital Age.
Attracting talented people and enabling them to grow Mastering Coats digital future will require us to attract and retain a talented workforce who are totally engaged and with an energy for change.
During 2017 we have strengthened Further information on our our recruitment processes and continued our capability development programmes across the People policies is available at business.
Our new recruitment website, www.
com, contains information about www.
com people our EVP, provides an online applications process and the ability to process candidates more efficiently and cost effectively.
The impact of this is that we have delivered employment opportunity to many more people.
Since its launch we have received more than 17,000 visits to the site from over 70 countries and are continuing to receive more than 1,000 new visitors per month.
To date, we have advertised 117 vacancies via the website and received more than 150 applications as a result.
We have continued to roll out our leaders programmes Management Capability Development MCD and Transcend.
The impact of these two programmes is that we are developing both the core leadership skills needed to achieve our short-term goals and the specific skill sets that Human Rights will take the business into the next decade.
Since its launch in 2013, over 400 employees have We uphold the aims of the California completed the MCD, 118 are ongoing, and 152 new participants started their journey during Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2017.
Currently 72 leaders spread globally are enrolled on Transcend.
In support of our 2015 and publish a statement on what continual learning imperative, 2017 also saw the launch of Minerva, our new online digital we are doing to prevent modern slavery platform which provides over 700 resources, including online learning tools, videos and in our business and supply chain on tips sheets.
Respecting each other Furthermore, we support the UN It is important that Coats culture and values are evident across our business, and that we Guiding Principles on Business and provide a respectful and inclusive environment, enabling positive teamwork and the freedom Human Rights throughout all our for all individuals to grow.
At the heart of our culture is the way we treat each other and we operations.
Our global policies uphold the requirements of the UN Declaration have established a global code of ethics and conduct which is reinforced through regular of Human Rights and the Convention employee communications.
on the Rights of the Child, the core ILO Coats supports diversity and equal opportunity in the broadest sense.
As well as a focus on Conventions, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
gender diversity at senior levels, Coats has location specific programmes in place in a number of the countries in which it operates, for example supporting people with disabilities in Brazil and Bangladesh.
We actively celebrate the diversity that the Coats global family brings and are working to see this diversity reflected at all levels in the organisation supported by our global 1 Senior management: Coats employees Grade Diversity and Inclusion D&I programme.
In 2017 we had 43 nationalities represented in our 12 and above, excluding Board Directors.
senior management group, and in March 2017 we celebrated International Womens Day under the global theme #BeBoldForChange.
Nearly 150 employees across the world were nominated as internal role models for their bold work to increase gender diversity at Coats.
We also launched an online unconscious bias training programme which has been completed by more than 600 people.
16 PEOPLE CONTINUED 1 Gender diversity Number We continue to improve our performance and succession planning processes, ensuring we and % have diverse shortlists and succession pools.
We remain focused on supporting local D&I initiatives, and an example of the impact of this approach is that in 2017 our Turkey business was named as one of the top three companies in the country where working conditions show equality of opportunity for women and men.
Our seventh employee engagement survey was carried out in November 2017: this assesses how we are doing and helps to identify areas where we can do better.
We were pleased to see that our engagement score has been maintained at 83%, the same level for the past three years.
This score is 15% higher than our initial survey in 2011 and keeps us in the top 10% 2 of companies surveyed globally.
Every employee is impacted by this process as every part of the business develops and delivers action plans based on the local results of the survey.
Organisational changes taking place in 2018 will provide a short term challenge to maintaining our employee engagement score, and reinforces our commitment to the process.
Doing the right thing We operate to high ethical business and employment standards across all of our global operations and encourage a culture of openness and honesty.
Our business reputation, together with the trust and confidence of the people we do business with, is one of our most valuable assets and one which we strive to protect.
High ethical standards also make good business sense, they create value for our company, our shareholders and ultimately for society as a whole.
Our Doing the right thing campaign, launched in 2017, further embeds this into our culture, with around 20 Ethical Culture Champions acting as points of contact and support across the world.
We use our internal communications to showcase teams Employee engagement score % that demonstrate the highest standards of ethical behaviour and share best practice via our intranet.
We have zero tolerance towards exploitative employment practices and our policies and codes of practice make specific reference to the avoidance of slavery, forced or bonded labour both in our own operations and in our supply chain.
Our ethics and compliance training is tailored for different roles within the Group and we use targeted online training models for our senior managers and those with customer facing roles which is refreshed for all nominated employees every two years.
In addition, more than 700 new starters completed this online training during 2017, bringing the total who have completed this training to more than 4,500.
We reviewed our various ethics and compliance policies, including updating our Whistleblowing Policy which encourages the reporting of non-compliance with our codes of practice.
Striving for safety excellence As a global manufacturing business, maintaining high standards of Health and Safety H&S is a key priority for us.
Unfortunately, during 2017 one of our employees lost his life in a forklift accident at one of our India plants.
We take every incident on our premises very seriously and have provided help and support for the family involved.
In addition we have investigated the fatality very carefully and identified lessons that we can learn, including enhanced safety Recordable accident rate Number of accidents per 100 exclusion zones around forklift truck routes and additional procedures around contractor management.
We have also improved our H&S reporting and investigation procedures.
FTEs per year We have a comprehensive global H&S management system in place which is used by all our sites and during 2017 we have reviewed our policy and procedures.
11 of our sites are also accredited to the international H&S standard OHSAS18001 and we will be reviewing the transition to ISO 45001 during 2018.
To reinforce our commitment to H&S, we ran a global safety campaign -- Be the One - -- to stress the importanc - e that we place on keeping our people safe and to encourage our teams to improve their own performance.
One direct impact of our increased emphasis on H&S performance and reporting over the past two years has been an increased number of incidents and near misses being recorded and investigated across our estate.
Each location is targeted to reduce recordable incident rates and improve their annual H&S audit scores.
Our global total recordable injury rate reduced slightly in 2017 by 2% to 0.55 compared to 0.56 in 2016 and is 83% lower than the latest US OSHA data for textile mills of 3.2 injuries per 100 FTEs per year.
We also recognise that our employees are increasingly at risk when they are not at our sites 1 Senior management: Coats employees Grade and have observed an increasing number of commuting incidents.
We actively train our people 12 and above, excluding Board Directors to keep themselves safe when not at work and monitor H&S incidents during their commute 2 As benchmarked by IBM Kenexa, a leading specialist survey organisation.
