33 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY IS BETTER BUSINESS 2017 was a year in which our refreshed TAKING SUSTAINABILITY TO SUSTAINABILITY sustainability strategy was put into action.
THECOREOF THE BUSINESS We delivered improvements across our We began to deliver in 2017 our commitment VISIONANDMISSION traditional areas of focus: employee health to sustainability embodied in our refreshed We envision a world in which and safety, carbon emissions and water Group Sustainability Strategy.
This strategy, healthcare professionals have consumption.
In addition, we began to get approved in 2016, both drives and is driven a fuller understanding of our impacts in by implementation of the Group Business access to the solutions they the areas of material efficiency, life cycle Strategy, ensuring that all three main aspects need to help patients restore environmental impacts, and labour practices.
of sustainability economic prosperity, social their health, engage in society, We adopted a social responsibility strategy responsibility and environmental stewardship which will drive employee engagement and enhance the environment advance as one.
improve the communities in which we operate.
This is a summary report of our sustainability activities and progress in 2017.
Our annual Our sustainability strategy aims to achieve EMPLOYEE SAFETY, WELLNESS Sustainability Report, published at the this vision.
It outlines the steps well take ANDVOLUNTEERING same time as this Annual Report, describes with a view to leading our industry in the A healthy and safe working environment is the Group Sustainability Strategy and its development and use of products and fundamental to the way we work at Smith & associated goals in more detail.
It also services that: Nephew.
We must ensure that the safety of specifies targets to move our performance Satisfy unmet health needs and our employees and those who work with us towards these goals, and provides further promote greater access to treatment: is given the highest priority when we perform information regarding our 2017 progress.
our daily activities in our offices around the Offer easier, better, faster and more It is available on our website.
world, when we visit customers and in our effective treatment, enabling productive manufacturing environment.
engagement in society: GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Prioritise materials that are reused, Engagement with the communities in which Smith & Nephew has been and remains remanufactured, or recycled: we operate continued to broaden and deepen committed to working in a sustainable, through the active attention of site leadership, ethical and responsible manner everywhere Are manufactured using raw materials establishment and empowerment of local we do business.
We are proud of our sourced from an environmentally and camaraderie councils, broader application achievements over many years, as witnessed socially sound supply chain: of company-paid volunteering allowance, by our recurring inclusion in leading indices Use natural resources efficiently: and increase in the company match for such as FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Are manufactured by processes that employee donations to charity.
are not hazardous to people or the to strengthen and deepen employee wellness Sustainability is a journey, and in 2016 environment: and programmes with a focus on enabling healthy we thought deeply about our destination Implement the most sustainable lifestyle choices.
The result was a new product options.
At the heart SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our plan focuses on both the of this are ten long-term aspirational goals.
 foundational and competitive advantage These encompass all aspects of our business, In 2017, we developed and adopted a social elements required to deliver our value and will inform and drive our business strategy responsibility strategy aimed at improving proposition sustainably.
We employ a for years to come.
The Board has endorsed the alignment of our charitable donation, continuous improvement approach based these and executive management is behind volunteering, wellness and professional upon the implementation of forwardthem.
These goals are set out overleaf.
development with both our Group Business looking solutions such as investing Strategy and the needs and desires of our The Board has evaluated the social and in new materials and processes that employees.
The aim is to positively impact both environmental risks as part of their ongoing provide significant benefits with respect employee engagement and the quality of life risk management duties and has concluded to human rights, safety, energy, waste in communities in which we operate.
We have that none of these risks are material in the and or communities and bridging improved our understanding of compliance to context of the Group as a whole.
technologies to secure future gamelabour standards in our value chain, product changing performance.
Longer term goals need medium-term SMART and service attributes which are important to specific, measurable, achievable, realistic customers and our employees view of the role and timebound targets to ensure we are of the organisation in society.
In 2018, we will making the right progress.
And we have taken use these and other social success factors, such targets through 2020.
These targets informed by our Group Business Strategy are discussed in more detail in the 2017 as well as our Company values, to deploy a Sustainability Report which is available on series of platforms and actions which advance our website.
34 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY continued OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2017 Our 10 long-term aspirational goals 2020 targets Progress since 2016 Zero work-related injuries and illnesses across 10% reduction in Total Injury Rate TIR from In 2016 the TIR 0.52, in 2017 TIR 0.35 33% lower.
Water: Total water impacts of our products and Water footprint 1 available for products Products accounting for 75% of revenue identified.
2 accounting for 75% of revenue and Water footprint tools identified.
solutions are balanced with local human and 2 considerations embedded in new ecosystem needs.
Work plan under development, will be approved and product development process.
Total potable water consumption at S&N Water reduction of 10%.
sites no higher than 2016 actual.
3 Waste: All materials are either shipped as part Total material efficiency estimated for Products accounting for 75% of revenue identified.
products accounting for 75% of revenue Material efficiency tools identified.
of product or returned for beneficial use.
80% or more of waste generated reused, Work plan under development, will be approved and recycled or recovered.
We currently reuse, recycle or recover energy from 77%ofourtotal waste, up from 74% in 2016.
Carbon: 80% absolute reduction in total life Estimate total life cycle greenhouse gas Products accounting for 75% of revenue identified.
4 emissions of products accounting for 75% Total lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions cycle greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. of revenue.
Total Scope 1 & 2 greenhouse gas emissions Work plan under development, will be approved and reduced by 10% from 2016 actual.
5 Ethical Business Practices: All activities are Labour practices throughout the supply Products accounting for 75% of revenue identified.
chain associated with products accounting Gap assessment to applicable ILO conventions conducted in compliance with applicable for 75% of revenue compliant with applicable completed for internal operations.
Engagement with International Labour Organization ILO ILO conventions.
upstream suppliers and downstream distributors and conventions, involve no environmental agents ramping up.
degradation, and are free from corruption.
Zero Product-related and service-related Robust system in place to detect, record, Systems are in place to detect, record and investigate 6 investigate and eliminate root cause patient injury incidents.
Patterns in the data are being patientinjuries.
of product-related and service-related used to craft models which will allow identification of patient injuries.
Robust social responsibility programmes that Social responsibility strategy which aligns Social responsibility strategy in place.
Alignment 7 philanthropy, employee volunteering and of current initiatives to the strategy under way.
contribute to the attraction and retention of wellness to the business strategy in place.
Products and services are aligned to market Sustainability attributes described for Products accounting for 75% of revenue identified.
8 products accounting for 75% of revenue Product service sustainability attributes agreed.
economic, social and environmental Robust emphasis on sustainability attributes expectations and anticipate future market New product development NPD sustainability focus of new products services in place.
All products have identified and clearlydescribed sustainability attributes.
R&D and NPD processes deliver environmental-, social-, and healthcare  innovations.
9 Strategic risks and opportunities are Enterprise risk management arrangements Risk register reinvigorated.
Deep dive programme are embedded in the routine business instituted with focus on both assurance that all relevant understood and business activities are aligned decision-making process.
risks have been identified and effectiveness of to risk appetite.
mitigating actions is accurately assessed.
Actions to further embed into the business decision-making process are planned for 2018.
Environmental, social, and economic impacts Formal programmes in place to measure Launched our Enterprise Risk Management Policy 10 assess the economic, social and and Manual.
of 1 potential acquisitions, 2 technologies to environmental impacts of 1 potential Trained our risk champions in risk identification beextended to Emerging Markets, 3 innovative acquisitions, 2 technologies to be extended and mitigation.
business models, 4 cost-of-quality reduction to Emerging Markets, 3 innovative Introduced a product focused approach to initiatives, and 5 manufacturing siting, business models, 4 cost-of-quality risk management.
functional optimisation and site utilisation reduction initiatives, and 5 manufacturing Conducted a number of deep dives into several alternatives are fully understood and siting, functional optimisation and site key risks.
Tools and standards to address new technologies are being developed to support our NPD work above.
These targets are discussed in more detail in our 2017 Sustainability Report which is available on our website.
35 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY continued CO e REPORTING 2 GETTING SERIOUS 2017 2016 2015 ABOUT SOLAR CO e emissions tonnes from: 2 Direct emissions 9,451 9,822 11,011 Indirect emissions 76,107 82,415 77,191 Total 85,558 92,237 88,202 Intensity ratio CO e t per $m sales revenue 17.8 19.6 19.2 2 CO e t per full-time employee 5.2 5.9 6.0 2 Revenue: 2017: $4.8bn: 2016: $4.7bn: 2015: $4.6bn.
Notes 2015 data adjusted to exclude acquisitions in Russia and Colombia.
2017 data includes all data, including acquisitions since 2016.
CO e reporting methodology, materiality and scope.
In line with our aspiration to 2 reduce carbon emissions, we We report the carbon footprint of our Scope We report our emissions in two scopes.
are investing in more efficient 1 and 2 greenhouse gas GHG emissions in Scope 1 figures include: Direct sources of tonnes of CO equivalent from our business 2 energy solutions, such as emissions mainly comprise the fuels we use operations for the calendar year ended solar power.
on-site, such as gas and heating oil and 31 December 2017.
Our focus is on the areas fugitive emissions arising mainly from the of largest environmental impact including Devrukh, India losses of refrigerant gases.
manufacturing sites, warehouses, R&D sites At our Devrukh site in India, we are and offices.
Smaller locations representing Scope 2 figures include: Indirect sources of running one of our largest renewable less than 2% of our overall emissions are emissions such as purchased electricity and energy projects.
Acquisitions completed steam we use at our sites.
By installing the 426 kVA roof top solar before 2017 are included in the data, with Location-based emissions are calculated panel system, we aim to produce enough more recent ones being excluded and this in compliance with the WRI WBCSD energy to provide the site with free power is in line with our established policy for GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting for 25 years, whilst reducing carbon integration of acquired assets.
Each year we and Reporting Standard and have been emissions by up to 44% per annum.
work with an independent partner to verify calculated using carbon conversion factors We are already achieving a cost saving our sustainability data and gain assurance.
published by BEIS DEFRA for 2017.
We have of 44% per year and expect a return on Our GHG emissions reporting represents applied the emission factors most relevant investment in less than five years.
our core business operations and to the source data, including DEFRA 2017 The 1,330 solar panels will also enable facilities which fall within the scope of for UK locations, IEA 2015 for overseas us to reduce the inside temperature of our consolidated financial statements.
locations and for the US we have used the the manufacturing floor by five to ten Primary data from energy suppliers has US EPA Emissions & Generation Resource degrees celsius, creating a safer and been used wherever possible.
Integrated Database eGrid for the regions more pleasant working environment for in which we operate.
All other emission our employees.
factors for gas, oil, steam and fugitive emissions are taken from DEFRA, 2017.
Suzhou, China In April 2017, we installed 24 sets of solar water heater units on the roof of one of our buildings in Suzhou.
The system can produce around 12 tonnes of 55C hot water every day for the sites hot water system and will save 291 tonnes of steam every year.
