Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to In 2017 the Group engaged external support to help us Training and development The Board considers that the management ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and Our employees are integral to what we do and we are committed understand the challenges that exist in our organisation and from of safety, health, environment, social and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
this the Group has developed our 2018 Diversity Action Plan to providing personal development training which is designed to We have acted on feedback to improve our health and well-being under the vision Be yourself.
In 2018 ensure that all employees are able to fulfil their potential and ethical matters forms a key element of activities described below.
contribute as much as possible to the achievement of the Groups we are investing in employee resource groups to support grass effective corporate governance which in roots diversity initiatives, reviewing and making changes to our goals whilst applying the Groups values.
This is supported by a The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
The Group Performance and Capability Policy, which provides for employees talent acquisition and talent progression approaches and creating turn supports the strategy, long-term aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly or a dedicated diversity lead role within our people function.
annual objectives to be reviewed with managers on a quarterly performance and sustainability of indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic and national origins, basis, identifying training and development requirements.
sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or Health and safety During 2017, we invested 550,000 in employee training belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
We recognise the importance of health and safety and the positive programmes.
In addition to our existing online training modules benefits to the Group.
The Group has a health and safety policy Employees covering our Code of Conduct, our Customer First programme As well as being engaged, we want our employees to share in the which is communicated to all employees through a health and Moneysupermarket Group wants to be a great place to work.
and data protection which every employee is required to complete success of our business and we offer a range of benefits which safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
Passion about our mission, doing the right thing for customers, and which also forms part of the induction process for new help employees to do so.
These include both an employee Share innovation and performance are key assets for the Group and employees, we offer a suite of personal development courses, Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The Sharesave Scheme Supporting students its future success.
We have clear priorities for how we: both face to face and online which are made available to all gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in In order to build links between the Group and local schools and engage with our employees, recognising the different needs employees.
In addition to the internally curated courses, we also the Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a they have: fund employees to gain professional qualifications.
Examples of performance of the Group and alignment with shareholder number of students.
In doing so, we strive to make work create sustainable employment opportunities that attract a this include: interest.
We are delighted that those employees who joined the placements positive, challenging and relevant to participants talented and diverse range of new people into all levels of the CIA Certified Internal Auditor Qualification 2014 Sharesave invitation at an option price of 1.495 more than current studies and their future job prospects.
business: IIA Institute Internal Auditor Diploma doubled their savings at maturity in November 2017.
The Groups invest in the future to ensure each individual can perform to CIMA and AAT full range of benefits reflects the differing needs and interests of Business ethics the best of their ability: and its employees.
Particular focus is given to contributing towards Behaving ethically is an essential part of working for our Group.
It ensure we are constantly seeking to do the right things, Those enrolled on these types of courses via our Sponsored employees health and wellbeing.
is fundamental to how we do business and is vitally important to particularly in how people are treated throughout the Group.
Education Policy are fully funded for course fees and exams, in the reputation and success of our Group.
Our Code of Conduct addition to time off for study leave.
During the year we reviewed our flexible benefits provider and was last revised in 2016 and applies to all employees.
The Code We actively encourage employee involvement and consultation.
improved the range of benefits on offer as well as the ease with sets out our commitment to: There is considerable emphasis on keeping our employees Diversity which employees can take advantage of them.
These include behave ethically: informed of the Groups activities via formal business The average number of employees during 2017 was 631.
At the the opportunity to buy or sell holidays, medical cover, gym comply with relevant laws and regulations: and performance updates, monthly all employee floor briefings, end of the year, 386 of our employees were male and 270 female.
memberships, as well as benefitting from discounts on products do the right thing.
regular team meetings, CEO video blogs, the Groups intranet site In our executive management team, seven members are male and and services for the home and family life.
We also offer employees which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well one is female whilst on our Board, five of the Directors are male a variety of social and wellbeing activities ranging from circuit Our Code of Conduct also confirms we respect and uphold as Group policies, and the circulation to employees of relevant and two female.
training and spinning classes to pilates and massage.
Annual social internationally proclaimed human rights principles as specified in: information including corporate announcements.
This helps to events include the football tournament and summer and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial Christmas parties.
Recognising that employees can require advice Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work ILO Convention : and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group as Employees Executive management and support for a range of personal and professional reasons, and well as key initiatives.
Team a free comprehensive employee assistance programme is also the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Group also has a wide variety of flexible working In addition we have an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy for arrangements in place.
41% 13% suppliers and a separate one for employees.
Training is provided to all employees on issues of modern slavery in conjunction with the Code of Conduct e-learning module.
We have a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and we are committed to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business dealings and relationships and to 59% 87% implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls to ensure modern slavery is not taking place anywhere in our own business or in any of our supply chains.
We published our first Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement in March 2017 and this can be viewed on our website at http: corporate.
Board of Directors Senior leadership Team excluding Executive management We also have anti-bribery, competition law and whistleblowing policies which incorporate the Groups key principles and standards governing business conduct towards our key stakeholder groups.
29% 36% We believe we should treat all of these groups with honesty and integrity.
Our Anti-Bribery Policy is supported by clear guidelines and processes for giving and accepting gifts and hospitality from third parties.
Our in-house legal team advise on the level of due diligence required prior to entering into contracts with third parties and 71% 64% the form of anti-bribery clauses required in agreements.
Our whistleblowing policy is supported by an external, confidential reporting hotline which enables employees of the Group to raise concerns in confidence.
Femal e Investment in employee Mal e training 550,000 Inca Trail Trek: Employees took part in the Inca Trail Trek to raise funds for Shelter and Shelter Cymru.
com Group PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its The Group launched a volunteering scheme in October 2011 Tax policy Total CO e by emission type in 2017 2 Our Group is guided by its vision to help households save money.
employees continue to select and support a Charity of the Year on through which the Group supports a total of 60 volunteering days an annual basis.
The 2017 Charity of the Year was the Shelter per year to help those who are less fortunate, and thereby make a We believe that our business makes a valuable contribution to UK Cymru and Shelter England and Scotland.
Shelter helps millions of valuable contribution to our local community.
During the year society and we are proud to have helped nearly eight million families save an estimated 2 billion on their household bills in people every year struggling with bad housing or homelessness employees volunteered in a diverse range of activities and also 4.2% through their advice, support and legal services.
And they took part in the sponsored Inca Trail Trek 2017.
2017, by finding a better deal on their energy, insurance and banking products.
campaign so that, one day, no one will have to turn to them for help.
Shelter exists so no one has to fight bad housing or MoneySavingExpert has also continued to donate to The homelessness on their own.
As part of the new partnership, we MoneySavingExpert Charity, which is a grant giving charity Alongside this, we want to make our contribution to the communities that our customers live in by paying the right amount will be raising valuable funds to support the delivery of Shelters dedicated to improving information and education about debt, Digital Advice Service in England and Scotland.
The web chat money and consumer issues with 60,000 donated in 2017.
In 95.8% of tax, at the right time.
facility, which allows people struggling with bad housing and addition to this, MoneySavingExpert supported a number of homelessness to discuss their situation within a safe and secure charities including ShelterBox, CAP UK and the Samaritans with We are committed to acting with integrity and transparency in online environment, is currently funded entirely by voluntary donations totalling a further 30,000. all tax matters.
We will not support proposals to reduce our tax cost through implementing artificial structures but we will seek income.
The Groups financial support during 2017 will cover the Electricity, heat, steam time for Shelters qualified and experienced advisers to provide to structure commercial transactions in an efficient and legitimate Environment and cooling purchased way.
A copy of our tax strategy is available at support and advice to almost 5,000 people.
Over the course of Our Environmental Policy is intended to demonstrate our for own use the year the Groups employees raised 41,734 for Shelter with http: corporate.
commitment to ensuring Moneysupermarket Group considers the Group also donating 30,993 bringing the total donated to environmental and sustainability issues in all parts of its Shelter during the year to 72,727.
Combustion of fuel and Communities and charities operations and business activities.
We seek to progressively reduce our environmental impact in all aspects of our operations operation of facilities We seek to make a positive difference by being an active by minimising and making efficient use of resources.
The Group contributor to the communities that we operate within.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 and has has implemented the following initiatives to support this aim: the installation of solar panels at our Ewloe office resulting in continued to develop during 2017.
The initiative is focused on Greenhouse gas GHG emissions providing support to charities and community groups located energy savings of approximately 26,660 kwh during 2017: Tonnes of CO e 2 the installation of four electric vehicle charging bays at our within a few miles of the Groups office in Ewloe, so support is Emissions from: 2017 2016 Ewloe office: targeted primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
Combustion of fuel and the continued replacement of energy efficient bulbs with operation of facilities 31.5 24.4 higher efficiency LEDs: A volunteer group of employees meets regularly to review requests for donations and to allocate funds according to agreed the replacement of all external lighting with higher efficiency Electricity, heat, steam and cooling LEDs: and donation guidelines.
Employees are also active in researching and purchased for own use 710.9 734.7 the recycling, via one of our suppliers, of waste oil from our seeking out local good causes that the Group can help support.
Companys chosen intensity The initiative has been effective at harnessing the energy and on-site catering into useful products such as biofuels.
measurement: tonnes of CO e enthusiasm of the Groups employees to benefit the communities 2 per m revenue 2.25 2.39 within which it operates.
The Group estimates that during 2017 it recycled on average over 96.95% of its commercial waste.
In 2016 the Group made 6,000 per quarter available for the Community initiative.
This funding has been channelled via the Greenhouse gas GHG' emissions Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas Employees held a car wash day to raise money for Shelter and donations to registered charities.
emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Shelter Cymru.
The methodology used to Over the course of the year the Group has supported over 40 calculate our emissions is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate charities and community groups including: Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
Allsorts Preschool We have included emissions from both our owned and leased Citizens Advice assets for which we are responsible.
Emissions are predominantly Superkids from gas combustion and electricity use at our offices and data Wizz kids centres.
We have reported on all material emission sources which Buckley Gymnastics we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Emission factors are West Coast Crash Rugby from UK government conversion factor guidance current for the St John Ambulance year reported.
Friends of Penarlag Mold Community Hospital In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a Flitshire Downs Syndrome Association quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have used Buckley Amateur Swimming Club revenue as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of Meirionnydd Special Riding Group our growth and is aligned with our business strategy.
Afasic, St Asaph Manor House School Parents of Autisim, Wrexham Pentre Gwyn, Tanycoed And Coed Y Bryn Community Association Advanced Brighter futures mental health Wrexham Disability Football Club Rhosnesni Netball Club Flintshire Young Carers Total donated 138,000 to charitable causes by the Group in 2017 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
