Strategic report PEOPLE AND CULTURE Talent and collaborative thinking At Man Group, we believe in the importance of a meritocratic workplace, where success is based on talent, commitment, diligence and teamwork.
By celebrating diversity, we seek to challenge consensus and foster healthy debate, which we believe makes us a better and more innovative business for our clients.
Above all, we seek to attract and retain the best people, and to ensure everyone at Man Group has the opportunity to reach their full potential: nothing should get in the way of that.
Recruitment and retention Entry level hiring, conducted through our graduate analyst and internship programmes, enables us to identify promising employees at the start of their careers, and to nurture talent within the firm over time.
The continued success of our investment management analyst and internship programmes, which have been running for a number of years, has led us to expand the breadth of our entry level hiring programmes.
In 2017, alongside the seven analysts who joined our investment management graduate programme, we took on four analysts as the initial cohort for our finance and operations analyst programme.
We have also launched a sales associate programme, targeting the appointment of junior sales executives in both London and Pfffikon.
We continue to be committed to promoting talented individuals within the firm, offering progressive and varied career paths for Employees Internal transfers Focus on talent and our people.
In 2017, we made a number of commitment to diversity significant internal promotions, specifically the appointment of co-CEOs and COO 1,325 92 Hiring, developing and retaining talent of Man AHL, COO of Communications & at all levels is a long term business goal Marketing, and CEO and COO of Man FRM.
Nationalities Employee and therefore is a key focus area for working at Man turnover We also operate a global mobility programme, our executive team.
which enables us to meet specific business needs within given markets or business areas, We also believe that by celebrating 59 7.8% while offering international placements and diversity and building an inclusive transfers to our staff.
In 2017, a number of individuals participated in the programme, working environment, we encourage which provides our people with the opportunity original and collaborative thinking with to broaden their international experience as well multiple and differing perspectives as enhancing collaboration across the firm.
which position us to deliver results for our clients.
Encouraging diversity and Key strategic external hires for the year, complementing the talent within our business, inclusion is therefore fundamental to included the appointments of a director of achieving our business strategy.
trading and several senior sales staff in the UK, the US, and Asia.
At the start of 2017, the completion of the acquisition of Aalto Invest now Man GPM and subsequent successful on-boarding process additionally enabled us to integrate new private markets expertise in the UK, Switzerland and the US.
36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Staff Positive engagement score of 7.5 out of 10 Survey Increased response rate to 83% from 77% 2017 for previous survey in 2015 Improvement in low scoring areas from 2015 survey reward, recognition, growth In the context of Britains withdrawal from the Our remuneration policies and practices are Employee engagement European Union, we are committed to ensuring designed to enable us to remain competitive that we provide every support to those of our in the increasingly global markets in which To ensure that Man Groups employees are workforce who are EU nationals working in the we operate and are benchmarked annually.
aware of business priorities and the latest UK.
During the year, we ran advisory sessions at Remuneration includes combinations of salary, developments across the firm, they receive a both individual and group levels for EU citizens, annual performance bonus and deferred range of communications and information.
and we will continue to offer assistance to our share or fund awards, alongside non-cash EU national employees and their families.
The bonus deferral arrangement is We share an email newsletter with all the best talent from around the world, including a key mechanism for aligning our employees employees on a daily basis, run a programme the EU, is fundamental to our business and we with Man Groups long term performance, of presentations from executives across the remain committed to continuing to do so.
We and so aligning their interests with those of firm, called the business education series, are active participants in various industry our clients and shareholders.
During 2017 we and host business unit town-halls and internal forums, liaising with the UK Government and once again offered our UK-based employees Man Group results presentations.
In addition, closely monitoring immigration updates in the opportunity to participate in the Man when travelling across our international office relation to their potential impact on our Group Sharesave Scheme at the maximum network, Executive Committee members workforce.
We support the UK Governments limit and discount allowed by HMRC.
regularly host employee update events, stated goals of allowing EU citizens and their maximising the opportunity to engage families to remain in the UK when the UK leaves with staff members with whom they may Development the EU, and ensuring that it is straightforward for not have regular in-person contact.
Alongside the annual review process, which them to apply for settled status in the UK.
is a valuable opportunity for the exchange In accordance with our business principles, of feedback on performance and career Voluntary turnover remains low across the firm, we are dedicated to ensuring that Man progression, our ongoing succession planning supported by our ongoing retention-focused Group is a great place to work, where people process is also critical.
Succession planning activities, including regular performance know that success and achievements are facilitates the identification of key talent evaluations, succession planning processes, based solely on merit.
In support of this, we throughout the business, enabling us to focus and a commitment to promoting career introduced employee recognition awards resources on supporting and developing development and internal transfers and during 2017, to recognise those individuals our people and mitigating continuity risk.
We seek to make Man Group a who go above and beyond their day-to-day Talent management within the firm is supported progressive place to work, where talented staff responsibilities in service of the business.
The by a dedicated resource, focused on developing are continually learning and developing in their award winners are announced by CEO Luke our workforce to be the best they can be.
In areas of expertise with access to opportunities Ellis to the firm, celebrating the contribution addition to our global mobility programme, across the firm.
of those individuals who are recognised.
development activity during 2017 included a range of technical, professional and soft-skills Some organic growth means Man Group total In 2017, we placed a particular focus on training programmes.
Our bite size soft skills headcount, including contractors and employee well-being activities, running a modules continue to be popular, with over 100 consultants, has increased from 1,257 at number of events and implementing changes people attending at least one module during 31 December 2016 to 1,325 at 31 December in order to enhance our offering in this area.
We have also provided one-on-one 2017.
The ratio of support function employees to Across the firm, we recognise the pressures executive coaching to several key individuals front office employees remains approximately of juggling work and personal commitments within the firm, and run various mentoring one to one, which we believe is in line with so have introduced a number of supporting programmes, including tailored mentoring for industry best practice.
initiatives, including celebrating Work-Life apprentices and returners who have taken a Week with a variety of events and awarenesscareer break.
We also offered onsite cancer checks and benefits roadshows.
In the US, we Employees are empowered to take ownership undertook a large scale review of our benefits of their own development, including selecting broking arrangements which resulted in a appropriate training opportunities, with an change of broker and a marked improvement allocated annual budget, as well as taking in the wellness offering for staff.
We also offer up opportunities to gain broader experience flexible working arrangements for all staff, to outside of their Man Group roles.
For example, help ensure that we support employees with we actively encourage staff members to speak balancing their external commitments, as at relevant industry conferences and seminars, well as recognising the importance of offering or accept invitations to participate in panels, in enhanced maternity leave across all our global order to expand their expertise and engage as locations, regardless of local practice.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 37 Strategic report PEOPLE AND CULTURE CONTINUED As part of our D&I focus, we are committed People by function % Man Groups culture is to achieving a better balance between based on mutual respect for male and female employees across the December 2013 30 18 52 business, and particularly at senior levels.
others, a commitment to We are pleased to see visible progress this December 2014 17 52 31 year, with a higher proportion of female prioritising diversity and December 2015 33 15 52 executives in senior management roles in inclusion, and a zero 2017 versus previous years, however we December 2016 32 15 53 recognise that there is still much further to go.
tolerance approach to December 2017 35 14 51 Overall gender balance across the business discrimination of any kind remains a challenge for us, as it does for many other financial services organisations.
Investment management Luke Ellis Sales and Marketing Chief Executive Officer Man Group has met the requirement for Infrastructure and support employers in the UK to calculate and publish their gender pay gap, a measure designed We are pleased to report that our 2017 to show the difference between the average Staff by gender Male Female employee survey recorded a positive earnings of men and women across an Total workforce 2017 engagement score of 7.5 out of 10 alongside an organisation.
Man Groups gender pay 7 953 2 372 28 increased response rate of 83%, compared with gap statistics, available in full at www.
Senior managers 2017 77% for the previous survey in 2015.
We sought com, demonstrate the lower representation 39 feedback from executives across the firm and 80 152 of women in investment management roles use this information to inform the initiatives we and at senior levels within the firm.
We are Board of directors 2017 undertake to continually enhance Man Group committed to addressing this, and continue 82 9 18 2 as a place to work.
to make significant efforts both to encourage the pipeline of female talent at the firm and in Total workforce 2016 the broader industry, and to support women Diversity & Inclusion 891 364 within the firm or those returning to work.
Senior managers 2016 Man Groups culture is based on mutual We recognise that we must take further respect for others, a commitment to prioritising 149 29 action, through the initiatives articulated in diversity and inclusion, and a zero tolerance this section, to foster better gender diversity Board of directors 2016 approach to discrimination of any kind.
By particularly in senior and front office roles.
9 1 celebrating diversity in all its forms, and building an inclusive working environment, We are focused on increasing female we believe that we encourage original and participation in our graduate programme, in We place great importance on the development collaborative thinking, and so position order to grow the pipeline of female talent of women at all levels within the firm, to ensure ourselves to deliver results for our clients.
that will reach senior roles in future.
We were they reach their full potential to progress to delighted to see progress in this area in 2017, senior roles.
Our female mentoring programme Alongside our existing senior Diversity & including an entirely female intake onto our new actively identifies high-potential women within Inclusion D&I steering group, we have now finance and operations graduate programme.
the firm, pairing them with individual mentors introduced a larger D&I working group, with the As part of our efforts to support and encourage from Man Groups Executive Committee to intention of further driving the implementation female talent in the potential pipeline for financial support their professional development, share of D&I initiatives.
Both groups are focused services careers, we are also planning targeted expertise and act as a senior sounding-board.
across the diversity spectrum, and we have campaigns and initiatives to work with schools During the year, we also successfully continued also united our activity in this area under the and education providers to encourage greater our partnership with Women Returners, with umbrella of DRIVE, which now acts as the diversity on university courses which lead to the aim of tapping into the predominantly global network for all of the firms D&I initiatives, careers in quantitative finance, as well as female talent pool of professionals seeking and is supported by a dedicated section on recruiting from non-traditional backgrounds.
to return to work following a career break.
the Man Group employee intranet covering For a number of years, Man Group has also Through this partnership, we are able to our vision in this area, as well as relevant sponsored the UK team at the European identify suitable candidates as well as providing events and resources.
We are also actively Girls Mathematical Olympiad and activities them with tailored mentoring and support.
connecting with peer organisations to learn and such as the NSPCCs Number Day, the largest We are confident that, with the right support, share experiences in relation to D&I activity.
nationwide numeracy event for children and more highly-qualified women will return young people in the UK, to encourage female to work and progress to or take up senior participation in STEM subjects.
Our pilot programme in 2016 resulted in a permanent hire into one of Man GLGs investment management teams.
In 2017, we offered two returner placements within our technology group and are delighted that both individuals have secured permanent roles.
38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Business principles Our business principles are designed to distil and define the firms key priorities, focus and culture.
Performance First, foremost and always we focus on achieving superior risk-adjusted performance Clients Our clients are at the heart of everything we do Encouraging a diverse workforce relies on to see increased diversity in our graduate and attracting, hiring and retaining diverse talent.
internship applications as a result of these Through our hiring processes, we seek to collaborative efforts.
In the US, we partner with Excellence consider applications from as diverse a pool the Young Womens Leadership Network in New of candidates as possible, and during 2017 York and are looking into additional partnerships Good is not enough, we strive to be we therefore engaged with all our recruitment following the launch of our US Charitable Trust.
excellent in all we do agency suppliers to encourage them to put forward more female candidates for Apprenticeship programmes continue to be a way opportunities at Man Group.
Particularly for for us to show our commitment to tackling youth those areas within our business where women unemployment in London and broadening our Responsibility are most under-represented and where we access to young people who may not otherwise We expect our people to do the right have the most significant hiring requirements, have considered a career in financial services.
recruitment partners are required to meet Through offering apprenticeships, we provide thing and conduct our business with minimum proportions of female candidates put young people with an opportunity to complete the highest standards of integrity forwards on a quarterly basis.
Starting from a qualification whilst gaining valuable work 2018 initially in the UK, we will be monitoring experience.
Our partnership with City Gateway the impact of this pilot policy, and assessing in this area has flourished since 2013 and we our recruitment partnerships accordingly.
currently have our fourth cohort of apprentices Differentiation on board within technology, operations and We seek to be differentiated and Beyond encouraging applications from a diverse commercial management.
To date, we have pool of applicants, we seek to ensure that all provided over a dozen apprenticeships, and two original in our thinking candidates globally experience a fair and of our apprentices have secured permanent roles inclusive recruitment process at the firm.
We are also exploring offering the year, we worked to put in place a process, apprenticeships at a more senior level, as a implemented at the start of 2018, whereby all means of offering those with more experience Meritocracy candidates receiving offers from the firm globally additional training and development opportunities.
We succeed through talent, must be interviewed by a diverse interview commitment, diligence and panel, comprised of employees of more than Man Group is committed to providing equal one gender.
The feedback of all panellists is employment opportunities and discrimination teamwork taken into account, and particularly where the by any individual on the grounds of age, feedback from a minority gender group is disability, gender, race, religion, sexual markedly different to that provided by the orientation or educational background is not majority gender group, further discussion tolerated.
Full and fair consideration is given will be required before any offer is issued.
by Man Group to all employment applications, i More on page 49 including from disabled people, considering We have a number of other partnerships in place their aptitudes and abilities.
The Company which feed into our broader D&I agenda.
In the ensures that disabled persons are fairly treated UK, to increase our access to candidates from in respect of training and career development.
under-represented backgrounds, we work with For those who become disabled during their SEO London, an organisation which provides employment, reasonable adjustments are made educational support and career access, and and ongoing support is provided as required MBTN, a recruitment agency with network of to enable the individual to continue working.
female and ethnic minority candidates, We i hosted an on-site masterclass for 20 SEO See page 64 for the Nomination Committees diversity policy candidates during the year, and we continue Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 39
