Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We commit to pursue the highest standards possible Protecting the environment Our corporate responsibility strategy is to pursue and Whilst our environmental impact is relatively evidence where possible the high standards of behaviour, limited, we strive to deliver clear and transparent reporting that makes sense of the measurable both corporate and individual, which underpin our reputation elements within our control and respond to external risk and expectations.
We look to take and maintain the trust and loyalty of our key stakeholders.
all practicable and economic measures to We focus on six key areas of corporate responsibility: conserve and reduce energy consumption at our offices around the world.
We monitor our impacts using Credit 360, a system that measures relevant data and generates reports which provide practical guidance in identifying our impacts and managing their reduction.
Anti-bribery and corruption Man operates in multiple jurisdictions globally and as such is either subject to or is required to comply with various anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations.
Man takes its anti-bribery and corruption obligations very seriously and has implemented a Group-wide anti-bribery and corruption programme designed to comply with all applicable anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations including the US Foreign Corruption Practices Act 1977 and the UK Bribery Act 2010.
The programme includes policies, procedures and controls designed to prevent and detect bribery and corruption, including know your customer, due diligence and enhanced due diligence checks: procedures to prevent, detect and report suspicious activity: train employees and issue red flags: and undertake politically exposed persons PEPs screening.
World class governance and risk endorsed by the PRI that have developed to management accommodate increasingly diverse investment Risk factors that are considered include country, Man Group strives to deliver the highest approaches.
Man Group is also a founding business activity, adverse information, adverse standards of governance and risk management.
signatory of the Standards Board for Alternative media and sanctions.
Man is committed to We have long recognised the importance of Investments SBAI, of which Luke Ellis, CEO of conducting its business with honesty and corporate governance practices that help Man Group, is a Trustee.
The SBAI was fully integrity and complying with all applicable to ensure effective oversight and strong established in 2008 as a guardian to the anti-bribery and corruption laws.
With our scale, we are well Standards with the goal of creating a framework accordingly also expects those who provide positioned to implement and manage these for promoting integrity, transparency and good services to us or who work on our behalf to have practices effectively across our business, governance in the industry.
Further details the same commitment, wherever in the world as we strive to deliver industry leading regarding Man Groups approach and they are doing business.
commitment to responsible investment are outlined on page 41.
Slavery and human trafficking Responsibilities to our market place Man Group is committed to ensuring that Man Group is committed to the highest Contributing to our communities modern slavery does not exist within our standards of ethical conduct and actively We are very conscious of the impact of our supply chains or any part of our business.
supports collaboration of the investment organisation on our community and have taken Man Group has a zero tolerance approach management industry in developing and steps to ensure we are contributing positively to slavery and human trafficking and we committing to standards of responsible to those around us.
Man Group is actively expect all those in our supply chain to investment.
Man Group is a signatory to involved in charitable initiatives and volunteering comply with those values.
Man Group will not the United Nations-supported Principles of opportunities local to the firms offices through support or deal with any business knowingly Responsible Investment, which recognises the its ManKind Programme and through the Man involved in slavery or human trafficking.
continued importance of the best practices Charitable Trust which sponsors many literacy and numeracy initiatives as outlined on page 42.
Please refer to our website, www.
com, for our full Modern Slavery Transparency Statement.
40 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017
