STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Positive Places Our sustainability vision is to create retail destinations that deliver net positive impacts economically, socially and environmentally.
In 2017 we continued to implement our sustainability vision with Our BREEAM Outstanding, carbon neutral further reductions in carbon emissions across the portfolios and retail park opened this year at Elliotts Field, improvements in carbon intensity, one of our corporate KPIs.
illustrates what can be achieved through Thisyear we set a new target for the business to become net positive innovation, collaboration and ambition for carbon emissions, resource use, water and socio-economic impacts by 2030 see page 43.
This is a significant increase in ambition and Louise Ellison, Group Head of Sustainability will require us to expand on our achievements to date.
However, the challenge has already inspired impressive results from the teams, including our BREEAM Outstanding Retail Park at Elliotts Field.
More details on our Net Positive targets and how we will achieve them and on our sustainability strategy and performance are available in Our 2017 Sustainability Highlights our 2017 Sustainability Report and on our website.
Delivered the worlds first BREEAM Outstanding, carbon neutral retail For more information view our website park at Elliotts Field, Rugby www.
Developed the second zero energy Costa Coffee EcoPod at Parc Tawe, Swansea Our Positive Places strategy Managed exposure to Minimum Five core commitments underpin our work to create more Energy Efficiency Standards MEES positive places, each with their own set of targets, actions and keyprogrammes.
risk out of the UK portfolio Challenge and innovate Installed additional 910kWp clean Challenging the status quo and trialling new solutions to electricity capacity transition to a more sustainable business model.
Achieved 3% improvement in the Protect and enhance carbon intensity of the business, one Minimising resource consumption and delivering of our corporate KPIs restorative projects to protect our environment.
Recycled 73% of waste across our UK, Upskill and inspire France and Ireland portfolios Investing in and rewarding our people to encourage change in line with sustainability related objectives.
Supported over 100 people with skills training and into employment at our Partner and collaborate shopping centres A stakeholder-led approach to create collaborative projects and evolve from client to partner.
Supported over 70 business start-ups in France and 400 entrepreneurs in Serve and invest the UK through Initiative France and Delivering social value to the communities we serve, Pop-Up Business.
measured in jobs, skills, civic pride and investment.
COM 41 Sustainability review continued Responding to our material issues Positive Places, our sustainability strategy, is designed to ensure our sustainability work focuses on our material issues - those areas that have the most significant impact on our operations and where we can bring about the most effective change.
Materiality studies carried out in 2010 and 2014 identified energy security and demand: waste management and resource use: and community engagement as three of the most important areas of focus for us.
An overview of our progress in these areas is set out below.
Full details of our annual and five-year sustainability targets and progress against them is set out in our Sustainability Report.
Targets, data and performance reported here and within our Sustainability Report are independently assured by JLL Upstream and Deloitte.
Our mandatory GHG reporting is set out on page 191 of this report.
Strategic Energy security and Waste management and Community engagement Priority demand resource use Rising demand for electricity is placing Waste management and resource use Nurturing strong links with our What this unprecedented pressure on the UK generate significant costs for the communities directly supports the long means electricity supply infrastructure.
This business and for our retailers and are term success of our assets, while the presents risks of short and medium key contributors to climate change, investment that accompanies our centres term price rises, secure supply or depletion of scarce resources and loss of leads to significant local employment and brown outs, and potential for further biodiversity.
Continued to focus on reducing our Increased focus on recycling Published a socio-economic footprint What we energy demand through management and re-use and trialled two new study for the business illustrating the did in 2017 and targeted investment in technology technologies for organic waste positive socio-economic impact our assets such as LED lighting and solar PV.
BioWhale and BioHiTech Waste have within the local economy and the digester.
cumulative impact they have nationally.
Managed our exposure to MEES risk out of the UK portfolio in a timely and Continued to monitor regulatory risk Maintained portfolio-wide programme of cost effective way, supporting tenant including changes to the international community engagement activities focused cost savings and minimising disruption market for recycled plastics to ensure on employment and skill, young people, to transactions.
health and well-being and regeneration.
7% reduction in electricity demand 73% recycling achieved.
Invested 2 million in work with Outcomes generating savings of over 400k for 476 local community groups and 5,720 tonnes organic waste to anaerobic retailers and JV partners.
Generating approximately 150mWh on Supported 100 people with training 23 of 29 directly managed centres site clean electricity producing 9% yield and into work through employment achieved 100% diversion of waste on cost at Westquay, Southampton.
Managed all short term EPC risk out of Gave over 900 young people exposure the portfolios ahead of implementation to business skills training through local of MEES regulations.
projects such as Education Business Partnership Barnet and Braveheart in Glasgow.
Chart 17 Chart 18 Table 19 Electricity demand for Savings and income from waste Community contributions 1 landlordservices mWh management 000 2,743 2,674 2,709 2017 2016 455 32,733 582 29,311 Direct contributions 269 29,277 2,641 000 2,223 2,197 2,333 2,039 Indirect contributions 37,823 35,725 000 260 629 34,254 Total beneficiaries number 476 434 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 UK shopping centres Savings from avoided landll tax French shopping centres Income from sale of waste UK retail parks 1.
Includes directly managed assets owned continuously for the three years from January 2015.
See our 2017 Sustainability Report for more details on our basis of reporting for our environmental targets.
42 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Our Net Positive objective To be Net Positive we must put more back into our environment and our society than we take out.
We aim to achieve this by 2030, with clear five year targets to ensure we remain on track.
Carbon Water Net Positive means carbon emissions avoided exceed Net Positive means water replenished by external emissions generated.
Our target for 2020 is to avoid projects exceeds water consumed from mains supply.
3 oroffset 31,000mt CO e. Our target for 2020 is to avoid 395,000m of potable 2 3 water demand.
We have achieved 41,500m to date.
In 2017 we: Reduced our Net Positive carbon emissions by 9% In 2017 we: against the 2015 baseline Installed rainwater harvesting at Elliotts Field, Rugby Offset 52 tonnes of carbon emissions through on-site clean electricity generation Worked with the Brent Cross design team to reduced operational water demand within the future Installed renewable capacity sufficient to offset a Brent Cross, London development further 192 tonnes of carbon emissions each year Trialled extremely low-water flush toilets at In 2018 we plan to: The Oracle, Reading Install additional renewable electricity capacity In 2018 we plan to: Continue to reduce emissions from energy demand Roll out a utilities metering that will significantly Explore potential significant offset programmes improve our ability to manage water demand Explore opportunities for expanding rainwater Resource use harvesting across the portfolio Net Positive means waste avoided, recycled or re-used exceeds materials used that are neither recycled, Socio-economic renewable or sent to landfill.
Net Positive means making a measurable positive In 2017 we: impact on socio-economic issues relevant to our local Diverted 8,000 tonnes of demolition waste from communities beyond a measured baseline.
landfill In 2017 we: Replaced 38 tonnes of steel with Forest Stewardship Calculated our socio-economic impact revealing Council FSC Certified timber at our Elliotts Field that our assets support over 40,000 full-time jobs, Phase 2 development at Rugby 82% of them local to the asset Diverted 5.5 tonnes of clothes hangers from waste Created asset-specific dashboards of key local issues into re-use or recycling In 2018 we plan to: In 2018 we plan to: Continue our programme of portfolio-wide Review the use of materials in the Brent Cross, community engagement initiatives London design to reduce resource impacts Expand our clothes hanger re-use partnership across our centres Continue to improve recycling rates ESG Benchmarking scores Table 20 2017 2016 FTSE4Good Sustainalytics 91 82 Green Star 4 Green Star 4 GRESB Score 77 Score 68 DJSI 63 69 Oekom Prime Prime CDP BB Carbon Clear FTSE 100 12 99 14 99 EPRA sBPR Reporting Gold Award Gold Award HAMMERSON.
COM 43 Sustainability review continued A portfolio with positive social impacts Our True Value of Retail research, published in June 2017, reveals the The Teenage Market offers a free platform for young people scale of impact that well managed retail assets make on local economies.
to showcase their creative talents by providing an opportunity to sell products such as arts and crafts, For more information on our employee engagement jewellery, clothing etc.
in a market style environment at one work see the sustainability pages of our website.
In 2017, we expanded the delivery of our Teenage Market events to new locations including Croydon and Southampton, providing a total of 117 stalls.
Jobs Jobs to Jobs to created local people under 25s 40,000 82% 48% Annual Taxes from Business rates wages employment generated 800m 300m 250m Estimated attributable inward investment 2.4bn Supporting young people and enterprise We continue our cross-portfolio relationship with Initiative France and Pop-Up Business in the UK and Ireland.
Initiative France supported over 70 entrepreneurs to set up enterprises at Italie Deux I joined The Teenage Market a year and Les 3 Fontaine, Cergy in Paris, in 2017. ago.
Being one of the younger traders Pop-Up Business runs two-week business skills workshops and I was quite anxious as to how my seminars for anyone with a business idea to help them get started.
small range of crafts would be In 2017 Pop-Up Business supported over 400 individuals with received, but I was instantly made to workshops and seminars and provided an opportunity to trade in our feel welcome and have always shopping centres.
This led to over 100 small business being started.
I really We extended our relationship with The Teenage Market in 2017 with appreciate the opportunity to seven events organised at three of our UK centres.
117 market stalls participate in The Teenage Market, were run by young people often getting their first taste of trading.
and I love to see peoples reactions to Developments with positive impacts what I have made.
My confidence, on individuals organisational and social skills have Westquay South pre-employment training provided to 140 increased, all of which will help me in long-term unemployed people.
Cyfarthfa Retail Park 600 full-time equivalent retail jobs, 95% of employees are local residents, 57% under 25 and 35% previously Ella Whitworth unemployed.
Leeds Teenage Market trader Six Community groups funded through the Elliotts Field Retail Park Community Grants Fund.
44 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Community Day 2017 Employee Engagement Our ever popular Community Days ran throughout the business in The Butterfly Bank platform continues to work as a very effective 2017 with 297 staff in the UK and Ireland and 117 staff in France means of engaging staff across the business in sustainability and in participating.
27 different activities were arranged, all designed to volunteering activities.
It raises awareness, in a fun but practical way, make a positive impact.
Whether it was erecting fences, painting walls, of what each of us can do to support a more sustainable way of living.
inspiring children to participate in sport or collecting food for a food This seems to be engaging people very effectively with the idea that bank, there was plenty for people to get involved with.
Just one they can do things that make a difference.
For example over 500 meat event with Sports Inspired kept 200 Barnet school children, and free Mondays have been inspired since April.
This equates to over a 29 Hammerson people, busy for a day playing a range of different year of meat free days, saving almost two tonnes of carbon.
sports many for the first time.
We have also continued to use the Butterfly Bank platform to Volunteers from our new office and centre teams in Dublin spent their encourage our people to participate in a wide range of volunteering first Community Day experiencing various tasks from sorting out opportunities.
We have successfully extended the platform to our Lego pieces and painting in Barretstown to going out on to the streets suppliers with 16 contractor teams from seven of our centres now in Dublin to provide aid for the homeless.
actively involved in volunteering and personal sustainability initiatives.
In addition to Community Day, 2,227 hours of volunteering The centre teams also organised a range of events, with some centres were contributed by Hammerson UK and Ireland people in 2017. running activities over a week.
Community Day remains a popular annual fixture with our people.
Our many new starters each year are often surprised by the enthusiasm the business shows for this event, For more information on our employee engagement but the results in terms of team and relationship building, well-being work see the sustainability pages of our website.
and reaffirming the importance of our culture and values are validated each year.
Hammerson volunteers give a womens refuge in Barnet a home Our Brent Cross team clean up the river Brent June 2017 and garden makeover June 2017 Key numbers: Key numbers: 414 27 3,913 571 of Hammerson different events hours of volunteering meat free Mondays people participated achieved HAMMERSON.
