Strategic report CHARITABLE TRUST Registered charity no: 275386 The focus of the Man Charitable Trust for 2017 has been on how we engage staff and expand our charitable focus across the regions.
While continuing the core grant-giving focus of supporting charities that demonstrate an improvement in literacy and numeracy skills in the UK, the Man Charitable Trust the Trust also focused on increasing employee volunteering and engagement across all regions in 2017.
As Man Group expands, particularly in the United States, there has been significant effort to reflect this in the firms charitable activities.
The Trust welcomed two additional Trustees Challenge and increased volunteering at Man The Trusts donation funds bespoke, one to in 2017 with Robyn Grew, Chief Administrative Group by over 10% compared to 2016. one, literacy interventions for 28 disadvantaged Officer and General Counsel, and Steven The Trust provided $533,756 in charitable children per year over two years in deprived Desmyter, Head of EMEA Sales and Head of donations and employee engagement areas of London.
In addition to this funding, we Responsible Investment, joining to complement programmes over 2017.
In the UK, the projects have a team of Man staff providing their time as the existing group of Teun Johnston Chairman supported by the Trust benefited thousands of literacy volunteers.
A group of staff members of the Trust and CEO of Man GLG, Colin vulnerable children, young people and adults also coordinated a Give and Tonic evening Bettison Head of Operations, Americas, living in disadvantaged neighbourhoods, where senior management served staff with Lydia Bosworth Regulatory and Technical providing them with the essential skills they all proceeds being donated to The Childrens Manager, Antoine Forterre Co-CEO of need to succeed in life and make a positive Literacy Charity.
This evening raised of over Man AHL, Keith Haydon CIO of Man FRM contribution to society.
We look forward to 5,000 which was then matched by the Trust, and Carol Ward COO of Man GLG.
building on the successes of 2017 throughout providing a total of over 10,000 to the charity.
2018 as the Man Charitable Trust footprint In 2017, further refinements were made to the continues to grow, both internally and in Maths on Toast grant-giving criteria to ensure the charities the many communities we are a part of.
Maths on Toast works to make maths fun supported get the most value from the funds for families and communities.
They work provided whilst also benefiting from the Trustees We would like to express our thanks to all with families in all the places families are found individual involvement and experience.
In addition, Man Group employees who supported our at home, at school, and in family friendly the Trustees have commenced the process of charitable programmes during the year, and to places developing and delivering activities expanding the Trusts activities with a US based those who donated via their Give as You Earn that include crafts, games, and colouring, Charitable Trust in progress to commence in 2018 accounts.
Additionally, we congratulate those partnering with community organisations and to reflect the Groups growth in the region.
who independently fundraised for charities creative practitioners.
Maths on Toasts aim of their choice and whose donations were is for people participating in their activities to The Man Charitable Trust successfully focused proudly matched by the Man Charitable Trust.
enjoy them, identify them as maths and form on increasing the number of employees Sponsorship matching totalled $29,507 for family memories of good times doing maths.
engaged in the firms ManKind community 2017.
In 2018, the Man Charitable Trust intends volunteering programme, which enables UK to continue to provide support to charities that The Trust granted 13,500 in core funding to employees to take two additional days paid are able to evidence their ability to improve Maths on Toast before providing an additional leave per annum to volunteer with charities literacy and education, and focus on increasing grant to assist Maths on Toast in expanding their supported by the Man Charitable Trust or a employee engagement in volunteering.
influence by recruiting a full time Marketing and charity of their choice.
The positive social Operations Manager.
benefits that stem from employees skills, Featured grants experience and knowledge can make a real The Man Charitable Trust awards grants to Vision for Literacy Business Pledge difference to local communities.
Volunteering charities that work towards raising the levels Man Group is also a signatory of the Vision for also provides a highly cost-effective and of literacy and numeracy in the UK.
Examples Literacy Business Pledge 2018, having also valuable method of achieving positive learning of grants awarded in 2017 include: signed the 2016 and 2017 Pledges.
The Vision and development benefits for our employees.
for Literacy Business Pledge galvanises the The Childrens Literacy Charity business sector behind the literacy challenge, In September, the Man Charitable Trust partnered The Childrens Literacy Charity previously with signatories committing to taking practical with Benefacto, a corporate volunteering platform.
Springboard for Children aims to ensure that action that will deliver tangible benefits in helping Benefacto enables individuals or groups to disadvantaged and vulnerable children and to raise UK literacy levels.
Signing the Pledge participate in a range of volunteering opportunities young people including those with additional once again demonstrates our commitment to from supporting asylum seekers and refugees, to barriers to learning such as dyslexia who are tackling the literacy challenge by taking action participating in art sessions for children, holding struggling to develop their literacy skills are able within the workforce, the local community and literacy sessions for women learning English, and to learn to read and write at levels expected of at national level.
keeping older people company at weekly lunch their age.
With support from Benefacto, we have successfully held a Christmas Volunteering 42 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017
