Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Helping to shape the future of investing responsibly Our participation and promotion Man Group is committed to raising the awareness of responsible investment within the firm and more widely across the industry.
Since 2014, Man has chaired the United Nationssupported Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI Hedge Fund Advisory Committee and will be broadening its participation in the coming year to the Fixed Income and Academic Advisory Committees.
Man also serves on the board of the Standards Board for Alternative Investment SBAI as well as Alternative Investment Manager Association AIMA Council.
In 2017, Man Group elevated its UNPRI signatory status to the Group level.
We were also heavily featured this year at a number of UNPRI events, including hosting the London launch of the PRI Hedge Fund Due Diligence Questionnaire.
The highlight of 2017 was the appearance by Steven Desmyter and Jason Mitchell on two panels at the annual PRI in Person Conference held in Berlin where Steven discussed the role of hedge funds in responsible investment while, separately, Jason addressed economic inequality and social cohesion.
In addition, Man will host a PRI and CAIA-sponsored Responsible investing is no longer optional.
As the symposium, Quant at the Intersection of Responsible Investment on 29 January, 2018. investment management industry has matured and Man Group writes widely on responsible institutionalised, it has become increasingly responsive investing and environmental, social and to the requirements of the investors who charge it with governance issues.
This year saw publications in the FT Fundfire, AIMA Journal and HedgeFund stewardship of their capital the more they see mitigating Journal.
Jason Mitchell was also a contributing environmental, social and governance risks as part of that author to Sustainable Investing: Revolutions in Theory and Practice Routledge Press: 2017. stewardship, the more our industry must do to further Our engagement those interests.
In an effort to instil best practices in the area of responsible investment, Man Group has Lord Livingston of Parkhead developed education courses for investment Chairman of the Board, Man Group teams and, more widely, the firm to inform and enrich approaches to the analysis of Our commitment In an effort to better formalise our responsible environmental, social and governance factors Man Group recognises that responsible investment activities and provide greater in the investment decision-making process.
investment is fundamental to our fiduciary insight for our clients, investors and duty to our clients and beneficiaries.
We stakeholders, Man launched a website Our innovation understand the importance of sound www.
com  Man Group believes that there are significant stewardship in managing investors capital, dedicated to our publications, organisational opportunities for innovation in environmental, and our approach to Responsible Investing affiliations and oversight structure in this area.
social and governance ESG investing.
Mans closely aligns us with the values of our clients, We will continue adding content to the website, multi-strategy breadth is uniquely suited to shareholders, and other stakeholders.
including Perspectives towards a Sustainable matching the firms quantitative strengths with its World, a podcast about what we are doing today fundamental work in areas like active ownership During 2017 Man announced the to create a more sustainable world tomorrow.
Man is appointment of Steven Desmyter as Head currently implementing firm-wide analytics tools of Responsible Investment and Chair of with third-party data providers to develop an Man Groups Responsible Investment ESG framework to better assess ESG Committee.
Man also appointed Jason investments risks and exposure.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 41
