110 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee report Dear Shareholder Lynn Elsenhans The Corporate Responsibility Committee the Committee acts as Corporate Responsibility custodian of the policies and practices that define and safeguard Committee Chair the reputation of the company.
As Chair of the Committee I continue, together with my fellow Committee members, to challenge and shape the companys responsible business agenda.
Committee members bring a wide range of sector experience, insight and stakeholder perspectives to help provide oversight on these topics.
This helps the Board monitor the companys work to engage effectively with its key stakeholders and to assess if the company is operating in a way that seeks to meet the high expectations of GSK as a global healthcare company that delivers long-term value for both Role shareholders and society.
The work of the Committee has again focused on topics that The Committee reviews: are material to the companys mission, strategy and values.
During 2017, much of the Committees focus has been on reviewing the e xternal issues that have the potential for serious companys proposals for future responsible business activity in impact upon GSKs business and reputation support of the companys new long-term priority of Trust.
The oversight of stakeholder views and engagement Committee has also provided oversight of managements work a nnual governance oversight of progress against to review and refocus GSKs activity in support of global health GSKs Responsible Business Commitments.
The Committee pays close attention to the evolving views and Membership expectations of the companys broad range of key stakeholders The membership of the Committee and appointment dates and a regular report on stakeholder developments is reviewed are set out below: and discussed at each meeting.
This year the Committee also Committee members Committee member since received an external report and held a discussion on the trends Lynn Elsenhans Chair from 8 May 2015 1 October 2012 and stakeholder expectations that are likely to influence trust in the company over the long-term.
The Committee and the Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 May 2016 Remuneration Committee were interested to review the preparation Dr Vivienne Cox 1 July 2016 of the companys gender pay gap disclosures set out on page 49.
Dr Jesse Goodman 1 May 2016 Since the Committees membership was refreshed in mid-2016, Details of the Committee members skills and experience I have been impressed with the way in which Roy, Jesse and Vivienne are given in their biographies under Our Board on have exercised their knowledge and understanding of the issues pages 84 to 85.
See page 88 for Committee member under discussion, which has brought new challenge and oversight attendance levels.
to the Committee and will stand us in good stead in 2018 as the company further evolves its responsible business agenda.
I was also The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee pleased to invite Roger Connor, President, GMS, who has company and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee responsibility for Product Quality as well as Environment, Health, meetings may include: Safety and Sustainability, to attend the Committee on a regular basis Regular Attends as Attendee attendee required as the Committee continues to increase its focus in these vital areas of the companys operations.
Chief Executive Officer Company Chairman This year we have continued to enjoy positive engagement with General Counsel investors on our responsible business approach and performance, in particular where there are opportunities to enhance investment President, Global Affairs value, create business opportunities and mitigate risk, alongside Chief Scientific Officer and President, R&D creating social value.
President, GMS The company is well positioned in 2018 to evolve its Responsible President, Global Pharmaceuticals Business Commitments to a new set of focused activity that President, Global Vaccines will support the delivery of Trust as one of GSKs long-term CEO, GSK Consumer Healthcare business priorities.
Head of Human Resources SVP, Corporate Affairs Head of Global Corporate Responsibility Lynn Elsenhans Corporate Responsibility Committee Chair Other Executives Independent external corporate 12 March 2018 responsibility adviser 111 GSK Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued Main responsibilities Work of the Committee in 2018 The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 110.
In 2018, the Committee will continue to seek to understand how management is responding to the expectations of external The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from stakeholders and will seek to align its agendas to the activities members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress that support the companys long-term priority of Trust.
in meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four areas of focus is reviewed on an annual basis as follows: Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser To support the Committee in ensuring that we give sufficient Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs: consideration to the views of key stakeholders at each meeting, in improving access to our products, irrespective of where people May 2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external live or their ability to pay: and controlling or eliminating diseases adviser to the Committee, a position that she had previously held until affecting the worlds most vulnerable people.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the pharmaceuticals Our behaviour: Putting the interests of patients and consumers industry in improving health systems productivity, sustainability in first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by energy supply and distribution, climate change policy and shortrobust policies and strong compliance processes.
Our people: Enabling our people to thrive and develop as She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she individuals to deliver our mission.
directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal Our planet: Growing our business while reducing our and shareholder value.
She holds a number of other board and environmental impact across the value chain.
In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers an analysis Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided by management of engagement with and expectations of the independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility companys key stakeholders which may have a bearing on the matters to both the Committee Chair and the CEO.
companys reputation and the delivery of its responsible business Committee evaluation agenda.
The Committee also reviews and approves the Responsible The Committees annual evaluation exercise was externally facilitated Business Supplement which is available for reference on by Ms Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation and concluded www.
that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
112 GSK Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance continued Directors Our Directors powers are determined by UK legislation and our Change of control and essential contracts Articles of Association, which contain rules about the appointment We do not have contracts or other arrangements which individually and replacement of Directors.
They provide that Directors may be are fundamental to the ability of the business to operate effectively, appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members, or by a nor is the company party to any material agreements that would take resolution of the Directors, provided that, if appointed by the Board, effect, be altered, or terminate upon a change of control following the Director retires at the AGM following the appointment.
We do not have agreements with any Director that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment Our Articles also provide that Directors should normally be subject resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys to re-election at the AGM at intervals of three years or annually if share plans may cause options and awards granted under such they have held office for a continuous period of nine years or more.
plans to vest on a takeover.
Details of the termination provisions in The Board agreed in 2011 that all Directors who wish to continue as the Executive Directors service contracts are given in the full version members of the Board should seek re-election annually in of the companys 2017 Remuneration policy report which is available accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com in the Investors section.
A Director may cease to be a Director if he or she: Directors Report becomes bankrupt For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Act or Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December the Articles 2017 comprises pages 79 to 112 of the Corporate Governance suffers mental or physical ill health and the Board resolves Report, the Directors statements of responsibilities on pages that he or she shall cease to be a Director 148 and 233 and pages 257 to 286 of Investor Information.
The has missed Directors meetings for a continuous period of six Strategic report sets out those matters required to be disclosed months without permission and the Board resolves that he or in the Directors Report which are considered to be of strategic she shall cease to be a Director importance: is prohibited from being a Director by law resigns, or offers to resign and the Board accepts that offer risk management objectives and policies pages 20, 21 and is required to resign by the Board.
77 to 78 likely future developments of the company Strategic report Directors conflicts of interest research and development activities pages 23 to 41 All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a diversity and inclusion page 49 situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict provision of information to, and consultation with, employees of interest or possible conflict with the company.
Our Articles provide page 48 a general power for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
carbon emissions page 51 The Nominations Committee has been authorised by the Board The following information is also incorporated into the Directors Report: to grant and regularly review any potential or actual conflict Location in Annual Report authorisations, which are recorded by the Company Secretary Interest capitalised Financial statements, and noted by the Board.
Directors are not counted in the quorum Notes 17 and 19 for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conflicts.
Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 52 On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report the Company Secretary of any new actual or potential conflicts that Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory duty Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conflict arises by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking post-authorisation, the Board may choose to exclude the Director from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the Parent company participation in a placing Not applicable by a listed subsidiary debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last resort, require the Director to resign.
Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable shareholder The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of potential Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements, conflict authorisations in January 2018 and reported to the Board Notes 15 and 43 that the conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements, process for authorisation continues to operate effectively.
Except Notes 15 and 43 as described in Note 35 to the financial statements, Related party Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable transactions, during or at the end of the financial year no Director or Person Closely Associated had any material interest in any The Directors Report has been drawn up and presented in contract of significance with a Group company.
accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and Independent advice the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall The company has an agreed procedure for Directors to take be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
independent legal and or financial advice at the companys expense The Directors Report was approved by the Board of Directors on where they deem it necessary.
12 March 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Indemnification of Directors Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in the Philip Hampton Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of Directors and Chairman former Directors who held office during 2017 and up to the signing of the Annual Report.
