Data-driven decision-making is key to improving the customer experience and we are working with DRIVING world class business partners to help us deliver these improvements.
This puts us ahead of most in our industry.
FORWARD We have rolled out Salesforce Marketing Cloud across eight of our markets, with the aim of having a centralised customer base where we can apply consistent and seamless experiences across all markets, through marketing customisation.
It will also enable us to better The automotive industry is at an manage communication with customers and automate exciting and dynamic stage of a number of activities, improving our capacity and ability evolution.
Technology is enabling a to respond to customers enquiries more efficiently.
pace of change and progress that Early Salesforce pilots have demonstrated its potential.
For example, in Australia we have seen an increase in puts the customer in the drivers seat.
service reminder and email open rates, as well as online Developments in technology give us the opportunity to service bookings.
build an experience around every customer that delivers DIGITAL what they want, how and when they want it.
Bringing Customers are becoming more and more likely to this alive in a way that enhances our relationship with discover, explore and even begin their purchase with customers, and delivers the flexibility that digitisation us online and we believe there is no reason why the offers, is a real opportunity for growth.
immersive simplicity and flexibility of the online experience To deliver this new experience, our task is to anticipate cannot be replicated in the automotive industry.
At customers needs and provide them with a digitally Inchcape, we are designing sales and service connected automotive experience that is easy, experiences that are built around the customer, effective and enjoyable, every time they are in touch seamlessly integrating our platforms to provide a with Inchcape.
That means providing solutions that consistent approach whether online or in the showroom.
improve their driving lives whatever stage they are We already have an online sales offering and complete at in their car ownership journey.
digital journey that allows customers to immerse Inchcape aims to be a driver of change in our themselves in the brands we represent.
Through industry: we are focused on anticipating and taking these channels, we are developing new ways to advantage of emergent trends.
With our global scale, gather customer insights to ultimately deliver better depth of brand partnerships and commitment to online solutions, whilst also enhancing the retail centre delighting our customers, we are ideally placed to and ownership experience.
CHOICE EXPERIENCE Todays customer is choice-rich and time-poor.
Until Delivering excellent customer experience is at the core recently, people would visit a showroom four times before of our approach, and we continuously improve our making a purchase.
Now the average is just one and customer insight to drive performance.
So we need to continue to stand out from the competition, giving customers the opportunity to In 2017, we rolled out a new framework designed to navigate their experience with us on their terms and fundamentally improve customer experience across a at their pace.
We introduced more than 150 separate initiatives across the Group, in both Distribution and With our global presence and increasing Distribution Retail, including: improvements to our digital presence and Retail contracts, we are expanding choice for our with better websites that capture leads more effectively: customers, whilst insuring that we deliver a consistent new online calculators to help customers better and uniquely Inchcape experience, wherever they understand our Finance and Insurance products: are and through whichever channel they choose.
and improved communication with customers, both buyers and non-buyers.
We have significantly improved the NPS Net Promotor Score process, ensuring we have a more dynamic, OUR responsive and relevant method of capturing and responding to customer feedback: and we now capture all of our reviews digitally on a monthly basis, CUSTOMERS supporting both our and our OEM partners needs.
We have piloted an external reviews measurement With Inchcape, I know tool which is designed to improve the real time tracking I will get great quality service, of customer experience we provide online and offline.
Through the pilot of this in the UK, our aggregate online no matter the brand, both in customer experience rating, which includes Google the centre and online and Trustpilot, increased by 24%.
6 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 150 Customer Experience initiatives underway across the Group Data-driven focus on digitally connected automotive experience through Salesforce Making every customer interaction with Inchcape easy, effective and enjoyable Enhanced website visibility through content optimisation and design improvement, through Brightedge SEO tool inchcape.
