DRIVING FORWARD DRIVE5 PERFORMANCE FRAMEWORK At Inchcape, the talent and dedication Every individual contributes to realising our success.
of our people are central to our success In 2016 we launched DRIVE5, our global performance and we recognise the importance of framework designed to support all of our people in the nurturing this vital resource.
delivery of our Ignite strategic objectives, and we have now successfully embedded this across the Group.
Throughout our business and across our The performance framework sets out what we stand for global locations, we have the ambition as an organisation, and describes what each of us need to do to enhance individual and team performance to be the best and most trusted to best deliver our ambitions.
The drivers within the employer in our industry, continuously performance framework outline the behaviours that seeking to lead the way in attracting, support and build our culture one of high performance through the development of strong relationships with our recruiting and developing the best customers, our colleagues and our OEM brand partners talent.
With a diverse workforce of over ultimately setting us apart from the competition.
17,000 employees in 29 countries, we DRIVING A GROWTH CULTURE understand that our people have It is vital that every individual in the organisation is fully different needs and aspirations, and equipped to make their best contribution.
This becomes even more important as the pace of change in the seek to provide them with the best automotive industry increases.
Strong leadership and support and development a culture of continual learning and innovation are opportunitiesto enable them to critical to our success, for today and the future.
drivetheir development and reach Through DRIVE5 we actively encourage colleagues to consider their progress and development needs, have theirfullpotential.
meaningful conversations with their managers, and set aside time to build skills and collaborate with their global network.
In 2017 we have further invested in supporting our people to drive their development, with the launch of a bespoke OUR global development and collaboration platform.
The new platform provides access at any time to the latest thinking, development content and enables individuals PEOPLE to share learning with global colleagues and leverage best practice across our 29 markets.
I havent seen this kind of This builds on a strong digital offering already in place for our colleagues, and makes it easy, effective and investment in people in other enjoyable to use in line with our approach to companies.
Its so refreshing customer experience.
and I know it will drive our EQUIPPING OUR TEAMS FOR THE FUTURE The journey to becoming the most trusted employer in competitive advantage.
our industry continues into 2018 and beyond, with clear Im excited for the future direction and increasing momentum.
We are working with all our people at every level of the organisation to build a stronger, better Inchcape for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
10 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Inspiring a Growth Culture at Inchcape Employees 17,000 DRIVE5 performance framework rolled out in 29 countries Digital learning and collaboration platform available 24 7 inchcape.
