CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We report in our Investment Managers Report on page 13 how The Board also recognises its responsibilities to its former we exercise our stewardship responsibilities demonstrating employees and has been working with the Trustees of the our commitment to good corporate governance.
Trusts final salary pension scheme, which closed to new members in 2005, to secure all the members benefits.
The Trust has given discretionary voting powers to WTW This has been achieved through a buy-in group annuity which in turn has delegated its voting powers to the equity policy which was purchased in 2016, enabled by a 19.2m managers who vote against resolutions they consider may contribution by the Trust.
The insurer will be issuing damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
individual annuities to all members and it is intended that the pension scheme will be formally wound up in 2018.
As an investment trust we have no customers, however, we do believe that we should maintain an open dialogue The table below provides the gender split of the Board of the with our shareholders.
During the year we met our significant Trust as at 31 December 2017.
The Trust has five employees of shareholders as well as individual shareholders and their whom two are part time one male and one female.
representatives to hear their views and to update them on the progress of the Trust.
This helps the Board to act As at 31 December 2017 Male Female fairly between the members of the Trust by ensuring that it Board 5 1 captures a range of shareholder views.
Senior Managers 1 1 Having previously taken a decision to discontinue the Trust Other Staff 0 3 support of the Alliance Trust Cateran Yomp, the Alliance Trust Foundation charity has now received its final donation Total Workforce including Directors 6 5 and will be considering how best to continue to support the communities in which our offices are located with a In 2017 the Board appointed Georgeson, a trading division significantly reduced income.
During 2017 the Alliance Trust of our Registrars, to carry out an exercise to reunite Foundation distributed 44,600 to charities.
The charities shareholders who our Registrars believed were lost and supported were, in the main, those which are based in the were not receiving either dividends or mail.
The appointment communities where we had offices or where employees of was made on the basis that there would be no cost to the Trust and its subsidiaries live i. e. Dundee, Edinburgh and our other shareholders for this exercise and that those London.
The Trust also supports the V&A Museum of Design, lost shareholders who elected to use Georgeson to be Dundee which is due to open in September 2018. reunited with their investment would pay a fee for their service.
Georgeson identified 291 accounts representing over The Board believes that a diverse workforce will create 346,000 of unclaimed dividends and 719,710 shares to be the environment to allow our businesses to thrive and grow.
By January this year over 37,000 of previously We look for an inclusive environment where people can unclaimed dividends had been paid out and over 163,000 develop and contribute fully.
The Trust and its subsidiaries shares had been reunited with the entitled shareholder.
employment and recruitment policies are at all times compliant with relevant EU and UK legislation.
The Trust considers that it does not fall within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and it is not, therefore, obliged Recruitment, development and promotion are based solely to make a slavery and human trafficking statement.
In any on the candidates suitability for the job to be done and event, the Trust considers its supply chains to be of low risk there should be no discrimination either before or during as its suppliers are typically professional advisers.
employment on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, nationality, disability, political or religious belief.
Should The Investment Association maintains a public register any employee become disabled they should not suffer any of companies who have received significant shareholder discrimination and reasonable adjustments will be made to opposition to proposed resolutions.
At our General Meeting allow them to continue to have the same opportunities as on 28 February 2017 22% of shareholders voted against the any other member of the workforce.
repurchase of shares from Elliott.
The Strategic Report comprising the inside cover to page 26 of this document and the viability statement on page 41 has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 26 DIRECTORS REPORT
