STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31% Reduction in accident severity rate BEING A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS We focus on maintaining high levels of corporate responsibility within our business.
To this end we actively work with our suppliers to increase sustainability within our supply chain and provide products and solutions to our customers that are sourced and delivered efficiently, safely and sustainably.
As a responsible employer we provide our employees with a safe working environment and promote a positive and supportive culture.
503 Asian supplier CR audits 42 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY community: providing support by Business context Distribution encouraging employee fundraising and With our fleets of delivery vehicles and third We are a focused and successful donating to charitable projects and good party carriers, we are able to get products international distribution and causes that benefit the communities we toour customers in a timely manner.
Our outsourcinggroup with operations across work in: and flexible delivery service allows our the Americas, Europe, Australasia and customers: offering a full product range customers to increase the efficiency and Asia.
By outsourcing the purchasing, and delivering these products to our competitiveness of their operations.
consolidation and delivery of a broad range customers efficiently, thereby enabling of everyday items, our customers are able ourcustomers to benefit from a lower tofocus on their core businesses, achieve Strategy, framework and environmental impact of doing business.
purchasing efficiencies and savings, free materiality upworking capital, improve distribution We believe that positive actions with respect These issues are governed by a policy capabilities, reduce carbon emissions and to CR are not only desirable in their own framework, which is approved and monitored simplify their internal administration.
right but are also of potential economic and by the Board, with implementation at a commercial benefit to the Group.
We do not manufacture any products but reputation for CR can provide business aspart of our business strategy we source advantage and contribute to shareholder Business conduct code of ethics and procure branded, own brand and value.
Conversely, perceived weakness in unbranded products globally.
These The Groups business conduct code of ethics CR may damage our reputation and cause products are then consolidated into our policy is disseminated to every employee as risks.
Bunzls good practice in sustainability extensive global warehouse infrastructure, aguide to how employees are expected to has again been recognised by its FTSE4Good giving our customers a one-stop-shop conduct themselves both from a corporate listing and CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure solution to help reduce or eliminate the and individual perspective.
The policy clearly Project score.
Details of our strategy and hidden costs of self-distribution and reduce states that employees should avoid conflicts framework in relation to CR can be found on their environmental impact.
We also offer of interest, provides guidance on the giving the Bunzl plc website in the Responsibility several delivery options to ensure our and receiving of gifts and entertainment, section at www.
customers receive their products when prohibits illegal payments as well as political andwhere they are needed.
donations and reinforces the need to comply Materiality with laws, rules and regulations, protect Understanding our material issues is As well as day-to-day operations, our confidential information and company assets important to enable us to manage our business relies on developing strong and and maintain high standards in relationships CRrelated impacts and stakeholder stable relationships with all of our with our customers and suppliers.
It also helps to stakeholders.
We believe in managing our focus our resources, engagement and business with integrity, making sustainable, No material breaches of our business reporting activities by addressing those long term decisions.
conduct code of ethics policy were recorded in issues most material to our business.
However, some minor incidents relating current areas of focus are: to employee conduct, such as theft or misuse Sourcing of the Groups property, did occur and were We source everyday essential non-food items business conduct code of ethics: training dealt with during the normal course of for a number of market sectors including to ensure everyone understands our business using Group HR policies and foodservice, grocery, cleaning & hygiene, standards: procedures.
In the reporting year 13 2016: 16 safety, retail and healthcare.
We are able to supply chain: responsible sourcing, calls letters were received through our offer a full range of items which satisfy our working as partners with our suppliers to confidential whistleblowing process, Speak customers demands, including offering encourage high levels of CR and ethical Up, none of which related to any issues of alternative products which have a lower trading initiatives: material concern.
Our quality employees: engaging through clear assurance quality control department based communication using a variety of channels, All directors, managers, sales in Shanghai monitors and works with our as well as provision of training and representatives and purchasing staff are keydirect suppliers in Asia and elsewhere development opportunities: required to undertake all of the CR e-learning toensure that appropriate corporate health & safety: improving safety in our modules which have been developed and responsibility CR standards are in place.
warehouses and on our vehicles and enhanced since their original launch.
There ensuring that everyone takes personal are now a total of 11 modules which provide Consolidation responsibility for this: an overview of the business conduct code of We have an extensive operations footprint environment climate change: reducing our ethics policy and anti-bribery issues such across 30 countries.
Our broad range of and our customers impacts on the asfacilitation payments and gifts and products are therefore never far from where environment by reducing carbon entertainment.
We have recently developed they need to be, allowing us to meet our emissions, promoting the reduction of atraining module on combatting modern customers needs quickly and easily, as well waste and providing innovative products slavery and are currently in the process as reducing the number of deliveries to our and services to meet our customers ofrolling this out.
customers, thereby cutting fuel usage, needs, for example environmentally carbon emissions and administration.
friendly packaging: 43 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Suppliers who are unable to meet all the However during 2017 we started to expand requirements after an initial assessment our CR audits into geographies with medium audit are given the opportunity to comply levels of social risk by carrying out audits Supply chain fully within a period of time which is outside of Asia, namely in Mexico, Brazil, deemedappropriate for the circumstances.
We will expand this Price is only one factor in our purchasing decisions and matters such as quality, If a serious breach is identified following process further in 2018. assessment, an action plan is documented availability, our customers preferences and our policies are also taken into account.
The and the supplier is expected to commit to Capacity building and training addressing all the areas where discrepancies vast majority of our products are sourced We work with our suppliers to help them locally by our businesses but many products have been identified.
The process of prevent CR issues arising and to address improvement via this method is principally are sourced elsewhere if it is appropriate to them if they are found.
We work with our suppliers with the reliant on the commitment of the suppliers to expand our approach from audit and management team owner agent to ensure aim of ensuring the products we supply are monitoring to collaborative solutions.
We manufactured from sustainably sourced raw that all areas are addressed.
If we have believe that building relationships, capacity reason to believe that the supplier is not materials.
We also continue to refine our and trust with suppliers is critical when it processes to ensure that imported paper and making sufficient or committed progress, comes to preventing and identifying this could lead to a suspension in the wood based products are manufactured incidences of modern slavery.
We also from legally sourced timber.
Each business relationship until such time that we are organised a supplier conference in Shanghai confident that all areas are being area is responsible for implementing to showcase examples of good practice and appropriate processes to assess key satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl companies build awareness of social compliance issues.
reserve the right to cease a relationship with suppliers compliance with the relevant CR This helped to develop local expertise and a supplier if it is found that unacceptable standards and to monitor performance and build the business case for suppliers to practices are being employed at any sites improvements against such standards.
achieve better productivity, quality and used for producing or sourcing Bunzl worker retention.
Such practices include use of Auditing increasing awareness of modern slavery child, forced or bonded labour, illegal issues and other social risks and how to To assist the business areas, we have our discrimination, wages not meeting local own quality assurance quality control identify and remedy them if found and minimum requirements and not providing enabled the sharing of good practice and department based in Shanghai which adequate days of rest and any other breach performs regular audits of our direct learning with other suppliers.
The oflocal or applicable international conference was attended by 30 suppliers.
suppliers in Asia to ensure that they meet requirements for workers welfare and international standards, as well as tests the conditions of employment.
Suppliers that factories production capabilities and their Training arebeing monitored and assessed due to quality assurance and quality control We will shortly be launching a CR training identification of a serious breach are systems.
Employees terms and conditions of module which specifically covers social periodically reported to and reviewed by work, customer service capabilities, hygiene risks, including modern slavery.
management systems and their policies and training module is mandatory for all of practices on environmental issues are also oursenior management as well as senior In 2016 we completed a quantitative analysis checked.
We expect our suppliers to meet or sales representatives and procurement of material social risks in our worldwide exceed local legislative requirements and employees.
The training will help our supply chain.
Suppliers were ranked against applicable international requirements for employees to understand and recognise human and labour rights identified by workers welfare and conditions of social risk issues that might occur in our internationally agreed standards and employment, such as those set by the supply chain and to inform them of the credible data taking account of geography International Labour Organization ILO and appropriate actions that should be taken and product.
This analysis confirmed that the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI.
During ifsuch issues are found.
ourcentral CR audit process covers the 2017 the team in Shanghai has continued to geographies with high levels of social risks, grow and refine its CR audit programme which are predominantly countries in Asia.
further to categorise suppliers appropriately in relation to their standards and practices.
Supplier training conference Group A supplier conference was held in Shanghai in 2017.
The key objectives of theevent were to increase suppliers awareness of modern slavery issues and other social risks and to enable sharing of good practices about how to remedy those risks if found.
The event was very successful and well received by the 30 suppliersthat attended.
Attending the supplier training conference in Shanghai provided a unique opportunity to speak with Bunzl and other suppliers about social risk issues in an atmosphere of openness.
Bunzls commitment to this training programme demonstrates its willingness to develop stronger supplier partnerships.
As a supplier to Bunzl, we feel privileged to be part of this.
Lu Yue-Zhong EBIC, Asian supplier to Bunzl 44 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED decreased by 33% and 60% respectively.
Incidence rate Communications This has been underpinned by our safety Average number of We continue to ensure that our CR policies, 142 observation programme which provides incidents per month per including our requirements relating to social 100,000 employees ongoing feedback to our employees on both 115 risks, are communicated and enforced 107 good and poor safety performance.
During 99 adequately in our supply chain through 2018, it will continue to be extended across communication with our suppliers.
In North America, warehouse past we have written to our top suppliers by managers and supervisors perform one value.
In 2017 we refined this approach and 23% safety observation per day.
The results are started the process of writing to all suppliers Reduction in reviewed monthly in a safety committee in countries with medium or high social risks incidents 13 14 15 16 17 meeting.
All sites in the US have introduced and to our main suppliers in other countries pre-shift stretching programmes as a way with relatively low direct social risks.
For this toreduce manual handling injuries.
The purpose, we have developed a Supplier Code Severity rate roll-out will continue into Canada in 2018. of Conduct that defines the principles and Average number of standards that Bunzl expects suppliers of days lost per month per We continue to invest in premises and 100,000 employees goods and services to adhere to.
equipment to improve the safety of our employees and others.
Although we aim to minimise the risks which occur, particularly relating to the operation of our warehouses and vehicles, incidents involving manual Employees human rights handling, falling, slipping and tripping and 31% Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration impact with equipment objects remain the Reduction in days lost of Human Rights UDHR and upholds the 13 14 15 16 17 highest causes of accidents and days lost.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Together these hazards represent 93% of policies, defined by the ILO, as well as Included in the external auditors limited assurance incidents and 95% of days lost.
All our applicable local laws.
The majority of scope referred to on page 48.
2016, 2015 and 2014 businesses are required to comply with data was also assured as detailed in the respective countries in which Bunzl operates have their Group policies issued through the Corporate Annual Reports.
own laws banning child and forced labour Responsibility and Sustainability Committee 12 months to 30 September.
We monitor the which reviews the Groups safety age of our workforce across the world and performance on a quarterly basis.
identify any potential succession issues.
Implementation of Group policies is audited Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees by a team of safety professionals and safety in any of the countries in which it operates standards are also reviewed as part of our from joining a trade union if they wish to do internal audit process.
More details about our employees can be found in the Our people section of this Annual Report on page38.
The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires certain businesses to produce an annual Stretch It Out Campaign statement that sets out the steps these North America businesses have taken during the financial year to ensure that slavery and human Two years ago, Bunzl North America began trafficking are not taking place in their aprogramme called Stretch It Out SIO, operations and supply chains.
This focusing on pre-shift stretching in order requirement affects Bunzl plc and a number toaddress ergonomic related sprains and of operating companies in the UK.
SIO has not only helped to reduce the current Bunzl slavery and human trafficking leading cause of injuries within our operations, statement has been approved by the Bunzl but has also led to increased employee plc board and is available on our website, engagement and participation.
programme centres around employees involvement with their teams.
I really enjoy leading the SIO programme in Bunzl Anaheim.
Health & safety SIO hashelped our team focus Health and safety remains a priority for Bunzl and it is our aim that no employee or more on safe behaviours, both other person should be injured as a result of inside andoutside of work.
In the 2017 reporting period William Lemus, there were no fatalities 2016: one.
Warehouse employee and Safety team Our incidence and severity rates have member at improved by 23% and 31% respectively.
Bunzl Anaheim This improvement was particularly driven by strong performances in North America and Australia where the number of accidents 45 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 3,686 3,596 3,021 2,080 1,428 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our primary method for distributing the Waste 0.2 Tonnes per m revenue goods that we sell is the use of delivery 0.2 0.2 0.2 vehicles.
Consequently, geographical regions 0.8 0.8 Incinerated waste Environment climate change have placed considerable emphasis on 0.8 0.7 0.1 General waste training programmes for drivers.
Each of We seek to minimise the contribution of 0.7 2.0 Recovered recycled waste 1.8 1.8 these programmes has their own specific Bunzls operations to climate change and 1.7 focus butall of them are aimed at reducing 12 months to 30 September.
toprevent other harmful effects of Bunzls 1.3 accidents and injuries on the road.
In 2016, operations on the environment.
Operational telematics equipment was installed efficiency forms part of our long-established throughout France Hygiene's commercial and successful strategy to develop the fleet, which is our largest fleet in Continental 13 14 15 16 17 business and the reduction of energy Europe.
In 2017, France Hygiene further consumption is an integral part of focused on the implementation of safe driving operational efficiency.
Our facilities Scope 3 carbon emissions programmes by training, coaching and worldwide operate to Group standards and 0.2 0.4 engaging drivers, helping them to we promote environmental awareness 0.2 Waste 0.2 0.4 0.3 1.6 demonstrate best-in-class safe driving throughout the business.
Our policy of Electricity transmission 0.1 1.2 1.3 13.0 behaviours.
UK & Ireland now has all leasing premises provides flexibility in the Business travel 0.3 11.7 11.5 commercial vehicles fitted with multiple configuration of our footprint to optimise the Third party carriers 1.1 9.6 cameras, side proximity sensors and efficiency of our distribution.
Bunzl had no 12 months to 30 September.
audibleleft turn and reversing warnings significant environmental incidents in 2017.
Carbon emissions from waste toimprove road safety both for our drivers have been restated for 2014 and andother road users, as well as reduce Direct water usage is not a significant 2015 to reflect more accurate conversion rates.
environmental impact for our business as it 14 15 16 17 is principally confined to staff hygiene and Our safety awareness programmes are workplace cleaning purposes.
Our estimated 3 management led within the business areas.
As we do approximately 24% of the Groups operations France Hygiene, which has the highest not manufacture any of the goods we sell, are certified to ISO 14001.
Certification is incidence and severity rate in the Group, water discharges, apart from internal based on processes and practices which are developed a programme to improve safety sanitation, are limited to rainwater run-off implemented Group wide through our EHS and strengthen the focus on their high risk from the yards of Group locations where the management programme, although some groups of workers.
Various initiatives were water is treated by interceptors in parts of the business have notelected to implemented across the business.
Additional accordance with local legislation.
training programmes covering the specific In Continental Europe, France Scurit is risks that these groups of workers can be Our reported environmental data includes all MASE Manuel dAmlioration Scurit exposed to during their work helped businesses that are subsidiaries of the Group desEntreprises certified to reflect the employees to apply safe working methods for financial reporting purposes, with the requirements of its customer base.
exception of those recent acquisitions where Thiscertification encompasses continuous there has been insufficient opportunity for improvement in EHS performance and The root cause of many incidents is found to the businesses to adopt our reporting isexternally assessed.
be a failure to implement established safe guidelines, in which case the revenue from working practices.
France Scurit started a the businesses is not included when safety observation programme in 2017.
The calculating the indexed emissions.
All Carbon emissions programme included training for supervisors Scope 1: Fuel for transportation remains acquisitions made prior to the 2017 reporting on how to perform behaviour observations year are now providing environmental data.
ourhighest source of CO e emissions 2 and coaching on effective feedback contributing c. 83% of Scope 1 and c. 63% of Revenue relating to more recent acquisitions conversations with employees.
which are not yet reporting emissions is combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those emissions relating to transportation, more excluded.
The reported data covers around During the year we improved our web-based 99% of the Group by revenue.
than 75% are generated by our fleet of Environmental, Health & Safety EHS commercial vehicles.
Fuel represents a reporting system by enhancing the reporting We integrate our environmental reporting significant cost to the business and we are functionalities.
The system includes an focused on maximising the efficiency of our with our financial reporting through the auditsystem which enables progress on annual budget review.
Businesses provide fleet through regular replacement and corrective actions to be tracked by our maintenance of vehicles, route optimisation, commentary on their environmental EHSmanagers.
performance and set targets for the the use of vehicle telematics and driver training programmes.
In North America, following year.
Environmental data is Details of our performance from 2013 to 2017 reviewed and agreed by the relevant where we have our largest commercial fleet, are provided in the bar charts on page 45. the combination of these measures provided FinanceDirectors.
The accident data provided covers more than a 2.5% improvement in fuel efficiency during 99% of the Group by revenue.
This has resulted in an annualised The requirements of the EU Energy Efficiency Directive have been implemented saving of approximately 400,000 litres of diesel fuel.
At Group level, diesel consumed in all relevant businesses across Continental Europe and UK & Ireland.
In addition, a by our commercial fleet increased by 2.5% mainly due to sales growth.
In Australasia, number of locations in UK & Ireland, Australasia and Continental Europe have the need for greater flexibility of transport methods and efficiency in distribution has renewed their ISO 14001 certification.
Currently, measured by revenue, 46 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED include in-kind donations or employee Greenhouse gas emissions fundraising.
We continue to support our Data for the period 1 October to 30 September employees in their charitable fundraising, for Tonnes of CO e 2 example a charity run in Switzerland to raise Base year 2010 2016 2017 money for Alzheimer's research, as well as Scope 1 95,249 89,186 92,687 supporting projects for healthcare and Scope 2 28,757 32,201 30,451 environmental charities, such as providing Total gross emissions 124,006 121,387 123,138 funding to the British Red Cross Solidarity Total carbon emissions per m revenue 26.3 17.1 15.0 Fund which was launched to support people Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 48.
The data for 2016 was also who had been injured, bereaved or assured as detailed in the 2016 Annual Report.
traumatised by terrorist attacks in the UK.
For more information on all of Bunzls CR resulted in the decision to transfer a major Scope 3: We are continuing to refine the data policies and activities please visit the part of our distribution to third party collection for our Scope 3 carbon emissions.
Responsibility section of our website, carriers.
This transfer started in 2016 and Our reporting comprises emissions from www.
We seek to minimise third party carriers, business flights, waste the number of miles that our vehicles travel and electricity transmission losses.
The empty on the road by backhauling, typically majority of the businesses which have been using empty vehicles to collect stock from acquired since 2010 do not have their own suppliers.
In France, the use of telematics fleet and in addition all our businesses, has contributed to a 5% decrease in fuel irrespective of whether they have their own Customers usage by our commercial vehicles 66,000 fleet, will distribute a proportion of goods by As part of our policy to provide our litres of diesel.
third party carriers where it is more efficient customers with high quality products and and cost-effective to do so.
The bar graph on good value for money, businesses within Consumption of gas during the year page 46 shows that third party carriers theGroup are constantly developing and increased by nearly 11% primarily due to produce the largest proportion of our sourcing new products.
Our aim is not only colder weather conditions in North America, reported Scope 3 emissions.
Bunzl is an tosatisfy changing customer requirements and increased presence in colder international company with an active global but also to give ourselves a competitive geographical areas e. g. Canada leading acquisition programme and business flights advantage in the marketplace.
From colour tohigher building heating requirements.
are essential for the effective management coded free from labels for the hospitality and growth of our business.
We increasingly sector to the use of innovative fabrics to give Scope 2: Electricity consumption has use alternative means of communication greater protection to workers against increased by 1.0% as a result of an increase such as video and telephone conferencing challenging weather conditions or where in warehouse space due to acquisitions and and flights are justified by business needs there is a risk of contamination from viruses, organic growth of the business.
Per of and are subject to authorisation by senior bacteria and fungi, Bunzl works withits revenue, our electricity consumption has management.
Reduction and segregation of customers in the development ofnew, decreased by 4% at constant exchange rates.
waste continues to be an area of focus and redesigned or substantially Lighting is our highest category of electricity the data provided covers approximately 94% improvedproducts.
consumption and we continue to review the of the Group by revenue, although accurate return on investment on low energy lighting waste measurement remains challenging.
A number of Bunzl businesses adopt at all our sites worldwide as the technology Despite including this in our Scope 3 partnerships and source innovative products progresses and improves the efficiency of emissions calculation, we have for to help their customers be responsible users such lighting.
We also fit voltage optimisers transparency continued to provide waste of disposable packaging and reduce their where this is beneficial.
During the year data separately as well.
To increase our offering there have been 17 projects, predominantly ofenvironmentally friendly products in North America and UK & Ireland, to whichcan minimise waste, North America upgrade lighting, providing annualised expanded its offering through the acquisition savings of approximately 3 million kWh of Earthwise Bag Company.
These savings represent specialises in the supply of reusable Community approximately 4% of our electricity eco-friendly bags including multi-use totes, Although Bunzls operations are consumption.
Other locations are being insulated bags, wine totes and produce bags international, our strength lies in the local looked at for potential LED lighting projects to supermarkets and other retailers.
In keeping with this to determine the available incentives and ethos, we particularly support the anticipated payback.
In addition, as energy Bunzl Catering Supplies BCS is a founding fundraising activities championed by our contracts are renewed, businesses are member of the Simply Cups Scheme, the employees locally.
This is supplemented by moving to low carbon energy where this UKs only dedicated collection and recycling donations made at Group level to charities makes commercial sense and is supported solution for paper cups.
The team at BCS has predominantly in the fields of healthcare and by the local infrastructure.
In the UK & hosted a series of launch days for a number the environment to support projects often in Ireland we have moved to a central of customers, engaging with consumers and the communities where our operations are electricitysupply contract with low carbon working hard to change perceptions around based.
Where possible and appropriate, electricity.
This contract covers all business paper cup recycling.
BCS has continued to Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of units in this business area except a few work closely alongside the Simply Cups team charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl donated recent acquisitions that are still on and, together with environmental charity a total of 742,000 to charitable causes existingcontracts.
This does not 47 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Hubbub and a number of supplier partners A limited assurance engagement is Square Mile Challenge in the City and retailers, joined forces to launch a high substantially less in scope than a reasonable of London UK and Ireland profile coffee cup recycling challenge in the assurance engagement in relation to both the BCS joined with key supply chain partners to City of London the Square Mile Challenge.
risk assessment procedures, including an launch a paper cup recycling initiative called This was hugely successful and almost all understanding of internal control, and the the Square Mile Challenge at Londons businesses that participated in the event procedures performed in response to the Liverpool Street station.
The initiative was decided to continue with the cup collection assessed risks.
In order to reach their organised in partnership with Simply Cups, scheme afterwards.
opinion, PwC performed a range of of which BCS is a founding member, and procedures including making enquiries of aimed to recruit businesses and consumers Bunzls one-stop-shop service saves delivery relevant Bunzl management, and evaluating to work together to recover and recycle half miles.
Bunzl sources and consolidates a the design of the key structures, systems, amillion paper cups within one month.
broad range of products to offer our processes and controls for managing, It wasa huge success and the work has customers an efficient consolidated product recording and reporting the selected continued since then.
offering, thereby minimising the number of information.
This included analysing and deliveries and fleet miles required.
testing over a number of sites selected on the While no one has the solution to this basis of their inherent risk and materiality to the Group, to understand the key processes problem, collectively we can use the and controls for reporting site performance SquareMile Challenge as a catalyst data and to obtain supporting information.
Finally, PwC performed limited substantive External assurance testing on a selective basis of the selected We engaged  LLP Joanna Gilroy, Head of Sustainability, information in relation to one site in UK & Bunzl Catering & Hospitality Division and PwC to undertake a limited assurance Ireland, 15 sites in North America and seven engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, Corporate Responsibility Manager, Bunzl plc sites in Continental Europe to check that data using International Standard on Assurance had been appropriately measured, included, Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised : collated and reported.
Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Non-financial performance information, and ISAE 3410: Assurance Engagements on including greenhouse gas quantification in Greenhouse Gas Statements over the three particular, is subject to more inherent non-financial KPIs on page 23 and the data on limitations than financial information.
It is pages 45 and 47, in each case that has been important to read the selected corporate highlighted with the symbol.
They have responsibility information contained in this provided an unqualified opinion in relation to Annual Report in the context of PwCs full the relevant KPIs and data and their full limited assurance opinion and the Companys assurance opinion is available in the Corporate Responsibility Performance Responsibility section of our Group website, Reporting Guidelines which are also available www.
in the Responsibility section of our website.
48 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED CR Risks Corporate responsibility risks are considered to be part of the Groups risk management process, as set out on pages 51 to 55, but none are considered to represent principal risks to the Group.
A number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified and these are set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks.
Principal CR risk facing Description of risk and how it might affect the How the risk is managed the Group Groups prospects or mitigated Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures CR compliance variety of issues including those relating to inappropriate including those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in failures business practices, accidents at work and increased levies place throughout the business as well as an established due to levels of waste or carbon emissions.
Regular training in all areas of CR takes place using our suite of e-training modules.
The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate Loss of key on strong customer and supplier relationships which are incentive packages, development opportunities and career employees built up locally.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the progression.
Voluntary staff turnover and sickness absence Groups employees is therefore important.
is measured on a monthly basis and employee age profiles are reviewed annually.
This enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme The Group often has multi-site facilities with products Loss of operating weather conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups stocked in more than one location, as a result of which the facilities facilities being affected or employees being unable to attend Group usually has the ability to distribute products from unavailability for work.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
of staff The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international The Groups key suppliers are principally multinational Suppliers suppliers.
The failure of one of the Groups key suppliers organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers non-compliance toadhere to recognised CR standards could affect the are monitored by the Groups purchasing departments and withgood CR Groups reputation.
the quality assurance quality control department based in Shanghai audits key direct suppliers throughout Asia and practices oversees audits carried out by third parties elsewhere.
All key suppliers and suppliers in countries with increased social risk are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct that defines the principles and standards that Bunzl expect suppliers of goods and services to adhere to.
These risks are seen to be counterbalanced by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
Key performance indicators Performance What we said we What we did What we plan would do in 2017 to do in 2018 2015 2016 2017 Health & safety Improving safety in our warehouses and on our vehicles Reduction in -7% -7% -23% Reduce the Group The accident incidence rate reduced by 23% and the accident Reduce the Group accident incidence accident incidence severity rate reduced by 31%.
The accident incidence rate accident incidence rate % change rate by 5% from improved in all business areas.
The accident severity rate rate by 5% from year-on-year 2016. decreased in all business areas except UK & Ireland where 2017. we saw a small increase.
Reduction in -16% -31% -31% Reduce the Group Reduce the Group accident severity accident severity accident severity The improvements were achieved by focusing on the rate % change rate by 5% from rate by 5% from implementation of our internal safe working standards that year-on-year 2016.
2017. address the key hazards of our operations and improved safety observation programmes.
Businesses that operate their own commercial vehicles have placed considerable emphasis on training programmes for drivers, aimed at reducing accidents and injuries on the road.
We continued to enhance and extend our training and awareness programmes that aim to address the behavioural factors which cause injuries.
49 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Key performance indicators continued Performance What we said we What we did What we plan would do in 2017 to do in 2018 2015 2016 2017 Environment climate change Reducing our impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions Carbon emissions: 14.7 12.6 11.3 Reduce emissions The 2017 figure represents a 10% reduction in Scope 1 Reduce emissions Scope 1 Tonnes of by 1% against 2016. emissions versus 2016, including the effect of foreign by 1% against 2017.
At constant exchange rates the 2 This reduction This reduction reduction in emissions is 1%.
target excludes any target excludes any foreign exchange Fuel for transportation contributes c. 83% of Scope 1 foreign exchange translation effect on emissions.
Reduction of these emissions is primarily driven by translation effect revenue numbers.
fuel efficiency improvements including regular replacement on revenue of vehicles, use of vehicle telematics and driver training numbers.
In North America, where we have our largest commercial fleet we have improved our fuel efficiency by 2.5% during the year.
At a Group level, diesel consumed byour commercial fleet per m revenue decreased by 2.5% excluding foreign exchange translation effect.
Scope 1 emissions are also impacted by weather conditions influencing the fuel needed for heating of buildings.
As a result of the relatively cold winter in North America and increased presence in colder geographical areas our Group natural gas usage increased by nearly 11%.
Carbon emissions: 5.4 4.5 3.7 Reduce emissions The 2017 figure represents an 18% reduction in Scope 2 Reduce emissions Scope 2 Tonnes of by 2% against 2016. emissions versus 2016, including the effect of foreign by 2% against 2017.
At constant exchange rates the 2 This reduction This reduction reduction in emissions is 10%.
target excludes any target excludes any foreign exchange The Scope 2 emissions are calculated with location based foreign exchange translation effect on emission factors that are updated annually.
The impact of the translation effect revenue numbers.
update of the conversion factors in 2017 on the Scope 2 index is a on revenue reduction of 4% versus 2016.
Our Scope 2 emissions do not take numbers.
into account low carbon electricity purchases representing approximately 15% of electricity purchased.
The remaining improvement in the Scope 2 index has been driven by the continued implementation of low energy lighting.
Total Scope 1 & 2 20.1 17.1 15.0 Reduce emissions The 2017 figure represents a 12% reduction in total Scope 1 and 2 Reduce emissions emissions Tonnes by 1% against 2016. emissions versus 2016, including the effect of foreign exchange by 1% against 2017. of CO e m translation.
At constant exchange rates the reduction in emissions 2 This reduction This reduction revenue is 4%.
target excludes any target excludes any foreign exchange foreign exchange translation effect on translation effect on revenue numbers.
Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are represented as an index against m revenue.
The foreign exchange translation effect in the 2017 reporting year, caused by the movement in the exchange rates of sterling against other currencies during the 2017 reporting year compared to the 2016 reporting year, was to increase the reported reduction in emissions by approximately 9%.
Suppliers Responsible sourcing, working as partners with our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical trading initiatives Supplier CR audits 382 449 503 Launch a training We have developed and will shortly be launching a CR training Further expansion and assessments programme module which specifically covers social risks, including of our CR audit covering covering social risks modernslavery.
This training is mandatory for all of our programme into environmental and in our global supply seniormanagement as well as sales representatives and geographies with social standards chain.
medium levels of Number of audits social risk.
Refine supplier CR The CR audit programme was expanded into geographies assessments risk profiling.
outside Asia with medium levels of social risk.
carried out Community Providing support to our local communities through employee fundraising, matched funding and donations of stock and cash to charitable organisations Charity donations 631 712 742 Continue to support Bunzl supported a variety of projects for healthcare and Continue to support 000s relevant charities.
For example, we have relevant charities.
expanded our work with St John Ambulance.
