STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our corporate responsibility DRIVING TRUST DRIVING COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT At Inchcape we are passionate about supporting local charities that benefit the communities in which we live Lead in and work.
Every year our colleagues in all countries look customer for projects to enhance the community and focus their experience charitable work.
The organisation supports colleagues with time off and resources to volunteer or organise events.
The projects we support make a difference to the Become communities and recipients and also build engagement Invest to the OEMs accelerate as teams work on causes close to their hearts.
All of their TO BE THE partner growth WORLDS MOST of choice endeavours support our vision to be the most trusted TRUSTED automotive Distributor and Retailer.
This year there are AUTOMOTIVE many stories illustrated in the case studies.
Over 2017, DISTRIBUTOR & to further build our CR culture, we shared CR stories RETAILER and best practice on our new intranet iConnect, to create momentum through sharing great ideas and success stories.
Deliver full Leverage potential on all our global scale our revenue streams CASE STUDY The Greek team this year provided the charity ELEPAP with a Toyota Aygo as the main prize in their annual Lottery.
They have supported the We have an ambition to be the worlds charity in this way for six consecutive years.
most trusted automotive Distributor ELEPAP has helped more than 100,000 children and Retailer, and our Corporate with physical disabilities by supporting them throughout their childhoods and into adulthood.
Responsibility CR strategy is a ELEPAPs objective is to provide integrated key enabler in delivering this goal.
rehabilitation services to children and their families, within a safe and familiar environment, In 2017 we made good progress on our CR agenda and and more than 1,500 children participate in demonstrated our ongoing commitment to embedding the daily therapeutic, counselling and our CR across Inchcape globally.
Our CR initiatives are focused on the five areas below, to Christina Marougka-Katsouridis, ELEPAP align activities throughout the Group, and create value General Secretary, and Clairie Chatzigianni, for all our stakeholders.
Communication and Public Relations Director Building sustainable communities at TOYOTA Hellas, presented the car to the Driving a Health & Safety culture lucky winner in April.
Managing our business sustainably Listening to our customers and OEM brand partners Growing sustainable talent The following report highlights the activities that have taken place during the year in support of our local communities, the management of our carbon and emissions, as well as detail on how we maintain and promote a health and safety culture.
Activities around our Customers, Brand Partners and People are addressed in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 10.
The work of the CR Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 58. inchcape.
com 39 in partnership with Our corporate responsibility continued Inchcape UK supported cancer charity Macmillan THE COLLA-BEAR-ATOR CHALLENGE during 2017 and held various events throughout The challenge was to transport a teddy bear the year.
Overall, the partnership with Macmillan from Sunderland to Exeter ensuring he visited has been hugely successful, raising 125,000 in two every Inchcape centre along the way.
The name years purely through colleague fundraising.
It is of the challenge comes from DRIVE5, Inchcapes an incredible achievement and Macmillan has Performance Framework.
The I collaborate awarded Inchcape UK the Building a Partnership Performance Driver supports our objective of being award for their efforts in driving engagement and the Partner of Choice and shows colleagues reaching their fundraising target.
commitment to working together to share knowledge and ideas to make a stronger, more successful THE GREAT INCH CAKE BAKE OFF business.
The bear travelled across the UK, with many Inchcape UKs competition for the most creative highlights along the way including a visit to Chester cake received fantastic engagement, and included Zoo, Colchester Football Ground and the set of cakes in the shapes of a Mercedes key fob, the BMW Coronation Street.
The bear arrived safety in Exeter, logo and our Inchcape vision and strategy.
It was with donations collected along the way, before a great success and as such will become an being auctioned off in support of Macmillan.
THE COLLA-BEAR-ATOR CHALLENGE LAND ROVER TOGETHER FOR THE FLOOD HELPING A SCHOOL IN During 2017 floods in Southern Thailand caused VYSHNY VOLOCHYOK devastation with hundreds of homes submerged Our colleagues in Russia raised money for without warning.
The team at Inchcapes Jaguar the Vyshny Volochyok boarding school which Land Rover operations commissioned several has 105 pupils, including 15 orphans and 64 Land Rovers to deliver a thousand bottles disabled children.
The donation was used to buy of drinking water and other goods to those chemistry, biology and English textbooks along affected, including the Bang Sai Temple and with art materials and, much to the childrens Bann Hua Lam Phu School at Pak-Panang delight, sweets.
district, Nakhon Sri Thammarat province.
The visit was so successful that the team is setting Mr. Charnchai Mahantakhun, Manager Director, up a mentoring programme to provide help and said, We got to see many smiles both from our advice to the children, and to provide a support team and from those affected by the flood and network when the children leave school.
Iwould like to thank our employees and our customers for their help and support.
40 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DRIVING A HEALTH & SAFETY CULTURE PROGRESS TO DATE The health and safety of our people and customers is the During 2017 we have made real progress against cornerstone of our business practices.
We are committed our plan: to the promotion of safe, healthy behaviours and We have created two new senior roles in Asia and practices to avoid illness or injury on our sites or in our Europe to coordinate our strategy and coach care.
Our ambition is for zero avoidable safety incidents, theinMarket leads to ensure we are delivering which we can achieve by continually challenging our againstplan.
existing efforts, building on existing best practices and We have now rolled out the Asia IT tracking system, committing resource and investment where needed.
Cintellate, to all of Asia Pacific to improve reporting To assess the current Health & Safety culture within the and analysis.
Group, we undertook a detailed review of all markets A new overarching policy statement which sets out performance against these elements: accountabilities and responsibilities for our senior management focus and culture leaders, and all staff.
policy, procedure and practice Detailed Health & Safety standards, to serve as an operational benchmark across all markets raising resources, training and competence our processes to a common standard, regardless compliance, reporting and monitoring of local legislation.
incident management A more comprehensive self-audit process and Each of our senior country CEOs and Managing Directors template which enables all markets to evaluate undertook a detailed assessment of their locations their own compliance with our standards.
performance against the above key drivers based on A comprehensive accident reporting procedure a set of criteria under each element.
The assessment which we have widened to include hazards and near included an explanation of the current activity, a rating misses, even where no injury has occurred.
of its effectiveness, and a description of the evidence.
A clear resourcing plan at both market and regional The assessments were co-ordinated, reviewed and level, including appointment or engagement of benchmarked centrally by the Group Risk function.
dedicated Health & Safety experts to oversee Following the review, we developed a Group-wide compliance and continuous improvement, improvement programme and, alongside each market, and use of external experts where required.
began to develop specific action plans to embed new policies and best practices within their countries.
CASE STUDY: INCHCAPE CHILE In recognition of the high quality of its health and safety performance standards, Inchcape in Chile has once again received the Outstanding Award for its certification in PEC Programa Empresa Competitiva from the Mutual fide Seguridad C. Ch.
C Mutual Insurance Society of Chile.
The PEC is a nationwide programme, designed to promote excellence and continuous improvement in occupational health and safety management.
It consists of a risk prevention tool made up of 10 different modules such as Personal Protection Equipment Management and Emergency Plans and Procedures, and helps to generate a business culture that promotes a safe workspace through the active participation of an entire organisation.
Claudia Norambuena, HR Director and Health & Safety lead in Chile, notes: The only way of maintaining health and safety excellence is by continually making the workplace safe for everyone.
We regularly talk about and promote safety at work for the continuous improvement of it in all corners of the organisation.
During 2017 we are carrying out a very similar programme for all branches.
com 41 Our corporate responsibility continued CASE STUDY Brian Dalby, recently appointed OHSS Manager How will you address that?
for Asia Pacific, is now rolling out the successful The first step was to get buy-in from the regional framework he implemented in Australia to our Asia leadership team, which weve already done at region, leveraging our global scale to share best the very start as we presented the roadmap for practices across the Group.
The next step is to work out where we are by establishing a benchmark based on site baseline Brian commented: In Australia we moved away audits.
That tells us where to focus and how much from simply being reactive to H&S incidents to work we need to do to bring everyone up to standard.
being pro-active in the prevention of incidents and ultimately building the self awareness that really I follow a system based approach, giving everyone underpins a strong health & safety culture.
This is in the business access to a centrally controlled what we aim to do in Asia.
management, training and reporting solution that we use to manage all aspects of Health & Safety.
Brian explains how he intends to achieve thisambition.
This really makes it easy for our people to know what they need to do, when and how.
What do you think the biggest challenge is when building a Health & Safety culture?
How will you know that you have succeeded?
Undoubtedly the biggest consideration is winning Well set up a comprehensive set of KPIs, as we have the hearts and minds of the people.
You can be in Australia, to measure not only our success, but competent at Health & Safety by understanding the level of engagement that we have from people and following processes and procedures, but to using the system.
That way we can continually be outstanding you have to build that culture of improve and best focus our resources to do that.
self-awareness where it really matters to people.
It goes without saying that it is important that we do independently audit our sites periodically to ensure that the standards are maintained on the ground.
with the Group Executive Committee to consider whether DRIVING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE adopting science-based targets would be appropriate During 2017 we continued working with The Carbon Trust for the Group.
It was agreed that further case studies to understand our carbon footprint and explore how we would be carried out for Australia and Asia and work can effectively manage and reduce our emissions and is continuing in 2018 on these projects.
Following the successful case study in Continental With this assistance, we have been reviewing a scienceEurope, The Carbon Trust carried out various energy based target approach to carbon emissions reduction assessments on a selection of sites to identify carbon to ensure that our operations are directly aligned with reduction projects.
The opportunities for investment to the reductions consistent with the Paris Agreements improve energy efficiency are representative of potential commitment to keep global warming below 2C above opportunities across the full portfolio of sites throughout the pre-industrial average.
The Carbon Trust carried out a case study of our business The energy audit completed in November 2017 in Continental Europe, which includes both Retail and identified several projects for consideration such as Distribution operations.
The case study looked at two lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning, air methodologies which would best represent our business, compressors and energy management.
The audit also Sectoral Decarbonisation Approach SDA and the identified more long-term projects such as renewable Corporate Finance Approach to Climate-Stabilising energy sources.
The case study looked at the growth assumptions for floor space and economic value added.
The next step will be for the CR working group, the Group Target modelling results were given for SDA scope 1&2 Executive Committee and the CR Committee to analyse and C-Fact scope 1&2 for target years 2020, 2025 and the results and to agree an action plan for 2018.
The modelling formed the base for discussions 42 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity ratio Data is collected for our scope one and scope The Groups intensity ratio is revenue per tonne of two emissions: CO e. This allows for a fair comparison over time of CO e 2 2 emissions given the growth trajectory envisaged for the Energy electricity and fuel usage Group and cyclical variations in business activity.
Transport movement of cars and parts 2017 results Methodology The 2017 data includes the various businesses acquired The methodology used to calculate the Groups during the year including the South American business.
greenhouse gas emissions is based on the Environmental It also includes the JLR Distribution business in Thailand Reporting Guidelines, and uses both BEIS 2017 conversion which was acquired in 2016. factors and international electricity emissions factors as Whilst emissions have increased during the year due to published in the International Energy Agencys CO 2 the growth in business operations, the tCO e per m has Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2017 edition.
Data collection and reporting period Data has been collected for all markets from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The level at which we report is by business unit for each market.
This covers our Retail operations, Distribution operations and business service operations.
Total greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 Total emissions GHG emissions tonnes CO e 2 Year ended Year ended Change in Scope 1 and 2 emissions 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 emissions Scope 1 Direct emissions from combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 12,081 11,760 3% Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 49,121 44,795 9% Total scope 1 and 2 emissions 61,202 56,555 8% Year ended Year ended Operational emissions intensity 31 Dec 2017 31 Dec 2016 Change 1 Intensity metric total revenue m 8,949 7,838 14% Total scope 1 and 2 emissions tonnes CO e 61,202 56,555 8% 2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions per m tCO e m 6.8 7.2 -5% 2 1 Stated at actual rate.
