STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VALUING OUR PEOPLE We deliver creative, effective solutions for ourcustomers through the unique skills and perspectives of our employees.
The long term relationships formed by our employees with all ourstakeholders shapes the reputation of Bunzl and drives our positive can-do ethos.
Ourcommitment as a responsible employer is to support and equip employees to work collaboratively and with local autonomy, within the framework of our Group strategy.
38 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PEOPLE Our aim is to foster a culture that is inclusive, previously.
During 2017, each senior business Employee Consultation and diverse and focused on continuous leader worked in partnership with the human Information Forum ECIF UK improvement.
We encourage and reward resources HR function to build business- & Ireland and Continental Europe high performance, creating a sustainable level action plans.
One area highlighted for A group of elected representatives meet work environment where all are able to improvement was communications and we annually as part of the ECIF.
In 2017, 10 realise their individual potential.
Each year therefore refreshed our global employee representatives from the UK & Ireland we welcome new employees, many of whom newsletter, the Source, into a magazine andContinental Europe business areas join through acquisitions, and this provides format and plan to launch a digital app metat Bunzl Cleaning and Hygienes new ideas and challenges to continue the version shortly.
The information shared officesin Langley, UK with the business development of Bunzl internationally.
helps our employees understand how we area Managing Directors, the Group areperforming as a company and also FinanceDirector and the Director of includes stories from around the Group on A diverse and successful team GroupHR to share information on issues new business deals and recent acquisitions, Bunzl currently operates in 30 countries that are important toour employees community projects, innovative products worldwide.
As a service provider, our inthese businesses.
being brought to market and a popular business relies heavily on the skills and Dayin the Life of a colleague from one of experience of our employees.
We pride Themost recent financial results of the our businesses.
We use a range of other ourselves on the fact that we run our Group were shared and discussed as well channels to communicate with our businesses locally and managers are asthe achievements and plans from a employees using collaboration platforms, empowered accordingly.
We seek to recruit regional perspective.
In addition, the apps and video briefing technologies as well the right people who are passionate about representatives were updated on the as regular staff meetings and briefings, all our business and to provide opportunities developments in corporate responsibility ofwhich allows us continually to receive forpeople to progress within the CR and the highlights from the global real-time feedback from our workforce.
organisation on the basis of their skills, management conference were shared.
During the year we also brought together experience and aptitude.
We believe that to Therepresentatives raised the common 165leaders at a global conference with the get the best from people, we need to respect questions that their colleagues wanted theme of collaboration.
Presentations from each other and encourage honest, tobediscussed and gained input from all senior managers in the business covered straightforward communication.
Our the people present at the meeting.
It was best practice on topics such as digital acquisitions continue tobe a valuable source considered a successful meeting providing opportunities, sales effectiveness, of management talent for the Group and the another opportunity to build engagement accelerating organic growth, acquisitions completion of a number of acquisitions with, and two way communications and how best to differentiate ourselves from during the year has brought further highly between, the Groups senior management our competition.
We remain proud of the fact skilled people into Bunzl.
that, despite our scale, our decentralised businessmodel encourages local An engaging place to work accountability.
We are committed to informing and supporting our employees to grow within their roles.
In our 2016 employee survey, our employee engagement score was 76%, an increase of 2% on the survey two years Total workforce Senior management Average number of employees Gender split at 31 December 2017 Gender split at 31 December 2017 By business area 11% 18% 36% 35% 22% 64% 89% 25% Male 11,619 Male 400 North America 6,071 Female 6,535 Female 50 Continental Europe 4,414 UK & Ireland 3,937 Rest of the World 3,112 39 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Online learning platforms and succession Total workforce age profile Rewarding for performance at 31 December 2017 tools were also introduced in some regions In return for their commitment and hard this year.
It is our people who continue to work, we make sure that we treat our 17% deliver the Groups strategy for the individual 18% employees fairly and pay them properly for businesses and we have strong people talent the work that they do.
All our UK employees pipelines and recruitment processes that over the age of 18 who have completed their ensure we employ and retain the best talent.
probation period are paid the National Living Wage or above and those on probation 25% receive at least the minimum wage.
Locally Equality and diversity our sites are empowered to run a variety of Our business culture is underpinned by our 40% recognition and incentive schemes ranging CR framework which sets out the legal, from employee of the month through to ethical, social and environmental standards programmes based on performance and of behaviour we expect from our employees.
Under 30 3,145 living the Bunzl values.
We have good All of Bunzls policies seek to respect 30-39 4,560 employee benefits.
During 2017 a flexible human rights standards defined by both 40-54 7,162 benefit holiday purchase scheme was internationally agreed principles and our own Over 55 3,287 introduced in the UK & Ireland and in the cultural standards.
We monitor the age of USwe offer a wellness programme that our workforce across the world to ensure incentivises and rewards employees for compliance with these standards and identify getting annual medical screenings and for We are committed to monitoring and any potential succession issues.
This year we being physically active.
have focused on activities to increase the understanding any gender pay gap and as a business we value diversity and support the number of women in senior leadership roles.
These include working with strategic training UK governments commitment to address Employee development the UKs overall gender pay gap.
From 2018 providers and internal mentors to coach andretention women in middle management roles to reach we will publish our UK gender pay gap data As part of our commitment to developing inline with the guidelines.
At Bunzl we are their potential and we are committed to our people, we have continued to invest ensuring that more women come up through confident that men and women are paid in training programmes for customer facing equally for doing equivalent jobs across the organisation.
We introduced an equality and operational roles through to senior and diversity policy in October, setting out ourbusinesses.
Our analysis of roles held management.
Participants on the Bunzl bymen and women shows that we have an our specific commitments to ensure our Management Programme, which is aimed employment policies, practices and under-representation of women in the senior at employees leading a team for the first leadership team and an over-representation procedures focus on maximising the time, delivered projects introducing new potential of each individual.
We believe this is of men at more junior levels across the ideas for the business, using learnings from business.
We believe that by becoming more best achieved by developing our employees the programme.
We encourage employees talents, while recognising their different diverse, through the adoption of a number of to take charge of their development and key initiatives across the business as outlined cultures, perspectives and experiences.
career growth and look to appoint from above, we will attract and retain the best within the organisation wherever we can.
talent, engage our workforce and grow our business.
Helping the local community North America Following the hurricanes in the US in September, colleagues pulled together tosupport those whose lives were devastated by the impact of the high windsand torrential rains and flooding.
We were able to deliver food, drinks and cleaning supplies to support the victims.
The magnitude of these storms was unprecedented and our people performed in an outstanding manner to help meet theimmediate needs of those most badlyaffected.
40 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED Key performance indicators Performance What we said we What we did What we plan would do in 2017 to do in 2018 2015 2016 2017 Employees Engaging with our employees with clear communications and the provision of training and development opportunities Employee turnover: 10.3% 11.7% 13.0% Continue to monitor From our monitoring we are seeing an increase in voluntary Continue to monitor Voluntary turnover and take employee turnover inour business.
The movement in the levels turnover and take action where of voluntary employee turnover tends to reflect the economic action where necessary.
conditions inthe countries in which we operate and low necessary.
unemployment levels, particularly in North America, rather than any intrinsic reasons related to the Group.
Our key employee and management populations remain stable.
Gender diversity: 11% 10% 11% Focus on career We continued to promote womens development and training Extend the training Women at senior development and across the Group and use case studies to highlight female further and management level succession plans.
Employee engagement 76% Detailed action plans The results of the employee survey have been absorbed and, Undertake an index score to be devised to as appropriate, working parties or local forums and listening employee survey address any groups set up to address the significant issues raised.
The during 2018. significant issues employee survey is run every two years and therefore data raised.
The vehicle provides a mobile triage clinic Supporting community projects St John Ambulance UK & Ireland and can treat walking wounded on site.
and employee fundraising Bunzl has built a long term relationship with In2017 Bunzl Healthcare funded a second UK national charity St John Ambulance We believe that ensuring community support vehicle which will provide support for the SJA.
Having previously supported a makes a meaningful difference to our London area.
Bunzl are also funding 100 first number of first aid initiatives, in 2015 Bunzl colleagues.
We provide resources and aid classes provided by SJA in primary and funded a purpose-built mobile first aid opportunities for Bunzl people to be good secondary schools, aiming to create a new vehicle the first in the charitys fleet.
Based citizens and to get involved in local generation of lifesavers.
in south west England, the vehicle is used by community projects and to contribute to volunteer first aiders at major public and social impact causes.
These fundraising sporting events and also provides a night activities championed by our employees service in city centres and can offer locally are supplemented by donations made emergency support for disaster situations.
Health and wellness Bunzl encourages wellbeing and supports good physical and mental health of our workforce and an engaging workplace.
Weaim to support our employees to be the best they can be.
This includes giving them opportunities to maintain and enhance their health so they can maximise their fitness and, at the same time, improve their capacity to work safely and effectively.
This benefits both the individual and our business.
We support various programmes including one on ergonomics in the workplace to protect our employees from work-related hazards to their health, including prevention of workrelated illness and occupational diseases.
