Our impact on society Committed to shaping futureprosperity Although our overall purpose is to help our clients build future prosperity, we also recognise the responsibility we have to wider society and other key stakeholders.
Wehave always believed that demanding high levels of corporate responsibility CR isthe right thing to do for a principle-led business such as Schroders.
More details on how we have engaged with our stakeholders can be found on page 53.
We view CR as the management of all of the As an asset management firm with relatively simple environmental, social, governance ESG, economic and supply chains, predominantly comprising business and ethical issues that make up our relationships with professional services organisations, we believe that stakeholders and society.
The development of our CR there is low risk of slavery or human trafficking taking strategy has continued throughout this year, place within our supply chain.
Nevertheless, we use a reinforcing our commitment to act responsibly and combination of supplier due diligence, employment contribute to society.
policies and employee training to support this.
More information can be found in our Slavery and Human Following a review of the United Nations UN 2030 Trafficking Statement at schroders.
Agenda, we are supportive of the aims of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals which represent a Charitable giving comprehensive agenda for addressing the worlds We are proud to support the communities in which societal challenges.
In 2017, our impact and weoperate and actively encourage our employees commitment across a number of these areas has been todo the same.
We have a long history of positively demonstrated through work with our communities, contributing to local communities through donations our clients and the environment.
Further information and employee time.
In 2017 we donated 2.0 million to on our approach can be found in our Sustainability charitable causes around the world 2016: 1.5 million, Annual Report at schroders.
Our emphasis remains on supporting our employees Our communities through Give As You Earn payroll giving and in the UK Social mobility was a key theme for us in 2017.
29% of our employees donated to charitable causes in Weachieved a top 50 ranking in the UKs first Social this way 2016: 29%.
We also offer fundraising Mobility Employer Index for our work supporting high matching to support employee fundraising efforts.
Wepartnered with the Social Mobility Foundation In addition to financial donations, we have provided anddisability charity Action For Kids to deliver three gifts in kind, organised frequent charitable collections successful Futures Days.
These provided insight into and encouraged our employees to share their the asset management industry and world of work for knowledge, skills and capabilities with charitable high-achieving students from low income backgrounds organisations through volunteering.
To support our and young adults with physical or learning disabilities.
employees giving back to communities, we offer time We also worked with both charities tolaunch internal matching for volunteering hours completed outside of work placement programmes across the business, and working hours, and up to 15 hours of volunteering Action For Kids awarded Schroders an Inclusive Gold leave a year.
Last year employees globally volunteered Partner award atits annual recognition event.
Human rights Our clients We aim for high standards of governance throughout Social and environmental change is happening faster the firm.
We recognise the responsibility we have than ever.
The challenges posed by climate change, towards our stakeholders, including our employees inequality and demographics are sizeable.
and society as a whole, as well as the expectations For fund managers navigating this backdrop, ofour clients and regulators.
Our business model is consistently delivering positive investment outcomes intended to fully comply with applicable human rights can be challenging.
We believe that taking a legislation in the countries in which we operate.
sustainable approach is key to managing this Schroders is strongly opposed to slavery and human challenge.
We focus on identifying well-managed trafficking and will not knowingly support or conduct businesses, understanding the risks and opportunities business with any organisation involved in such of environmental and social change, and actively activities.
Our business is undertaken predominantly engaging to improve company behaviours incountries with a clear commitment in this area and governance.
andthe vast majority of our major suppliers are headquartered in low risk countries.
As a responsible investor we have examined modern slavery risks across our holdings in high risk sectors.
30 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Some examples of fundraising and volunteering undertaken around the world in 2017: UK North America Asia Pacific Our London offices joined forces with the Our US digital team organised a STEM In partnership with Hondao Senior Citizens wider asset management industry to support science, technology, engineering and Welfare Foundation, employees in our Taipei the 2017 CASCAID appeal, raising money for mathematics volunteer day at a lab built for office ran a series of free financial fraud Cancer Research UK.
After matching, we children with special educational needs.
education seminars for senior citizens.
contributed over 200,000 of the total Theteam spent a day working with children Tomake their sessions more engaging, 2.4 million raised with anumber of on new technology including 3D printers and theteam partnered with a local opera group employeeled events, including ateam abseil robotic arms.
Josh Draper, Developer, said: and produced their own performance to of Broadgate Tower in the City of London.
Spending time volunteering in an area encourage audience participation.
A Hondao Speaking about the initiative, Phil Middleton, outside your normal routine enriches our lives employee said: The senior citizens were so CoHead of UK Intermediary and CASCAID beyond anything we can imagine.
Using our involved and enjoyed the experience it really Ambassador, said: It has been a fantastic volunteer days gives a real example of how attracted their attention.
initiative getting the whole industry together, employees can leverage this great benefit clients and competitors alike.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Our impact on society continued Our commitment to integrating ESG factors into our In 2015, we set renewable energy targets for the first investment process began in 1998.
We achieved our target of sourcing over 60% of team of 12 people working across asset classes and our global electricity supply from renewable sources by geographies.
ESG factors are integrated in our core the end of 2016.
We have recently signed up to the investment processes and we are launching new funds Climate Group and CDPs RE100 initiative, which brings designed to meet client demand for a more sustainable together more than 100 businesses globally.
As part of investment approach.
this commitment, we are aiming to increase our use of renewable energy to 75% by 2020 and 100% by 2025.
Stewardship By the end of 2017 we had reached a total of 70% In 2017 we engaged with companies more than 1,000 renewable energy globally and we anticipate our times on ESG matters an increase of over 100% from membership of RE100 will help us towards our two years ago.
We have addressed a wide range of final goal.
issues ranging from cyber risk to responsible lending in We continue to participate in the Dow Jones auto finance.
We voted at over 5,000 company Sustainability Index and the CDP climate change AGMs around the world, and our votes against program and have demonstrated a continual reduction management have increased in recent years.
of our electricity consumption, achieving the Carbon In 2017 we were ranked as the top European Asset Saver Gold standard for the last 10 years.
Manager for Responsible Investment performance by We use DEFRAs conversion factors to calculate our ShareAction.
We also received a UNPRI A ranking for CO e emissions for all consumption apart from strategy, governance, equity, credit, fixed income and 2 overseas electricity, for which we use the International sovereign fixed income and an A for real estate.
Energy Agencys conversion factors as recommended We are also a founding signatory of the Climate Action by DEFRA.
Ourdata has been verified and further 100 initiative, a five year collaborative engagement information is disclosed in our CDP submission.
Our project to engage over 100 of the worlds largest total carbon output in 2017 has reduced by 9.6%.
corporate greenhouse gas emitters to improve For the last three years, we have used the governance on climate change, curb emissions and internationally accepted GHG Protocol Corporate strengthen climate-related financial disclosures.
As well as our quarterly and annual reports, we We continue to prepare for the transition to our new regularly publish thematic research, and our voting UK headquarters at 1 London Wall Place, which records at schroders.
provides opportunities for some notable improvements Climate change in energy and water usage and access to high quality green spaces.
Climate change is a major investment risk and one to which we are devoting increasing resources.
A solution will require co-operation across the stakeholder CO e emissions per employee tonnes 2 groups, including clients, companies and policymakers.
We are committed to reporting in accordance with the 2014 Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures 4.9 recommendations and have also signed up to a Global 2015 Investor Statement on Climate Change.
This group is 5.5 committed to taking steps towards a low carbon and 2016 climate resilient investment approach.
4.4 In 2017 we wrote to 125 non-disclosing companies 2017 3.4 outlining the importance of transparency and disclosure of their exposure to climate risks and opportunities.
We have also supported 50 climate related shareholder resolutions, including co-filing at Total CO e emissions tonnes 2 Exxon to request improved disclosure on the impact of public climate change policy on the business.
2014 9,055 7,229 659 16,943 More information on our approach to climate change and related investment issues can be found at 2015 schroders.
12,798 6,496 539 19,833 The environment 2016 10,898 5,625 688 17,211 As part of our commitment to responsible consumption and production, we aim to minimise the 2017 10,215 4,702 638 15,555 impact that our own business has on the environment.
Weconstantly review opportunities to minimise the environmental impact of our operations and to deliver Scope 1: Natural gas, oil and company-owned vehicles continuous improvements in our environmental Scope 2: Electricity performance.
Scope 3: Business travel 32 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Our approach to tax We aim to comply with both the spirit and letter of the Corporate awards law and are committed to conducting our tax affairs in an open and transparent way.
This means that we comply with our tax filing, reporting and payment obligations globally.
We also seek to maintain good relationships with the tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
This may take the form of discussing key developments in EuroHedge Absolute UCITS Funds Europe Awards Investment Week Marketing our business and the potential impact of those Awards Management Firm Digital Brand of the Year and Innovation Awards of the Year Marketing Team of the Year developments on the amount of tax we pay.
From time to time, our views on the appropriate tax treatment in any given situation may differ from those of the tax authorities.
Where this occurs, we work constructively and proactively to achieve an early resolution.
We comply with the UKs Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks and are treated as low risk by Investment Europe Fund Fitch Rating Investment Magic Circle Awards Charity HM Revenue & Customs.
Manager of the Year Awards Management Quality Investment Manager Group of the Year Rating: Excellent ofthe Year We believe it is important that businesses behave responsibly and build trust within society regarding their role and contribution on tax.
With this in mind, we support initiatives to improve international transparency on taxation matters, including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Membership and awards Development measures on country-by-country reporting and automatic exchange of information.
Our tax strategy, available at schroders.
com taxstrategy, sets out our approach to tax matters across the Group more generally.
This strategy is reviewed and approved annually by the Audit and Risk Committee.
We received the Payroll We have signed up to the We signed the Women in Giving Quality Mark RE100 initiative, committing Finance Charter in May 2016, Taxes borne Platinum Award.
to increase our use a pledge for gender balance Taxes borne include corporate income tax on the ofrenewable energy across financial services.
to100%by 2025. profits arising in each country, indirect taxes such as value added tax on our expenses and payroll taxes on our employees remuneration.
The total tax borne by the Group in 2017 was 250.4 million 2016: 225.3 million.
Taxes collected Companies also have an important role in collecting We are an accredited London We are a member of We are included in the Living Wage Employer.
and administering taxes on behalf of governments, Alliance CMHA.
where the cost of the tax is borne by others.
This includes income tax and social security payments deducted from our employees remuneration and indirect taxes charged to our clients.
The total tax collected in 2017 was 238.4 million 2016: 228.8 million.
We are a member We participate in the CDPs We are a member Total taxes borne and collected in 2017 were ofOUTstanding, the climate change program.
professional network for Disability Forum.
LGBT executives and future Further information on the taxes borne and collected leaders and their allies.
can be found at schroders.
We are a member We are a signatory We are included in the ofWorkingFamilies, andassociation member DowJones Sustainability  ofUN PRI.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
