SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Committed delivery, always OUR APPROACH 1 2 We continue to develop our sustainability practices for the benefit of our stakeholder SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT group as a whole.
We aim to COMMUNITIES maintain and improve our social licence to operate through acting Context Context responsibly in relation to our As a long-term partner for Tanzania, The Group remains committed people, the environment and the the Group invests in its local to environmental protection and regions to support the creation minimising harm to our surroundings.
communities in which we operate.
Our environmental priorities are We are aligned with Tanzanias under continuous review.
Development Vision 2025 and On-going projects to improve regional development plans 1 water reprocessing and reduce including Kiwanda Changu, Mkoa Sustainable GHG emissions.
communities Wangu, My Industry, My Region.
Achievements Achievements We r ecorded a 15% reduction 5 We i nvested US$500,000 to 2 in GHG emissions compared Security Environment upgrade Bugarama Health Centre and human to 2016 levels.
in Kakola to a district level hospital.
rights O ur statcom project at We c ompleted six new libraries, Bulyanhulu resulted in the providing more than 6,000 books decommissioning of 15 diesel to local schools and communities.
4 3 W e delivered against majority A t Bulyanhulu we recorded a Safety Employees of legacy infrastructure 16% reduction in water usage.
O ur upgrade of North Maras W e fostered knowledge-sharing water treatment plant meant in Tanzanias extractives sector.
no water was drawn from the Mara River during 2017.
Future objectives The Acacia Group has put in place C ontinue to be a partner Future objectives Community Relations, Community Investment, for Tanzania and its national R educe GHG emissions by 2% Environmental, Human Rights, Responsible development agenda.
Supply Chain, Safety and Health and Security Deliver a fresh socio-economic policies, all of which are available on our C ontinued reduction of our focus, bringing value-add website.
These policies are in addition to environmental impact.
our Business Ethics Policies, which include E nhanced water conservation our Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud and Our Sustainable Communities through the year.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policies, programme will improve market which are also available on our website: linkages for farmers and small http: www.
com about-us businesses around our mines.
aspx 50 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW 3 4 5 EMPLOYEES SAFETY SECURITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS Context Context Context We have reduced international The Group targets zero injuries The Group operates its own Human employees in our workforce by and every person going home Rights Policy and Procedures 85% over last five years.
alongside voluntary commitments to the VPSHR.
Our move to reduced operations We operate to the highest of at Bulyanhulu led to a significant safety standards.
Our approach is in line with the increase in employee turnover United Nations Guiding Principles during the year.
Achievements on Business and Human Rights We r ecorded a 39% improvement UNGPs.
Achievements in Total Reportable Injury T anzanian employees currently Frequency Rate TRIFR in 2017.
Achievements make up 96.2% of our workforce.
We r ecorded a 20% reduction in N umber of Lost Time Injuries the number of illegal incursions at M anagement team at LTI decreased from 32 North Mara compared with 2016.
Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi now in 2016 to 18 in 2017, a made up of five Tanzanians and 44% reduction.
Implemented the one international employee.
recommendations of an H igh Potential Incidents independent Human Rights Increased percentage decreased by 35% Impact Assessment HRIA of women in our workforce W e developed an improved safety conducted at all our mine to 10% 2016: 8%.
culture through hazard reporting, sites in 2016.
1 02 staff have completed investigation processes and risk S upported more extensive our Rainbow Leadership assessments.
human rights training targeting programme since 2016. the Tanzanian police in Future objectives Tarime District.
Future objectives C ontinue to target zero injuries.
C ontinue to reduce the number F ocus on contractor controls Future objectives of international employees.
processes to reduce contractor C onclude consultations on T raining of Tanzanian staff involvement in safety incidents.
our new Community Grievance to fill management roles.
P rogress occupational health and Process in 2018.
I ncrease overall employment safety initiatives including malaria R ecruitment of a Lead Grievance numbers in Tanzania once control assessments in the Officer to oversee and administer export ban is lifted.
Continued review of our safety and security arrangements to eliminate human rights incidents.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 51 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED We aim to contribute to socio-economic development in the areas in which we operate through on-going stakeholder engagement and participation.
The Groups direct economic contribution is However, our true economic contribution stamp duties, local service levies and made up of the economic value we add by is far greater once the wider effects of our environmental levies.
Geographically, the paying our employees, governments, suppliers, presence are considered.
These include majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, shareholders, contractors and communities.
the indirect effects of people spending being the location of our operating mines.
Our overall direct economic contribution in their wages, governments distributing tax Our net taxation contribution in Tanzania 2017 was US$926 million compared to and royalty revenues, and neighbouring was US$143 million in 2017, compared US$911 million in 2016, with US$644 million communities using the infrastructure to US$164 million in 2016.
The drop was being contributed to the Tanzanian economy developed for our operations.
a result of the inability to export and directly through local suppliers, employees sell 90% of our concentrate production.
The distribution of Group taxes includes and taxes.
royalties, indirect taxes withholding taxes and non-claimable VAT, payroll taxes inclusive of social security payments and other taxes, 2016 Net tax contribution to Tanzania 2017 Net tax contribution to Tanzania US$million US$million 19 22 47 45 36 55 40 44 Royalty Government 47.2 Royalty Government 44.9 Payroll taxes including social security 39.9 Payroll taxes including social security 43.7 Corporate income tax incurred 54.5 Corporate income tax incurred 35.7 Other taxes 21.8 Other taxes 18.8 Total taxes incurred 163.5 Total taxes incurred 143.1 Distribution of revenues Direct economic contribution Financing 2017 US$m US$m 2016 500 800 400 600 300 400 200 200 100 0 0 -200 International Tanzanian Indirect taxes Taxes and Employees, Dividends Available for Interest Repayment suppliers suppliers not refunded Government net of tax reinvestment payments of borrowing royalties Total 2017 926.7 Total 2017 167.4 Total 2016 911.3 Total 2016 139.8 52 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW CASE STUDY DEVELOPING Q Q TANZANIAN LEADERS How has your role developed since you Why work for Acacia?
A A Acacia has opened up so many doors for my Since joining the Group I progressed up personal and professional growth.
The Group through the Finance Department and was later employs a host of well-trained individuals who appointed Commercial Manager at Bulyanhulu can support you in so many ways due to their mine and am now serving as General Manager range and depth of experience.
of Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines.
Throughout Bulyanhulu is a world class gold reserve and my progression I feel extremely lucky to have BENEDICT MASILI BUSUNZU has the potential to emerge as a world class had the opportunity to benefit from Acacias GENERAL MANAGER, BULYANHULU & BUZWAGI mine.
This potential currently serves as a career development pathway and gain a much huge motivation to successfully complete better understanding of the business as I have the on-going transformation programme at Q taken on new roles.
When did you start working for Acacia and It has always been an honour to work with what was your role?
Q first class employees over the past 11 years and I am looking forward to seeing the same Can you describe the kind of career team working together throughout the life A development support you have received of mine.
I can only hope that someday my since joining the Group?
I joined the Acacia Group which was then daughters will be part of this amazing team.
wholly owned and operated by Barrick Gold as a Management Accountant in February A Q 2007.
I was initially posted to our Bulyanhulu mine for a two-year period during which I had Since I joined 11 years ago I have consistently What does the Acacia Group mean for oversight of the mines accounts and developed my own professional skill-set and a Tanzanian?
reported to the Finance Manager.
I soon had the opportunity to steadily progress my transferred to the Dar-es-Salaam office role within the Group.
It has provided specific where I was promoted to Senior Accountant.
Notably, in my early A days I was seconded to our Johannesburg office for a year to gain more exposure within the The Group not only provides direct investment Q Finance Department and develop a greater into the country in terms of capital but can understanding of the whole business.
In also provide significant direct benefits to Currently what are your key responsibilities?
2014-15 I was sponsored to attend the Mining Tanzanians.
It enables direct and indirect Leaders Programme at the University of employment to Tanzanians, as well as training Queensland, Australia.
and professional exposure so that Tanzanians A can take on positions previously filled by I have also undertaken a cultural and In September 2017 I was appointed as expats.
We also provide opportunities for leadership programme called Tufanikiwe Interim General Manager of Bulyanhulu mine other businesses in Tanzania as suppliers Pamoja that defined the overall culture of the and have subsequently taken on the role of of goods and services.
We have seen some organisation as well as the understanding General Manager of Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi small businesses growing to become medium of what is expected from leaders.
mines within a joint management structure.
sized operations through strong support from Reporting to the Managing Director, Tanzania, Shortly after graduating from the Mining Acacia.
This is all in addition to the Groups Asa Mwaipopo, the role requires the daily Leaders Programme, I took on the role of contribution to the country through the taxes management and oversight of two large-scale Acting General Manager at Bulyanhulu, it pays and the social projects it supports in and vastly different gold mining operations providing direct support to the General the communities around our mines.
which employ approximately 1,000 staff and Manager and taking on his responsibilities contractors.
As well as maintaining and whenever he was on rotational leave or away Q improving operations there is a strong focus from site.
This is something that really helped on preparing for the restart of operations at me to understand the operations and the What are your aspirations for the future?
Bulyanhulu mine if the current ban on the requirements of management and prepared export of mineral concentrates is lifted.
me for my current role as General Manager.
At our Buzwagi mine I am also overseeing the A processing of stockpiles and preparation for the mines closure in three years time under In future I would like to use the exposure our No Harm 2020 programme.
and experience that I am getting here to be able to open and run my own business.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 53 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Sustainable Communities North Mara We invest in the regions around mine At North Mara, we completed the construction As we delivered on these legacy commitments, sites with the specific goal of significantly and renovation of classrooms and teachers we simultaneously began the journey contributing to the development of housing at Bwirege and Genkuru Schools, of shifting emphasis to local economic Sustainable Communities that are built constructed the Nyamwaga and Kerende development and delivering value-add on trusting and transparent relationships, Health Centres and invested in the services to the infrastructure.
achieved through sustained dialogue and Nyamwaga Keisangora water project, engagement.
Our communities should enjoy among other investments.
a thriving local economy and have access to basic social infrastructure.
Over the last five years, we have invested heavily in building Goal 4 E nsure inclusive and equitable social infrastructure such as schools, roads, quality education and promote health and water facilities.
In 2017 we began lifelong learning opportunities implementation of the new Sustainable for all Communities SC strategy which focuses on Goal 5 Ac hieve gender equality and adding value to this physical infrastructure empower all women and girls We are also aligned with the Governments and contributing positively to the development Tanzania Development Vision 2025 and Goal 6 E nsure availability and sustainable of a diversified local economy in our zone its commitment to the United Nations management of water and sanitation of influence.
In order to achieve this shift in Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
for all focus we spent most of 2017 delivering first Goal 7 E nsure access to affordable, on our legacy commitments and building the Acacias Sustainable Communities strategy reliable, sustainable and modern foundations for more sustainable development focuses on the following SDGs: energy for all projects.
This included the completion and or Goal 1 E nd poverty in all its forms initiation of the following projects: Goal 8 P romote sustained, inclusive and everywhere sustainable economic growth, Bulyanhulu Goal 2 E nd hunger, achieve food security full and productive employment We constructed classrooms at Lwabakanga and improved nutrition and promote and decent work for all Primary School: fenced the 1.2 kilometre sustainable agriculture Goal 10 R educe inequality within and perimeter of Kakola Primary School: Goal 3 E nsure healthy lives and promote amongcountries constructed three community pit latrines in well-being for all at all ages Lyenze village, and improved the provision of water through building water tanks in Kakola village.
We also initiated the construction of CASE STUDY the more than US$500,000 Tzs 1.1 billion Bugarama Health Centre which is a second phase of a similar value investment we made BULYANHULU EXTENDS HEALTHCARE INVESTMENT FOR THE in 2016.
This phase of construction aims to BENEFIT OF OUR COMMUNITIES upgrade the health centre to a district level hospital.
The Bugarama Health Centre currently supports healthcare for 58,000 In November 2017 a Memorandum of The Bugarama Health Centre currently people living in the 14 villages in Kakola Understanding MoU was signed between supports healthcare for 58,000 people and its surrounding areas.
our Bulyanhulu mine and the Msalala living in the 14 villages in Kakola and its District Council to support the second phase surrounding areas.
Upon completion, the Buzwagi of construction of the local Bugarama centre will be able to cater for over 150,000 We added more classrooms to Mwendakulima Health Centre.
This follows on from the first community members.
The construction will B Primary School and are completing the phase of the project, completed in 2016 at be undertaken by a local contractor who is construction of a girls dormitory at a cost of US$470,000 Tzs 1.0 billion.
expected to recruit workers from the local Mwendakulima Secondary School after the community.
Once operational, the facility original dormitory was accidentally gutted by The Bulyanhulu mine has committed a will be run by the Msalala District Council.
The dormitory will accommodate more further US$500,000 Tzs 1.1 billion for the than 100 pupils and make secondary second phase of construction, which aims The health centre project will expand the education more accessible to girls.
to upgrade the health centre to a district provision of much-needed medical care in level hospital.
This project stems from the region to create a healthier community our Sustainable Communities strategy and enhance maternity care in line with the which aims to improve access to social Governments five year development plan infrastructure for our communities.
of reducing the under-five mortality rate and reducing maternal mortality.
54 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Relevant pages p62 Governance overview CASE STUDY ACACIA LAUNCHES COMMUNITY LIBRARIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO EDUCATION Acacia through its Sustainable Communities programme has supported the establishment of the first community libraries in the local areas around each of our mine sites.
The new libraries are in Kahama Buzwagi, Nyanghwale Bulyanhulu and Tarime North Mara districts in Tanzania.
In order to be more effective in our delivery in the education sector we conducted an independent education needs assessment which was designed to inform our efforts to enhance educational outcomes.
The project is part of a broader strategy that aims to contribute directly to Tanzanias National Five Year Development Plan and the Tanzania Development Vision 2025.
Our efforts seek to help resolve challenges identified in Tanzanias education sector and thereby support the provision for peoples Top: Tarime District Commissioner Hon.
Glorious Luoga cuts the ribbon to officially open the new JK Nyerere basic needs and enable Tanzania to be School library.
competitive in the regional and global Bottom: North Mara Sustainable Communities Manager Richard Ojendo with Hon.
Glorious Luoga at the opening economy.
Our support for education in of the JK Nyerere library.
Tanzania is also in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal 4 of achieving inclusive and equitable quality establishment of the libraries which are by Read International.
It is anticipated education for all.
created in existing buildings provided by that nearly 15,000 Tanzanian community the Local District Council and communities members will access the library services The libraries are aimed at encouraging in the respective areas.
Read and Acacia have the public to engage and develop a reading prioritised new campaigns to demonstrate culture by providing access to educational In 2017 we successfully completed the the importance of reading together as resources for students, teachers and the refurbishment of six libraries.
This was a an important aspect of developing a wider local communities.
The initiative successful pilot project that we intend to book culture.
is also supported by Read International, replicate and which provided 800-1,000 books a charity that aims to improve access to per library.
The project has a teacher training The initiative ties into the national education education in East Africa by renovating component, enabling communities to manage agenda which encourages country-led actions school libraries and providing educational their own libraries and encourage a reading to obtain support from multi-stakeholder material.
We provided the funding culture.
The libraries will be open daily to the partnerships and financing to bring the and Read engages university students communities and will be run and managed by required change in the quality of education.
as volunteers in the refurbishment and community members who have been trained ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 55 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED As part of adding value to the education We also embarked on an initiative, in Our overall performance for 2017 was good, infrastructure we managed to bring together partnership with Read International Tanzania, with the Group initiating and progressing Tanzanian and South African universities to to create a reading culture in schools and identified improvement programmes for the create a network for sharing knowledge.
Please see the case study year.
Key achievements include the completion Africa has a long history of mining and working on page 55 for details.
These partnerships of Phase 1 of the water management with its academic institutions to develop skills demonstrate one of the key principles of the infrastructure upgrade at our Bulyanhulu mine, and solutions for the sector.
We believe there SC strategy which dictates that we work in the building of a new water balance model, and is benefit for Tanzanian academic institutions partnership with others.
installation of additional new water flow meters and the countrys mining industry from creating for accurate data capturing.
Stakeholder engagement continued to be formal relationships with South African a key priority for delivering our work.
Our key Buzwagi mine achieved its ICMI Cyanide academia as part of building national capacity stakeholders include local district and regional Code recertification while North Mara mine and thus contributing to the President of councils, community leaders and communities continued to implement various water Tanzanias vision to see more Tanzanians in general in our zone of influence.
We management projects and completed the participating in the mining industry.
In continued to host mine tours at all sites to upgrade of its water treatment plant pertaining November, we convened a workshop with the expose our stakeholders to our operations.
to the TSF and mining areas.
Implementation theme Academic and industry partnership These tours create transparency in the way of the Acacia EMS in line with ISO 14001 was for the extractives industry in Tanzania we operate and create understanding of our progressed during the year, further improving which brought together mining experts from business processes.
programmes to manage our top environmental Tanzanian and South African universities as risks at all our sites.
The partnership is In 2018, our plans are to focus on initiatives aimed at developing a network of centres for economic development that tackle some of of excellence that build the capacity of these identified in scoping study on agriculture Total water used Tanzanians to support and lead a sustainable and small and medium enterprises SMEs Litres per tonne of ore milled extractives sector, through collaborative conducted by an independent consulting efforts in education, research and knowledge firm, Dalberg in 2017.
These include the 486 486 468 451 424 sharing and plans have been developed development of demonstration farms, SME in line with this objective.
The partnership service centres and market linkages for will initially be made up of the following farmers and small businesses.
These institutions: The University of Dar Es Salaam initiatives are aligned with the Tanzania and Muhimbili University from Tanzania Development Vision 2025 and regional 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and The University of Witwatersrand, development plans including Kiwanda Bulyanhulu 711 Johannesburg, and The University of Cape Changu, Mkoa Wangu My Industry, My Buzwagi 473 Town from South Africa, as well as Acacia Region which aims to create about 100 small North Mara 372 and AngloGold Ashanti as industry partners.
and medium businesses in each region by December 2018.
Impact measurement will be Sustainable Communities expenses central in demonstrating our contribution to Average energy intensity US$million these Tanzanian Government priorities.
megajoule per tonne of ore milled 592 569 15.5 Environment 511 464 447 12.9 Our commitment to environmental protection 10.8 10.7 continued to be demonstrated through various 8.2 programmes and projects that minimise harm to the environment in which we operate.
During 2017 we reviewed our environmental priorities 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 and goals for the short to medium term to 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bulyanhulu 786 ensure they remain valid and meet the overall Bulyanhulu 0.5 Buzwagi 394 Company strategy.
Buzwagi 0.6 North Mara 522 North Mara 1.8 Local Service Levies 1.7 Corporate projects & other 3.6 56 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW As part of efforts to improve our efficiency in our energy usage per tonne of ore milled the primary sources of water for our power usage and reduce our GHG emissions, increased by 14% on 2016 levels.
Further operational activities, accounting for more we commissioned a project at Bulyanhulu information on Group GHG emissions is than 64% of water used for processing.
which uses a static device Static Synchronous provided on page 92.
At North Mara, no freshwater was drawn from Compensator to control voltage fluctuations Understanding that water is a precious Mara River during 2017, making the site fully and stabilise electricity supply from the resource, water conservation and the reliant on the water generated from the open national grid.
The benefits of the system reach protection of the surrounding water resources, pits and underground mine, of which some beyond Bulyanhulu mine, up to Kahama and form part of our key principles of water is treated via the Reverse Osmosis and the Buzwagi mine.
The project ensures both management.
Our understanding of our water Microfiltration processes to make raw water.
the stability of our electricity supply and more balances across our sites is being enhanced Buzwagis usage of purchased water more effective utilisation of low carbon emission through the use of well-designed water than doubled due to a prolonged drought which electricity from the grid, thus resulting in the balance models and reliable records of our reduced water collection through the sites decommissioning of the 15 1MVA Diesel water flows and usage.
Our total water usage 78 hectare water harvesting area.
We will look Generators at Bulyanhulu.
Overall, 2017 in 2017 was in line with 2016 but Bulyanhulu to enhance our water balance models and GHG emissions equalled 249,112 tonnes of mine recorded a 16% reduction primarily identify areas of additional water conservation CO e, which is 15% lower than 2016 levels, 2 because of reduced operations at the mine.
in 2018 as part of overall Group water indicating the positive impact of the above Reclaimed waters from tailing storage facilities management programmes.
However, as a result of reduced as well as mine dewatering continued to be operations and throughput at Bulyanhulu, CASE STUDY GREEN KAHAMA PROJECT In an effort to mitigate the effects of mining and dry weather on the areas natural vegetation, in 2017 Buzwagi mine embarked on a tree planting campaign known as the Green Kahama Project.
The initiative is supported by Kahama Districts leaders and aims to plant more than one million trees over a period of three years.
In 2017 alone, a total of 650,000 trees were planted both on and beyond the mine lease area.
Local communities got involved in the tree planting exercise and thus enhanced their horticultural skills and developed a sense of the value that comes from protecting natural vegetation and the environment as a whole.
The project is aligned with Buzwagis mine closure goals, its No Harm 2020 programme, and will leave behind a positive legacy in the community.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 57 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Biodiversity Incident reporting We continued to invest in training and Our responsibility towards biodiversity was We keep records of all environmental incidents development programmes throughout the maintained during the year by maintaining occurring at our sites.
Our Environmental year, notably through the launch of our strict controls on land disturbances.
A Incident Management standard provides for Future Leaders programme and a number of standard applies to all our sites prohibiting three classes of incidents, namely: High additional business improvement and project unauthorised land disturbances unless the reportable incidents, Moderate or Low.
We maintained Environment Department has reviewed the incidents classified as High require a detailed our focus on longer-term training initiatives, need and approved disturbances to take place.
investigation and subsequent reporting to the such as our Rainbow Leadership Training Our ultimate goal for biodiversity management Government while Moderate and Low are only programme for first line leaders which was remains to protect and minimise land recorded internally and get reported to the successfully rolled out in 2016: to date, 102 disturbance as much as possible, and Government through the annual environmental participants have completed the training eventually rehabilitate disturbed land to report submitted to the Government each year.
with a further 31 apprentices currently in achieve land productivities of higher value than Two reportable incidents were recorded during the Integrated Mining Technical Training what existed prior to disturbance.
Progressive the year at two of our sites and there was a 35% IMTT programme.
rehabilitation was undertaken during 2017 at decrease in non-reportable incidents during the Approximately 10% of our overall workforce Bulyanhulus portion of the TSF wall where year.
The significant decrease in the number are women 2016: 8%, something which is more than 8,000 native trees were planted.
of incidents is largely due to improvement reflective of gender diversity generally within At North Mara and Buzwagi we commenced programmes implemented during the year and the mining industry.
initial rehabilitation earthworks on their waste the lower activity levels at Bulyanhulu.
rock dumps which will continue through 2018.
Employees Female representation Furthermore, Buzwagi embarked on a tree We continued to make noticeable progress Percentage of overall workforce planting campaign of 500,000 trees within across a variety of employee initiatives the mine lease area and 150,000 around 10 throughout 2017, although due to the 9 the surrounding communities.
The area 8 8 movement to reduced operations at 7 surrounding Buzwagi mine is fairly dry and Bulyanhulu we saw Group-wide annual turnover thevegetation impacted by urbanisation, thus increase to 55%, compared to 9% in 2016. this tree planting campaign will help to restore Group turnover is now calculated based on the lost vegetation and achieve a net positive 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 year end numbers and as such prior years impact on biodiversity.
Only native tree species have been restated.
are used for rehabilitation programmes to enhance biodiversity in the areas we operate.
One of our key focus areas over the last four Localisation of workforce The disturbed areas that are not rehabilitated years has been on reducing the number of Percentage of Tanzanian nationals in workforce 95.3 96.2 include areas where active operation still international employees and contractors within 94.5 94.6 92.8 takes place.
We maintain active rehabilitation our business and ensuring that our Tanzanian programmes for areas as soon as they assets are increasingly led and operated by become available.
Since 2013, we have driven a reduction in international employees of approximately 85% within our business and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 now 96.2% of our people are Tanzanian 2016: 95.3%.
In Q4 2017, we consolidated the management Group-wide turnover teams at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi, which Percentage within operations 55% are located within the same region, under the leadership of an experienced Tanzanian 36% national.
The combined Bulyanhulu and 27% 26% Buzwagi management team is now made up of five Tanzanian nationals and one 9% international employee.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 58 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Safety Human rights In 2017, we took further steps to ensure that Group-wide Total Reportable Injury Frequency We strive to maintain strong governance and human rights considerations are included in Rate TRIFR was 0.45 compared to 0.74 in policy frameworks to enable our people to our business processes and worked to 2016, a 39% improvement.
The number of respect human rights at all times despite the implement the findings of the Human Rights Lost Time Injuries LTI decreased from 32 challenges of the complex social, economic Impact Assessment HRIA that the consulting in 2016 to 18 in 2017, a 44% improvement, and political environments in which we firm Avanzar conducted at all our mine sites in and the injury severity rate decreased by 35%.
We have our own Human Rights Policy 2016.
In 2017, we also updated our human The number of High Potential Incidents and Procedures and have made voluntary rights training, including training for managers these are incidents that could under slightly commitments to the Voluntary Principles on on the VPSHR.
All our employees are required different circumstances have led to a fatality Security and Human Rights VPSHR through to undergo human rights training as part of our or permanent disability decreased from 55 our majority shareholder.
We also encourage code of conduct training, and employees in in 2016 to 36 in 2017, a 35% reduction.
the governments of the countries where we are higher risk positions undergo bespoke human active to protect human rights in accordance rights training.
The 11 Critical Risk Control Standards have with the international human rights treaties now all been rolled out and implemented.
Security and human rights to which they are parties.
Our human rights The targeted compliance to these standards In 2017, we supported the NGO Search for approach is consistent with the United Nations has been met and the continued reduction Common Ground in rolling out new, longer Guiding Principles on Business and Human in injuries and the occurrence of High and more extensive human rights training for Rights UNGPs.
Where our standards and Potential Incidents can be attributed to the the Tanzanian police in the Tarime district procedures are stricter than national laws, implementation and increased compliance including on international standards on the we seek to apply our own standards, require to these standards.
The safety interactions use of force and firearms, sexual violence contractors and suppliers to do likewise and process visible felt leadership, hazard and treatment of vulnerable groups.
The encourage others linked to our operations to reporting and investigation process, task Tarime police face special challenges trying follow accepted international standards of observations and pre-task risk assessments to maintain law and order in the remote area conduct regarding human rights.
improved the safety culture and remain around the North Mara mine, which is prone valuable tools in further driving down safety Our most salient human rights issues are to violent crime and mine intrusion, and and health related incidents.
those relating to security: land access and North Mara continued to engage directly resettlement: environment, including access with the regional police to convey our We also progressed a number of initiatives to water: labour rights: and in-migration-related expectations about respect for human rights.
within an occupational health and safety impacts on local communities such as access context to increase the effectiveness of The number of times that the police and mine to education, employment and health services.
existing occupational health programmes and security were required to respond to security As these are predominantly issues that can continued to progress health assessments, threats, violence and theft by intruders on our best be addressed by, or in collaboration including malaria control assessments, for our mine sites continued its year-on-year decline.
with, Government, in 2017 we continued employees and wider community base.
The The number of illegal incursions onto the to engage with the Tanzanian Government total number of malaria cases and the days mining lease including waste dumps at North to identify concerns and seek to identify lost due to malaria decreased by 29% and 51% Mara decreased by 20% in 2017, compared improvements or solutions.
This included respectively during 2017. with 2016, with almost no illegal incursions at our continued work to promote and support Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi.
Incursions into the Government efforts to improve security and Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR active mining areas remained flat year on year.
human rights awareness and training of the Frequency rate members of the Tanzanian Police Force who 0.86 maintain law and order in the communities 0.74 0.68 0.68 surrounding our mines.
We also engaged with investors, civil society and community 0.45 members on issues related to our own operations, our business partners and the Tanzanian State.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bulyanhulu 0.80 Buzwagi 0.32 North Mara 0.28 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 59 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED There was a commensurate decline in the Trespassers in active mining areas New community grievance process number of incidents involving the police on or monthly average at North Mara in the vicinity of the mine that raised, or were North Maras human rights team also held a 7,157 alleged by others to raise, possible human series of human rights workshops and capacity rights impacts relating to the use of force building exercises for North Mara community against intruders.
There were two such members in 2017.
The team then consulted incidents, five fewer than in 2016.
North Mara with the community to hear whether they would forwarded information about the two incidents like to see changes in the mines Community to the authorities for investigation, requested Grievance Process.
The mine also considered 534 126 130 follow-up and is awaiting a response.
There the views of Tanzanian and international NGOs 2014 2015 2016 2017 were no such incidents involving mine security on the subject.
Tragically, one individual was found On that basis, the mine developed and dead on the mine site with a gunshot wound.
Intruder fatalities continued piloting a new Community Investigations into the circumstances of this 17 GrievanceProcess during 2017.
It held individuals death and presence on the mine further consultations with the community, site are on-going.
There was one additional civil society and Tarime district government trespasser fatality at North Mara, unrelated to assess whether the new process meets 9 to security: one person drowned in a flooded the expectations of these key stakeholders 6 former pit outside the secured perimeter.
and is in line with the effectiveness criteria 2 Whilst the 66% reduction in intruder fatalities for operational-level grievance mechanisms from 2016, and 88% reduction from 2014 is intheUNGPs.
The new Standard Operating 2014 2015 2016 2017 positive, any loss of life is unacceptable.
North Procedure and a Handbook for Grievants Fall from height 0 Mara will continue to review its security and explaining the process were issued in draft In ghting 0 safety arrangements, to further reduce the risk form by the mine, and are now on the Police involvement 1 of incidents occurring and towards eliminating Acaciawebsite with an invitation to other Drowning 1 such incidents altogether.
interested parties to submit their comments.
Rockfall 0 The mine will conclude the current round of Vehicle accident 0 consultations and adopt the new procedure Other 0 in2018.
All types of community grievances can be submitted to the Community Grievance Process, including grievances about security and human rights, the environment, enjoyment of land or other property, housing and livelihoods, or health and safety.
Apart from grievances regarding rights to land and resettlement which require State involvement and go to the mines Land Department, grievances are resolved through the Community Grievance Process through a two stage process.
First, the mine and the grievant seek to resolve the grievance through facilitated engagement and dialogue: and then, if engagement and dialogue do not resolve the grievance, an independent three-member Grievance Committee reviews the grievance and makes a determination which the mine undertakes to follow.
In 2018, the mine is recruiting a new Lead Grievance Officer to oversee and administer the process.
60 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Grievances in 2017 The process of engagement and dialogue Breakdown of new grievances lodged by type In 2017, a total of 38 new grievances were produced an agreement between the mine number received at North Mara, with no grievances andgrievants about whether there had been received at our other mines or exploration ahuman rights impact in six cases a grievant 10 properties.
The reduction in grievances lodged agreed to withdraw his grievance in one case.
17 since 2016 is a result of our improved security, This includes a grievance regarding the 1 combined with important progress with training individual mentioned above who was found the police by SFCG.
Meanwhile the significant shot dead on the mine site, which was 10 reduction in grievances relating to land and resolved in late 2017 with the mine agreeing property can be attributed to greater efforts to provide remedies to help the deceaseds to engage with our communities.
Ten of the family and follow up with the authorities.
Security Human Rights 17 grievances related to land, with eight The Community Grievance Committee, which Land and property 10 grievances related to the treatment of independently reviews grievances that are Environmental 1 intruders on the mine site by the Tarime police not resolved through engagement and dialogue, Other 10 responding to security emergencies and five determined that there appeared to have related to mine security personnel.
The total been a human rights impact in 14 of the 28 of 13 grievances, seeking remedies for security-related grievances which came before Breakdown of new grievances lodged impacts they alleged they had suffered at the it in 2017.
In the other 14 of those 28 cases, by mine site hands of the Police or by North Mara security, the Committee determined that there did not Total number compares to 37 allegations relating to the appear to have been a human rights impact activities of the Mines security personnel or these complaints were not substantiated, the Tanzanian Police Force reported in 2016. appeared to have been fabricated or the 267 264 236 A further four non-employee accident-related actions of the security personnel or police grievances were also recorded in 2017. appeared to have been reasonable in all 79 38 North Maras Community Grievance Process of the circumstances.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 currently admits grievances alleging harm Remediation plans were established in suffered at the hands of the Tanzanian Police Bulyanhulu 0 16 cases, 12 of which were from past Force, as part of North Maras corporate social Buzwagi 0 years, with the remedies designed to responsibility commitments including to the North Mara 38 provide effective reparation in accordance principles of the UNGPs.
North Mara also with local and international human rights raises concerns with the Tanzanian State standards.
The Grievance Process made about credible allegations regarding Police good headway in clearing its backlog and conduct, and will provide access to remedies in speeding up the resolution of grievances through the Grievance Process to members of in 2017.
The average turn-around time the North Mara community in respect of police was two months from the time of lodging actions only to the extent that such remedies the grievance to its resolution through are not forthcoming from the State itself.
In 2017, the pilot modified Grievance Process considered 25 security-related human rights grievances that were pending or had been considered by the previous process in past years.
It also considered one of the 13 new grievances lodged in 2017.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 61
