34 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business a truly great company that leads its marketplace, that thinks long-term, that delivers sustainable value to all stakeholders and operates all aspects of its business in a responsible way.
To help ensure we achieve this ambition we focus on: Creating a positive Attracting the best and collaborative people and developing place to work and engaging with our employees We are committed to creating Our performance is dependent a positive and collaborative on developing, retaining and workplace where our culture is recruiting the best people with underpinned by core values and the most relevant skills and behaviours which promote fair experience who are aligned with and ethical working practices.
our values and behaviours and who can contribute to delivering our strategic ambitions.
Turn to page 36 Turn to page 38 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Engineers at IMI CCI in Florence are world experts in control system logic for high integrity pressure protection systems.
Prioritising health Ensuring that and safety we minimise our environmental impact The health and safety of our We have a responsibility to employees, contractors and minimise the environmental visitors is a primary priority for impact of our day-to-day the Group.
Our products help and Health and Safety audits our customers operate their underpin Group-wide rigour systems and processes safely, and continuous improvement cleanly and cost effectively.
Turn to page 40 Turn to page 42 36 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Creating a positive and collaborative place to work We are committed to creating a positive and collaborative workplace where the culture is underpinned by core values and behaviours which promote fair and ethical working practices.
This is the right thing to do.
It also enables us to operate more effectively, attract and retain great people and is key to the delivery of our strategy.
We believe it is essential that across all parts of We are a global business with a workforce of Culture our business we employ people from different over 10,000 people.
In the UK we have 1,021 Our values and behaviours help shape our culture backgrounds and cultures to serve our global employees.
The table below summarises our and outline the standards and conduct with which footprint and our diverse customer base.
Our gender pay gap for our UK employees for the everyone in the Group should comply.
They are Diversity and Inclusion Policy and principles are year ending 5 April 2017.
Full details, and an embedded in all our internal processes and embedded in all our human resource processes explanation of how these figures were calculated, procedures, including our Code of Conduct, and procedures, and we run diversity awareness is provided on our website at www.
com and they are integral to the The IMI Way, training programmes, including an E-learning which defines how we do business.
UK Gender Pay Gap 2017 module translated into core languages which employees can access via our global intranet.
In Mean Pay Gap 36.5% Our mindset 2017 key hiring Managers and all HR contacts Median Pay Gap 25.1% participated in the on-line module.
We are committed to creating a diverse and When creating shortlists for internal and external inclusive working environment and fair treatment, vacancies, we insist that external recruiters take Engineering GREAT together including equal pay.
This commitment is reinforced account of our policy and, as part of our internal by the clear and robust recruitment policies and management performance process, each Divisional pay structures we operate.
Our remuneration Managing Director is set objectives aimed at policy is designed to support gender diversity and improving diversity in their division.
We are is reviewed regularly to align with best practice: Connect committed to employing and developing local Deliver as an example, a new family friendly benefits Lead employees in our geographies to align with our Learn policy was launched in 2017, providing Improve customers and the communities in which we work enhanced maternity and paternity benefits and consequently have a very small and focused for all UK employees.
We have developed metrics Human rights, equality, diversity which are used to measure our success locally and inclusion Ethical behaviour in creating and sustaining diverse and inclusive We remain a signatory to the UN Global Compact teams.
Diversity of thought is, we believe, key to It is essential that we run our business in an which establishes standards for human rights, innovation and we have piloted workshops to ethical way with the highest standards of integrity.
We also develop this further.
As part of their induction, every employee who have our own policies and procedures, including joins the Group receives training in relation to Gender mix across the Group our Code of Conduct, which set out how people our Code of Conduct the Code which covers, should be treated and how we should conduct Female Female % Male Male % amongst other things, anti-bribery, anti-corruption our business.
Refresher training on the All 3,068 27% 8,462 73% employees Code is provided regularly, as appropriate, and is We have a Group-wide Diversity and Inclusion Managers reinforced through the IMI Way and face-to-face 198 18% 909 82% Policy.
We ensure that our work place is inclusive and on-line training sessions.
and that all employees and workers are treated Senior 94 16% 510 84% managers fairly in an environment which is free from any In addition, we have a series of policies and form of discrimination including the nine protected Board 2 29% 5 71% procedures in place which are designed to help directors characteristics outlined in the Equality Act 2010, instil the highest ethical standards and regulatory age, religion, race, sex, disability, gender compliance.
These are embedded in our risk reassignment, marriage civil partnership, UK Gender Pay Gap assessment processes, further details of which pregnancy and maternity and sexual orientation are provided on page 46.
Legislation has been introduced which requires and other similarities and differences including us to disclose information about our UK gender social background, nationality and family or pay gap by April 2018.
This legislation affects care responsibilities.
all employers with 250 or more UK employees.
Behaviours: Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 37 1 We conduct advanced due diligence on Community activities our business partners including agents and We have a responsibility to the communities distributors that support us in obtaining sales.
around the world in which we operate.
In addition This is carried out using software from leading to creating jobs and investing in our local providers and covers a range of areas including communities, each year employees across the initial and ongoing background checks, screening Group participate in what has become known as against sanctions lists, a compliance certification The IMI Way Day during which they receive face process and the signing of a formal agreement.
to-face refresher training on both The IMI Way and the Code and spend time supporting a local In addition, all our businesses conduct basic community charity or project.
These initiatives checks to understand who a potential customer contribute to the local community, help build is and to identify risks that may be involved in trust and reinforce our team building and supplying to them.
We encourage all employees to report to their manager any incident that is not in keeping with Some of the activities undertaken the IMI values and behaviours and we operate a during the IMI Way Day 2017 confidential independent compliance hotline in 12 Development of a garden at a school in languages, which allows anonymous reporting.
the West Midlands, UK where children Hotline activity is reviewed each month by the have limited access to the outdoors Groups Ethics and Compliance Committee, and Supporting the Little Sisters of the Poor all reports are investigated thoroughly and, where 3 care home in Chennai, India including required, appropriate action is taken to resolve making donations which were used to issues fully and quickly.
During 2017 52 cases provide groceries, ceiling fans and lights were reported via the hotline which compared for the facility to 48 in 2016 and 97 in 2015.
Providing books for the children in an 6 1 Employees at IMI Precision 4 orphanage in Delhi, India which is home Managing our supply chain Engineerings HQ in Birmingham, UK.
to over 40 children 2 Getting a fresh perspective on Our commitment to human rights extends Lean practices during a crossfunctional workshop in IMI Hydronic across our supply chain.
We conduct regular Donating clothes and other items to an Engineerings Dallas, USA factory.
orphanage in Selangor, Malaysia audits to make sure that child or forced labour is 3 At IMI Orton in Piacenza, Italy, not used in our supply chain and that suppliers employees show their commitment to Donating blood in Bangalore, India the IMI Way.
If suppliers are unable 4 IMI Precision Engineering engineers Leading games and activities at a sensory to comply with our strict responsible business working with train-builders in China.
garden in Shanghai, China used by requirements we terminate our relationship children with autism with them.
Clearing up waterways in Singapore We believe that all companies must take their role Collecting litter in Thailand seriously in preventing modern day slavery and human trafficking and we use a combination of Organising supplies for a food bank general corporate responsibility policies and in Dallas, USA specific supply chain compliance actions to combat modern slavery in our supply chain.
We also support a range of local charities in the Our full statement on the Modern Slavery Act places where we operate and contribute funding and detail about the steps we take to ensure to support local communities affected by natural that slavery and human trafficking do not take disasters such as Hurricane Irma and more place within our supply chain or any part of broadly to organisations who provide emergency our business is available on our website at support for crisis situations around the world.
38 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Attracting, developing and engaging the best people Our improving performance has been achieved through the commitment, excellence, innovation and collaboration of our people.
To ensure that we maintain this progress we must continue to attract and retain great people, provide them with opportunities to make a difference and enable their personal and professional development.
Recruitment To support our significant New Product This year we combined our Group and divisional Development activity, new product training conferences into a single event.
300 employees Our performance and our ability to execute our sessions have been made available to relevant gathered together and subsequently were tasked strategy is dependent on recruiting the best people employees via IMI Learn, our e-learning platform, with sharing the key messages and information with the most relevant skills and experience who which is hosted on our global intranet.
Across all arising from the conference with their teams.
are aligned with our values and behaviours and our divisions sales teams have undertaken bespoke We also conduct regular town hall meetings strategic ambition.
We operate a robust process training which has covered pricing, margins and and work with our European Works Council, when selecting new employees following the selling skills development.
covering 11 countries across Europe, to further principles embedded in our Recruitment Policy encourage effective employee communication which aims to ensure our process is fair, In addition to our training and development and engagement.
This is designed programmes, all employees are provided with to complement our focus on developing our on-the-job training and personal mentoring.
Annually we undertake an employee survey which own talent and leaders for the future.
We also have a Performance Management Policy is completed at the end of our IMI Way Day.
The which is rigorously implemented to ensure all 2017 survey indicated improvements year-on-year Development and succession employees are appraised in a fair and consistent in a number of areas including better understanding planning way.
The policy also establishes a process which of the Groups strategy and priorities and the provides employees with regular opportunities number of employees who would recommend To ensure that we have a strong talent pipeline and to discuss their objectives and personal IMI as a good employer.
Where local issues are to enable our people to enhance their skills and development plans during the year.
identified these are followed-up often using pulse progress their careers, we operate a number of surveys a quick and effective real-time survey training and development programmes.
that gathers further detail to elicit more specific Engaging our people In 2017 a further 75 senior managers participated data where useful.
Our objective is to involve all our employees, keep in our Leading the Way to Engineering GREAT them informed and get their feedback on matters programme, bringing the total number of affecting them as employees and on the various participants in the programme to 170 since its factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Focused on ensuring we have This is achieved through formal and informal leadership skills across the Group capable of meetings, internal communications and regular supporting our strategy and growth, Leading the divisional updates.
Way to Engineering GREAT underpins our succession planning process.
By the end of 2018, Our global intranet connects our employees across 250 members of our senior management team the Group.
It serves as a training platform and over will have participated in the programme.
10,000 employees are registered to use it to access our IMI Lean programme.
We also use the During the year 400 newly promoted and existing intranet to share Group news and developments, managers participated in our Being a GREAT IMI including our results and important initiatives in Our cross divisional magazine, the IMI eye, Manager programme which was rolled-out in Italy, which features news stories generated areas such as health and safety, and to facilitate Poland, Singapore and India, alongside Germany, by our businesses around the world, is cross business collaboration and the sharing of published twice a year and distributed in China, the Czech Republic, the UK and the US, multiple languages to all employees and best practice.
During the year our intranet was key stakeholders.
where it was already embedded.
The presentation of data on the site in 2015 over 600 IMI managers have attended the was made more impactful to facilitate further two and half day course and by the end of 2018 engagement and collaboration across the Group.
that number will have increased to 1,000.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 39 39 Giuseppe Buscemi Natalie Zeranksa Martin Maas Here some of our people explain how their careers have developed: Giuseppe Buscemi Natalie Zeranksa Martin Maas Managing Director, IMI Remosa Head of Marketing Communications, Managing Director, IMI FAS IMI Hydronic Engineering In 1999 I began my career at Remosa which I joined IMIs Graduate Development programme in was acquired by IMI in 2012 after graduating When I started my job hunt fresh out of university 2006 and my first role was with the then new Life with a Magna cum Laude Master Degree in IMI was offering one of the best graduate Sciences sector within IMI Precision Engineering.
Since then I have had programmes on the market a competitive At the time, I was looking for a job in an the opportunity to gain significant experience package and, more importantly, the chance to international company that actually made stuff, and an extensive and practical knowledge of experience different business areas.
For me this and the high levels of technology behind IMIs both engineering and manufacturing by covering was an opportunity to find out more about the products were very appealing to me, as was IMIs different roles, including Project Engineer and business I was joining and discover what I was Graduate Scheme.
I was hoping to learn about Operations & Engineering Director.
In 2017 I was really passionate about.
It was also a special business, experience new cultures, grow as a delighted to be appointed to my current position.
feeling to be accepted into an engineering world professional and progress in my career.
without an engineering background, which reflects In 2015, I participated in the IMI Leadership our Companys commitment to diversity and Now, 11 years later, I am Managing Director of Programme Leading the Way to Engineering expanding talent across all areas of the business.
IMI FAS, and lead IMIs Life Sciences initiative in GREAT.
Throughout the programme I was given Europe, having progressed through increasingly insight into finance, strategy, marketing as well Since I joined IMI I have had the opportunity to senior sales and marketing roles in the Group, as my own leadership style.
Through working experience a number of different roles within each stretching me that bit further out of my directly with a coach in a small learning group, different parts of the Group.
I was able to grow and develop as a leader, marketing role with IMI Hydronic Engineering recognising the importance of having a growth seven years ago and since then my responsibilities Looking back on the numerous development mind set.
I believe this really helped me to get have grown and I have been able to develop my programmes I have participated in over the years, my promotion to my current role.
they have helped hone my management skills, my strategic thinking and my soft skills.
As Today I am responsible for the IMI Remosa IMIs wide range of tailored development importantly, the interactions with colleagues, business and the 250 employees in the programmes, which offer practical tools and and now friends, across the business have organisation.
We operate in a global market which support, have helped me be more effective at been invaluable particularly when I have faced makes the demands of the job very interesting, managing myself, my team and also my challenging situations and needed help and in terms of the products, markets and the people day-to-day business activities.
Overall I feel well prepared for my I work with.
The IMI Way helps us to deliver in the which draw participants from across the Group, current responsibilities and when I take the right way and my team and all the employees of have also enabled me to build a support network next step in my career, I am confident that IMI Remosa are key to our success.
beyond my divisions business and there is I will continue to have the support I need.
always someone who has faced a similar challenge who is willing to share their experience.
The programmes also allowed me to take time out of the daily rush to re-examine how I work and make changes for the better.
40 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Prioritising health & safety The health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors to our facilities is paramount.
Our ambition is to become a world-class business with a worldclass health and safety record.
To achieve this we take a proactive approach and strive to continuously improve our performance.
Our bi-annual review process Rigorous local assessment of ten key operational and safety areas.
Undertaken by specialist health and safety experts and combined with our semi-annual Lean benchmarking reviews Independent review of local assessment The production team meets for the by Group or Divisional Health and Safety daily factory meeting at IMI Hydronic champion Engineering in Olkusz, Poland Zurich insurance at our IMI Precision Engineering Our proactive approach Creation of combined Lean-HSE report Farmington site.
The survey confirmed that our Our proactive approach to health and safety starts covering progress since last assessment, operation achieved an excellent A grade result.
with awareness and prevention training.
Every potential hazard identification, remedial employee, as part of their induction, receives health At our IMI Hydronic Engineering site in action recommendations and targets for and safety training relevant to their role in line with further improvement Switzerland, following the installation of noise our Health, Safety and Environmental compliance reduction panels, noise levels were reduced principles.
Employees engaged in manufacturing between 17% and 47%.
operations participate in further on-site training In each of our operations health and safety which focuses on hazard identification, risk Publication of report on Group-wide intranet performance is continuously monitored.
In all assessment and action planning.
In addition, to facilitate the sharing of best practice IMI plants IMI management regularly undertake their individual personal development programmes Gemba Walks a Lean manufacturing term used focus on enhancing their skills and capabilities to describe the personal observation of work in order to mitigate health and safety risks.
which involves a detailed physical review of Analysis to identify commonly recurring operations to observe and identify real time Some 2017 health & safety Group-wide hazards which require specific potential hazards and risks.
Furthermore, each remedial action initiatives and every incident requiring first aid, or any other Following the consolidation of our European medical intervention, is reported and recorded.
manufacturing footprint, we invested in IMI Z&Js Any incident requiring more than first aid German plant in Dren, to create a centre of treatment is reported to divisional management excellence.
As part of the plants renovation, and a remediation plan is agreed and the working environment has been made safer, implemented.
Where appropriate, safety alerts infrastructure has been improved and employee are provided to other Group sites to share welfare facilities have been enhanced.
There lessons learned and create greater safety have been no lost time accidents at the site awareness across the Group.
In addition, health and safety performance is We strive to make our operations as safe as regularly tracked, reviewed and analysed at possible for our people and this was recognised multiple levels across the Group.
The review during an independent survey undertaken by process is detailed in the adjacent column.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 Our progress during the year During the year we continued to improve our 1 health and safety processes.
Our Gemba observation walks are helping improve our site safety performance.
In 2017 our HSE Lean assessment score saw a 7% improvement on 2016.
While the number of Lost Time Accidents LTAs in 2017 increased to 23 2016:15, as a result of IMI Critical Engineerings safety performance, total lost time and non-lost time injuries have fallen by 13% during the year.
In addition, the accident frequency rate has declined and on average there is only 1.1 lost 2 3 time accident for every million hours worked.
We are committed to eradicating the incidence of accidents in our workplaces and we will continue to rigorously embed robust safety 4 procedures across all our operations.
83% of our sites have not had a lost time accident in 2017 compared to 78% in 2016 and a number of our facilities have recorded significant periods of zero LTAs.
IMI Critical Engineering Korea has recorded no LTAs for seven years and both IMI Buschjost in IMI Precision Engineering and IMI Hydronic Engineering Slovenia have recorded no LTAs for over three years.
We continue to run our hand safety campaign following its launch at the end of 2016.
As a result the number of hand injuries, the most common cause of injuries to IMI employees, has reduced.
For example, IMI Critical Engineering has seen a 56% reduction in such injuries since the start of the campaign.
1 Half way through the year, IMI CCI Korea employees celebrated the great achievement of 2,500 days with no Lost Time Accidents.
Their seven year achievement includes the period of building and relocation to their new site.
2 Throughout our sites, visual safety boards ensure all employees are safe and informed.
3 Achieving world-class standards requires the highest calibre of employees and equipment, which ensures safe working & quality.
4 Assembly of the AMT dryers at IMI Precision Engineerings facility in Leeds.
42 IMI plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Ensuring that we minimise our environmental impact We have a responsibility to minimise the environmental impact of our day-to-day operations.
Our products are designed and manufactured to help our customers operate their systems and processes safely, cleanly and cost effectively.
Together, both our operations and products are helping to tackle some of the biggest issues facing the world today including global warming and resource scarcity.
CO emissions Our products Our operations 2 Our products help our customers operate their We have a responsibility to minimise the 000 tonnes systems and processes safely, cleanly and cost environmental impact of our day-to-day operations.
They also help tackle some of the Our strategy, which focuses on continuous 62 biggest issues facing the world today including operational improvement and operating as efficiently global warming and resource scarcity.
Below are as possible, underpins our commitment to do that.
61 some of our products that help reduce emissions We have invested in over 50 video conference and energy consumption.
This, together with new software available to employees for video 60 IMI CCI VLB high pressure Combined Cycle conferencing from mobile devices and laptops, Power Plant turbine bypass valves has enabled meetings to be held throughout the Produce more power for the same fuel 59 Group as though attendees were in the same consumption by operating at higher location.
Our conferencing technology, which is temperatures allowing plants to operate regularly used for operational meetings and Executive more efficiently, with lower emissions.
58 and Board meetings, has driven a reduction in air IMI CCIs fugitive emissions packing travel across the Group.
technology patent pending 57 2015 2015-16 2016-17 2017 Our operations maintain environmental policies which Prevents leakage of hydrocarbons and reduces are reviewed and updated annually by management emissions from valves in refineries, the largest to ensure that we are driving environmental source of global CO emissions.
Through our focus on Lean and efficiency, 2 improvements across our plants and facilities.
our operations across the Group have reduced IMI Precision Engineerings valve systems their production process generated scrap and As a Group we support the Carbon Disclosure Help manage vehicle emissions and aid reduced fuel waste including: Project CDP climate change initiative and consumption by optimising engine performance.
submit annual CDP reports which cover our risk In the last 12 months, our IMI Critical Engineering IMI Precision Engineerings standard range management approach to climate change and site, IMI CCI RSM, has introduced a number of of pneumatic products our emissions performance.
initiatives to reduce scrap and waste, including Reduce air consumption and, as a result, providing training to employees to identify errors Given the nature of our production processes, generate energy cost savings.
early in the production process, changing our main focus is energy efficiency.
We operate IMI Hydronic Engineerings thermostatic material handling practices and investing in new a Group-wide energy efficiency programme radiator valves machinery to improve welding quality.
Year-onwhich during the year delivered a number of Reduce energy consumption by as much as year this has resulted in a 30% scrap reduction.
28% compared with manual radiator valves IMI Precision Engineerings Fellbach plant has In 2014 we relocated IMI Precision Engineerings UK by automatically adjusting flows dependant reduced its scrap levels by 51% since 2015 by manufacturing operations to a new modern facility at on the ambient temperature.
implementing Lean manufacturing techniques Fradley.
The buildings more efficient heating system IMI Hydronic Engineerings TA Modulator which analyse different stages of the production has had a significant impact on our energy usage automatic balancing and control valves process and implement corrective actions as and over the course of the last three years gas Save up to 18% of annual energy consumption required: and consumption has reduced by 87%, on a like-for-like when compared to on-off control solutions, by basis and overall energy usage has reduced by 39%.
IMI Hydronic Engineerings foundry in Germany ensuring only the required flow is delivered to Since 2015 we have reduced our CO emissions by has reduced scrap by more than 50% since terminal units.
In line with our continuous improvement 2015 by changing raw materials.
A rebuild of culture and investment in our operations, we will look the foundry with low emission equipment to further reduce our emissions in the future.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 43 43 1 3 2 4 5 1 Testing of solenoid valves for commercial vehicles at IMI Precision Engineering in Seattle, USA.
2 IMI Norgren Excelon Plus has tamper-proof features that stop the pressure in air systems being increased, and therefore keep energy usage to a minimum.
3 IMI Precision Engineerings Alpen, Germany site has decreased annual CO emissions 2 by the equivalent of 175,000kg following the installation of solar panels in combination with heat pumps.
4 IMI Critical Engineerings newly redesigned turbine bypass valves allow plants to operate more efficiently and safely.
5 Highly precise production of TA-Modulator.
6 A new industry standard: Eclipse thermostatic radiator insert.
