Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 54 Our people and culture Corporate and social responsibility Ultra recognises its commitments and its reputation for meeting them, believing that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 55 Sustainability, people and culture Ultra is committed to maintaining high Ultras ethics code can be found within To maintain the highest degree of impartiality, standards of business ethics as part of being a Ultras Policy Statement on Ethics and the independent members of the Committee responsible business.
The Group endeavours Business Conduct along with its policies on are self-electing with the appointment of the to uphold the rights of its employees as well anti-corruption and anti-bribery, competition Chairman exclusively within the remit of the as creating an honest and transparent compliance and gifts and corporate independent members.
The Committee meets business both internally and externally.
All of these policies can be found quarterly and provides assurance that Ultras Groups corporate responsibility initiatives are on the Group website: business is being conducted in line with the focused on the following key areas: Groups policies, processes and any relevant https: www.
This is ascertained through us .
aspx Human rights discussions with senior managers, receiving Ultras Board requires that the Group should, Providing guidance and training reports and visiting Ultras businesses.
During at all times, be a responsible corporate citizen to employees these reviews, the Committee undertakes a and, as such, the Group complies with all The Group continues to promote and formal review of business activities and the applicable legislation in the countries in which strengthen its policies, processes and training independent members provide advice and it operates.
Ultra recognises and respects the to ensure that employees have the clear guidance on the appropriateness of target rights of its employees, stakeholders and the guidance they need in identifying and markets and customers and on potential communities in which it operates.
As such, managing ethical matters.
The Committee also considers Ultra adheres to all relevant government the reports that come through EthicsPoint.
Ultra uses EthicsPoint in all of its businesses.
guidelines, designed to ensure that its EthicsPoint is a Group-wide independent, products are not incorporated into weapons condential weband telephone-based or other equipment used for the purposes of hotline, which enables all employees to report terrorism, internal repression or the abuse of concerns anonymously about possible human rights.
Key statements and policies improprieties and other compliance issues.
can be found on the Ultra website.
All reports registered through EthicsPoint are Ethical business conduct reviewed and responded to in a timely and Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
The responsibility for handling reports rests with Ultras Senior Meeting legal and ethical standards Independent Non-Executive Director with the Ultra requires all employees, businesses exception of US security-related issues which and third parties who act on Ultras behalf to are routed to the Chairman of the Security comply with the applicable laws and Committee of either Ultras Special Security regulations of the countries in which it Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board does business.
Diversity and inclusion company, as appropriate.
No retaliatory action These values are embedded into the Ultra is committed to operating in accordance is taken against employees for making reports organisation to ensure that each business is with all legislative requirements, including in good faith through EthicsPoint.
Any truly representative of the environment in those pertaining to anti-corruption and employee found to be in breach of the Policy which it operates.
It is essential to the Group bribery practices, with competition and statement on Ethics and Business Conduct is that all employees feel fairly treated and are antitrust laws and relevant national export subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
not discriminated against in any way.
enable this, Ultra complies with all applicable Independent ethics overview committee Ultra has a corporate ethics code, which employment rights and legislation in the The Ethics Overview Committee was formed encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
countries in which it operates.
In addition, to provide independent advice and scrutiny in All Ultra businesses are required to report the Group is strongly committed to relation to Ultras business activity, giving on compliance with the corporate ethics code maintaining a work environment which assurance that the Groups current and monthly and the Board reviews compliance provides equal opportunities for all planned undertakings are conducted in a with the code twice a year.
employees, regardless of age, disability, manner consistent with the legislative gender re-assignment, marriage or civil environment and are transparent.
The partnership, pregnancy or maternity, race, Committee comprises six permanent religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.
members, three of whom, including the Chairman, are independent.
Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to ensure the best candidate is selected, based on objective requirements and assessments.
Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 56 Corporate and social responsibility continued Disabled employees Board of Directors Senior management It is the policy of the Group that the training, Female 29% Female 16% career development and promotion of Male 71% Male 84% disabled people should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
In the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that Executive Team All employees their employment with the Group continues Female 15% Female 29% and that appropriate training is arranged.
Male 85% Male 71% Health and safety The health, safety and well-being of the Groups employees and visitors is of the upmost importance to Ultra.
A healthy, committed and engaged workforce, working in a safe environment, is necessary to achieve superior business results.
The businesses Figure 1 manage a wide range of safety risks, from Lost time accidents per 1,000 employees ofce and manufacturing risks to providing services at customer sites, including military 2017 2.8 bases and platforms.
The Group is committed 2016 3.6 to upholding and improving health and safety across the Group and engages in continuous 2015 3.5 safety improvement activities.
2014 2.5 The safety of the products and services 2013 provided to users and customers is a key 3.7 priority to Ultra.
Each business ensures the appropriate legal and ethical levels of safety are met across a products life cycle, with Figure 2 Ultra reports a lost time accident rate being particular emphasis on the manufacturing, Externally reportable accidents an accident resulting in half a day or more off in-service and disposal phases.
per 100 employees work per 1,000 employees, see Figure 1 and All operating businesses are required to have externally reportable accidents per 100 2017 0.7 a written health and safety policy, which is to employees, see Figure 2.
This reects the non- 2016 be upheld at all times.
Within each business, financial Health and Safety KPI on page 21.
0.7 Managing Directors and Presidents are 2015 0.5 responsible for health and safety and for 2014 providing adequate resources to meet the 0.4 requirements of the health and safety policy.
2013 0.7 Independent external audits, which take place biennially, assess compliance.
Overall health and safety responsibility at Board level resides with the Executive Chairman.
Each business is required to submit an annual report on health and safety performance.
The Board receives an annual report which summarises the health and safety performance of the Group.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 57 Sustainability, people and culture Figure 3 Figure 4a Figure 4b Packaging waste t m sales in UK businesses Total CRC emissions per 1,000 CO2 tonnes Total CRC emissions t m in UK businesses 2017 2016 17 2016 17 0.098 6,374 19.2 2016 2015 16 0.097 7,474 2015 16 21.0 2015 2014 15 2014 15 0.162 8,178 21.9 2014 2013 14 0.164 8,424 2013 14 21.9 2013 2012 13 2012 13 0.192 8,208 23.6 Environment There were no environmental incidents Ultras Greenhouse gas emissions Ultra is committed to putting effective reported in the year.
tonnes of CO2 tCO2 measures in place to minimise the Ultra measures and reports on its packaging Total tCO2 emitted by all environmental impact of its activities.
This is waste annually and this is shown in Figure 3.
Ultra businesses 17,415 important both for its employees and the In the UK, businesses are encouraged and Total tCO2 from Ultras business communities in which it operates, as it will incentivised to reduce the net amount of activities scope 1 2,285 help to secure the long-term future of the waste they produce.
These measures include the operational Total tCO2 purchased The Group continues to address energy business environment and the products and by Ultra scope 2 15,130 conservation and emissions.
Energy services that the Group provides.
Ultras annual emissions shown consumption is measured annually and the Products as tCO2 per m of revenue 22.46 data compared with previous years.
Environmental considerations are taken into As part of the Carbon Reduction account throughout a products life cycle, Methodology Commitment CRC programme, Ultra, in from concept through to disposal: each In 2017, each UK business reported on the the UK, is registered with the Environment individual business ensures its practices and appropriate greenhouse gas metrics.
The Groups compliance emissions processes consider this.
Businesses work with metrics were aggregated to produce the reported for 2016 17 were 6,374t CO2, a their suppliers to reduce the impact of their gures reported above to which standard 14.7% reduction over 2015 2016.
Historical products and to maximise the use of DEFRA conversion factors were applied.
performance data is shown in Figures 4a acceptable components.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme and 4b.
Ultra ensures the full co-operation of all The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Greenhouse gas emissions employees to minimise environmental impact ESOS is a relatively new piece of legislation Ultra is committed to the systematic reduction and maximise the conservation of materials.
introduced by the UK Government that of greenhouse gas emissions.
In compliance applies to Ultra.
The scheme is run by an Implementation with the 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Environment Agency such as CRC and its The Executive Chairman is the main Board Regulations, Ultra collects and consolidates member with overall environmental focus is to reduce the demand for energy.
information on carbon dioxide CO2 responsibility and the Managing Directors Ultra has successfully demonstrated emissions from across its portfolio of 18 compliance with the requirements using and Presidents of the operating businesses businesses: 2013 was the first year this was ESOS-compliant energy audits and notied its are responsible for the implementation of the undertaken and serves as the baseline year.
compliance to the Environment Agency in January 2016.
The opportunities for energy Ultras formal environmental policy addresses Total tonnes of CO2 emitted savings identied during the ESOS compliance with environmental legislation, by all Ultra businesses assessment will be addressed as part of the conformity with standards for air, waste S3 programme.
disposal and noise, the economical use of Total tCO2 Additional environmental initiatives materials and the establishment of scope 1 13% All businesses are audited biennially.
In the US appropriate environmental performance Total tCO2 standards.
Progress is monitored through in 2017, EMS, 3eTI, Flightline and NSPI all scope 2 87% annual reporting and a biennial external audit achieved 100% in the audit.
Additionally in the UK, NCS, CSS, PMES and PCS all maintained process, which took place in 2017.
Where the ISO 14001 environmental standard.
appropriate, individual businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Each site plans and manages compliance with environmental requirements and the Anant Prakash processes for the storage, handling and General Counsel & Company Secretary disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Ultra caused no contamination of land in 2017, continuing the excellent track record of the previous five years.
