Our people An employer of choice We are proud of our reputation as an employer of choice.
We encourage an open, collaborative and meritocratic working environment in which everyone has the opportunity to fulfil their potential.
We engage employees over the long term by providingchallenging work and supporting development opportunities.
Our people strategy is aimed at developing an agile We are committed to providing equal employment workforce as we continue to attract, retain, develop opportunities and combating discrimination.
Where and motivate the right people for our current and possible, we monitor the ethnicity, age and gender future business needs.
We encourage diversity and an composition of our workforce and those applying inclusive workplace to create a positive environment for jobs.
We were amongst the first signatories to the 2016 Our approach to business is defined in our guiding Women in Finance Charter.
We achieved our initial principles, which we share with all employees, and target of 30% women within senior management includes our values of excellence, innovation, during the first quarter of 2017, though at year end the teamwork, passion and integrity.
Our values are a key figure had fallen back to 29% as a result of minor part ofthe Schroders culture they define the high restructurings within the firm.
We are now targeting standards of behaviour that we expect from our people 33% by the end of 2019.
More information on female and are embedded in our appraisal process.
representation and our gender pay gap can be found on page 78.
Diversity of thought In line with our equal opportunities policy, we give fair Talented people who can understand and embrace consideration to all employment applications, including different perspectives are crucial to our continued from disabled people, considering particular aptitudes success.
This means attracting, retaining and and abilities.
If employees become disabled, developing a diverse team regardless of age, gender, employment continues wherever possible, with sexual orientation, disability, religious beliefs or other retraining given if necessary.
Our Group Chief Executive is committed oftraining, career development and progression, to ensuring we foster an inclusive culture of diversity allemployees are treated equally as part of our across our global workforce.
commitment to making Schroders an inclusive place to As we look to expand our diverse talent pool, we have work.
More on our approach to diversity and inclusion taken a number of key measures, including: can be found at schroders.
Ensuring that our entry level assessment centres We are proud to be an accredited London Living Wage aregender balanced: employer.
All of our London-based employees, including contractors, are paid above the London Providing training to managers on diversity issues Living Wage.
and unconscious bias: Providing internal and external mentoring programmes to encourage diversity: and Gender diversity 2017 2016 Female Male Offering maternity and paternity coaching, shared parental leave and flexible working policies to help Directors of Schroders plc 3 2 8 7 support employees with children.
1 Senior managers 238 220 580 541 2 A series of employee resource groups have been Subsidiary directors 9 8 37 34 established, which are an important part of our Total senior management 247 228 617 575 approach to diversity and inclusion.
They include All employees 1,876 1,634 2,743 2,386 gender and sexual orientation, disability, mental health, carer and multi-cultural groups that are a key 1.
Senior managers excludes the executive Directors of feature of our identity as an inclusive place to work.
Schroders plc and includes some individuals who are alsosubsidiary directors.
Subsidiary directors comprises directors of subsidiaries who are not classified above as senior managers or Directors.
Board policy on diversity The Board recognises the importance of diversity and that it is a wider issue than gender.
We believe thatmembers of the Board should collectively possess a diverse range of skills, expertise, industry knowledge, business and other experience necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
TheNominations Committee considers diversity as one of many factors when recommending new appointments to the Board.
Whilst we currently have three female Directors representing 27% of the Board, the Board aims to have a minimum of 33% of Board positions held by women by 2020.
We also endeavour to only use the services of executive search firms who have signed up to the Voluntary Codeof Conduct on Gender Diversity.
28 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Employees by Employee wellbeing High ethical standards length of service We have a multi-generational workforce and it is vital We promote high ethical standards and have a strong that our people are provided with the support and culture of doing the right thing for our clients, our opportunities they need to optimise their health employees, our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ifan employee does have any ethical concerns, we have a whistleblowing policy, through which they can As well as being members of several thoughtraise them.
A widely publicised 24-hour hotline is leadership networks, we provide a comprehensive available for employees to report any concerns calendar of wellbeing events for our people across anonymously.
Personal securities trading by employees fivekey areas: mind, workplace, body, financial and is subject to clearly defined internal policies.
There is also extensive resilience and mental health training embedded within our learning Employees are not permitted to solicit or accept any and development programmes.
inducements that are likely to conflict with their duties.
We have policies in place and train employees on 4 years 45% Engaged and highly motivated employees identifying potential tax evasion, gifts and 4 years to 6 years 12% During 2017 we carried out a firm-wide Employee entertainment, anti-money laundering, awareness of 6 years to 10 years 22% Opinion Survey.
The results demonstrate that our terroristfinancing, antibribery, market integrity and 10 years 21% employees are engaged with their roles, understand data protection.
Duediligence is undertaken before our values and believe that we behave responsibly entering any material new client relationship and this Employee opinion towards our clients.
isenhanced for higher risk countries, entities survey 2017 or individuals.
We have continued to invest in our corporate communications during 2017, as we recognise that Retaining our talented people good communication is key to delivering high levels 90% We have a highly engaged, experienced and stable ofengagement.
It helps employees to understand of employees workforce, with 43% of employees having been with anddeliver our strategic objectives.
We communicate the firm for six years or more.
Overall turnover in 2017 recommendSchroders regularly through a variety of channels, including asa good place to work was 9% 2016: 9%.
We focus on retaining our most management briefings, videos, an internal magazine talented employees and our retention of high and a social intranet.
Annual Inside Schroders Live performing employees remains high at 94% meetings are held with the Group Chief Executive to 2016: 95%.
94% discuss the progress made by the business and future of employees are objectives and challenges.
Similar events are held Over 23% of roles across the Group were filled with proudtobe associated across our offices globally.
internally developed talent 31% in the UK, as we with Schroders provide our employees with the opportunities and experience they need to achieve their full potential.
Weinvest heavily in developing their knowledge, skills and capabilities.
Employees have access to a range 93% oflearning and development programmes in order believe Schroders tomaintain and increase technical competence in their behavesresponsibly roles and align behaviours with our values.
towards our clients As part of the Investment 2020 programme, Schrodersprovides opportunities for school leavers and graduates across the business.
More than half of our 2016 trainees progressed to full time roles and the majority of those that did not stay at Schroders went on to attend university.
In 2017 we also introduced our inaugural apprenticeship programme, which provides permanent roles for school leavers, with tailored training.
Competitive remuneration that reflects the performance of each employee and of the firm isimportant in retaining our people.
Our approach isexplained in the Remuneration report on pages 62 to90.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29
