Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 48 Our people and culture Developing Ultras people Ultra would not be able to deliver value to customers without the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of its people.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 49 Sustainability, people and culture Taking over the position as Towed Array Project Manager has been my biggest challenge to date The right people areas combined with knowledge of the users Ultra believes that having the right people is environments.
The Group ensures that it has People in action the Groups most important asset.
Across the the right people to work with customers to Sarah-Lynn MacKenzie joined Ultra as Group, it is recognised that Ultra is successful support their needs by understanding their a Graduate Mechanical Engineer in 2014. in innovating to meet customers needs due to problems and creating winning solutions.
Over the last three years, Sarah-Lynn has the broad range of skills and capabilities of its How Ultra manages its people been involved in increasingly complex employees.
Therefore, people and their Ultra continues to value the autonomy of its design work and is now Towed Array development are fundamental to the Group as businesses and believes a high degree of Project Manager at Maritime Systems.
it strives to achieve an efficient organisation operational autonomy enables businesses to What is your role within Ultra?
with engaged and committed people.
focus on delivering agile and responsive Within my role as Towed Array Project Domain expertise solutions to its customers.
Manager, I manage the scheduling of Ultra recognises that one of its commitments The Managing Directors and Presidents of towed array builds in order to meet to customers is to ensure that the Groups Ultras individual businesses and their external deadlines.
To do this I interface domain expertise is maintained.
This is management teams are given as much with the production team to ensure achieved by ensuring that employees maintain authority and responsibility as possible.
This efficiency and teamwork, with the Senior their continuing professional development allows these teams to maintain the agility Management Team to provide various and close links with customers and end-users and sharp focus that is typical of smaller forecasts and updates, and with the of Ultras products.
customer to provide status reports and The key factors in delivering innovative array ship dates.
solutions to meet customers needs are Ultras How has your role evolved during deep understanding of its specialist capability your time with Ultra?
I started at Ultra three and a half years ago as a Graduate Mechanical Engineer using software to analyse the acoustic abilities of our new projectors.
As I became more familiar with the towed array technology at Ultra, I migrated into a mechanical design role.
This role grew to the point where I was also creating numerous design documents for internal and external use that used cross-discipline knowledge to capture electrical, mechanical, and acoustic design.
From there I was recently promoted to my current position as Towed Array Project Manager.
What have you enjoyed most about your role?
I have enjoyed being exposed to various elds of work within Ultra.
This exposure has allowed me to grow within the company in a self-directed manner based on my interests.
Taking over the position as Towed Array Project Manager has been my biggest challenge to date, but has also been the work from which I have derived Ultra actively invests in the most satisfaction.
and supports the training and development of its employees.
Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 50 Developing Ultras people continued Ultra is committed to securing the talent pipeline and developing people to ensure the continued growth and success of the Group.
Resetting the Groups focus on its people ensures that the right people are in the right roles, with the right skills at the right time.
Furthermore, businesses are responsible for and are encouraged to develop their teams and individuals continuously, which will enable people to grow with the business.
Growth through engagement LAUNCH is a set of behaviours which the LEAP Group has developed to facilitate customer Leadership engagement and relationship building.
Good leadership is essential to Ultra and This approach ensures Ultra understands the a number of models of leadership are real needs of its customers.
In addition, incorporated in the development and LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to training programmes that are delivered generate long-term customer relationships, around the Group.
which leads to a better pipeline of Entrepreneurship opportunities and enables growth.
LAUNCH is Being entrepreneurial is a behaviour aligned with the Groups approach to systems which underpins the Groups strategy.
What people mean to Ultra All Ultra businesses seek to provide Ultras aim of delivering an efficient customers with solutions which are organisation, with engaged and steadfast different from, and better than, those of LAUNCH people to meet the Groups business our competitors.
Ultras entrepreneurial commitments, is a fundamental goal that all L Listen to customers culture seeks to maximise the capability to managers work towards and is a measure of generate exceptional ideas and the A Ask the right questions their success.
The broad range of skills and business skills needed to bring them U Understand what their pain is capabilities of Ultras employees support the successfully to market.
Groups success in innovating to meet N identify the customers Needs Audacity customer needs.
The quality of Ultras and get their agreement Audacious thinking is the difference leadership teams is constantly reviewed and between incremental improvement and C Create a relationship, opportunity improved as this is essential to the continuing business transformation.
It takes the idea and solution growth and success of the Group.
of innovation, one of Ultras core values, H Holistic.
Examine the bigger picture: Culture and invites employees to think about how can Ultra maximise the scope The Group believes that its culture is what issues in ways which are unconstrained and value of the opportunity?
drives Ultras success and that this includes by existing norms, making use of creative aspects such as values, role models, processes approaches in every aspect of the and the behaviours of its employees.
recognises that maintaining a strong culture is Paranoia essential.
The Groups culture, values and Paranoia, in the business sense, is a behaviours are shaped by the guiding concern and fear about competitors and principles, in particular the call for an what they may do.
It also relates to efficient organisation with engaged and concerns and fears about things which committed people.
To achieve this, Ultra has can go wrong internally.
For Ultra, identied four cultural behaviours of its people paranoia is important in focusing its that are highly valued and encouraged.
These people on maximising their knowledge of are: Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Audacity the competitive landscape, by constantly and Paranoia.
Together, they are known within asking questions of the Groups individual the Group as LEAP.
businesses, customers, teaming partners and suppliers.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 51 Sustainability, people and culture Securing the talent pipeline Command & Sonar Systems continues There have been a number of notable successes: Ultra has been committed to developing to participate in the STEM Ambassador CIS has developed a relationship with people ever since it was formed in 1993.
Scheme, with six ambassadors currently SEPnet and currently sponsors two There are a number of programmes which in place and a further nine undergoing eight-week summer placements for help the Group to attract the best people, as registration undergraduates, alongside one internallywell as encouraging students to develop NCS began a five-year sponsorship of funded placement careers in engineering or business.
St Bees Primary School in Cumbria as part PCS gave a presentation on apprenticeships of the British Energy Coast league initiative.
Schools to the Bournside School.
A current Ultra businesses engage with schools in the apprentice, previous apprentice and an HR Ultras continued focus remains on local community, building relationships with representative presented engineering but extends to include other schools and colleges through various means.
STEM subjects, as well as finance and Apprentices at NCS were awarded at the These include offering work experience, commercial disciplines.
The Group also 2017 National Skills Academy for Nuclear longer work placements or internships, visits sponsors students through their A Levels via UK Nuclear Skills Awards, winning the as part of AS-level courses, interview practice the Arkwright Scholarship.
This provides Manufacturing Apprentice of the Year and sessions, careers events, and Ultra employees students with support and mentoring during the SME Apprentice of the Year awards.
supporting both lessons and after school their studies and has led to more students clubs.
Examples include: electing to undertake STEM degree courses.
Ultra became an Ofcial Supporter of the Ultra is recognised as a major sponsor of the Race for The Line Classroom Project and scheme and currently has eight scholars.
National Competition, an initiative set up Apprenticeships by The Learning Partnership TLP which Many Ultra businesses have well-established enables teachers to introduce STEM and successful apprenticeship programmes, classroom projects for students in years 8 which have also historically provided the and 9, exploring concepts such as Group with engineering leaders.
The Group aerodynamics, Newtons Law of Motion, runs apprenticeship schemes at most of its UK maths and physics businesses and currently has 45 apprentices in training in the UK.
Total Total UK data 2017 2016 Apprentices 45 42 University placement students 7 7 Sponsored university students 1 3 Arkwright scholars 11 11 US data 2017 2016 Undergraduate interns 21 16 New graduates 6 5 Employees working on graduate-level degrees 15 14 Canada data 2017 2016 Undergraduate interns 16 0 New graduates 1 5 Employees working on graduate-level degrees 1 1 Ultra actively invests in and supports the training and development of its employees.
STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics SEPnet: South East Physics Network Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 52 Developing Ultras people continued Ultra actively engages with lecturers and faculties during degree courses as part of the excellent links the Group maintains with universities around the world.
Securing the talent pipeline continued Success stories Universities and colleges CIS works closely with Uxbridge College, In addition to traditional career fairs, Ultra who supports its apprentice programme, actively engages with lecturers and faculties and during 2017 provided four lecturers during degree courses as part of the excellent with work experience placements, enabling links the Group maintains with universities them to update their skills and knowledge around the world.
This provides Ultra with of the workplace access to leading research and enables the Flightline has a continued technical Group to form relationships with students collaboration with a professor at the well before graduation.
The Group benets Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT from working with universities as it can NCS became a member of the collaborate on innovation and recruit students Southampton University Industrial Board who can make a difference.
Ultra is currently Institutions and sponsored its Electronics and sponsoring 12 university students and also Ultras UK businesses are members of Computer Science Society.
It also provides a number of work placements as Engineering UK and other bodies that delivered presentations to the Society and part of degree courses 28 in the UK and US research and develop new ways to attract held a Graduate Interview Day on campus in the last year.
people into engineering careers, as well as In July 2017, PCS hosted students helping to forecast future trends in the sector.
Ultra businesses provide opportunities for and lecturers from Embry Riddle Ultra businesses worldwide have a variety of students to work on real projects via work Aeronautical University in Florida for links with their local business forums and placements, co-operative programmes and the second year running.
chambers of commerce members, helping to internship schemes: all internships are paid encourage STEM activities.
for, to promote access to all.
The Group also works with SEPnet to provide summer work placements to students to help advance and sustain physics as a strategically important subject for the UK economy.
STEM: Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:28 Page 53 6.
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 53 Sustainability, people and culture Training and development 2017 saw a renewed focus on high-potential Ultra has been able to appoint a high Ultra actively invests in and supports the development across Ultra.
Two examples are proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional training and development of its employees.
programmes introduced at Command & and business levels through internal As a Group, Ultra has invested in its Learning Sonar Systems and Precision Control Systems.
This is because the succession Academy, an online portal, which is available Attendees progress through the programme planning element of the process aims to ensure to all of the Groups businesses to support developing their leadership skills while that there are always suitable successors for all training.
Individually, each business is working on projects focused on real business management team roles across each business responsible for identifying the training needs issues.
Through attending these programmes, and for other senior-level roles.
of its employees and managing its own participants have not only enhanced their training budget.
Employee performance and skills but have progressed in their careers Internal appointments at Executive Team, development reviews are held at least within Ultra.
divisional and MD President level % annually and are used to identify the Succession planning and retention development needs of individuals.
2017 60% Each of Ultras businesses prepares an annual Many of the courses in the Learning Academy Organisation, Succession & Development 2016 80% are tailored to the specic requirements of Plan to ensure that Ultra has the right 2015 Ultra, and the trainers have an intimate people in the right place.
The plan assesses 100% knowledge of how the Group operates across individuals performance in their current role 2014 60% all of its businesses.
These training events and their potential to perform larger roles in 2013 include programmes on leadership and the short or longer term.
71% management, along with workshops on Ultras Assessments are recorded in Ultras Talent & successful competitive strategy, strategic Succession system and give a performance selling, programme management and systems As well as the people listed as successors, versus potential rating for each employee.
Specic training programmes are each business also identies people with high The system is used by businesses to ensure a also provided for individuals as necessary.
The combined list represents Ultras supply of suitable talent is available when high-potential talent pool and is used To give students access to real-life current required and recognises that any role within regularly to nd the right people to ll internal work challenges, and to enable Ultra Ultra may become more challenging as the vacancies via the Groups Talent & Succession employees to develop their management and business grows.
Ultra businesses attend graduate and leadership skills, there are opportunities to consist of exceeds, meets, partially undergraduate fairs, utilising current participate in national schemes such as the meets or does not meet the required graduates as the Groups ambassadors.
Engineering Education Scheme run by the performance level.
Equal attention is given to Attendance has seen applications for graduate Engineering Development Trust and enhancing the performance and retention of schemes increase, and this in turn helps to competitions promoting STEM careers.
Ultras those who meet and exceed standard ensure that there is a future supply of businesses have also developed corporate performance levels and to addressing the engineers for the Group.
partnerships with engineering institutions, challenges of the people who fall into the including the Royal Academy of Engineering partially meets or does not meet and the Institution of Engineering and categories.
Where an individual is not Retention of high-performers Technology, in order to support and meeting the standard performance level, it 2017 encourage employees to pursue professional often means that they need to be placed in a 97% recognition in the form of CEng, IEng or role more suited to their talents in which they 2016 80% EngTech status for both their current and can start to exceed the required standard.
2015 previous work and academic achievements.
100% The Group is able to create its next generation of business leaders, through developing and 2014 60% retaining those employees identied as having 2013 71% high potential who will be able to take up the challenge of continuing the growth of Ultra.
The Group has a high retention rate among those individuals in the businesses senior management teams who continually meet or exceed expectations in terms of their performance, or who are high-potential and still developing in their new role.
