Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Cobham has made progress against its key objectives during the year Acting responsibly and sustainably enables Cobham Cobham takes a strategic approach to corporate identified as part of this process, and maps them to enhance its culture, manage risk and capitalise on responsibility and sustainability CRS.
The Group against the Groups operational priorities to illustrate opportunities creating long term value for the identifies and prioritises the CRS issues most how they are being managed.
The identified issues, Company and stakeholders.
Products and services relevant to it.
This is completed through a mapping which have been reviewed and are unchanged from often provide important environmental and social process that includes stakeholder research, 2016, have been grouped into three dimensions for benefits whether through enhancing aviator feedback and engagement on material issues ease of reporting Economic, Social and survival, reducing the size and weight of products important to the Groups industry sectors and to Environmental.
Further information on each and their consequent environmental impact, or employees, customers and investors.
The table dimension is set out below.
providing reliable communications in below shows the material CRS issues that have been .
Customer Material issue Leadership Simplification Control Execution Focus Economic dimension Business ethics Material sourcing and supply chain management Social dimension Talent attraction, development and retention Diversity and inclusion Employee health and safety Human rights Environmental dimension Environmental sustainability All material disclosures are verified internally.
Cobham also obtains limited external assurance on its recording of greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Bureau Veritas has provided assurance on the Groups 2017 GHG emissions data see page 74 for more information.
The Groups policies and assurance statements are available at www.
Economic dimension Business ethics the behavioural standards it mandates for all its A related risk area is the use of third party Cobham operates in specialist markets, a number officers, employees and representatives on a range intermediaries as a route to market.
Failure by an of which are highly regulated.
It is Group policy of issues, including anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
intermediary to comply with laws and regulations, to comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
or the failure of the Group to complete appropriate Non-compliance with applicable laws and Cobham has a clearly stated zero-tolerance approach intermediary due diligence can impact the Groups regulations is a Group principal risk refer to risk 9 to bribery and corruption in any form.
All employees reputation as well as lead to a range of sanctions, on page 38. are required to receive training on the COBC and other including significant fines or debarments from ethics and compliance training, including antigovernment contracts and new business.
Cobhams The Group is committed to sustaining an ethical corruption.
Cobham maintains an independent Ethics Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy requires culture.
The Cobham Ethics and Compliance Helpline and website where potential compliance intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive Programme CECP has been developed to support violations can be reported.
In 2017, it sought to due diligence and approval process prior to this culture through a range of policies, processes improve the handling of concerns raised via the Ethics engagement.
In 2017 Cobham took steps to and activities.
The implementation and Helpline through a range of steps, including providing improve its intermediary risk management process.
effectiveness of the CECP is overseen by the specialist training to a panel of newly appointed Enhancements included an increased number of Business Ethics and Compliance Committee BECC, internal investigators.
Further details on the Groups counterparties subjected to additional due diligence and ultimately the Board.
The programme is approach to ethics and compliance can be found at and the use of technology to provide a continuous underpinned by the Code of Business Conduct www.
com the-group corporatereal time due diligence monitoring system.
COBC, which outlines the Groups core values and  ethics.
com 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Cobham measures the effectiveness of the CECP During 2018 Cobham will continue to focus on The Group continues to invest in emerging talent, and improvements to it through a range of Key repeating its supplier campaigns and enhancing and as a result has increased the number of places Performance Indicators KPIs, one of which is the key supplier engagement.
within its graduate and apprentice development completion of mandatory COBC training.
The Group has also created a 99.8% 2016: 99.5% of Cobham employees Cobham is legally, and sometimes contractually, vocational programme to provide an additional completed COBC training.
required to disclose certain information regarding pathway into key management and other technical its global supply chains.
The graduate development programme Material sourcing and supply chain laws and regulations and the characteristics of its continues to expand its geographical reach, with management markets and the resulting complex contracting opportunities for graduates created in Denmark, Cobham is seeking to simplify its supply chain by environment have been identified as principal risks in addition to existing opportunities in the US and reducing the number of suppliers used, to manage for further details refer to risks 9 and 2 on pages the UK.
Alumni from the graduate and apprentice risk, reduce cost and improve quality.
schemes are progressing into senior roles and are is committed to maintaining responsible business increasingly featuring on succession plans, practices across the supply chain, which it puts evidencing the success of the schemes.
The Social dimension into effect through the Groups Responsible Supply graduate scheme continues to be accredited by Attraction, development and retention Chain Management RSCM policy and Supplier the UK Institute of Mechanical Engineers and the of talent Code of Conduct, details of which can be found at Royal Aeronautical Society, and in 2017 the Group The ability to attract and retain talented and www.
com the-group suppliers employed 4.5% 2016: 4.2% of its UK workforce engaged employees is critical to enable Cobham to supplier-documents.
as apprentices, graduates or undergraduate achieve its growth plans, deliver on key programmes placements, putting it on track to meet its 5% Club and meet ongoing commitments.
The talent During 2017, Group-wide supplier compliance commitment by 2019 for further information strategy looks to create a talent and organisational campaigns were conducted with respect to bribery see: www.
development framework that ensures Cobham is a and corruption, modern slavery and human high performing and sustainable organisation.
The trafficking, and conflict minerals.
In addition During 2017, Cobham has invested in developing shortage of appropriate skills and talent has been to reinforcing the Groups responsible business leadership capability though the ongoing delivery identified as one of the Groups principal risks refer practices, this supported Group regulatory of the Cobham Certificate in Management to risk 4 on page 37. disclosures and customer information requests.
programme which is accredited through the Institute of Leadership and Management.
In addition, development assessments were undertaken across the organisation to support the continued development of individuals in critical roles, and this activity will continue during 2018.
The Emerging Talent Career Pathway Cobhams apprentice and Graduate Development Programmes enable emerging talent to choose and follow multiple career pathways.
Different skills, development needs and interests are accommodated and cultivated as demonstrated with the success stories below.
2-3 Year Graduate Transition to a full time Graduate Development leadership, technical or UK and US Programme functional role The Cobham Apprenticeship developed my core skills and the Graduate Development Programme allowed me to apply those other areas of the business I know I wouldnt be in this job now without coming through Ladan Sadjadi both of these programmes.
UK Graduate Development Transition from Programme Alumni an Apprentice Apprentice Business Controller to the Graduate Cobham SATCOM Denmark UK Development Programme I chose the Graduate programme because I wanted to gain a range of experience in an exciting company 4 Year at the start of my career.
I have had Apprenticeship Alex Seton UK Apprentice and a strong professional support network Programme Graduate Development on every site Ive worked on.
Programme Alumni Production Manager Repairs Cobham Antenna Systems UK Mike Popadick Apprentice US Graduate Development UK Programme Alumni VP Business Transformation Cobham Mission Systems UK 4 Year Transition to a full time The graduate program is valuable because of the Claire Bewley Apprenticeship BU Technical role opportunities it affords the participants to explore their UK Apprentice Alumni Programme career paths.
You will have a variety of roles at a variety Manufacturing Engineer of different locations which enables you to grow Cobham Antennas UK personally and professionally.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Development activity linked to career frameworks In 2017, women were employed in 16% 2016: 17% Cobham continues to enhance its SHE programme, has been deployed across the Group in key of all senior management roles.
The Group and has built further on the transformational work capability areas, including delivery of Association recognises that there is a significant opportunity undertaken in 2016.
2017 saw the first full year of of Project Management accredited programmes, to increase the number of women in leadership implementation of the new global SHE standards.
and continuous improvement Six Sigma training.
positions and is developing plans to proactively Compliance with these standards is measured, and A mentoring programme has been commenced address this issue.
Ensuring that the Group is able Cobhams businesses were expected to achieve a to support individual development and facilitate to attract and retain a diverse workforce aligns with minimum compliance target by 2017, with the knowledge sharing across the Group.
the Groups principal risks relating to a shortage target increasing by five percentage points in 2018. of appropriate skills and talent as well as failure to Testing is through an annual self-assessment The Group has enhanced its approach to talent for comply with laws and regulations refer to risks 4 exercise, periodic peer-to-peer auditing and a 2018, which looks to develop Cobhams pipeline and 9 on pages 37 and 38. biennial external audit.
In 2017 all assessed sites of leadership and technical capability through achieved or exceeded the minimum SHE structured development programmes.
This will seek Employee health and safety compliance target, an improvement compared to to build on the current structures and integrate Cobham endeavours to create a safe and healthy 2016 when 5 of the 47 sites assessed did not external best practice to ensure that the objectives culture and framework that fosters employee achieve the standard.
of the organisation continue to be supported.
The Group Safety, Health and Environment SHE Committee has set the In addition, the Group Executive monitors SHE The Group uses voluntary staff turnover to measure objective of transforming the Groups organisational performance on a monthly basis, using a balanced the effectiveness of its talent retention and SHE culture.
Failure to deliver consistently high scorecard of leading and lagging indicators.
In 2017, the standards of health and safety could lead to indicators indicators that correlate with future Groups voluntary employee turnover was 10% accidents or incidents which may result in performance are used to drive correct behaviours.
The Group has completed the first year employees being injured or otherwise harmed, They include safety training, risk assessments, of its turnaround and in these circumstances it is which is totally unacceptable.
In addition, accidents workplace inspections, SHE Committees and expected that there might be a degree of staff or incidents may result in prosecutions, fines, loss of reporting of safety observations.
Lagging indicators movement, while the Groups organisation assets, business interruption and widespread indicators that are based on historic performance structures, ways of working and culture undergo reputational damage.
Health and safety aligns with are used to measure the effectiveness of the a period of evolution.
Management continue the Groups principal risks relating to significant approach, and these include the incidence of to expect that the staff turnover will decrease business interruption and failure to comply with laws workplace injuries and illness, environmental issues overtime.
and regulations refer to risks 8 and 9 on page 38. and regulatory interventions.
During 2017, the Group achieved 94% of its leading indicator metrics.
Diversity and inclusion The Groups workplace SHE programme, called Zero Competition for talent is growing in the Groups Harm, promotes continuous improvement.
Its With regard to lagging indicators, there were no markets.
A combination of ageing populations and objective is to minimise injuries and illnesses fatalities in 2017.
The occupational lost time injury declining numbers of suitable university graduates occurring in the workplace, improve environmental and illness incident rate defined as the number is leading to greater competition for the same talent sustainability and ensure employees wellbeing.
of cases resulting in one or more days lost time or across industries and geographies, particularly for Accountability for implementing the Groups SHE restricted duties fell to its lowest level since the science, technology, engineering and mathematics strategy is with line management.
This is monitored Aeroflex acquisition in 2014, at 0.503 incidents per disciplines on which the Group relies.
Cobham must by the Group SHE Committee, which is chaired by 200,000 hours worked an industry standard metric attract and retain the right skills to meet its plans.
Technical expertise is provided through a which Cobham has adopted as one of its key Ensuring the Groups culture supports the creation Group SHE Council comprising senior business reporting measures in 2017, compared to 0.720 in of a diverse workforce will enable the Group to unit SHE professionals under the leadership of a 2016.
Manual handling, minor hand injuries, and slips attract and retain key talent from all backgrounds.
dedicated Group SHE Senior Director and the VP and trips were the most common causes of injury Cobham is committed to developing an inclusive Corporate Responsibility andSustainability.
or illness that resulted in lost time during 2017, and workplace where employee differences are valued, this is consistent with prior years.
enabling everyone to contribute fully.
The Groups three year SHE strategy is to: Continually improve safety, health, environmental There was one significant regulatory intervention Under the UK Equality Act 2010 regulations, which and sustainability performance: in the year.
In May 2017, a defective 40 metre apply to legal entities with at least 250 employees, Drive a proactive and learning SHE culture electrical lead that was used to power aircraft on Cobham is required to report gender pay gap data.
through engaged and empowered people at the ground at the Aviation business in Adelaide, Gender pay gap data for five Cobham legal entities alllevels: and Australia was identified which led to the issuance is available at www.
com the-group Derive business efficiencies through the of a prohibition notice by the government regulator  implementation of an integrated, standardised for South Australia Safework SA.
SHE management system across the organisation.
leads were removed from service and destroyed immediately, and a new worldwide inspection regime implemented to prevent recurrence.
2 Statutory definition Employees with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling corporate activities.
3 Cobham definition Vice Presidents and above.
com 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Further details on Cobhams SHE policy, Environmental dimension The Group addresses environmental sustainability management standards and performance are Environmental sustainability issues by: Reducing environmental impacts from its at www.
com the-group corporateCobham recognises that its operations, activities, operations wherever practicable:  products and services have an impact on the Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption and  policyenvironment.
A material environmental issue is seeking to transition to more fuel efficient aircraft downloads.
the Groups response to climate change.
The table where possible: below outlines Cobhams governance, strategy, Reducing GHG emissions across a number of Human rights risk management, and performance measurement operating sites through practical energy efficiency Human rights remain an important issue for the approach with regard to this issue.
measures, including to lighting, heating, ventilation Group.
There are growing requirements to comply and air conditioning: with legislation and to respond to customer Investing in design to reduce the size and weight of Task force on climate related disclosures products which reduces energy consumption with a information requests on human rights issues such TFCD our initial response corresponding reduction in environmental impacts: as modern slavery for example the UK Modern Governance Reinforcing business continuity measures and Slavery Act 2015 and conflict minerals for example The Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability effective emergency response planning, in the US Dodd-Frank Act.
Compliance with Committee, chaired by the CFO, has overall preparation for adverse weather events and natural accountability for CRS strategy, including climate applicable laws and regulations has been identified disasters: and change and carbon management.
The Committee as a principal risk refer to risk 9 on page 38.
Aligning the Groups environmental standards to has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of ISO14001 and encouraging business units to certify controls in place for identifying and managing risks Cobham supports the principles contained in the to ISO14001 standards.
and opportunities, challenging Group performance, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and seeks to and maintaining strategic and policyoversight.
Performance measurement reflect these in the context of its business activities.
The Aviation Services Sector sets an annual aviation Cobham also respects the human rights of its Strategy fuel consumption per hour reduction target for the employees as set down in the International Labour Climate change affects the Groups approach to its aircraft under its operational control.
Climate change regulation, taxes, Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles Sector achieved a reduction of 18.6 kg hr in fuel burn international agreements such as the Paris accord, and Rights at Work.
Cobham demonstrates its intensity, which is a reduction of 3.25% compared to volatile energy costs and changes in weather support and respect for human rights through the 2016, well in excess of the 0.5% target.
This equated conditions have all informed the Groups strategic principles and policies contained in the COBC, the to a saving of 1,714 tonnes of carbon dioxide decisions as Cobham adapts to changing operating Corporate Framework and the Groups policies emissions.
This reduction was achieved through the environments.
Investment in new technology that implementation of a number of measures, including andprocesses.
reduces size, weight and power consumption of the use of improved flight planning software with products is an important differentiator in the more accurate weather forecasts, a reduction in flight In 2017, the Group issued its first annual Anti-Slavery Groupsmarkets.
speeds and reduced engine usage during the taxi and Human Trafficking statement in compliance phase of the flight.
Material issues identified include: with section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act.
The Greenhouse gas GHG emissions from aircraft statement outlines the Group policy and approach Facility energy intensity decreased by 8% 2016: 18% fuel combustion in its Aviation Services Sector to managing risk in Group operations and in its decrease narrowly missing the target of 10%.
Reductions which represents the majority of the Groups supply chains.
The statement can be downloaded in facility energy intensity were achieved through a GHGemissions : at www.
com the-group corporatenumber of planned energy saving initiatives, some of GHG emissions from electricity and fuel used in which were deferred and will be implemented in 2018.  thelighting, heating, ventilation and cooling of its  disclosures.
facilities and supply chain Group-wide: Further details on the Groups GHG emissions can be The impact of the size, weight and power efficiency found in the Other Statutory Information report on Cobham believes that community issues are best of Cobham products upon the fuel burn and GHG pages 73 and 74. emissions of customer aerospace platforms: and addressed locally wherever possible.
Individual sites Business interruption at its facilities, and those of are encouraged to manage their operations and The Group measures and discloses its greenhouse its key suppliers, due to adverse weather events activities with due consideration for the wellbeing e. g. flooding, wildfire.
gas emissions strategy, risks, opportunities and of their neighbours and local communities.
the Group donated 275,726 2016: 269,933 to a Risk management com environment.
aspx and through the annual range of good causes including armed services, Risks and opportunities are monitored, prioritised and CDP investor climate change and customer supply rescue and health based charities, as well as local managed in a number of ways, including by the chain surveys.
CDP is a not-for-profit charity that community interests.
It is Cobhams policy not to Groups insurance partner, in local risk registers and runs the global disclosure system for companies business unit SHE self assessments.
and others to manage their environmental impacts.
Failure to address environmental sustainability issues aligns with the Groups principal risks of failure to Cobham achieved an ALeadership rating from CDP comply with laws and regulations and of significant for a second year based on its 2016 performance, business interruption refer to principal risks 8 and 9 placing it among the best performers in the UK on page 38. aerospace and defence sector.
Summary of 2017 CRS KPIs Target 2017 2016 2015 Key Performance Indicator % Employees trained on Code of Business Conduct 100.0% 99.8% 99.5% 100.0% % Voluntary employee turnover 10.0% 10% 10% 11% % Female representation in total workforce 26% 27% 29% 1, 4 Lost Work Case Incident Rate 0.64 0.50 0.72 0.60 2, 4 Recordable Incident Rate 1.26 0.95 0.93 1.18 3 Facility energy intensity -10% -8% -18% 5% 1 Number of lost workday injury or occupational illness cases multiplied by 200,000 divided by the hours worked.
2 Number of recordable incidents per year per 100 full time equivalent employees.
4 Targets are re-assessed annually to ensure that they drive continuous improvement.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
