Corporate social responsibility OUR PEOPLE Rotork aims to be a great place to work with strong core values in all of our business units and clear adherence to our published Group ethics policies.
Our entrepreneurial, open culture is an enabler to getting the job done.
Employee engagement We believe that motivated and engaged MEET KATIA people value their own health and safety and that of their colleagues, drive greater productivity and aspire to deliver higher Divisional Training and NPI Manager, Lucca, Italy levels of customer satisfaction.
I love the practical and hands-on aspect of engineering and having achieved a PhD in Chemical Engineering I To seek employee views, we run employee joined Rotork in 2004 as an Inside Sales Engineer then suggestion schemes and several locations have moved to the technical training department to manage employee forums where employees can raise product training, allowing me to fully use my technical issues to be further considered by management.
background and travel all over the world.
I currently We have historically performed an annual also manage new product introduction for the Fluid employee satisfaction survey to obtain feedback Systems division, working closely with the divisional from across the businesses on how we relate to R&D department.
I remember that when I was at our employees and what we can do better.
As we university, the slogan was Join engineering, you will are currently carrying out a review of a number of be a technician and travel the world.
This truly applies different aspects of our business, including our to me and I enjoy every single day of my job.
talent development, we did not perform the survey this year.
We will redesign the survey for 2018 to reflect our revised ambitions and We recognise that to implement our business considerations.
All locations participate in implement a number of other initiatives to obtain strategy we need highly trained and motivated employee bonus schemes and many in profit employee feedback and buy-in.
We are investing in our people and linked share ownership schemes which give encouraging internal development.
We are also staff a financial interest in the Group and Employees are briefed by management on various working to enhance employee engagement to stimulate their performance.
We also provide matters, including the Groups performance and enable our people to reach their full potential, various pension arrangements, designed to the employee bonus performance, at regular so they can do their best work with us.
Our provide retirement benefits, based on local intervals.
This communication takes place either recruitment policy supports our future laws and practices.
through team briefings, our intranet, Konnect, growth plans.
our newsletters or employee forums.
Attracting and recruiting talent We are currently reviewing our talent We want to be the first choice for potential Diversity and equal opportunities development programme to assess the needs recruits with skills that match the needs of We are committed to creating a diverse and of our people and ensure we are providing the our business.
inclusive workforce, where people from all best career enhancement and support.
backgrounds and genders are welcomed, We support apprenticeship schemes for young respected and thrive in our Company.
We know Developing and supporting our people people which helps to increase access into all that a diverse workforce will improve our We are committed to supporting our peoples aspects of our business.
We also belong to the innovation, our customer alignment and our wellbeing and development.
Many of our Manufacturers Standardization Society MSS, ability to attract and retain talent.
offices provide health checks for our a committee that offers undergraduate and employees, we also encourage participation in graduate scholarships.
We have an objective and fair recruitment process sports teams and our people are enthusiastic which promotes equal opportunities across the participants in charitable events.
More details We have built a strong partnership with the Group in line with the Respect at Work and regarding charitable activities can be found in Institution of Mechanical Engineers IMechE to Equality of Opportunity policy.
We are the Community Involvement section see support its engineers in gaining Incorporated committed to the principle of equal opportunities pages 44 to 45. and Chartered accreditation.
We continue to in employment to ensure that no employee or job work with IMechE in Leeds and their Industrial applicant receives less favourable treatment We are committed to the development of Liaison team which supports members of the because of their age, race, nationality, ethnic our employees.
We recognise that for the Institution, helping to promote it internally and origin, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion, Group to be successful, we need highly trained to the wider engineering community.
All employees have a and motivated employees and also to responsibility to ensure that the policy is encourage internal development.
We are We are also reviewing our recruitment policies, successfully implemented.
This includes ensuring reviewing how we invest in the skills and processes and approach to ensure we create a that work allocation and selection for hiring, career progression of our staff, from diverse and inclusive workforce.
promotion and training is carried out in a operational upskilling programmes to non-discriminatory manner.
We work wherever management development.
We regularly feature in Management Todays possible to overcome any obstacles for employees top ten Most Admired Companies in Britain, with disabilities by, for example, improving access Rewarding and retaining employees winning the Quality Goods and Services or restructuring responsibilities.
Our reward and benefits arrangements are category in 2017. benchmarked in each country in which we operate, taking into account cost ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 38 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Board of Directors Total employees by gender by gender n Male 4 n Male 3,052 n Female 2 n F emale 788 Gender reporting The table below shows the gender breakdown GENDER PAY GAP MEET NAZRI of the Groups directors and employees as at 31 December 2017.
Male Female Board directors 4 2 Mean gender pay gap across Senior managers 102 16 all Rotork employees in the UK Other employees 2,946 770 Total 3,052 788 7.4% Overall women currently represent 20% of our employees.
Increasing the number of women in our business and moving towards a more even Median gender pay gap across distribution of men and women at all levels is a all Rotork employees in the UK key goal.
We are making progress on this in various ways, such as increasing our intake of female apprentices and implementing actions as 5.6% described below to address the imbalance.
As required by UK legislation we share the Area Sales Manager, Malaysia gender pay gap data for our two reportable UKs national gender pay gap I started my career in Rotork Site Services entities that have more than 250 employees.
in Malaysia in June 2003, maintaining oil for all employees We have also reported the total UK workforce & gas plant onshore and offshore facilities because from our perspective it is every throughout the Peninsular and West employee that we should count and every 18.0% Coast sea of Malaysia.
I later became a person, male or female, that will benefit from sales engineer, receiving great support the actions we take today.
We fully embrace and exceptional mentoring from the challenge to create a better gender management, before being promoted to balanced workforce.
The table opposite shows our gender pay gap.
We fully accept the challenge to improve the My team and I support each other to secure This is a snapshot taken as of 5 April 2017 to number of women across the business.
We have major projects, including some international show the difference between the average hourly prioritised a number of actions to tackle this projects with the assistance of our pay levels of all females and males in our challenge head-on and make us an employer of colleagues overseas.
This is shown as a percentage choice for women: market presence, Rotork people speak to figure of mens average salary, irrespective of role Introducing checks and balances on each other all the time and I feel as if I have or level in the organisation.
Our figures show pay decisions: friends everywhere in the world!
that the mean pay of all of our women across Training all supervisors and managers to the whole of the UK organisation is 7.4% lower be alert to unconscious bias: The experience that I have gained during than that of men and the median pay is 5.6% Implementing more family friendly and my career with Rotork has been priceless, lower than mens pay.
To put this into context flexible working arrangements: helping me to build confidence and the UK national pay gender pay gap in 2017 Building our talent pipeline through develop my skills and make new friends stands at 18.0% for all employees whether part supporting STEM initiatives, promoting our around the world.
apprentice programmes to woman and building a return to work programme for The gender pay gap is an average figure and is mid-career female engineers: distinct from equal pay, which looks at the Reviewing our recruitment policies, processes individual level of pay to ensure that men and and approach: women are paid the same for carrying out the Setting up internal mentoring programmes same work.
The evaluation of our gender pay to support and nurture women in their data indicates that the difference in average pay careers: and is due to proportionately more men being in Measuring and reporting the impact of this senior higher paid roles.
At Rotork we are action plan on our gender balance.
confident that men and women are paid equally for doing equivalent jobs across our business and we actively review decisions around annual performance, pay and bonus to help ensure this fairness and parity continues.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 39 Corporate social responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We believe that being a responsible business through the effective management of social, ethical, health and safety and environmental matters is key to our success.
It benefits our operational effectiveness, builds on the trust of our stakeholders and protects our reputation.
Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and strategy.
Achieving a positive impact around the world lies at the heart of our CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY commitment to CSR and it represents a valuable opportunity to ensure COMMITTEE that Rotork continues to be successful in the long term.
We are committed to embedding CSR values across all our processes and ways of working.
Rotork has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and ETHICS COMMITTEE continues to be included in the FTSE4Good index where we maintain an above average score in the global rankings, UK rankings and industry sector rankings.
We believe that the approach that we take to CSR helps to meet the SOCIAL ISSUES COMMITTEE expectations of our stakeholders and contributes to the success of our corporate strategy by promoting an effective and sustainable business.
Our Executive Chairman chairs the CSR Committee and reports on progress to the Board.
The CSR Committee is a management committee which has four sub-committees with each representing one of the areas ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE of CSR described opposite.
Presentations or reports are given by the chairs of the four sub-committees to the Board on activity and progress in their areas of CSR during the year.
The diagram opposite sets out our CSR Committee structure.
HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE Employees worldwide 3,835 Countries with a direct presence 38 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 40 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation OUR GROUPS APPROACH IS FOCUSED AROUND FOUR MAIN AREAS: ETHICS AND VALUES COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Ethics and values are fundamental to the way we in which we do business.
We consider it important to contribute and engage positively in the Respecting internationally proclaimed human rights, promoting an open an communities in which we operate and to be a good community honest culture, having a zero tolerance to bribery and corruption worldwide, neighbour around the world.
One of our corporate values is to produce and selecting suppliers with sound reputations in the marketplace are a positive and beneficial impact in the areas in which we operate.
important principles for the Group to adhere to.
More details of the Groups Further details on community involvement can be found on pages ethics and values can be found on pages 42 to 43.
Completed E-Learning courses Donations to charity 5,998 265,000 See our ethics and values See our community involvement on page 42 on page 44 THE ENVIRONMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Rotork is fully committed to reducing its impact on the environment by The health and safety of all employees and contractors is of paramount preventing pollution in all countries in which it operates and to make sure it importance in providing a safe working environment.
Our fundamental is compliant with any legal and regulatory requirements.
Our compliance principle, If you cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job, is actively contributes to sustaining the environment and brings cost savings by promoted to everyone.
This ensures that our people remain safe and we reducing the consumption of energy, water and waste and recycling.
The enhance the effectiveness of our workforce by reducing the risk of injury environmental programme is described in more detail on pages 46 to 49. and costs associated with injury or illness.
The Groups approach to health and safety can be found on pages 50 to 51.
Carbon emissions Lost time injury rate -16.6% 0.24 See our envir onmental programme See our appr oach to health and safety on page 46 on page 50 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 Corporate social responsibility ETHICS AND VALUES Our ethics and values are central to the way we do business.
They are set out in Rotorks Ethics and Values Statement which was updated in 2017 and can be viewed on our website.
The whistleblowing reports received covered a broad range of potential issues related to human resources, employment and dishonest behaviour.
Rotork continues to take steps to publicise and promote the hotline and the Whistleblowing Policy.
Bribery and corruption Rotork has a zero tolerance policy on bribery and corruption worldwide, irrespective of country or business culture.
Rotorks Ethics and Values Statement makes it clear that our employees will never offer, pay or solicit bribes in any form.
The updates to the statement include additional wording on bribery and corruption.
A new Group Gifts and Hospitality Policy was approved by the Board at the end of 2017 and was published in 2018.
Rotork makes use of detailed background checks provided by specialist bribery and corruption due diligence consultants before dealing with unknown third parties including agents and on prospective acquisitions, particularly where they are operating in higher risk jurisdictions or market sectors.
Rotork also makes use of objective guidance on country risk, such as the Corruption Perception Index by Transparency International.
When working with unknown third parties, after the initial detailed background checks, Rotork continues Overview and proposed steps for 2018.
Rotorks to screen these third parties via a large number It is essential to us that our business is run in an commitments in 2018 include rolling out an of international sources, which can detect ethical way, with fair dealing and the highest online training module for modern slavery.
unethical behaviour, using its due diligence standards of integrity.
Rotork has high ethical consultants proprietary databases.
standards and expects all employees and those Whistleblowing Policy with whom it does business, including suppliers, Rotork recognises that an open and honest In 2017, Rotork completed a comprehensive to meet the same standards.
culture is key to understanding concerns within bribery risk assessment.
As part of this process the business and will investigate any potential general managers across the Group responded Human rights and ethical business wrongdoing.
Rotork recently updated its to a questionnaire covering bribery and Rotork is fully committed to supporting and Whistleblowing Policy and process.
The Policy corruption risk issues.
The results of the respecting human rights as defined in the can be found on the Rotork website questionnaires were analysed and the results Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the www.
The of each business unit plotted against the five International Labour Organisations standards.
Policy encourages the reporting of any potential main risk areas identified by Ministry of Justice Rotork does not accept any form of child or wrongdoing, anonymously if required, by all Guidance to the Bribery Act 2010.
The risk forced labour and embracing the UN Global individuals working within, for, or with Rotork.
assessment identified agents as a principal risk Compact principles in our updated Ethics and The Whistleblowing Policy gives whistleblowers for Rotork.
As a result, our internal audit team Values Statement and throughout the business, various ways to alert senior management to any produced a paper on agents, investigating how is a demonstration of this commitment.
suspected wrongdoing, including an to mitigate against the risk agents present independent external whistleblowing hotline to from a bribery risk perspective.
In addition, we Rotork has published its Modern Slavery Act assist in facilitating the reporting of any are currently conducting a review of our third Statement for the 2017 financial year, which concerns confidentially.
party selling arrangements which will be can be found on the Rotork website at completed in the first half of 2018.
com en investors index All whistleblowing concerns, however received, report will contain recommendations to further .
Rotorks 2017 are investigated thoroughly and reported to the mitigate the risks that our agents present.
Modern Slavery Statement sets out steps Audit Committee.
During 2017, the Rotork has taken during the 2017 financial year whistleblowing hotline received eight calls and At the end of 2017, the Audit Committee to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not five concerns were raised through other channels.
received a full report on all 2017 activity for taking place in its business or supply chains anti-bribery and corruption, both developments and improvements.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 42 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Rotork has developed and delivered anti-bribery and corruption training to all employees PROGRESS working in sales and purchasing roles, as well as to senior accountants, all managers and directors including the Board.
The training is delivered as an e-learning module.
All employees who completed the course over Membership of FTSE4Good and UN Global 12 months ago are also required to do a Compact was maintained.
Both courses have been made available in numerous languages.
Rotork agents An updated Whistleblowing Policy was published.
receive a bribery and corruption booklet which is A Supplier Code of Conduct was published.
required to be read by all employees of the agent working on the Rotork account, and signed to A comprehensive bribery risk assessment was confirm the booklet has been read and completed.
An updated Group Ethics and Values Statement Suppliers was published.
We have a global supply chain for goods and 2017 Modern Slavery Act Statement was services that supports our businesses around the world.
This includes the suppliers that published.
produce the components for our products.
Many of our suppliers have a long-term working relationship with the Company.
We expect our suppliers to meet our high ethical standards and in 2017 we published a Supplier Code of Conduct which sets out our expectations.
This can be found on the Rotork website at: http: www.
com en about-us index codeofconduct.
Our suppliers 2018 TARGETS must adhere to the core values contained in the code and require their own supply chain to adhere to them too.
We undertook a supplier assessment survey in Implement updated Whistleblowing Policy and 2017, which included CSR themed questions process and continue to promote the Policy.
associated with modern slavery, equal rights and equal pay, anti-bribery and corruption Complete third party selling arrangements review policies, charitable giving, environmental and commence implementation of the impact and child labour practices.
details are contained in our 2017 Modern Slavery Statement.
Publish and implement Group Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK Limited, the Groups main UK trading companies, and Continue to ensure online bribery and corruption Rotork plc, are signatories to the Prompt Payment training is provided for employees.
This ensures suppliers are paid according to the terms agreed and encourages good practice to be passed down our supply chains.
Rotork is preparing for compliance with the new Prompt Payment Regulations which were introduced in the UK in April 2017.
Under these, Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK Limited will be required to report on their supplier payment practices.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 Corporate social responsibility COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Rotork considers it important to contribute to and engage positively with stakeholders in the communities in which we operate, and to be a good community neighbour around the world.
Overview Our business in South Africa has made We regard this as part of our ongoing donations to The Hope Factory, a charity responsibilities as a good corporate citizen.
that utilises enterprise development to This links into our corporate values which dramatically impact and improve the lives of include producing a positive and beneficial previously disadvantaged unemployed impact in the areas in which we operate.
South Africans, by providing them with an opportunity to be trained and empowered One of the ways Rotork does this is by having and thus become financially productive.
local charity committees at each of our sites which donate to local charitable causes.
This In addition to these local charitable and empowers local employees to decide how to community activities, Rotork has supported distribute the funds in their local communities.
two major charities in 2017, Sightsavers and Rotork aims to contribute 0.1% of profits to WaterAid.
We have been supporting both local charitable causes.
As a global these charities for a number of years.
organisation Rotork also commits to annually supporting global charities from head office funds of 0.1% of profits.
Teachers to receive additional training In addition, our employees around the world have been generous in their support of local causes with volunteer work, fundraising and 550 making donations.
Rotork is encouraging of these efforts.
Local community involvement highlights from the year include: Sightsavers is an international charity that In Bath, UK, employees were involved in works with partners in the developing world to volunteer work with a local community combat avoidable blindness.
In 2017, we special needs school to clear an overgrown focused our support on the Education for All area of their gardens to make way for an project in the Bombali district in northern interactive sculpture for the students.
This five year project supports In the USA, employees have supported the children with disabilities, with a particular North Carolina Fire Relief efforts, various focus on girls, to access education.
Under the childrens charities and the Salvation Army.
project, 45 schools will be made more inclusive They also volunteer tutored at risk children and accessible for children with disabilities and and assisted with food banks.
more than 550 teachers and 750 trainee In Germany, employees have volunteered as teachers will receive additional training in members of the official examination board inclusive education.
of the Chamber of Industry and Commerce in the field of industrial mechanics and Rotorks donations to WaterAid have been industrial clerks giving volunteer days used to support a project in Ethiopia which will during the year to help support reach people in three wards of the Oromia examinations of official German Region in Central Ethiopia, who have the apprenticeship schemes.
poorest rates of access to water and sanitation.
In The Netherlands, an employee As well as delivering access to water, sanitation participated in a two day cycle ride to raise and hygiene this project will improve water money, supported by Rotork, for children source protection, food production and with drug addictions.
This in turn will contribute In Russia, employees donated to an to poverty reduction and the sustainable orphanage in the South of Russia and development of the communities.
bought and shipped various items such as tables and benches for the childrens Additionally, we have agreed a three year playground, an air conditioning system and donation programme with the Royal United two printers with toners.
Hospitals, Bath, UK, to support their building of a Our Singapore employees have supported new Cancer Unit via their Forever Friends Appeal local cancer charities by raising money the hospitals fundraising charity.
To date, through sponsored runs and making food Rotork has donated 24,000 as part of our three bag donations.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 44 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES PROGRESS 46,000 contributed to WaterAid.
12,000 contributed to The Forever Friends Appeal RUH Bath, UK.
Variety of donations made to charitable causes relevant to the local communities of Rotorks operating sites.
2018 TARGETS To continue donations to charitable causes.
Rotork will: Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotorks nominated international charities.
Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes local to Rotorks operating sites.
Review our charitable contributions and align these with our organisational culture and aims.
Review our community involvement to identify ways of working more closely with the communities we operate within to become better corporate social partners.
Sightsavers ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 Corporate social responsibility HELPING THE ENVIRONMENT Rotork is fully committed to the prevention of pollution, to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and to reduce our environmental impact by targeting key areas such as energy consumption, water consumption and waste.
Introduction Corporate objectives We continue with our assembly only A number of improvement activities through philosophy in the majority of our business units the year have helped reduce the energy where we use specialist suppliers for most of consumed at our subsidiaries.
Upgrades to our manufactured components and equipment and infrastructure have contributed assemblies.
This philosophy has resulted in the to a reduction in our overall consumption.
majority of our energy being used on lighting, heating and cooling and IT systems.
As a The significant reduction in our emissions has responsible global entity, we continue to come from the overall site consolidation influence the environmental performance of strategy that has occurred through the year our supply chain through our supplier across the Group.
Organisational boundaries Strategy The environmental report covers all operations We will improve our operational efficiency and processes within the physical boundaries and enhance our environmental of the facilities and business transportation by performance in order to secure the company cars or vans or any private cars and continued sustainability of the Group.
hire cars used for business purposes only.
We will work as a business and in the local Transportation of products by third parties are communities where we operate, to ensure not covered by the report.
that the environment on which we depend is maintained for future generations.
Where energy consumption cannot be verified, We will encourage all employees to behave normally due to the size of the facility, then an in an environmentally responsible manner estimation on the energy use per square metre by supporting the businesses in reducing of floor space occupied has been made.
This waste, saving energy and water and using estimation is based on The Chartered technology to reduce travel.
Institution of Building Services Engineers We will continue to work in partnership CIBSE Guide F Energy Efficiency in Buildings.
with our regulatory bodies and respect the This estimation equates to 0.56% of total regulatory framework in which we work.
As an environmentally responsible business, we will be open and transparent and report The baseline year remains at 2012. regularly to all relevant stakeholders on our environmental performance.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 46 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES PROGRESS A number of key activities have occurred during the year that have impacted on our emissions: The consolidation of our sites within the Instruments division in Italy has delivered a saving of 113 tonnes of CO. 2 The installation of solar panels in our Chennai factory has generated approximately 13% of the sites electricity consumption, whilst stabilising the supply and reducing the need for back-up generators to run.
This improvement has delivered a saving of 62 tonnes of CO. 2 We continue to target electricity as part of our energy efficiency programme with 12 sites reducing electricity consumption by more than 5%.
2018 TARGETS To support the increase in the number of energy related projects that are occurring across our business, the following targets have been set for all of our large energy consuming sites: Promote energy efficiency throughout the business with focus on high impact projects to deliver a 2% saving on electricity.
Further reduce gas consumption on heating normalised on degree days by 2%.
More stringent local targets can be set where needed to support the energy reduction programme of the Group.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 Corporate social responsibility HELPING THE ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Energy consumption Water consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Overall electricity consumption has decreased Absolute water consumption has decreased by reporting by 0.5% on the previous year and increased by 22.1% on the previous year and has increased In January 2018, EEF the UK manufacturers 46.9% on the baseline of 2012. by 27.7% on the baseline year of 2012.
This is organisation undertook an assurance audit of mainly due to the site consolidation activities the Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report.
The Absolute gas consumption decreased by 4.1% that have occurred in Italy and in the USA.
business reports on GHG emissions are in line on the previous year but increased by 26.7% with the GHG Emissions Protocol developed on the baseline year of 2012.
The decrease is Waste and recycling jointly by the World Business Council for based on managing heating and the The amount of waste that our sites generate Sustainable Development and the World consolidation of businesses around the Group.
has increase don the previous year by 9% and Resource Institute.
No significant issues were When considering gas consumption for only the amount of hazardous waste generated has identified during the assurance audit.
the heating of buildings normalised on degree increased by 3% on the previous year.
When days, the overall consumption of gas has normalised with turnover, waste has increased Greenhouse gas is measured across three reduced by 4.2%.
Recycling has different scopes: increased from 76% to 77%.
Scope 1: Emissions that are direct GHG emissions In 2017, Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG from sources that are owned or controlled by consumption increased by 1.9% on the Environmental incidents Rotork.
These include emissions from fossil fuels previous year and increased 1% on the There have been no reportable environmental burned on site, emissions from owned or leased baseline of 2012.
The increase in LPG is in line incidents during 2017.
Systems are in place to vehicles and other direct sources.
address any environmental incident that occurs at our subsidiaries and the robustness of these Scope 2: Emissions that are indirect GHG Overall oil consumption has decreased on the emergency systems are reviewed as part of our emissions resulting from the generation of previous year by 21.7% and also decreased on internal audit programme.
electricity, heating and cooling, or steam the baseline year of 2012 of 45.7%.
The main generated offsite but purchased for heating.
reasons for this reduction are the removal of Extreme weather events did impact on the the generator and upgrading of the electrical business on a number of occasions during Scope 3: Emissions that are indirect GHG system at Bifold Marshalsea UK and the use 2017.
The site in Bergamo, Italy, flooded due emissions from sources not owned or directly of solar power in Chennai which has further to high rainfall.
The flooding incident did not controlled by the entity but related to the reduced the use of the back-up generator.
impact on production as emergency plans entitys activities.
Scope 3 GHG emission were immediately activated.
Actions have been sources currently required for GHG reporting To support the continued focus on energy taken to reduce the risk of the site flooding in include transmission and distribution, losses management, our UK businesses continue to the future.
associated with purchased electricity and be certified to ISO50001.
During the year we steam, and well-to-tank emissions for all are pleased to report that the Bifold Hurricane Harvey impacted on our operations energy, business travel and transport.
Marshalsea site in Taunton and the Bifold in Houston, USA, which forced the closure of Chadderton site were certified to ISO50001.
the site for a period of three days.
The site Absolute scope 1 and scope 2 emissions have Surveillance audits were conducted through itself was unharmed by the flooding that decreased by 16.6% on 2016 and increased on 2017 with no major instances of nonoccurred in the greater Houston area, however, the baseline year of 2012 by 25.2%.
The internal audit there were restrictions on travel due to roads per million turnover has decreased from process ensures that those sites that are not being flooded and a number of employees 25.0TnCO e to 19.2TnCO e, a decrease 2 2 certified to ISO50001 are managing their being land locked.
energy and are looking at ways to increase their energy efficiency.
Conclusion We continue to focus on reduction in As we develop new sites or upgrade our electricity consumption across the business existing sites, we will continue to build energy that have provided greater energy efficiency.
efficient solutions into the design.
Where The consolidation of the sites and upgrades in viable we will also look at the generation of some of our facilities have resulted in the power from renewable sources, which will overall reduction of our scope 1 and scope 2 help to reduce the environmental impact of emissions by almost 17%.
We ensure compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory requirements and strive to continuously improve our health and safety performance.
Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR 0.24 Overview Policies, procedures and systems of safe working are in place, supported with training to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of our employees during their working day.
Health and safety training for all employees who join Rotork is included in their induction programme.
Additional training is conducted that focuses on hazard identification and mitigation, risk assessment and action planning and is refreshed when applicable.
The fundamental principle of If we cannot do a job safely, we will not do the job is maintained and communicated to all those who work for or on behalf of Rotork.
Across the Group, HS&E teams are engaging in continuous improvement activities to improve our safety performance.
This includes obtaining a greater understanding of the root cause of incidents.
Following a lost time injury or a near miss that had a potential high consequence, a safety alert is issued to all subsidiaries so they can learn from the events and avoid a repeat of the event occurring.
Progress The objective for 2017 was to have a Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR below a target of 0.47.
The LTIR for 2017 was 0.24 which is a decrease on the previous year and significantly below the target.
The LTIR is a calculation of accidents resulting in one day lost time, divided by the average hours worked, multiplied by 100,000.
Our proactive approach is aimed at continuously identifying weaknesses in our safety processes and removing or mitigating risks when they are identified.
This drive for continuous improvement and the openness of the culture has shown a further 40% increase in near miss reporting across the organisation.
Occupational health There have been no occupational diseases reported during 2017.
Rotork continues to promote the wellbeing of its employees.
This includes both physical health and mental wellbeing.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 50 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation PERFORMANCE AND OBJECTIVES Awards and recognition To ensure high standards of health and safety PROGRESS performance, a number of businesses within the Group have gained or have maintained certification to OHSAS18001.
These include facilities in Bergamo, Italy, Leeds, UK, Wolverhampton, UK, and Singapore.
The 2017 LTIR of 0.24 represented a decrease on the prior year and was significantly below Assurance activities the target.
Our subsidiaries continue to embrace the challenge for the continuous improvement of A number of other sites have gained or maintained our health and safety standards.
process continues to develop to highlight and mitigate significant risks in the business.
The assessment looks at significant risk areas and identifies gaps in our processes or 2018 TARGETS improvements that can be made.
Whilst there has been a slight decline in the overall score across the manufacturing sites this year 83% down from 88% in 2016, this is predominantly The method adopted to set the LTIR target is the due to the restructuring of our sites that occurred during the year.
Additional support calculated average of the previous three years has been given to these sites to improve their LTIR results.
This sets the LTIR target for 2018 at safety performance.
Our sales and service below 0.34. subsidiaries continue to show improved performance, from 84% to 88%, which has resulted in the overall audit score equalling last years score of 87%.
The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Conclusion Throughout the year, health and safety STEPHEN RHYS JONES continued to be a priority for employees and Company Secretary contractors.
This can be seen by the significant 5 March 2018 reduction in lost time injuries that have occurred across the business and increase in near miss reporting.
We continue to learn from events, audits and inspections which enables us to continually improve our health and safety performance.
As we move forward, we will be looking at innovative practices to improve our health and safety performance.
Lost Time Injury Rate 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 LTIR Actual ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 GOVERNANCE ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 52 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation CONTENTS Governance 54 Board of Directors 56 Corporate Governance Report 62 Audit Committee Report 66 Nomination Committee Report 68 Directors Remuneration Report 84 Report of the Directors ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53
