Our People The People behind our business Read more about We are proud to offer great opportunities to We want our People to be our succession help our People develop their careers.
Just Eat planning on page 61 proud to work for Just Eat and has made over 10 acquisitions since its IPO inApril 2014.
As a result we have worked to feel engaged byour business, ensure that those brought into the business via and to provide an environment acquisition get the same world-class employee experience as all other employees, and can that enables them to bethe share in the unique culture that Just Eat has created.
Our world party is an example of this best that they can be every day.
inNovember we welcomed 1,100 Just Eaters from around the world to London for ourannual Our People event where wecelebrated our successes, There are more than 2,900 Just Eaters across ambitions and our inclusiveculture.
12markets, with 896 based in the UK.
As a global business, we now have an evolved At the heart of our culture are our values they are approach to global mobility and a shared system the essence of Just Eats culture and guide us as which enables all our People to view vacancies we create the worlds greatest food community.
Our values Make Razor Big Happy Sharp Hearted We live for the joy side of life.
The right Everything can be made better.
With Just Eat is built on relationships with food for every moment.
We cherish clear direction, a relentless attitude people.
the love our Restaurant Partners put and non-stop innovation, we impact the Every individual matters and we use into their cooking.
Weare all about the things that matter most more choice, every opportunity to make things enjoyment our Customers get from fresh experiences andnew personal and fair for everyone.
It is the smiles that make connections.
We focus on getting listen to understand, not just to reply.
What drives us is things done, at pace, and with a Respect comes as standard for our building more excitement, quality, laser-like focus.
All so that people and Customers, Restaurant Partners and funand laughs into everyday food restaurants discover more of each each other and that is how we build occasions, because food makes other, and the bar is constantly raised positivity in all our relationships and people happy.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 38 Strategic report Hiring great talent Learning opportunities anytime, anywhere In September, we welcomed Peter Plumb into the business Our employees all over the world now have access to as Chief Executive Officer.
This followed on from David Workday Learning, our online learning hub, as well as an Buttress stepping down from the role of CEO and moving individual LinkedIn Learning licence giving them access to into a Non-executive Board role.
This year we also hired thousands of resources to support both their professional aCommercial Finance Director, Group Brand Director, and personal development.
During the year, more than UKSales Director, Chief Data Officer, Chief Information 2,000pieces of online learning content have been accessed.
Security Officer, Director of Internal Audit and Risk and This investment in online learning has helped support Director of Platform Reliability.
144job changes inthe UK this year: these include In aggregate we welcomed 256 new Just Eaters into our promotions, secondments and lateral moves.
UK team, and more than 900 globally.
Management development To support our growth plans, this year we launched two Our People managers play a crucial role in creating high new global websites for professional careers and graduates.
performing, motivated and engaged teams.
Whether a new The key feature of both sites is our People, who provide an manager to Just Eat or newly promoted into a managerial insight into what makes Just Eat a great place to work.
role, we want to ensure our managers have access to tools These websites are: and resources they will need to be successful.
In July we launched a 90-day modular management development careers.
com programme that is available globally through our online careers.
The programme is supported with bitesize videos, infographics, virtual classrooms and self-evaluations.
In 2017, the talent acquisition team launched global In 2017, 91 managers completed this new programme manager capability training to ensure that Just Eats across our markets.
approach tohiring remains consistent around the world.
Inaddition, we have rolled out the use of candidate Leadership development experience surveys, which have provided invaluable In order to meet our business growth ambitions, we need insights to ensure we provide the best experience to build on our strengths, identify our areas for improvement forallcandidates.
and invest in the right people for the future.
We ran a comprehensive talent profiling exercise with the top 50 Early careers leaders in our global business, benchmarking them against This year we formed a centralised and dedicated team to what great leadership looks like.
Tailored and actionable manage our early careers initiatives with the aim of developing development plans were built for each individual and the an internal talent pipeline which will grow and develop outputs will inform our Group-wide talent management with our business.
We built on the success of our 2016 initiatives for 2018. graduate programme by hiring a further 20 graduates across our engineering, data and AI, product management, finance, commercial and marketing teams.
In addition, we hired four apprentices into the business who are now studying on the job to gain a formal qualification.
Gender breakdown of our Board, senior management and all permanent employees at31December 2017: 1 Board membership Senior management All permanent employees 22% female 15% female 36% female 17 17 17 2 7 6 33 1,061 1,858 16 16 16 2 6 6 33 823 1,550 15 15 15 1 8 5 30 708 1,096 Female Male 1.
Senior management includes the top two grading levels for roles within theglobalbusiness.
This is predominantly our Executive Teamand their direct reports.
com 39 Our People continued Reward and benefits Creating a diverse and inclusive environment Reward linked to performance Just Eat is committed to a culture of respect and This year we evolved our annual performancea positive, productive working environment, free related bonus scheme.
The changes enable from any form of discrimination.
We are an equal greater manager discretion, and reinforces the opportunities employer and are committed to link between reward and performance.
treating all individuals, including job applicants, equally.
This information can be found within Bonuses for business leaders are determined our Equal Opportunities Policy.
"This year we through a combination of business and personal launched our ""Women at Just Eat"" group, which performance which ensures that our leaders are aims to encourage greater dialogue around the all invested in our future success."
In addition, we experience of women who work at Just Eat.
regularly review our compensation packages to ensure they are competitive when compared to Sponsored by our Chief Product and Technology other technology companies.
Officer, Fernando Fanton and Chief Marketing Officer, Barnaby Dawe, this group has created a Key employees are eligible to receive share awards, range of initiatives that aim to reinforce Just Eat which align their interests with those of shareholders as an inclusive and diverse employer.
in linking reward to business performance.
We have undertaken focus groups and listening Benefits tours within our technology team to help We support our People through a range of benefits, understand how we can close the gender divide which are segmented into the following categories: within the industry.
Although the predominance protecting the future, health and wellbeing, and ofmen in technology is a greater market issue, leisure and lifestyle.
Employee interest in our we are committed to addressing this internally benefits grew this year with greater uptake through an overhaul of our recruiting practices, onour core benefits and the successful launch manager training and promotion processes.
In of a much-valued flexible approach to holiday addition we have 24 STEM science, technology, allowance, allowing employees to buy or sell a engineering and mathematics ambassadors certain number of days a year.
92% female who volunteer with local schools The Sharesave Plan enables employees to topromote careers in technology.
contribute to a regular savings plan to purchase Engaging our People Company shares.
Since its launch in 2015, this This year we evolved our approach to employee has proved to be a hugely popular benefit engagement with a new survey, which focused thisyear a further 213 employees signed up to additionally on our culture and the experience the scheme.
Employee Experience We have also developed our approach to Making Just Eat a great place to work communicating the results and supporting We want to provide a working environment that action planning throughout thebusiness.
supports innovation and collaboration across We keep our People up to date on business allof our teams.
"This year we completed the matters through monthly ""all hands"" presentations refurbishment of our London office, and also led by our CEO, Peter Plumb and supported by expanded our space in Bristol."
members of the Executive Team.
This is accessible globally and is recorded for on-demand access.
In addition, we use our internal intranet to drive cross-departmental communication and social media to give all employees a platform to share success and cultural stories.
Lisa Hillier Chief People Officer Annual Report & Accounts 2017 40 Our new offices This year we undertook a total refurbishment of our London office space the SKA Gold certification environment providing a variety of working zones to encourage better collaboration between our 896 London-based team members and offering more meeting space and better downtime areas full of natural light and great views of the City.
