"Corporate social responsibility At Just Eat we believe in doingbusiness responsibly Driving up food hygiene standards in the takeaway industry Our approach tocorporate social Just Eat works closely with the Food Standards Agency responsibility is built around our ""FSA"" in the UK to drive up standards in the takeaway industry."
In2017, we helped shape the direction of vision of creating theworlds greatest theFSA's post-Brexit strategy, Regulating ourFuture, ensuring that our Restaurant Partners have avoice in food community and embedded thefuture of food hygiene and safety regulation.
Our new Local Legends programme ensures that only Our food community is made up ofRestaurant Partners, thoserestaurants with the highest food hygiene ratings Customers, suppliers, partners and our People.
We are eligible for top-placement in our search engine acknowledge that each of these groups has a role to resultspage, incentivising those with lower ratings playinensuring Just Eat has a positive impact on the toimprove standards.
"Sustainable Restaurant Association partnership We believe in: In 2017, Just Eat partnered with the Sustainable Restaurant helping our Restaurant Partners grow, thrive and ultimately Association ""SRA"" in the UK on the first ever Good to Go become better businesses, making a significant contribution award for the takeaway sector at the SRAs Food Made to their local community and economy: Good 2017 awards."
We have also funded membership of the SRA for six of our most engaged restaurants.
The SRA is delivering a great experience for Customers, using now consulting with them to improve their practices even leading-edge technology to deliver more food choices further across the pillars of responsible sourcing, across ourmarkets: and environment and society and subsequently share the being a business that cares about its People, our impact lessons learned with our wider restaurant estate.
on the planet and the communities in which we live andwork.
Influencing ethical and sustainable sourcing throughRestaurant Services As a digital business, the impact of our owned operations All the suppliers who supply goods which are sold to our on society and the environment is small in comparison Restaurant Partners via our online shop or via Restaurant tothat of other businesses of our scale and profile.
Services must sign up to the Just Eat Social and Ethical Whilstwe are proud of the progress we have made in our Compliance policy which has been built around the Ethical environmental reporting see page 144, we know that Trade Initiative base code.
We ask manufacturing partners many of our stakeholders expect us to do more.
This is why to submit proof of ethical and quality compliance from we have chosen to broaden the scope of our responsible third-party test houses or globally recognised industry bodies.
business activities to our wider ecosystem for example, exploring where it would be appropriate to influence All the pizza boxes sold via our online shop in the UK are aspects of our Restaurant Partners operations to drive made from FSC recyclable material.
From March 2018, all positive behaviour change.
single-use plastics were removed from our shops and we started trialling a pre-ticked box on our app and website In 2017, we are proud to have commenced the toencourage Customers to opt out of receiving plastic followinginitiatives: items that they do not need like cutlery, straws and sauce sachets.
We are also partnering with Skipping Rocks Lab Better Fast Food Network totrial edible and decomposable sauce sachets.
Just Eat has joined forces with Shift, a charity which uses research and design techniques to create products and Fundraising across our markets services which help address social problems.
In Italy, we launched the Ristorante Solidale project to raise awareness of and help tackle food waste.
After an Alongside sixother organisations Esme Fairbairn initial launch in Milan in January 2017, the project, which Foundation, Guy's and St Thomas' Charity, Mark Leonard collects surplus food from our Restaurant Partners and Trust, Tower Hamlets Council, Hackney Council and delivers it to local communities in need, was expanded to Birmingham City Council, we have created the Better Fast Turin in October.
Ristorante Solidale has delivered more than Food Network to understand the challenges faced by 1,300 hot meals to over 1,000 people in need in its first year.
independent fast food outlets and support them to improve gradually and sustainably the healthiness of Just Eat Ireland has partnered with the Peter McVerry Trust, themeals they serve.
a charity which aims to eradicate long-term homelessness.
Each year on National Takeaway Tuesday, 10% of the value Shift will be undertaking work with and on behalf of these of every order is donated to the Trust and this has seen organisations over a period of two years to develop financially over 40,000 donated over the past two years.
Just Eat sustainable ways to improve the healthiness of UK fast also delivered pizzas to the Trusts homeless hostels in food before setting up a stand-alone organisation that will Dublin city centre on the day.
oversee this work into the future.
"Annual Report & Accounts 2017 42 Strategic report Modern Slavery Act 2015 Just Eat is opposed to slavery, servitude, compulsory or forced labour and human trafficking together, ""Modern Slavery""."
JustEat is committed to ensuring that no Modern Slavery takesplace in any part of the business which Just Eat controls, or within its supply chain.
During the year, we published a Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement incompliance with section 54 of theAct, which is available to view on the Companys website.
Code of conduct We have a comprehensive employee Code of Conduct, governing subjects such as conflicts of interest, fraud, money laundering, bribery and corruption and maintaining a professional yet fun work environment.
It is our policy to conduct all of our business in an honest and ethical manner.
Specifically we take a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
We are committed to acting fairly and with integrity.
Effective measures and systems are in FoodCycle: a strategic place to counter bribery.
charitypartnership We will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We In 2017, we deepened our partnership with remain bound by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act FoodCycle to supplement our fundraising 2010, in respect of our conduct both at home and globally.
activities with the donation of employee time and expertise to support the charity with its Human rights growth and development.
Whilst the Group has no specific policy in place regarding FoodCycle is a UK charity that combines surplus human rights, all employment policies and practices are food, volunteers and spare kitchen capacity to equally applied to all employees, officers, consultants, create tasty, nutritious meals for people at risk volunteers, interns, and casual and agency workers.
Details of food poverty and social isolation.
In 2017, ofthe employee code of conduct are discussed above.
wesupported FoodCycle with strategic and creative advice related to its social media Our office environment activities and its business intelligence and data In 2017, we completed a total refurbishment of our London analysis.
In both these areas, Just Eat employees head office.
Following completion, Just Eat was awarded a Gold donated their time and knowledge tohelp SKA rating the highest accolade for a sustainable fit-out.
SKA FoodCycle make better decisions to influence isa best practice environmental assessment method developed itsoperations and fundraising.
"Forexample, by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors ""RICS""."
12members of the Just Eat data team created We are one of only a handful of companies to have achieved aData for Good initiative which saw them spending a day working with FoodCycle to SKA Gold certification, having designed a contemporary office which surpasses the standards required by regulations and analyse the charitys data and revert with findings and recommendations.
These included incorporates innovative solutions to minimise the environmental impact of the office.
how and where to open or expand FoodCycle hubs and how to incentivise and reward volunteers.
"Highlights include: waste 96.9% of waste generated during the refurbishment "" We at FoodCycle were absolutely blown was diverted from landfill: away by the skills and expertise at the ""Data for Good Day""."
The team involved energy & CO reducing energy usage through the 2 achieved more in one day than would implementation of energy-efficient lighting, lighting bepossible in six months at FoodCycle.
controls in offices and meeting rooms and the reduction inassociated CO emissions: and The final presentations have led to 2 tangible information and data sets material usage Just Eat used a number of environmentally thatwill really help FoodCycle grow sustainable materials including A rated flooring such anddevelop.
We cant thank asInterface & Milliken carpets, Havwood FSC certified Just Eat enough!
engineered wooden flooring and Kvadrat fabric sustainable panels which soften acoustics.
Marketing Manager FoodCycle FTSE4Good Just Eat has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and hassatisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, created by FTSE Russell.
"This is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, Social and Governance ""ESG"" practices."
