Strategic review OUR MARKET ENVIRONMENT Our products and solutions play a critical role in ensuring the safe and efficient operation of global infrastructure in energy, power, water and industrial markets.
Increased demand for our products arises from population growth and greater urbanisation supported by pressure for greater automation, improved information using digital technology and greater efficiency and effectiveness.
DRIVERS OIL AND GAS WATER Demand for oil and gas remains strong, In emerging markets, the population particularly in faster growing emerging growth and trend towards urbanisation 1 markets.
Shifts in energy mix will dampen is driving investment in the water growth for oil and gas in the longer term.
POPULATION In developed markets, capacity GROWTH, ONGOING expansion and scarcity of conventional water sources requires investment in URBANISATION new technology.
The oil price appears to have stabilised Water markets are typically highly around the $50-$60 per barrel range but is regulated with pressure to limit price still considered likely to remain lower for increases to end customers providing 2 longer as lower cost US onshore good opportunities where we can provide production places a ceiling on price.
LOWER COST, GREATER Oil price reduction and continued pressure Ageing water infrastructure is driving on refining margins has placed cash cost spend on maintenance and replacement.
EFFICIENCY reduction at the top of the agenda across the value chain.
Many operators are becoming more willing to adopt new technology as a result.
We differentiate by engineering cost out of the system and providing innovative, efficient solutions and aftermarket packages.
Many players across the value chain Technology development is currently have developed ambitious digital agendas focused on monitoring leakages, in order to reduce cost and improve however, water shortages are driving 3 productivity.
The data gathering and continued evolution in smart grids with analysis capabilities of our solutions and automated valves, which will stimulate service offerings enable us to respond well increased demand for our solutions, and REAL TIME DATA AND to this growing requirement, particularly investment in water reuse and regarding predictive maintenance, desalination technology.
FAST RESPONSE assisting customers to minimise downtime and improve process optimisation.
Operators are aiming to reduce energy Regulation is evolving on a number of consumption and methane emissions.
We fronts across different geographies 4 are developing a number of new solutions regarding reuse, sludge treatment and that will lower energy consumption.
We water quality, requiring more processing have recently launched new fugitive and additional capital expenditure.
emissions monitoring technology as part REGULATORY OR of our solutions portfolio.
ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGE AND STRUCTURAL CHANGE ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2017 12 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation Adjusted operating profit POWER INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER 130.2m Population growth and the trend towards Organisations continue to seek greater urbanisation is driving global growth in automation to respond to the lack of 7.9% power demand.
The shift from coal and availability of labour, reduce costs and gas to renewable energy sources drives improve efficiencies and safety.
Greater Operating profit the requirement to supplement automation drives demand for flow control intermittent renewable sources with and measurement.
This requires higher quality, more responsive actuation.
86.0m -11.5% There is continual cost pressure between Inflationary pressures on labour and other competing generating technologies.
This operating costs are driving manufacturers to Adjusted earnings per share gives rise to a focus on lower operating invest in process improvements, maximising expenses and continuous improvement production efficiency and plant uptime.
Our in efficiency which provides further solutions can play an important part in this.
10.6p opportunities for new, more efficient technology.
6.0% To date the digitalisation in the power Digital automation is underway across the value industry has been largely focused on the chain and is at a more advanced stage of power block but it is likely this will extend development and acceptance than in our other to the remainder of the power plant to markets.
Real-time monitoring of plant allows drive maintenance efficiency gains and problems to be fixed before they escalate, improve the ability to respond quickly to improving safety, productivity and performance peaks in energy requirements which and optimising asset life.
Wireless control and requires more sophisticated actuation.
predictive maintenance are growing trends to which we are responding.
Environmental regulation encourages the Key regulatory changes are largely around shift to renewables and an increased the use of power and emissions.
Our requirement for desulphurisation plants innovation funnel includes solutions to lower which are actuator intensive.
energy consumption and reduce leak rates.
