ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Audit Committee report continued We believe the independence and objectivity of the external Fair, balanced and understandable reporting auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process are Aggreko recognises its responsibility to present a fair, safeguarded and strong.
The Company has complied with the balancedand understandable assessment in all of our Statutory Audit Services Order for the financial year under review.
This responsibility covers the Annual Effectiveness Report and extends to the interim report and other regulatory announcements.
At the request of the Board, the Committee The Committee met with KPMG on a number of occasions without management present and the Committee Chairman has considered whether, in its opinion, the 2017 Annual Report also maintained regular contact with the audit partner is fair, balanced and understandable, and whether it provides throughout the year.
This enabled the Committee to closely the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the monitor its work, ensure independence was maintained Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
andasuccessful external audit of the 2017 Annual Report.
For the 2017 Annual Report, this process included: We also used an internal questionnaire sent to Committee Review of the outline structure of Annual Report with members, the Business Unit Finance Directors and Group broadindication ofcontent, along with a summary paper Functional Heads in December 2017: respondents were onkeymessages and changes from 2016 in December 2017. asked to rate KPMGs effectiveness in a number of areas, Feedback was provided by Committee members including quality of processes, audit team, audit scope and followingthe December 2017 meeting and on a number communications.
Results were collated and presented at offurther drafts during January and February 2018. the February 2018 meeting of the Committee for discussion.
Management concluded that there had been appropriate Full draft provided to the Committee and Board 10 days prior focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and to the February 2018 meetings to enable time for review and assessed the quality of the audit process to be effective.
comment and to provide a final opinion.
The Committee concurred with this view.
Comprehensive management and statutory accounts processes, with written confirmations provided by the The FRCs Audit Quality Review AQR selected to review the business unit senior management teams on the health auditofAggrekos 2016 financial statements as part of its ofthefinancial control environment.
The focus of the review and its reporting is on identifying areas where improvements are Confirmations provided by the business unit senior required rather than highlighting areas performed to or above management teams, that the Performance Review text, the expected level.
The Chairman of the Committee received isafair reflection of their business and performance in 2017. a full copy of the findings and met with KPMG to close out A verification process, involving our internal audit team, the points raised by the review and reported back tothe dealing with the factual content of the Annual Report.
The Committee reviewed the A key accounting judgements paper covering contract findings at its December 2017 meeting and agreed an action andtax provisions for 2017. plan with KPMG to ensure that the matters identified by the AQR have been addressed in the audit of the 2017 financial Following its review, the Committee was of the opinion that the statements where relevant.
2017 Annual Report is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the Non-audit services necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external position, performance, business model and strategy.
auditor from becoming compromised, the Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
Non-audit services are External auditor normally limited to assignments that are closely related to The Committee is responsible for making recommendations the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
We also approve the audit plan, terms ofengagement, to use the external auditor for non-audit work requires prior fees and assess their effectiveness.
approval of the CFO and depending on the nature of the service and fee involved, authorisation may also be required Audit plan from the Committee Chairman or the Committee.
At our KPMG presented its audit plan at the August 2017 meeting March 2017 meeting, we updated our non-audit services and an update at the December 2017 meeting, setting out the policy to take account of a new FRC ethical standard, deleting scope and objectives of the audit together with an overview the section of the policy in relation to permitted non-audit of the planned approach, an assessment of the Groups risks taxation work.
and controls and proposed areas of audit focus.
In setting the auditplan, KPMG works with Internal Audit and management Non-audit fees are monitored by the Committee and this year at a Group and business unit level to identify risk areas for we were satisfied that all non-audit work undertaken was in theaudit to determine where audit effort should be focused.
line with our policy and did not detract from the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
The majority of the KPMG carried out its work using an overall materiality of non-audit work carried out by KPMGduring the year related to 11million, as stated in its report on page 105, and confirmed the June 2017 Interim Review.
In 2017 we spent 1,189,000 on to the Committee that there were no material unadjusted audit fees and 59,000 on non-audit fees, this accounted for misstatements.
We also agreed with the external auditor that 5% of the overall audit fee for the year.
In 2016, the audit fee was it would inform us of any unadjusted misstatements above 1,008,000 and non-audit fees were 358,000, accounting for 0.5 million, as well as misstatements below that amount 36%.
The 2016 amount was unusually high, as prior to KPMGs that warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
None were appointment as external auditor, we utilised Makinson Cowell, reported to the Committee.
a division of KPMG, for investor relations work.
Further details Tenure of the fees paid to the external auditor are set out in Note 6 KPMG was appointed by Shareholders as the Groups Statutory tothe accounts.
Auditor in 2016 following a formal tender process.
The external The non-audit services policy is available on our website at: audit contract will be put out to tender at least every 10 years.
com The Committee recommends the appointment of KPMG for 2018.
70 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Risk management and internal control The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including risk The objective of our risk framework is to provide the Board, management, during the year and up to the date of this Annual Audit Committee and Executive Committee with a useful Report in accordance with the requirements of the Guidance management tool to capture, assess and proactively manage on Risk Management, Internal Control and related Financial the risks we face.
Our risk management process also ensures and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
It confirms that that we take account of our business model and strategy no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the to ensure alignment with our risk appetite, framework and review for the 2017 financial year and allowed us to provide controls.
In turn, this enables us to fully comply with the positive assurance to the Board to assist it in making the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement for a viability statements required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The process is designed to manage rather than Where areas for improvement were identified, processes are eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for the effective Viability statement management of risk across the Group, determining our The Committee reviewed managements work in conducting risk appetite as well as ensuring that each business unit a robust assessment of those risks which could threaten our implements appropriate internal controls.
The Board has business model and the future performance or liquidity of delegated responsibility for oversight of risk management Aggreko, including our resilience to the threats of viability to the Committee.
The Committee provides oversight by posed by those risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems for risk This assessment included stress and sensitivity analyses of management, internal control and financial reporting.
In 2017, these risks to enable us to evaluate the impact of a severe but we worked closely with the Group Risk Committee, receiving plausible combination of risks.
We then considered whether regular reports which enabled us to review and challenge the additional financing would be required in such eventualities.
risk management framework, review the effectiveness of the We also considered the review period and alignment with control environment and approve the methodology for the the Groups strategic plans and internal long-term forecasts.
Based on this analysis, we recommended to the Board that Internal Audit continues to play a key role in assisting the itcould approve the viability statement included on page 55.
Committee and, as last year, we asked Internal Audit to provide assurance over managements assessment of the effectiveness Internal audit of the operation of controls within the Groups Register of Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness Principal Risks.
This assessment was based upon the results of the activity of Internal Audit is an agenda item at each of audits undertaken during the year, by reflecting on the Committee meeting.
We approve the annual audit plan prior outstanding audit issues and in cooperation with the business to the start of each financial year and receive a detailed report unit controls teams.
No variances which would impact our from the Group Internal Audit Director on audit activities, riskscores were identified in 2017. auditresults and remedial actions at each meeting.
We also The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth specifically followed up on a selection of areas where audit review into specific financial, operational and regulatory actions were outstanding to ensure the overall control areasof the business.
These reviews are critical to the role environment was still adequate.
oftheCommittee, as they allow us to meet key members The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the internal ofthemanagement team and provide independent audit function by reviewing its reports, progress against challengeto their activities.
Areas reviewed in 2017 included: the 2017 plan, and meeting with the Director of Internal Audit Reviewed our cyber security arrangements with the without management being present.
We also participated Chief Information Officer to understand global trends, in two external benchmarking surveys, providing customised developments in malware, work undertaken internally to feedback, which we have included in our continuous support current and new systems and training provided improvement activity planned for 2018.
In line with the to employees.
Institute of Internal Auditors guidance, we undertook anexternal evaluation of Internal Audit in 2016.
Received a detailed presentation on the management of financial risk in our Rental Solutions business, focussing on the capabilities of the finance leadership team, the status Speaking up ofinternal audit actions and updates to financial controls.
The Group Ethics Policy, supported by a separate Speaking Reviewed our tax risk management framework with the Up Policy, encourages all employees to report any potential Group Director of Tax, focussing on the internal and external improprieties in ethical standards via our international tax environment, our strategy and control framework, whistle-blowing hotline.
All matters reported are investigated transparency in tax reporting, potential impact of US tax and where appropriate, we ask Internal Audit to investigate the reform and Brexit and additional disclosures included in issue and report to us on the outcome.
We also receive reports the 2017 Annual Report.
We also discussed our compliance on hotline call volumes and the general nature and location readiness for the new corporate criminal offence of failure ofmatters reported.
We review these processes eachyear, toprevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
andcan confirm that they are appropriate for the size and scaleof the Group.
The Group has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from material risks identified.
We intend to refresh our Speaking Up Policy in 2018 to reference Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining our culture and supporting purpose, values andbehaviours adequate internal controls over financial reporting and the toencourage employees to utilise the whistle-blowing hotline, Committee has responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness whereappropriate, to raise concerns.
In 2017 this process was enhanced by providing assurance to the Committee that financial controls were in place for items on the Group risk register and adopting a revised financial controls checklist, focussing on critical controls, which has been monitored closely in 2017.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 71 ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Ethics Committee report Introduction by Ken Hanna, Ethics Committee Chairman Aggreko conducts its business with integrity, honesty and transparency.
We expect all Aggreko employees, consultants and those acting on behalf of Aggreko to adopt these standards.
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting business fairly and professionally and we are committed tomaintaining these values in all of our business dealings.
We recognise that our business is exposed to risks of unethical conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts and because standards of integrity are not consistent across all the countries in which we operate.
However, we believe we have a robust compliance programme in place Ken Hanna which allows us to manage these risks effectively.
Ethics Committee Chairman The effectiveness of the compliance programme is monitored by the Ethics Committee.
The Ethics Committee is currently made up of three Independent Non-executive Directors, with myself as The role of the Ethics Committee Chairman.
I have been a member of the Committee since itsfirst meeting in February 2011 and became Chairman is to ensure that Aggreko conducts oftheCommittee in April 2012. business with integrity and In 2017 we held three meetings.
We invited the Head of transparency and in accordance Compliance, Group Legal Director and CEO to attend all meetings.
Areas of activity in 2017 Role of the Ethics Committee Advise the Board on the development of strategy and policy Monitored the integration of a proportionate risk based due diligence on ethical matters.
Reviewed trends of reports received and the effectiveness of the Advise the Board on steps to be taken to establish a culture external Speaking Up Process.
of integrity and honesty in all of the Groups business dealings.
Received a briefing from the Managing Director of Aggreko Oversee the Groups policies and procedures for the PowerSolutions on the management of compliance risks across identification, assessment, management and reporting thisbusiness unit.
Reviewed the compliance framework relating to the use of sales consultants and the remuneration of sales consultants during 2016.
Oversee the Groups policies and procedures to prevent persons associated with the Group from engaging in Reviewed the outcome of investigations conducted in response towhistle-blowing reports received.
Monitor and review the operation of the Groups ethics Members in 2017 policies and procedures.
Monitor and review all payments made to third-party Meetings attended sales consultants.
Ken Hanna Ethics Committee Chairman Main activities of the Ethics Committee during the year Diana Layfield Non-executive Director Third-party monitoring Dame Nicola Brewer Non-executive Director We recognise that it is not just our employees who could be exposed to ethics risks but our third-party sales consultants, 1 Barbara Jeremiah Non-executive Director agents and JV partners are also exposed to risk.
The conduct ofour third-party sales consultants remains one of the most 1 Barbara Jeremiah was appointed to the Board after the March 2017 meetings significant risks to Aggreko.
The number of third-party sales consultants, agents and JV partners used by the business has Areas of focus for 2018 reduced over the last few years but there are circumstances inwhich sales consultants continue to be required to support Oversee the review, amendment and recommunication of the some areas of the business.
We have risk management EthicsPolicy and Speaking Up Policy.
measures in place which require all third-party sales Review the outcome of the regional compliance risk assessments.
consultants, agents and JV partners engaged by Aggreko to Monitor the completion of refresher ethics training across conduct business in compliance with the standards set out the business.
inour Ethics Policy andallow us to monitor compliance with Oversee the implementation of measures designed to address these requirements.
We also have controls in place in relation risksassociated with the new corporate criminal offence of the to the remuneration of sales consultants and we monitor all Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion.
At the first meeting of each year, we receive a briefing on all payments made to sales consultants during the prior year to ensure that the payments were appropriate and in line with policy requirements.
We also received a briefing from the Power Solutions Managing Ethics Committee terms of reference: Director this year with a specific emphasis on understanding www.
com the use of sales consultants and the management of this risk.
72 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION We recognise that there are also other categories of third-party We received briefings on changes to certain sanctions rules supplier relationships which potentially could attract risk for the inSudan, Cuba, Russia and Venezuela and actions undertaken business.
In response to this we have monitored the controls to ensure that all activities undertaken by Aggreko comply being introduced to adopt a proportionate due diligence withthe sanctions restrictions.
process for higher risk suppliers.
This includes requiring all new Effectiveness of the compliance programme suppliers to agree to comply with certain minimum standards We are committed to ensuring that our compliance set out in our Supplier Code of Conduct and identifying our programme remains robust and is in line with best practice.
highest risk existing suppliers and prioritising these suppliers We continually monitor the effectiveness of the policies togo through the due diligence process.
and procedures and recommend areas where further Speaking Up improvements could be made.
In 2017 we instructed an We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any independent review of our compliance programme in order concerns.
We have an external independent hotline which can tobenchmark the framework against regulatory guidance and be used by all employees to report any concerns anonymously leading industry practice, and to identify any gaps or potential and confidentially.
All reports received are investigated areas for improvement.
This review confirmed that our thoroughly.
In December 2017 we received a briefing on the compliance programme is well established across the business types ofreports received during the year and the outcome of the and there is a clear tone, set from the top, on our high ethical investigations conducted.
We reviewed trends identified from standards.
The review identified some areas for improvement these reports and specific actions arising from investigations to further enhance the compliance programme and a number conducted in response to the reports received.
of actions have been implemented to address this in 2018.
Sanctions We are committed to ensuring that Aggreko complies Read more about how we manage our anti-bribery and withall applicable sanctions and export control restrictions.
corruption risk on page 53 As mentioned earlier in the report, we have a Supplier Code An overview of our compliance programme of Conduct which sets out the standards we expect from Our compliance programme is coordinated by our all other suppliers to Aggreko and we require suppliers HeadofCompliance and Compliance Manager with toconfirm adherence to these standards.
Any suppliers supportfrom the business units and the central functions.
whodo not agree to the standards or an equivalent standard Our compliance programme has a number of elements designed will not be engaged by Aggreko.
to ensure that we effectively manage compliance risks: Gifts, entertainment and hospitality Ethics Policy We have a clear approval process for gifts, entertainment Every employee receives a copy of the Ethics Policy when and hospitality offered by, or given to, Aggreko employees.
This policy sets out the standards and All gifts, entertainment and hospitality above a nominal value are recorded centrally and monitored by the Head behaviours we expect from our employees and is an effective tool to allow us to challenge any improper behaviours of Compliance.
This policy enables us to challenge any identified.
It is supported by a number of supplementary proposed gifts or hospitality which could be perceived policies, procedures and guidelines to cover due diligence, aspotentially inappropriate.
gifts and hospitality, charitable donations, facilitation Sponsorship and charitable donations payments, conflicts of interest and speaking up.
We provide We have a clear approval process for sponsorships and training to all employees on these policies and weregularly charitable donations made by Aggreko.
All sponsorships monitor compliance with these policies to obtainassurance andcharitable donations require senior management that the policies continue to work effectively.
approvaland are recorded centrally and monitored by Training theHead of Compliance.
This policy enables us to challenge Every employee receives training, which is refreshed every any donations or sponsorships which could be perceived aspotentially inappropriate.
twoyears, via our multi-lingual online ethics compliance training programme.
This online training is supplemented by Speaking up additional ethics workshops with senior management, which We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any gives us comfort that our employees will remain alert to risks.
We have an independent compliance hotline Third-party risks operated by an external agency.
This multi-lingual hotline All of our sales consultants and agents are comprehensively is available to all employees and allows any employee who reviewed before they are engaged by Aggreko and this has any concerns to report them on an anonymous basis.
All reports are followed up, and we regularly analyse the types exercise is refreshed at least every two years.
Our sales consultants are contractually required to comply with our of reports we receive.
Where appropriate, our Group Internal Ethics Policy and we require our sales consultants to confirm Audit team is asked to investigate the issue and report on compliance with the policy annually.
We also provide ethics the outcome.
training to our sales consultants to ensure they remain alert Modern Slavery to potential risks.
We have controls in place in relation to the We apply high employment standards across our business, remuneration of consultants and we monitor all payments to complying with relevant employment, health and safety and sales consultants to ensure that the remuneration structure human rights laws to ensure our employees are safe.
We also does not incentivise unethical behaviour.
This gives us a expect our suppliers to adopt a similar approach in relation to robust framework to enable us to clearly understand who the protection of their workers.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct our third-party representatives are and the activities they sets out the minimum standards we requirefrom them.
have undertaken on our behalf.
This policy also enables us It specifically requires our suppliers to comply with workers to avoid engaging with third parties who do not meet our fundamental rights including standards of pay, working hours ethical standards.
Our modern slavery statement, available to read at www.
com, provides more detail on the approach we take in relation to modern slavery.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 73
