Governance RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND STAKEHOLDERS As a Board, we recognise the importance The Chairman and Colin Godfrey, together with Jim Prower, Susanne Given and Aubrey Adams held a series of lunches in of maintaining strong relationships with the October and November with several Shareholders to Companys Shareholders and stakeholders and discuss, informally, the Company and its business strategy in in understanding their priorities and concerns.
In the present economic climate.
The lunches proved informative, we have extended this focus to developing for the Board and the Manager and were well received by those strong and beneficial relationships with our Shareholders who were able to attend.
We have continued to develop our was again generally highly supportive of the Company and has been presented to the Board.
The Board hopes to continue this communications programme and expand upon initiative into and is considering expanding the programme the initiatives developed last year.
to include other key stakeholders.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, alongside As well as the Chairmans lunches, the Company hosted a Colin Godfrey from the Manager, are the Companys principal private event for Customers and other key stakeholders during spokesmen who speak with the Companys Shareholders, the the summer of.
As well as the Board, representatives from press, analysts, investors and other stakeholders regularly.
The the Manager were also present.
This event enabled the Board Directors are all available to speak to Shareholders to discuss and the Manager to better understand the main concerns and any matters relating to the Company, whether they concern the development points for our Customers which should enable Companys corporate governance or the Companys strategy or the Company to partner with its Customers more effectively anything else of importance.
as well as promoting a more open discussion for future asset management and other property initiatives in the future.
Investor relations During the year, the Manager together with the Companys Site visits Broker, Jefferies International Limited, devoted time to meeting The Manager has undertaken several Big Box site visits for with existing Shareholders and prospective new investors existing Shareholders, prospective investors and analysts during in the UK, USA, South Africa, The Netherlands, France and the year.
We will continue the initiative in as we believe Switzerland.
The roadshows, together with a series of ongoing that it provides Shareholders and other stakeholders with a ad hoc meetings with Shareholders and stakeholders, better insight into the nature of the assets we invest in and enabled the Manager to listen to and understand the views of our strategy.
Shareholders and stakeholders and report the information to the Board so it could consider and appreciate these opinions.
Annual General Meeting AGM On the whole, feedback from the roadshows and other meetings Shareholders are encouraged to attend and vote at the has been positive over the year and this is supported by the Companys general meetings so they can discuss governance response to the equity raise in May and the Companys and strategy with the Board and the Manager.
This enables EMTN issue in December.
the Board to better understand Shareholders views.
The full Board usually attends the Annual General Meeting and the The Manager has a dedicated investor relations team who Directors make themselves available to answer Shareholder liaise with the Companys public relations advisor, Newgate questions at all the general meetings of the Company and are Communications Plc, and provide regular investor relations always contactable as necessary.
The Chairman makes himself reports to the Board, which includes major press coverage, available, as necessary, outside of these meetings to speak to analyst reports and Shareholder feedback.
The Senior Independent Director is also available Broker provides a bespoke quarterly report, which has a section for Shareholders to contact if other channels of communication dedicated to investor relations.
The Manager also produces with the Company are not available or are inappropriate.
a quarterly factsheet on behalf of the Company which can be Members of the Board also regularly attend the bi-annual viewed on the Companys Website.
financial results presentations to analysts.
co. uk investors  Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director as well as other members of the Board can be contacted by emailing the Company Secretary, on cosec@tritaxbigbox.
co. uk, who will pass the communication directly to the relevant person, or by post at the Companys registered office.
Public communications The Company ensures that any price sensitive information is released to all Shareholders at the same time and in accordance with regulatory requirements.
All Company announcements which are released through the London Stock Exchange are also made available on the Companys Website.
The Website also holds the quarterly fact sheets, share price information, investor presentations, the Key Information Document prepared by the Manager and the Annual and Interim Reports which are available for download.
The Companys Annual Report and Interim Report are also dispatched to Shareholders by mail.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
