STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 49 Sustainability Ethics Ethics Who we are and how we behave matters to our people and our stakeholders.
We have made fundamental changes in recent years to place ethics and compliance at the heart of everything we do.
We have a Global Code of Conduct the Global Code that applies to all employees of Rolls-Royce, its subsidiaries and controlled joint ventures, wherever ALL-EMPLOYEE ETHICS TRAINING they are located.
Breaches of the Global Our ethics training programme is designed to bring our Global Code of Conduct Code are not acceptable and will result to life.
This years all-employee training focused on having conversations about in the Company taking action.
This may its application and its relevance to individual roles.
98% of employees completed include disciplinary action up to and this activity.
In 2017, there were 65 employees 2016: 38 employees whose employment ended for reasons related to breaches of the Global Code.
specialist providers, depending on the level Ethics in our supply chain The Global Code sets out principles that of risk that a particular third party presents.
We spent over 8.7bn in our external supply underpin our values and the way we do In addition to our all-employee ethics chain in 2017.
Our suppliers and partners business.
It also provides guidance on how training, we have introduced training are vital to our success, so we are committed to apply these in everything we do.
100% workshops for senior managers and any to working collaboratively with them to of managers completed a certification other roles that are likely to be exposed maintain the highest ethical standards.
exercise during the year, confirming their to situations where there is a risk of commitment to the Global Code.
We At the end of 2017, all our suppliers had attempted bribery and corruption.
encourage all employees and stakeholders agreed to adhere to our Global Supplier to raise ethical questions or concerns, Code of Conduct, or a mutually agreed without fear of retaliation.
For employees, Human rights alternative.
This sets out the minimum we provide four main channels for them to behaviours and practices we expect our speak up, including a 24hr Ethics Line and We remain committed to protecting suppliers to demonstrate based on our network of 84 local ethics advisers around and preserving the human rights of our own Global Code and related policies, the world.
employees, those working in our global including our Global Human Rights supply chain, and those who may be policy and Global Anti-Bribery and impacted by our business operations.
Anti-bribery and corruption Our commitment to human rights, including This year, we have introduced further The Global Code includes clear statements our position on forced labour, involuntary monitoring and assessments prioritised regarding our zero-tolerance approach labour, child labour, and human trafficking, by the potential level of risk the supplier to bribery and corruption.
is outlined in the Global Code, as well as our may present.
To date, 67% of prioritised Global Supplier Code of Conduct and Global This year we revised our anti-bribery and suppliers have completed a self-assessment Human Rights policy.
We have taken an corruption related policies, standards and questionnaire which aims to understand integrated approach to minimising the risk guidance and brought them together into how suppliers are adhering to the principles of slavery and human trafficking taking one comprehensive Global Anti-Bribery set out in the Global Supplier Code of place in our supply chain or any part of and Corruption Manual.
This provides Conduct within their own operations.
Adherence and due diligence a framework for our anti-bribery and We are now working with these suppliers associated with these policies is embedded corruption programme and clearly sets to collaboratively agree plans to address any within our operating system and processes out the responsibilities that apply to all gaps that may have been identified as part across our global functions, including employees, including requirements to of our supplier management frameworks.
human resources, ethics and procurement.
conduct due diligence on customers, suppliers and other business partners.
For more information see More information on our approach can Safety & Ethics Committee Report, be found in our anti-slavey and human Our anti-bribery due diligence includes pages 104 to 109. trafficking statement, available at screenings, interviews and obtaining www.
in-depth due diligence reports from
