OTHER INFORMATION Other Information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 195 Sustainability Assurance Statement Sustainability Assurance Statement To: the stakeholders of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Independent limited assurance statement Summary of work performed As part of its independent verification, Bureau Veritas undertook the following activities: Introduction and objectives of work Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas has been engaged by assessed the appropriateness of the reporting criteria for the Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Rolls-Royce to provide limited assurance selected information: over selected sustainability performance indicators for inclusion conducted interviews with relevant personnel of Rolls-Royce: in its 2017 Annual Report and website.
This assurance statement applies to the related information included within the scope of carried out nine site visits, selected employing a risk-based work described below.
approach, in the UK, US, Germany, Italy, Norway and Singapore: reviewed the data collection and consolidation processes used Scope of work to compile the selected information, including assessing The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the following assumptions made, the data scope and reporting boundaries: information included within the Rolls-Royce Holdings plc 2017 Annual Report the Report for the period 1 January to reviewed documentary evidence produced by Rolls-Royce: 31 December 2017 the selected information : agreed a selection of the selected information to the energy consumption: corresponding source documentation: and scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas GHG emissions: re-performed aggregation calculations of the selected information.
total reportable injury TRI rate: and the number of people reached through the science, technology, Conclusion engineering and mathematics STEM education outreach On the basis of our methodology and the activities described programmes.
above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the selected information has not been properly prepared, in all Reporting criteria material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria.
The selected information are reported according to the Rolls-Royce basis of reporting document, as set out at Statement of independence, integrity www.
and competence Limitations and exclusions Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company Excluded from the scope of our work is any verification of that specialises in quality, environmental, health, safety and social information relating to: accountability with over 185 years history.
Its assurance team has extensive experience in conducting verification over activities outside the defined verification period: and environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, other information included in the Report.
This limited assurance engagement relies on a risk-based selected 1 Bureau Veritas operates a certified Quality Management System sample of sustainability data and the associated limitations that which complies with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, and this entails.
This independent statement should not be relied upon accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control to detect all errors, omissions or misstatements that may exist.
including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards Responsibilities and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
This preparation and presentation of the selected information in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management Bureau Veritas has implemented and applies a Code of Ethics, of Rolls-Royce.
which meets the requirements of the International Federation 2 of Inspections Agencies IFIA across the business to ensure Bureau Veritas was not involved in the drafting of the Report that its employees maintain integrity, objectivity, professional or of the reporting criteria.
Our responsibilities were to: competence and due care, confidentiality, professional behaviour and high ethical standards in their day-to-day business activities.
obtain limited assurance about whether the selected information has been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria: The assurance team for this work does not have any involvement form an independent conclusion based on the assurance in any other Bureau Veritas projects with Rolls-Royce.
procedures performed and evidence obtained: and report our conclusions to the management of Rolls-Royce.
Bureau Veritas UK Limited London 6 February 2018 Assessment standard We performed our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information effective for assurance reports dated on or after 15 December 2015, and in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements, issued by the International 1 Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
Certificate of Registration FS 34143 issued by BSI Assurance UK Limited.
2 I nternational Federation of Inspection Agencies Compliance Code Third Edition
