Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 104 Safety & Ethics Committee Report Safety & Ethics Committee Report Committee members Sir Frank Chapman Chairman of the Member Attended Eligible to attend Safety & Ethics Sir Frank Chapman chairman 5 6 Committee Irene Dorner 6 6 Lee Hsien Yang 6 6 See page 70 for reasons of non-attendance.
Principal responsibilities Product safety Key highlights Maintain an understanding of, and keep under review, the Supporting executive leadership with renewed focus on HSE Groups framework for the effective governance of product safety, including risk management, policies, training, capability Review of product safety in Defence Aerospace and elements of the product safety management system.
Maintaining product safety, occupational safety and asset Monitor product safety performance, the response to product integrity focus during organisational change in-service issues and lessons learned.
Monitoring of compliance with obligations under the deferred prosecution agreements DPAs HSE Maintaining oversight of the implementation of LordGolds Oversee HSE governance, review performance, incidents recommendations on ethics and compliance and monitor improvement projects.
Further embedding compliance culture in the businesses Guide and support management in the promotion of a culture of leadership in HSE.
Review of the Groups refreshed approach to sustainability Sustainability Introduction Oversee the Groups approach to sustainability, including how environmental climate impacts from its operations are managed, This year the importance of the Committees role in assisting the and monitor performance towards sustainability targets.
Board, and guiding and overseeing management, has been evident.
As part of organisational transformation, there has been significant executive leadership emphasis on driving greater ambition in all Ethics & compliance aspects of safety and ethics.
Employee, customer and public Review the Groups compliance with relevant legislation.
expectations in these areas continue to increase.
I and the other Committee members welcome the opportunity to support the Keep the Global Code of Conduct Global Code and leadership as it strives for continuous performance improvement.
anti-bribery and corruption policies under review.
The Committee has carefully monitored compliance with the DPAs.
Review reports on issues raised through the Ethics Line and We have reviewed the handling of product in-service issues, the other channels and review the results of any investigations into investigations and conclusions from occupational health and safety ethical or compliance breaches or allegations of misconduct.
and asset integrity incidents, and have acted as a sounding board for plans to improve the Groups vigour and approach to sustainability.
Principal risks: compliance and product safety Maintain oversight of these principal risks.
The product failure Operation of the Committee principal risk was redefined as product safety during the year All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive see page 59.
Our biographies are on page 67.
The Committees responsibilities are outlined in its terms of reference, available at www.
com, which we review annually and refer to Areas of focus for 2018 the Board for approval.
Oversight of the Groups activities to meet its continuing In addition to the usual scheduled meetings during the year, the obligations under the DPAs and to implement LordGolds Committee added extra calls in April and October so that we could recommendations maintain more regular oversight over the Groups compliance with Oversight of the deployment of the revised Global Code its obligations under the DPAs, the implementation of Lord Golds of Conduct recommendations on ethics and compliance, and the embedding of compliance culture within the businesses.
We held an Supporting leadership with the development of structured unscheduled meeting to receive an update on the latest discussions improvement plans to support the Groups increasing with regulators following the DPAs.
The Committee also conducted safety ambition an on-site product safety review of Defence Aerospace operations.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 105 Safety & Ethics Committee Report Safety & Ethics Committee focus during 2017 Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Maintaining safety during organisational change The Committee was satisfied that product safety Product Safety governance remained robust following changes to Product safety policy and processes, training, safety organisational accountability.
assurance case and competence in manufacturing Safety performance remained at expected acceptable Product safety performance and issues in service levels, with safety aspects of in-service issues handled competently and appropriately.
Product safety management systems The product safety management system in Defence Product safety in Defence Aerospace Aerospace is effective and well-operated.
Monitoring investigations into two employee fatalities Support to the employees families and colleagues has HSE and the Companys response been made available.
Several investigations are being undertaken but are not yet concluded.
Detailed reviews of serious injury and high potential incidents including asset integrity matters Strengthening of HSE leadership, strategies, plans and communications as part of a structured approach Events, key findings, shared learning and actions to achieve continuous improvement.
HSE ambition, strategy and plans for continuous Programmes are at varying maturity levels but there HSE improvement are signs of progress.
Energy consumption target has been met three years early.
Waste reduction target HSE performance including incidents, injuries, waste, time horizons have been restated to realistic levels energy use and GHG emissions metrics following review.
HSE programmes LiveWell, asset care, waste action Review of sustainability strategy, governance, in-year A revised approach aligned to the Groups new vision Sustainability and planned activity was agreed.
A new ELT-level committee has been formed to oversee environment and sustainability Publication of annual anti-slavery and human matters, including policy, approach and key trafficking statement under UK Modern Slavery Act performance indicators.
2015 amendments The Groups anti-slavery and human trafficking Review of plans to meet external sustainability statement was reviewed and approved.
reporting requirements in light of increased regulations and stakeholder expectations Reviewed the transparency and credibility of existing external reporting and agreed an approach to participation in key sustainability assessments.
Updates on dialogue with regulators and agencies and The Committee was kept appraised of continuing Ethics & compliance impact on customers and partners post-DPAs cooperation.
Customers and partners were appropriately engaged.
Compliance with continuing obligations under the DPAs and implementation of Lord Golds recommendations Reviewed detailed plans for, and progress on, compliance.
Reviewed the first annual report to US Plans to refresh Global Code of Conduct and policies Department of Justice.
Resourcing of ethics and compliance team, and A new Global Code is to be issued in 2018. effectiveness of compliance officers The ethics and compliance team is effective and has Embedding of ethics and compliance culture and been strengthened in some areas.
Review of number and nature of Ethics Line contacts There is anecdotal evidence from business leaders that cultural change is being embedded in the Management of intermediaries including termination, businesses.
settlements, screening, appointments and payments The intermediary processes are effective to manage Progress with Data Privacy Binding Corporate the risks.
Rules application The Committee supported the approach on data privacy.
The decision of the Information Commissioner on Binding Corporate Rules is awaited.
Principal risks of compliance and product These principal risks are reviewed and discussed at Oversight of principal risks safety reviewed every meeting of the Committee, and both are being managed effectively.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 106 Safety & Ethics Committee Report further safety case guidance and user support: document Product safety simplification and updates: development of a product safety Rolls-Royce aims to go beyond compliance with regulatory product assurance case: reporting tool simplifications: corporate audit of safety standards, setting a goal of continuous product safety targeted safety processes: and updates to the senior managers improvement, in common with other industry participants.
This is product safety awareness training.
regarded as fundamental to the Groups licence to operate and to We reviewed progress on the use of a safety case to articulate the sustainability of our business.
Product safety encompasses the why a product is acceptably safe to operate, supported by design, manufacture, assembly, installation, in-service operation, evidence see example safety case below.
The preparation of maintenance and repair of products, across all of our businesses, a product safety case was introduced to the Groups processes and regions where we operate.
It is critical that product safety based on best practice from the Rolls-Royce Nuclear business.
processes develop continuously to underpin the science and We saw how the introduction of a safety case served to increase technological innovation that enables product designs to evolve further the focus on safety in a structured and consistent manner and extend operational boundaries.
We also noted the lessons being learned In 2017, we continued with our rolling review programme of key and captured for future projects on how to structure safety cases.
product safety topics across the Rolls-Royce businesses, as well The Committee received briefings at each of its meetings during as considering special topics and in-service issues as they arose.
the year on issues that had arisen with products in service.
These Throughout the year, we retained a focus on how safety risk was included updates on investigations of root cause, assessment of being managed through the period of transformation for the implications, and oversight of the Groups response.
This included overseeing changes to the product safety was satisfied that processes and plans were appropriate and effective governance model and policy to reflect new organisational in identifying, managing and retiring safety risk.
We were kept accountabilities aligned to changes in senior operations and updated on the programme to address the issues previously engineering roles.
We also emphasised the importance of ensuring identified on the Trent 1000 fleet and were satisfied with the safety processes continued on a positive trajectory against a approach taken from a safety perspective.
backdrop of organisational change and pursuit of operational In February, we reviewed the overall metrics for product safety and cost efficiencies.
Emphasis continued on the evolution of in 2016.
We noted that neither the number nor rate of safety events our product safety competence across the workforce, with new for 2016 indicated any significant concern with either the safety employees being appropriately trained on processes from the outset.
performance of the Groups products or with performance We monitor improvements that are proposed to the Groups product in managing safety issues.
We reviewed the work of the In December, we reviewed the processes for ensuring competence product safety process council, part of the role of which is to ensure in manufacturing, as an element of the SMS.
that the product safety processes are clearly understood and effective.
The council gathers information from a broad range of We were briefed on the activity during the year to refresh the sources including KPIs, audits, user surveys and feedback, and safety product safety training for employees, which we noted would governance forums.
Together these ensure that there is regular, be more targeted to particular roles.
diverse activity to monitor the state of our safety processes.
We also reviewed the product safety principal risk and supported These indicators showed the product safety processes to be the proposal to the Board to redefine this as product safety effective, efficient and fit-for-purpose, and also continued to you can read more about this on page 59. highlight opportunities for improvement in some areas.
This led to work in 2017 on: continued communication to increase awareness: Example safety case Claim The product is acceptably safe to operate Argument All hazards All hazard The risks Risks have The All Group The have been causes are tolerable been certification safety appropriate identified have been reduced to requirements policies have safety eliminated or levels that have been been controls are adequately are ALARP satisfied satisfied in place mitigated Evidence ALARP: as low as reasonably practicable.
DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 107 Safety & Ethics Committee Report HSE The Committee maintained focus on HSE developments during a particularly challenging year in this area.
We regret to report that there were two employee fatalities in October.
The first was the death of an electrical engineer employed in the civil nuclear business, while working at a customer site in central France.
The matter remains under investigation.
The second was an employee of Power Systems who died from injuries sustained in a road traffic accident while on the way to a customers site in Germany.
No other vehicles were involved.
These two tragic incidents have remained under the Committees review and are a stark reminder of the critical importance of managing HSE effectively across all activities.
The leaderships heightened HSE performance ambition aims to eliminate all recordable incidents.
We were given detailed briefings on HSE matters throughout the year.
In July and December, we reviewed the Groups HSE key activities, performance metrics, insights and learning, noting that DEFENCE AEROSPACE PRODUCT SAFETY the total reportable injury TRI rate was behind the year-on-year WORKSHOP target trajectory.
Again, this added stimulus to the leaderships determination to achieve higher HSE performance levels.
Asset In order to provide effective oversight of product safety risk, integrity, infrastructure maintenance and control of contractors the Committee remains conversant with product safety were common factors across a number of these incidents and will processes and the Groups SMS.
In September 2017, we focused be targeted for improvement as part of the structured HSE our attention on product safety in Defence Aerospace with a improvement plans.
visit to the Groups facilities in Bristol, UK.
We were briefed by the product safety leadership team on TRI rate per 100 employees Defence Aerospace markets, products and operating environments.
We learned about the governance of product 1 safety through a robust product safety review board structure.
We also discussed the product safety processes within Defence 0.8 Aerospace joint ventures and how these interact with the Groups own processes under a defined management plan.
0.6 We examined specific cases, how these were being handled, 0.4 findings, corrective measures taken and the relationship 0.2 management maintained with third parties involved.
We were given a detailed briefing on the red top and safety alert report 0 processes, and reviewed current metrics.
2014 2015 2016 2017 2020 target We also gained an understanding of the military certification External assurance over STEM, energy, GHG and TRI rate data provided by regulatory regimes and how these differ from the equivalent Bureau Veritas.
Seepage 195 for the sustainability assurance statement.
This covered how engine We were briefed on the Groups asset care strategy for Group documentation on legacy platforms is registered to maintain property assets and manufacturing assets, noting that the product knowledge and enable continuing support under the property maintenance capital programme had been revised business historic engines policy.
and re-prioritised based on asset criticality, condition, reliability We visited the Defence Aerospace operations centre and data and lifecycle cost.
We were encouraged that quarterly asset saw how incidents in service are handled.
We then moved reports for certain sites outside the Americas had been introduced on to air safety investigations with a visit to the investigations to provide an overview to local stakeholders of maintenance workshops.
We observed how the forensic teams work as provided, costs, safety critical maintenance requirements, leaders in this field using advanced equipment and techniques equipment reliability analysis, training needs and improvements such as electron beam microscopy and 3D scanning.
We also welcomed the introduction of a new leading indicator to track planned maintenance schedule adherence for We visited the maintenance, repair and overhaul facility, where high-consequence safety critical equipment.
we were able to gauge a strong and supportive product safety culture on the shop floor.
We also viewed the new test bed Slips, trips and falls remained the highest single cause of reportable for the TP400 engine that will allow for significantly enhanced injury and we reviewed the range of activities undertaken to test capability.
The day finished with further discussions over mitigate this risk, including housekeeping, toolkits to help leaders dinner with key members of the Defence Aerospace team.
engage and reinforce safety awareness, and a dynamic risk assessment application for use by employees working at customer Overall, the workshop provided a good level of confidence locations to assess the safety risk level of their work environment.
to the Committee that the SMS, as operated in Defence Aerospace, was effective, robust and competently operated.
Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 108 Safety & Ethics Committee Report HSE maturity model HIGH RELIABILITY HSE is how we do business and part PROACTIVE of the Rolls-Royce strategy and DNA: We actively seek out HSE issues and HSE culture and opportunities and performance best CALCULATIVE work to resolve them in class together: We have systems to manage HSE: Integrated HSE management system HSE management REACTIVE Personal and visible system HSE leadership Active leadership HSE is only important at all levels Right capability when we have an SMART HSE Risk management incident: objectives process PATHOLOGICAL Robust HSE risk HSE policy and Use of leading management HSE is not important: some control and lagging Continuous procedures are indicators Minimal compliance improvement in place Externally certified We reviewed a proposal to revise the Groups target, set at the end model.
This approach allows the sustainability team to support of 2014, to reduce the amount of waste produced from the Groups the businesses and functions in embedding consideration of operations by 25% by 2020, normalised on turnover.
Due to sustainability issues into core business strategies, policies, risk historical data discrepancies and inaccuracies we agreed a assessments, decision-making tools and programmes, and in proposal in June 2017 to retain the 25% reduction target but to doing so to identify and exploit opportunities.
extend the time period to achieve this from 2020 to 2025.
The Committee has previously cautioned against the introduction In July, we received a briefing on the Groups aspiration to achieve of too many new safety and ethics initiatives, with attendant risks significantly higher levels of HSE performance and move Rolls-Royce of confusion and dilution of key messages.
A fresh look has been to a leading position in HSE across all businesses.
We noted the taken across these initiatives and many have been rationalised as benchmarking that had been undertaken with a number of large part of a simpler approach.
companies and supported the Groups adoption of the HSE maturity We were briefed during the year on the Groups response to the model shown above, and the refocused strategy of themes and new EU Non-Financial Reporting Regulations, UK gender pay gap enablers to achieve high reliability.
reporting, and consideration of the recommendations of the FSB The ELT members conducted a focused session in November Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD, as well on safety culture, challenging themselves on what more could as the publication in early 2018 of the Groups annual update on be done to promote vigilance and awareness to keep employees progress against the UK Modern Slavery Act revisions.
We were briefed on this in December and were encouraged Our overall score in the annual Dow Jones Sustainability Index to see commitment to demonstrating strong and sustained safety DJSI declined slightly in 2017 versus 2016.
Analysis showed this was leadership.
Work continues on developing structured improvement largely as a result of the introduction of new question sets, significant plans and defining common leadership themes and communications changes to other sections, and receiving a lower score in the codes plans.
The Committee will be keeping the Groups progress on this of conduct and export control sections as a result of the regulatory under close review during 2018 and beyond.
investigations leading to the DPAs in January.
We were pleased to remain within the top 10% overall and to remain listed in both the DJSI World index as one of only four aerospace and defence Sustainability companies out of 36 invited to participate and DJSI Europe index.
Some organisational changes in the first half of the year provided an Particularly encouraging was that we achieved the maximum opportunity for a fresh look at the Groups approach to sustainability.
possible score for environmental reporting and the industry-leading scores for human rights and stakeholder engagement.
This We were briefed in July on some changes to the HSE and contributed to the Company qualifying for inclusion in RobecoSAMs sustainability team structure to enable more strategic and aligned 2018 Sustainability Yearbook and receiving a Bronze Class distinction thinking across broader sustainability themes.
In December, the for excellent sustainability performance.
team returned to present an update on a refreshed sustainability strategy.
We discussed and endorsed a move away from having a separate, standalone, sustainability strategy with its own vision and principles, in favour of building on the strong alignment to the Groups refreshed vision, its strategic focus areas and business DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 109 Safety & Ethics Committee Report A new executive-level environment and sustainability committee, In the 2016 Annual Report, we reported on the significant reduction co-chaired by the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technology in the number of advisers used by the Group over recent years, and Officer, was formed during the year to provide executive level the stringent vetting process for any new engagements.
We kept oversight of the Groups response to sustainability issues including the level and nature of adviser engagements under review in 2017, policy, approach and related KPIs.
and were notified of any claims received during the year from any advisers who had been terminated in the past.
We noted the careful Overall, the Committee is supportive of the increased focus approach taken with regard to termination of certain Power Systems and governance on sustainability topics and with the continued advisers to ensure that customers were not exposed to gaps in strengthening of the Groups reporting.
This includes the Groups capability for safety-critical work.
com sustainability, which has its contents structured around the core topic areas of environment, We kept the resourcing and capabilities of the compliance team people, ethics, customers and suppliers, and performance.
under review, both centrally and within the businesses.
We were satisfied that the responsibilities of the director of risk, who left the You can read more about the Groups sustainability activities business during the year, had been assumed either by the general on pages 44 to 49. counsel or the chief compliance counsel through an orderly transition process.
We recognised the need for the compliance team to remain appropriately balanced between roles in the central Ethics and compliance team and within the businesses.
We were therefore supportive Following the DPAs, much of the Committees focus in the year has of the recruitment of the new director of ethics and compliance been on overseeing the Groups work plans to meet its continuing at Power Systems, and the proposed addition of a number of new obligations to the regulators, and monitoring progress in roles.
We also recommended that likely resourcing requirements implementing the recommendations put forward by Lord Gold in for the compliance function in the longer term be considered.
Lord Gold himself attended most Committee meetings Another area of interest for the Committee, and for Lord Gold, during the year and updated the Committee on how he has been during the year was the coordination of training, disciplinary overseeing and supporting this work, as well as reporting on his processes and the employee communications strategy to help particular areas of focus and activities.
This included a review of drive the desired culture.
We received briefings from the Group processes for the granting of commercial concessions to customers, HR Director and members of her team, with input from the chief and attending employee focus groups and other internal events to compliance counsel, on activity in this area.
The Committee understand views from the workforce on speaking up and on the recognised the need to balance the drive to embed accountability Groups culture in the area of ethics and compliance.
for behaviour with considerations of employees legal rights to The Committee has also taken a keen interest in hearing from the privacy, but encouraged the team to explore ways to show the leaders of some of the businesses as to how ethics and compliance workforce real examples of consequences for breach of the Global are being embedded into the Groups culture in practice.
We Code or group policies, or for failure to complete mandatory training.
scheduled two additional Committee meetings, which took place We examined proposals to refresh the Global Code in 2018.
The in April and October, to provide more time for status updates and current Global Code was first introduced in 2013 and we agreed that discussion of these topics.
a comprehensive review was therefore timely.
The new Global Code We discussed the need for the business leadership to continue will also be supported by new training modules designed to bring to drive the right behaviours, as well as having the right processes, it to life in a simple, understandable and relevant way, focusing on so that individuals are accountable for their own actions and feel behaviours.
We look forward to seeing progress on this in 2018. able to speak up.
To help us understand how this was progressing, We were also pleased to see this approach to providing a simplified we received separate updates from the president and the chief and more concise document being applied in the consolidation compliance officer of the Civil Aerospace business, and from the of several group policies into one simple manual for employees.
chief financial officer and general counsel & head of integrity at Power Systems.
It was noted that the businesses operated Looking forward globally across territories that had different levels of maturity and sophistication regarding ethics and compliance, and this Overall, this has been a year of challenge in all of the areas overseen could present challenging situations for employees such as field by the Committee, that has required us to be constructively critical service engineers who work in remote locations.
A programme of and supportive of managements ambitions and plans.
compliance verification visits to selected sites had been introduced to check the effectiveness of training and levels of awareness, so In 2018, we will continue our focus on ensuring the Group that any gaps could be promptly addressed.
We heard about specific progresses its ambitions for an improved HSE performance, examples of areas for improvement being identified and addressed continues to evolve product safety processes and meets its either through additional training or improved communications, regulatory obligations under the DPAs.
More generally, we will processes or controls.
Overall we were assured that the leadership continue to provide support to management on the embedding of teams, supported by the central ethics and compliance function, a productive culture encompassing all aspects of safety and ethics.
were setting the tone from the top, by expressing clearly and Sir Frank Chapman regularly the high standards expected and encouraging Chairman of the Safety & Ethics Committee employees to speak up.
At each of our meetings during the year, we received an update from the General Counsel on the Groups continuing dialogue and cooperation with regulators and government agencies.
We also received reports and briefings from the chief compliance counsel on ethics and compliance matters generally.
