SUSTAINABILITY PEOPLE Equiniti is committed to being a responsible business.
Our behaviour is aligned with the expectations of our people, clients, investors, communities and society as a whole.
People People are at the heart of our specialist services.
For our business to succeed we need to manage our peoples performance and develop and bring through talent while ensuring we operate as efficiently as possible.
We must also ensure we share common values that inform and guide our behaviour so we achieve our goals in the right way.
DRIVING PERFORMANCE We have an objective and performance management framework, across the Group.
We then focused on taking action to support which we use across the organisation.
This framework is aligned both our high performers and those who need to improve.
to the Groups strategic objectives and requires us to assess what We focus time on building our managers capabilities through people have achieved and the behaviours they have displayed in a management development programme, identifying talent, doing so.
developing performance and having good career conversations During the year, we ran a number of moderation sessions to with all colleagues.
ensure a consistent understanding of performance ratings 50 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPING CAPABILITIES Our apprenticeship programmes have proved to be a valuable DEVELOPING TALENT AND PLANNING way of bringing young talent into our business.
We already SUCCESSION run apprentice schemes in our operations and in the Pension A key part of our talent agenda is identifying, developing Solutions division.
In 2017, we identified a provider to help us and accelerating the progression of people who are already extend apprenticeships to other areas of the Group and we will at Equiniti.
This year we filled 33% of vacancies internally.
leverage the Apprenticeship Levy to support these programmes.
The enhancements to performance management described During 2017, we again ran the Movement to Work initiative with above will help our resourcing team to systematically identify the Princes Trust.
This provides unemployed young people with people who are ready for a new role.
structured training, development and work experience, and The rising stars programme we introduced at the end of helps to hone their job-seeking skills.
The successful programme 2016 is also important to talent progression through Equiniti.
led to 25 of the attendees being offered jobs at Equiniti and the This offers development, mentoring and stretch project Princes Trust nominating us for Service to Young People Small opportunities, to accelerate the progress of existing employees.
Companies at the Corporate Employee Awards.
Feedback from participants has been very positive and four of Our succession planning activities are working the 17 in the first cohort have already been promoted.
For 2018, well and we have continued to run six-monthly talent we have refreshed the design of the programme to increase its panels with the executive team, to review succession focus on outcomes that help our talent to progress, including for senior roles.
During 2018, we will increase the focused personal development plans and access to professional frequency of these reviews and push the concept qualifications, to improve technical knowledge and develop further down the organisation.
This will support business-critical skills.
our aim of filling a much greater proportion of As well as bringing talent up through the organisation, we look roles internally.
to develop our senior leaders, including strengths assessments, We have continued to invest in our online learning management career interviews and masterclasses.
The current programme system, so all our employees are able to access courses that will completed in December 2017.
For 2018, we will look to extend help their development.
During the year, we extended the range this programme to cohorts below those in senior leadership of programmes available and improved the system to make roles, to support those with the potential to take on more senior courses easier to find.
We have also run multi-channel learning, positions and to accelerate their development and progression.
combining online material and a virtual classroom, to allow us to bring people together from across our sites.
RECRUITMENT AND OFFSHORING Our centre in Chennai, India, continues to help us reduce cost and improve efficiency.
Approximately half our The rising stars programme we in-house recruitment team is based in Chennai, helping introduced at the end of 2016 is us to fill the vast majority of vacancies without using an also important to talent progression agency.
This results in significant cost savings.
We have also developed our payroll support offshore and are through Equiniti.
This offers looking to drive continuous improvement in our general development, mentoring and stretch HR support activities, to increase customer satisfaction.
project opportunities, to accelerate the Looking forward, we intend to extend our offshore model progress of existing employees.
to support WFSS in both HR and finance.
Pictured from top opposite page Charlotte Pitchers Marvin Hodges 51 SUSTAINABILITY OUR CULTURE AND VALUES Equiniti recognises the importance of having the right corporate culture.
Our long-term success depends on achieving our strategic goals in the right way, so we look after the best interests of our clients, people and other stakeholders.
The Group has five values, which we identified through employee and management workshops.
These are: TRUST EXCELLENCE CLIENT FOCUS We act with integrity and openness We work hard to get it We add value and build in our dealings with others right first time and keep our promises true partnerships and commitments to others We are honest in accepting responsibility We are constantly seeking new rather than apportioning blame.
We take actions to enhance and better ways of doing things.
We have faith in our colleagues and We know and understand our clients can rely on one another.
We deliver on our commitments and manage and customers, so that we exceed their expectations to ensure needs are met.
We demonstrate high personal standards of integrity, by always giving our best, being We take ownership for problems We aim to be a trusted partner, consistent and being ourselves.
We act consistently with our We are passionate about delivering service We learn and improve from experience.
Companys values and maintain excellence and putting the customer first.
the organisations reputation for high standards of business conduct.
These values are supported by a set of defined behaviours, each of which has associated positive and negative examples.
These behaviours cover communication, collaboration and BELIEF PEOPLE team working, how we develop capability, our service and results We have passion and belief in We are positive, enthusiastic what we do and who we are and supportive of one another focus, continuous improvement, building relationships, commercial We believe in the strength and value We value and respect each other.
awareness, and decision making of working together as one.
We enable one another to develop and and problem solving.
We expect all We believe in collaborating across grow, to bring out the collective best.
employees to abide by these core the business, for the benefit of clients behaviours and assess for them We communicate with passion and and customers.
during recruitment and performance enthusiasm, creating an energetic and We promote our organisation to our friends, enjoyable place where people want to work.
We seek and value feedback.
Our engagement survey is an During March and April 2017, we ran functional leadership teams, along important tool in measuring 30 focus groups across 19 locations, with their HR business partners.
At a and identifying actions to help to obtain more detailed feedback, Group level, the main areas of focus ensure we have an engaged and explore some of the more prevalent were leadership, communication, committed workforce.
Having issues and outline an action plan recruitment and development, completed the survey towards the for improvements.
These action reward and recognition, and end of 2016, we communicated the plans have been established at diversity and inclusion.
We have detailed results in January 2017.
Group, divisional, function and made good progress against each location levels.
them is managed by divisional and 52 Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2017 oup plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILTY GENDER DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION At the beginning of 2017, the Board approved a new diversity and inclusion policy for the Group, which is helping us to advance our diversity efforts.
We have established a diversity and inclusion council and set up We have also identified key initiatives and outcomes we want to five diversity and inclusion networks, which are now developing achieve in our action plan for 2018.
These actions will enable us action plans.
Our training initiatives include launching a new to build upon the activity and outcomes achieved in 2017 and diversity and inclusion course, as well as running unconscious will further embed diversity and inclusion within Equiniti.
A major focus for 2018 is upon gender diversity and inclusion, and a separate plan has been created to take this forward.
PLAN ELEMENT 2017 ACTIVITY GAP AND 2018 ACTIONS ADVOCACY AND Created and implemented a groupBusiness leaders to take ownership and ACCOUNTABILITY wide diversity and inclusion policy.
accountability for diversity and inclusion.
Set up a diversity and inclusion Senior leadership to communicate a compelling, Council comprising of divisional and Equiniti specific business case for why diversity functional leaders.
Created and implemented a diversity Diversity and inclusion objectives for each divisional and inclusion action plan for 2017. and functional head and their leadership teams.
Launched Group-wide employee networks and taskforce.
COMMUNICATION Communicated an initial business Develop a communication plan to include internal case for diversity and inclusion.
Communicated regular diversity Identify meetings and forums for business leaders and inclusion updates through all to re-iterate and cascade the business case and key employee communications.
messages around diversity and inclusion.
Chief Executive and diversity council members from the executive and operating committee to film Talking Head videos talking about their commitment to diversity and inclusion.
AWARENESS AND Launched a mandatory diversity and Deliver the unconscious bias training to all staff EDUCATION inclusion e-learning.
at manager level as part of a broader manager Delivered unconscious bias training capability programme.
Communicate our requirement for a diverse candidate pool to our preferred suppliers.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Created and launched various Implement initiatives and programmes in 2018 to employee networks, each with support network objectives.
appointed leaders and sponsored by Introduce Lunch and Learns, mentoring and role additional member s of the diversity model speakers series from each network.
DIVISIONAL SPECIFIC New element of the diversity and Set a diversity and inclusion objective for all INITIATIVES inclusion plan for 2018 focused on functional and divisional leaders and their leadership driving divisional and functional teams, based upon divisional diversity data.
ownership and accountability of Develop annual divisional and functional diversity diversity and inclusion.
and inclusion action plans to address gaps.
MEASUREMENT AND Dashboard in place for 2017 which Further develop the Group diversity and inclusion MONITORING shows the current diversity and dashboard from that used in 2017. inclusion data and metrics.
We have several mechanisms for ensuring compliance with our diversity and inclusion policy.
These include our grievance and whistleblowing procedures, our engagement survey, the diversity and inclusion networks and a visible HR team in all locations, allowing employees to raise any concerns.
Our diversity and inclusion policy can be found on our website www.
com 53 53 SUSTAINABILITY GENDER DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The graphic below shows our gender diversity at the year The 30% Club Campaign has always been end.
Equiniti has a good gender balance overall, with a broadly equal split between men and women.
However, about women and men working together... we recognise we have more to do to increase the number Encouraging CEOs to set goals to have 30% of women in our senior management positions and female Executive leaders by 2020 has become a care is taken that senior staff, when recruited, reflect the characteristics of the diverse workforce we seek to create.
Were thrilled that companies We have made some progress on this initiative and, like Equiniti has made this a priority.
over the last three years, women have been recruited or promoted to twelve senior management roles.
BRENDA TRENOWDEN, 30% CLUB GLOBAL CHAIR AND HEAD OF FIG, EUROPE, ANZ BANK 2016 BOARD BOARD 6 2 Pictured SENIOR SENIOR Alison Carter MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 59 16 OTHER OTHER EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 2,229 2,036 TOTAL TOTAL 2,294 2,054 2017 Pictured BOARD BOARD Abbas Jaffer 5 2 SENIOR SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT 61 24 OTHER OTHER Equiniti has committed to the 30% club, we have EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 2,352 2,067 made considerable progress in the appointment of TOTAL TOTAL women to senior positions over the last three years, 2,418 2,093 but there is more to do to increase diversity.
This is another important step towards narrowing the gender pay gap, attracting new talent, and unleashing the 2016 number have been restated to reflect the revised structure extraordinary potential of our colleagues.
of senior management team and includes the top 3 levels of management.
GUY WAKELEY, EQUINITI CHIEF EXECUTIVE 54 54 Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2017 oup plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY GENDER PAY GAP Pictured clockwise Kiron Chanda Thomas Campbell Lillee Lucas Jessica Argent UK AVERAGE 17.4% EQUINITI 27.9% UK INSURANCE FINANCE SECTOR 35.1% Like all UK employers with more than 250 employees, we A larger proportion of men in higher paying technical are required to disclose our mean gender pay gap.
This is roles, principally in IT, actuarial and financial services.
calculated as the difference between the mean male salary Obstacles that could prevent women progressing through and the mean female salary, expressed as a percentage of the organisation, particularly when returning from childcare.
Adjusting for age shows a much smaller gap.
For example, for For our cohort of UK employees, the mean gender pay gap employees under 30 the gap falls to 4.5%, with 53.0% of those was 27.9%, which is higher than the UK average as at 5 April employees being female.
For people hired in the 12 months 2017. before the analysis, the gap is 13.6%.
Rectifying the gender pay Whilst this is a larger gap than the UK average of 17.4%, it is gap will not be a quick process but we are committed to a year better than for the insurance and finance sector as a whole, on year reduction and to making it a central theme within our which was 35.1%, higher than the UK average in 2017. broader diversity and inclusion strategy.
We do not pay men and women differently for performing the same roles.
For us, the gap primarily results from: Further detail on the gender pay gap can be found A larger proportion of women in lower paying front at www.
line roles, typically in contact centres and pension and registration administration.
55 55 SUSTAINABILITY OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS We deliver our services and solutions through a suite of proprietary platforms, which provide cutting edge technology and functionality to our clients and give us a significant competitive advantage.
Our four primary platforms are Sirius, Our platforms are well-invested, with more than 100m spent Xanite, Compendia and Charter.
Their flexibility underpins our strategy of expanding our service offering, while adapting to changing client and regulatory requirements.
Because they are proprietary, we can use them to provide white label services to clients.
4.5 million 19 million Our infrastructure is onshore and configured to be secure and resilient.
Charter support Sirius can handle vast The platforms scalability supports our business growth, with Intelligent Solutions offering, processing volumes, managing significant capacity to process increasingly large volumes of data processing more than 4.5 over 70 million data records and transactions.
We also have a track record of making targeted million complaints on behalf on behalf of 19 million acquisitions of companies with exciting technology, which open of clients shareholders new growth areas for us.
Growing D2C 9 million Xanite supports our regulated Compendia manages records settlement, dealing and custody and payments for around activities, administering in 9 million UK pension scheme excess of 20 billion of assets members for 5 million customers OTHER KEY TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS Our other key proprietary technology platforms include Charter is our case and complaints management platform.
Centive, our executive share plans platform: the It supports Intelligent Solutions offering, processing more proprietary technology platforms operated by Pancredit than 4.5 million complaints on behalf of clients.
It is a highly and Nostrum, which support our loan administration customisable solution, which supports automated FCA reporting, services: Equiniti KYC Solutions client on-boarding and root cause analysis and secure data management.
It gives our AML platform, KYCNET: and Riskfactors fraud detection clients a wide variety of business-critical data in a single view, platform, EQ Riskfactor.
enabling swift and efficient processes.
56 56 Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2017 oup plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 SECTION 01 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T SUSTAINABILITY OUR TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS Xanite is our custody and settlement wealth management platform.
Through its interface with SWIFT and CREST, it supports share dealing for both retail investors and corporate clients, as well as our outsourcing services for wealth managers.
The platform also enables us to provide asset custody services Sirius is our core share register management platform, and supports our growing D2C business, which we deliver supporting our registration, dividend payment and through our Selftrade web and mobile offering.
It can handle vast processing volumes, managing over 70 million data records on behalf of 19 million shareholders and making payments of 88bn in 2017.
Sirius receives approximately 1 million internal website hits each day and delivers an average response time of less than 1 second.
Compendia is our award-winning pension administration and payroll platform.
It is used to manage records and payments for around 9 million UK pension scheme members.
As well as using Compendia in our own business, we provide the platform as a software solution to in-house pension teams either on-premise or as a managed service solution.
Compendia offers self-service functionality to scheme members, through our mobile app and responsive web design.
This improves members experience, helps them to plan their retirements, increases their engagement with the scheme and improves efficiency for the schemes themselves.
57 57 Virgin Money NHS United Utilities LBG Tesco HSBC Sky GSK Shell easyJet Shawbrook Domino's Santander Citi Group SUSTAINABILITY CLIENTS Our strategy prioritises organic growth, driven by cross-selling and up-selling services to existing clients and bringing new clients into the Group.
To do this, we need to develop and maintain strong client relationships.
70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0-1 Financial Healthcare Aerospace & Defence Publishing Average client relationships Energy Travel & Leisure Pharmaceuticals Telecomms 20 years Equiniti clients 1 year Postal Retail Oil & Gas or less 58 58 Sainsbury's BT Saga BG Group Rentokil Barclays RSA Bank of America Royal Mail Group BAE Systems RBS Aldermore Prudential AA Pearson Length of relationship years Old Mutual Equinit Equiniti Gr i Group plc Annual Report 2017 oup plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 SECTION 01 STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T SUSTAINABILITY CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS SUPPLIERS The Board is committed to openly engaging with our shareholders, as we recognise the importance of a continuing effective dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
CLIENTS SHAREHOLDERS Our strategy prioritises organic growth, driven by cross-selling The Board is committed to openly engaging with our and up-selling services to existing clients and bringing new shareholders, as we recognise the importance of a continuing clients into the Group.
To do this, we need to develop and effective dialogue, whether with major institutional investors, maintain strong client relationships.
It is important to us that shareholders understand our strategy and objectives, so these We continue to benefit from the key accounts programme.
must be explained clearly, feedback heard and any issues or It focuses on growing revenue from our top clients, by identifying questions raised properly considered.
opportunities to up-sell and cross-sell other solutions.
We have a comprehensive investor relations programme with Beyond our key accounts programme, each of our divisions have the executive Directors meeting investors and analysts regularly, specialist sales teams who work with our clients and potential supported where appropriate by the Chairman and, when clients to win new business.
We also have a bid support team, necessary, the Senior Independent Director.
The programme which helps us to prepare tenders and to price our contracts.
supports the aims of the Code and the UK Stewardship Code to Ultimately, our clients stay with us because we have outstanding promote engagement and interaction between listed companies technology and deliver excellent service.
The average length of and their major shareholders.
With this in mind, we welcome any our share registration relationships is more than 20 years but we opportunities for investors and shareholders to engage directly also have a good balance of longer relationships and clients who with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, in addition are newer to the Group.
to the Chief Executive and CFO.
SUPPLIERS We value all of our suppliers and have multi-year contracts with Critical suppliers: we look to reduce and mitigate risk, our key suppliers.
While they provide services that are important optimise specification and supply chain costs, and may to our delivery to clients, the loss of any one supplier would not develop the relationship towards a strategic one.
have a material impact on our business and we could replace any Operational suppliers: we consolidate spend, reduce of our suppliers without materially disrupting our business.
transactions and consumption, and aim to have competing To ensure we manage our suppliers effectively, we use the suppliers to maximise efficiency.
following approach: We expect all of our suppliers to comply with our standards, such Strategic suppliers: we may develop a joint business as those relating to environmental responsibility, modern slavery, strategy with the supplier, share innovation and product data protection, human rights and ethics.
development, jointly optimise total supply chain costs and reduce lifecycle costs.
59 59 SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Since 2007 when we started supporting local childrens hospice, Chestnut Tree House, we have raised just over 140,000 for them CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Equiniti's approach to CSR is to use our position of strength to create positive change for the people and communities with which we interact.
We want to leverage our expertise and enable colleagues to support the communities around us and the causes close to our hearts.
That is why in 2017 we launched volunteer days and our new corporate JustGiving page.
Every permanent Equiniti employee based in the UK is now entitled to take two volunteer days out of the office each year, to support their chosen charity or community project.
Employees can choose to volunteer individually or as a team for larger projects.
In addition, we have a focus on youth and education, helping to identify the next generation of talent in our industry and giving young people the opportunity to experience the world of work.
Our rising stars, apprenticeship and Movement to Work programmes are an important part of this.
We are also proud to be a partner of Modern Muse, a charity which aims to inspire and engage the next generation of businesswomen and female entrepreneurs.
The social change initiative is based on an online platform that will JUST GIVING empower girls everywhere to make more informed career TOTAL RAISED SO FAR decisions.
It profiles female role models from all backgrounds and showcases their educational achievements, career paths, working lives, the companies they work for and the opportunities those organisations offer young women.
"c. 61k Girls using the site can interact with the Muses by posting questions, providing what the creators describe as ""bite-sized mentoring""."
SOME OF THE CHARITIES OUR EMPLOYEES SUPPORT 60 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY HUMAN RIGHTS MODERN SLAVERY ETHICAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The table below shows our greenhouse gas emissions.
HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights is a key focus for our business.
We ensure we protect the rights of our people, including those with disabilities, GHG EMMISSION TONNES OF CO2 by adopting suitable employment practices and we also aim to act ethically in all our business dealings.
Whilst we have several policies that cover human rights and the employment of disabled people within our HR and procurement framework, we do not have a formal human rights policy, nor do we have a formal policy for employees who become disabled whilst working VEHICLES AIR BUSINESS TRAVEL TRAVEL BUILDINGS TOTAL for us.
This will be addressed in 2018.
MODERN SLAVERY 2017 362 683 5,011 6,056 We operate a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and 2016 309 476 5,414 6,199 have a formal policy which commits us to acting ethically and with integrity in all of our business activities and relationships.
CHANGE % 17 44 7 2 Full details of our policy can be found on www.
com ETHICAL BUSINESS CARBON INTENSITY Equiniti has formal anti-bribery and corruption policies, supported by a whistleblowing process and, where necessary, TONNES OF proportionate and independent investigation and follow up of TONNES OF CO2 REVENUE M CO2 PER EMPLOYEES PER M REVENUE any matters reported.
Full details of our policy can be found EMPLOYEE on www.
com 2017 14.9 406 1.34 4,511 ENVIRONMENT 2016 16.1 383 1.43 4,348 We take our environmental responsibilities seriously and CHANGE % 7 6 6 4 positively manage our energy consumption.
However, we do not believe that the environment is a material issue for our We use a number of third party suppliers to supply and validate the data.
business and consequently we do not operate a Group-wide environmental policy.
While revenue in the year increased by 6% and number FTSE4GOOD of employees increased by 4%, the tonnes of CO2 per m revenue reduced by 7% and the tonnes of CO2 per employee Equiniti is a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series, which reduced by 6%.
measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance practices.
The indices Vehicle business travel is based on the use of a medium are used by many market participants to create and assess sized car of average value, from the financial records each responsible investment funds.
As we expanded the Group with our acquisitions of Gateway2Finance, Marketing Source and Nostrum, overall business travel by car has increased by 17% in 2017, with total miles per year up by 1,171k from 1,002k.
Air travel is based on data from financial records each year ending 31 December.
Air travel increased by 44% from 2016 and miles travelled were up by 2,306k to 3,431k miles.
The number of flights over 3,000 miles have increased by 93% reflecting the increased number of flights in connection with the WFSS acquisition.
The strategic report was approved by order of the Board Buildings emissions are based on data for the years ended 31 March 2016 17.
Overall the emissions from our building usage has shown a 7% reduction year on year.
Electricity emissions are down by 7% from 4,742 tonnes in 2016 to 4,408 tonnes in 2017.
Gas emissions have decreased by 10% from 672 tonnes Guy Wakeley in 2016 to 603 tonnes in 2017.
Chief Executive 6 March 2018 61 HIGHLIGHTS 0 HIGHLIGHTS 0 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENTS 0 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENTS 0 BUSINESS MODEL 0 BUSINESS MODEL 0 OUR MARKETS 00 OUR MARKETS 00 STRATEGY 00 STRATEGY 00 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 00 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 00 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 00 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 00 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 00 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 00 FINANCIAL REVIEW 00 FINANCIAL REVIEW 00 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 00 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 00 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 00 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 00 Best Share Registrar at the Shares Awards Voted for by investors and shareholders 62 SECTION 02 GOVERNANCE Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 HIGHLIGHTS 0 HIGHLIGHTS 0 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENTS 0 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENTS 0 BUSINESS MODEL 0 BUSINESS MODEL 0 OUR MARKETS 00 OUR MARKETS 00 STRATEGY 00 STRATEGY 00 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 00 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 00 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 00 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 00 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 00 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 00 FINANCIAL REVIEW 00 FINANCIAL REVIEW 00 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 00 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 00 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 00 RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS 00 02 Governance GOVERNANCE REPORT 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT 65 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 66 BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE 74 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 82 RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 92 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT 98 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION 104 DIRECTORS REPORT 125 63
