Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility Managing our business with sustainability in mind 2017 Highlights -9.3% 70.6% 2016: -11.4% 2016: 51% Reduction in carbon emissions Recycling Further reduction in carbon emissions Increase in recycling across across our LFLmanaged portfolio.
13 33 2016: 11 2016: 27 CSR events Sustainability building certifications The number of CSR events which The total number of sustainability took place across the Group.
building certifications in progress or achieved across the Group.
100% 530,760 kWh 2016: 100% 2016: 376,000 kWh MEES Renewable and low-carbon generation All UK properties fully compliant Total on-site renewable and low-carbon with MEESregulation.
electricity generation 2% of electricity usage.
96% 90% 2016: 0% 2016: 50% Renewable energy Community investment Virtually all electricity procured from The percentage of our staff who gave energy marketscomes from a renewable atleastoneworking day to support local andlow-carbon certified source.
PV panel installation at Reflex, Bracknell 32 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Strategy stakeholders, to promote the principles CLS operates in some of the most densely onwhichit is based populated office urban landscapes in Western to support communities with social and Europe.
Faced with the challenges of growing charitable events to ensure we contribute urban populations and climate change, the case inthecommunities in which we invest forimproving the sustainability and resilience ofour assets is clear.
To ensure we are acting on our pledges, we have aligned them to the key pillars within our Our approach is built on our Sustainability Charter, sustainability strategy.
This allows us to directly which is a set of pledges committed by the Group: link every activity within the business to a single The Charter is signed by the Board and makes pledge and report back to the Board on progress.
thefollowing promises: Employees to mitigate our impact on climate change Culture by reducing our carbon footprint through Our culture is entrepreneurial, professional, open day-to-day management and friendly.
We have employees from 19 countries to be accountable for our performance relating which helps to foster a diverse cosmopolitan to climate change by reporting regularly against environment with integrity and responsibility at measurable indicators the heart of our business.
We have fewer than to make the most effective use of our resources 100employees looking after a property portfolio to minimise the impact of our actions on the of 1.8 billion, and we recognise that they make environment, and to enhance the environment, CLS what it is and contribute significantly to its community and economy wherever possible success.
Therefore, we ensure that we consult to monitor our progress by carrying out regularly with our employees through various regular assessments against the pledges channels to understand their needs and ensure oftheCharter our culture evolves with the business and to use our Charter to influence the behaviour .
of our partners, tenants, suppliers and other Corporate objective performance against targets Objectives 2017 Achievement Reduce carbon emissions by 5%, year-on-year in the like-for-like managed portfolio Achieved Recycle at least 70% of all UK waste collected from the managed like-for-like portfolio Achieved Install smart metering across all major assets in France andGermany France only Ensure all investment properties maintain an EPC rating of D orgreater Achieved Ensure the majority of employees participate in a community event in 2017 Achieved Promote health and wellbeing across our staff and tenants Achieved Continue to support CSR events in the communities in which we invest Achieved Install nine photovoltaic systems at properties in France andGermany Delayed due to sizing of systems Generate 2.5% of the Groups managed like-for-like electricityusage from renewable and low-carbon sources Achieved 33 Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility continued Recruitment teams, such as changes to planning laws or Finding the right people is important to our dataprotection legislation and we organise long-term success.
We believe having a diverse seminars with the assistance of our network workforce is a source of competitive advantage.
Therefore, we have developed appropriate Training and policies and procedures which underline our Engagement and wellbeing Development commitment to equal opportunity and diversity We promote all aspects of employee engagement in employment.
Our recruitment and interview and promote an open door policy: we encourage policy ensures that these objectives are met and all employees to share ideas and to get involved 45% we ensure that they are fully understood by those in challenging and developing our policies and of staff completed recruiting.
It seeks to ensure that no employee practices.
With a predominantly flat management professional or applicant is treated less favourably on the structure we are able to ensure that all employees training grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, are informed of matters concerning their interests nationality, ethnicity, religion, disability or sexual and the financial and economic factors affecting orientation nor is disadvantaged by conditions or the business.
In addition to the weekly team requirements, including age limits, which cannot meetings that are held across the Group, our 125 be justified objectively.
Entry into, and progression executive directors present our annual and halfdays of training within, the Group is solely determined by the job yearly results to all employees which is followed completed criteria, personal aptitude and competence.
by a question and answer session.
Thisisdesigned to give everyone an understandingof the We apply best practice in the employment of business, and how their work contributes 84k people with disabilities, which is reflected in .
spent on training our recruitment and interview policy.
Full and fair consideration is given to every application We want to make sure everyone works towards for employment from disabled people whose the same goal.
Every 12 months we undertake aptitude and skills can be used in the business, aperformance review of each employee, setting 2,210 and to their training and career development.
their objectives for the forthcoming year and this Average spend Thisincludes, wherever possible, the retraining is followed up by a six-monthly review.
These per person trained and retention of staff who become disabled during individual objectives reflect the Group objectives their employment.
We are proud that we have set by the Chief Executive Officer, which in turn are been able to attract, motivate and retain high based on the Groups Key Performance Indicators 3.29 calibre employees, which, in turn, has ensured and sustainability targets contained in this report Average days theimprovement in the performance of the Group.
We have a dedicated spent training Intranet which allows us to promote new policies, per person trained Training and development procedures, Group activities and employee events.
All employees are actively encouraged to undertake training to achieve professional Engagement is also about understanding the qualifications and to keep up to date with needs of our employees.
This enables us to create 537 developments in their specialised areas.
We a better working environment which, in turn, drives hours of CPD ensure that those with direct reports undertake performance, loyalty and success.
In return, we awarded management training on areas such diversity, reward our staff in a number of ways, including appraisals and performance.
We also promote salary, discretionary bonuses, a cash loyalty award non-core training, such as foreign language for those who have been with the Group for more skills, which, whilst not central to a particular than 2 years and a share incentive plan.
We also role, will allow employees to broaden their skills recognise it is important to celebrate success and base.
As part of our knowledge sharing and so ensure managers arrange appropriate events personal development policy, we have set up following completion of particular projects.
internal workshops at which teams present on their specific role within the organisation, thereby We seek the views of our employees through developing employees wider business knowledge staff satisfaction surveys, conducted through and understanding of how the Groups activities athird party advisor so as to ensure anonymity.
We also encourage all members In August 2016 all employees were invited to of staff to consider areas of wider professional take part in a survey which covered a range of development that may be of interest to other topics including: effectiveness, engagement, 34 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 remuneration, development opportunities, Remuneration respectand recognition and confidence in Our overall remuneration and benefits package leaders.
In response, a Staff Survey workshop, is designed to attract, motivate and retain comprising representatives from across the employees.
Our remuneration structure is simple, Group and facilitated by an independent external combining salary and benefits with an annual advisor, wasset up to distil the outcomes of the discretionary bonus and a long-term retention staff survey andto recommend changes to the bonus based on the Groups performance over way we work.
Our objective during 2017 has been a two year period.
In 2017 we added a share to implement their recommendations, which we incentive plan, which is open to all UK employees arepleased to set out below.
and matches employee contributions at a ratio of 1:1.
By the end of the year we have seen a 48% We will follow up on the implementation of our take up by UK employees, which is far above the actions with a staff survey in early 2019, in order average for this type of scheme and testament to to allow these changes to bed themselves into its success.
Our objective in 2018 is to investigate ourbusiness whilst we work on the objectives how we can implement a similar structure across weare yet to complete.
Objective Action Outcome Flexible Working Implemented Flexible Working Policy around core hours.
Successful six-month trial, now implemented in full.
Smart Working Investment Implemented Part of IT strategy.
Roll-out of new laptops and in IT user-friendly remote working interface.
Clearer Appraisal Process Implemented Revised, clear objective setting.
Workshops to assist in understanding ofthe process.
Office integration Implemented Increased collaboration between all teams in eachregion, via synchronising formal and informalevents and use of video conferencing.
Employee Equity Scheme Part Implemented In July 2017, following shareholder approval, implemented UK Share Incentive Plan with one-forone matching.
Next step to review implementation acrossthe rest of the Group.
Company Culture Part Implemented Enhanced communications e. g. staff consultation on office move resulting in increased collaborative working space, input into desk design and environment.
Full and half year Group-wide presentations from management.
Business ethics Modern Slavery Act 2015 The Board recognises the importance of the The Modern Slavery Act 2015 came into Groups responsibilities as an ethical employer and effecton29 October 2015 and requires any UK views matters in which the Group interacts with commercial organisation with a turnover of more the community both socially and economically as than 36 million to prepare a statement setting out the responsibility of the whole Board.
Following the steps taken during the financial year to ensure the enactment of the Bribery Act 2010, the Group that slavery and human trafficking is not taking implemented a suitable anti-bribery policy which place in its supply chain or its own business.
further demonstrated its commitment to business ethics.
To ensure continued compliance with the Bribery Act 2010, training is given to all new employees, and an annual online compliance check is completed by all employees.
35 Strategic report Corporate, social and environmental responsibility continued The Group published its first statement in respect Prompt Payment Code of the year ended 31 December 2016, which can CLS is a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code befound on our website at www.
PPC, a voluntary scheme backed by the UK Government to set standards of best practice The Group upholds the highest standards for payment of suppliers.
The PPC requires ofbusiness ethics and undertook a review of allsignatories to pay 95% of their undisputed its supply chain during the period.
The Board invoices to suppliers within a 60 day period.
is confident that as a result of the Groups management and reporting structure, For the year ended 31 December 2017, CLS settled thereare nosuch practices taking place.
97% of all undisputed invoices in the UK within 60 days, and 85% within 30 days, thus exceeding the required terms for the PPC.
From 1 January 2018, The Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance Regulations require CLS to report on the Groups UK companies payment practices twice yearly with the first report due by 30 July 2018.
Health & Safety It is a primary focus of the Board that the Group manages its activities so that the health and safety of its employees, customers, advisors and contractors and of the general public is not compromised.
As part of this process the Group employs specialist accredited advisers to advise on all health and safety matters in each country in which we operate.
The Group also operates a Health and Safety Committee, which covers issues related to the portfolio and its employees.
Chaired by the Company Secretary, thecommittee comprises Facilities Managers, Property Managers, employees and advisors, and is responsible to the Chief Executive Officer.
TheChiefExecutive Officer also attends Health and Safety Committee meetings.
As shown below, all regions maintain and follow localhealth andsafety policies and report issues to the Chief Executive Officer.
This reporting process has worked effectively throughout the year and has ensured ongoing compliance with health and safety legislation.
UK Germany France Industry regulation Industry regulation Industry regulation The Group sets health and safety All CLS buildings conform with building All CLS buildings have to comply objectives covering our workforce permits and are regularly reviewed by withthe Code du travail Labour Code, andportfolio and is monitored by local authorities to ensure compliance with whichdefines our responsibilities.
Facilities governed by special regulations are reviewed more frequently Each tenant is in charge of its byan appropriate certified specialist.
ownsecurity on its own premises Management process inaccordance with thesecurity Each managed or occupied property obligations of the building.
within the UK portfolio undergoes Management process anannual risk assessment against Facilities such as fire safety, electricity whichour targets can be measured.
supply, ventilation, lifts, heating Management process Ourtargets address three key areas: are reviewed as required by law or The building facilities such as the business standard and at least once a electricity supply, building and mechanical Risk Management & Control year by authorised personnel.
Reports safety checks are reviewed once or twice Document Compliance and protocols are reviewed by the a year by a statutory controller.
reports of the statutory controller are reviewed by our operational team.
This These areas are reviewed each We ensure that all scheduled reviews are process is audited externally twice a year, quarterthrough the Health and Safety conducted in accordance with local laws.
The accountability Committee and reported to the Board.
Facilities managers provide comprehensive remains with CLS France.
reports on a monthly basis to the As at the date of this report, Risk operational team.
We have achieved 100% statutory Management & Control was 99%: compliance.
Document Compliance was 93%: and As at the date of this report, 95% of the2017 Accidents Frequency Rate allidentified risks are under control.
All Every year, CLS France requires each was 119 accidents per 100,000 people other risks are continually monitored on tenant to provide their reports of statutory National AFR 910 100,000. an ongoing basis and a health and safety controls and insurance certificate for management system is being implemented.
36 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors gender ratio Emission Performance Comparison: at 31 December 2017 Managed Portfolio Absolute Male 8 2016 2017 Change GHG Type Female 2 Gas tonnes CO e 2,437 2,503 66 Scope 1 2 Electricity tonnes CO e 4,925 5,170 245 Scope 2 2 CLS Group Total tonnes CO e 7,362 7,673 311 Scope 1 & 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e sqm 0.0239 0.0162 0.0077 1&2 sqm 2 Group wide like-for-like Carbon emissions carbon emissions tonnes CO e 2 2015to2017 8,000 Senior management gender ratio Due to portfolio growth there at 31 December 2017 Whole group has been a rise in our absolute 6,000 Scope 1&2 emissions however Male 12 4,000 the emission intensity has Female 3 reduced and so our like-for- 2,000 like emissions have reduced.
0 2016 2017 Scope 2 Scope 1 Emission Performance Comparison: Managed Portfolio Like-for-like 2016 2017 Change GHG Type Gas tonnes CO e 2,294 2,308 13 Scope 1 2 Employee gender ratio Electricity at 31 December 2017 Whole group tonnes CO e 4,920 4,230 690 Scope 2 2 Male 52 CLS Group Total Female 53 tonnes CO e 7,214 6,538 677 Scope 1 & 2 2 CLS Group Total Scope tonnes CO e sqm 0.0226 0.0205 0.0021 1&2 sqm 2 Our 2017 strategic report, from IFC to page 37, has been reviewed andapproved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2018.
Find out more download our full David Fuller BA FCIS sustainability report from our Company Secretary website www.
