Strategic Report RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Its important that landlords and developers not only focus on As changing weather patterns create financial returns from real estate, but also fully understand devastation and the scientific community their responsibilities to the local communities within which they points to global warming as the cause, we operate and the wider environment.
are ever more aware of the direct effect A culture of accountability that we have on our environment.
We are a responsible owner, committed to owning high-quality, modern Big Box warehouses which deliver sustainable returns.
In order to achieve this, we must focus on owning and creating As a business we have a responsibility to play our part in buildings that benefit local communities and that are sustainable employing sustainable principles, not just because we consider in the long term.
this to be beneficial to our long-term financial success, but for the benefit of future generations.
Adopting this approach in We want our properties to minimise their impact on the local partnership with our Customers helps to ensure that the real and wider environment, therefore we carefully consider the estate from which they operate not only meets their future environmental performance of assets before we acquire them needs but also complies with evolving legislative requirements and encourage a sustainable approach to new developments and their individual corporate social responsibility ideals.
If our and to maintaining and upgrading existing buildings.
buildings are resilient in specification so as to be attractive to occupiers, they are likely to be attractive to investors, For all potential asset purchases, we analyse the data we obtain underpinning both income and capital values.
There is often and record it in a Green Review template.
The review may lead the opportunity to renew, invest and innovate, creating wider to further enquiries of the vendor, surveying and legal teams, welfare advantage at micro and macro levels.
or could identify opportunities for our initial business plan for the asset.
We also provide key sustainability data to the Board, Sphere of influence when seeking approval to proceed with a purchase As an externally managed business, we have no employees or office space.
The Board is made up of five Non-Executive How we influence sustainable practice Directors, comprising four men and one woman.
Our business As a landlord with  % of our investment assets leased, our is solely in the UK and we consider there to be a low risk of day-to-day environmental responsibilities are limited.
It is important to us, and to the continued is because under UK law a full repairing and insuring FRI service we receive from the Manager, that it has effective and lease conveys control of the property to the lessee in virtually fair employment practices.
The Manager has a bespoke bonus all respects.
Nonetheless, we have the ability to influence payment policy and low staff turnover.
It also has a healthy the culture of our Customers, make recommendations and balance of gender diversity and is committed to assisting the potentially assist with environmental and sustainable initiatives Company in its ambition to minimise the environmental footprint either by contributing to the cost or applying our knowledge and from our business operations.
expertise by way of assistance.
Many of our Customers have corporate responsibility targets and we therefore encourage The need for efficient sustainable buildings and help them to adopt sustainable business practices.
With greater awareness of the impact of buildings on the environment and finite natural resources, owners, developers We commission reviews of each asset for the potential and occupiers must take responsibility for ensuring that their installation of roof mounted solar PV panels and discuss the environmental footprint is minimised.
This can be delivered findings with our Customers.
We are currently progressing through adopting sustainable design and encouraging negotiations regarding two Group funded solar schemes, innovation in planned future operational practices.
Land together with a joint Group and Customer funded feasibility constraints in certain urban locations would prompt us to study in respect of the potential installation of a wind powered consider more flexibility in design, such as future-proofing for turbine.
One Customer took our analysis and has decided a multi-level or multi-user facility, thus being best placed to to self-fund a solar scheme and biomass boiler powered by meet growing demand whilst limiting the impact on the wider redundant timber pallets to heat the office element of the environment.
Proactive property management can assist in building, thereby lowering its carbon footprint through reduced mitigating risks, with alterations or replacement of items such transportation.
as boilers, lighting systems or reconfiguration of access and exit routes, so as to limit congestion.
Our Customers are responsible for an assets environmental performance throughout its use, such as greenhouse gas emissions or water consumption.
As we do not purchase any utilities, we cannot use the lease terms to influence how our Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Customer operate the property, however when negotiating new The MEES legislation provides an opportunity to work leases, we endeavour to encourage a sustainable approach collaboratively with our Customers, as we have identified that to facilities management.
As a result, we do not submit often green initiatives generate cost savings and enhance performance data to benchmarking indices such as the productivity.
When either we or our Customers undertake Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
such works, there is the opportunity to re-commission EPCs and demonstrate a rating improvement.
Through proactive Local communities management we can ensure that assets remain attractive and Our assets provide important benefits to their local operationally efficient for our Customers, whilst complying with communities.
They help our Customers to create jobs, often legislative requirements.
in areas where traditional industries have declined, thus boosting the local economy.
They also support economic Property development partnerships activity more broadly, by underpinning the efficient operation We do not undertake speculative development, but one of of our Customers and helping them succeed.
Securing and the areas in which we can exert most influence is through retaining labour is often a key decision factor for our Customers the commitment to a forward funded development of a new property decisions.
Access to public transport systems, amenity building which has been pre-let.
Whilst the specification will provisions and staff development programmes are areas where be substantially influenced by the operational requirements we aim to work collaboratively with our Customers.
of the occupier and financial constraints of the developer, we have the opportunity to influence the design approach.
This Measurement of energy efficiency can include the specification of the building, how it will be built The EPC rating is a key part of our review of potential asset and the inclusion of environmental elements such as rainwater purchases.
We also look at material environmental risks, such as harvesting and renewable power.
flood and storm risk, connectivity and circulation, and planning requirements.
In addition, we commission an environmental Asset management survey that includes the sites previous uses, so we can assess All but one of our assets are let to single Customers.
We look the risk of possible site contamination and any past remediation, to develop strong relationships with our Customers so that we with a view to implementing clean-up plans.
can work together to understand their property and corporate EPCs on all assets An Energy Performance Certificate EPC is required by law whenever a building is bought, sold or rented.
completed: % of An EPC is a key measure of an assets energy efficiency, assets rated and grades the property from A most efficient to G least efficient.
In April, under the Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards MEES, it became unlawful for landlords to A-E grant a new lease on an asset with an EPC rating below E. Our portfolio by gross internal area is rated as follows: A 6% B C 28% 18% D E 25% 23% as at  December  None of our properties are rated F or G. Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report Strategic Report: Responsible Business social responsibility requirements, endeavouring to provide Ongoing influence environmentally and operationally efficient buildings which The Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment suit their needs.
Our business plan for each asset identifies Methodology BREEAM is a voluntary sustainability measure.
opportunities to enhance environmental attributes.
Eight of It has six ratings, ranging from Unclassified to Outstanding.
We our properties harvest rainwater and five have either solar expect a minimum of a Very Good rating for our pre-let forward or wind generated power.
By working with our Customers, funded developments, which represents advanced good we expect to increase this number.
Other initiatives include practice and puts the buildings in the top quartile of new builds.
enabling rail connectivity, installing energy efficient lighting In , of the forward funded developments that we completed, and insulation, and plant replacement.
In addition, we support the following BREEAM ratings were awarded: Customers who want to make alterations to assets to support their employees, such as adding bus stops or staff shops.
A number of our Customers are conducting pioneering research into more sustainable and efficient logistics concepts, such as the use of drones or electric vehicles, which may require alterations to the property.
We are generally supportive of such initiatives, adopting a practical and efficient consent process to required building alterations.
Once established, these innovative practices could be of benefit to our wider Customer base.
Case Study: Littlebrook Strategic Land In September we acquired a c. acre site at landscaping with planting for wildlife including indigenous Littlebrook, Dartford, which previously accommodated trees and plants, balancing ponds and cleaning up of a local a former coal and oil power station.
Although operations stream which runs into the River Thames.
The design also were decommissioned in a very substantial power includes access through the site to the Thames and provision station building, other ancillary buildings and very large oil of a footpath with landscaped space adjacent to the river storage tanks remain on site.
Demolition of these buildings for enjoyment by the public.
The protection and creation of has commenced.
Together with our development partner, wildlife habitats both during and after construction forms Bericote Properties, we have sought to maximise recycling part of the strategy and management practices, an example of materials from the demolition, including considerable of this being the provision for the resident lizards.
amounts of steel which are being sold for reuse and rubble The development aims to apply high standards of energy which is being used for hardcore on site.
As little as possible efficiency in the specification of buildings.
Where possible is being transported off-site.
In parts of the site, ground levels the supply chain will be sourced locally, such as the needed to be raised and we have diverted dig materials from employment of construction staff from the local community.
another London development that were being transported to Goods inwards can be efficiently handled from nearby docks Kent in order to reduce carbon footprint.
at Tilbury, Gravesend or DP World.
The Littlebrook site also The former owner of the power station ensured that site benefits from two landing stages which are capable of inward was kept reasonably clean, but areas of contamination are and outward movement of goods by river.
inevitable given the history of the site and we are applying The occupiers are expected to want to deliver goods to a meticulous approach to remediating this.
The close proximity of large-scale We have worked collaboratively with National Grid in order buildings such as those planned at Littlebrook will help to move an existing electricity substation within our site to a reduce the carbon footprint because these buildings of scale new location on the fringe of our site.
The existing substation are close to their market.
The new substation, which will provide Land is a finite resource and this development seeks to power to our site, will be significantly more efficient.
demonstrate the benefits both locally and more widely which The location of the site is environmentally sensitive, being a regeneration project can bring.
adjacent to the River Thames.
The masterplan for the site includes initiatives to encourage biodiversity, including Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Looking forward We recently bid on a development site where the scheme was designed to be entirely self-sufficient through the application of advanced power technologies.
Currently this is not always possible, but with advances in technology our buildings will become more energy efficient.
Big Boxes benefit from being flexible spaces occupying large sites which are capable of accommodating such technologies, so in this respect they benefit from significant future-proofing.
We live in a fast-moving world with increasing consumer demands impacting on the pressures for logistics.
We view change as an opportunity to influence our environment for the good.
The UK government is seeking to positively influence a reduction in fossil fuel emissions but more needs to be done.
For articulated lorries, the technology is not sufficiently advanced but we are keen on supporting initiatives for hybrid vehicles with on-site battery charging terminals.
Pilot studies are indicating the future potential for autonomous vehicles and drone delivery, both of which have the potential to reduce carbon emissions, deliver efficiencies, reduce danger, pollution and congestion on our roads.
Prior to commencement of demolition at Littlebrook, ecological surveys identified a small number of reptiles on the site.
To safeguard the reptiles, a protection plan was implemented.
This involved collection and relocation of the reptiles to a specially constructed, larger and more suitable habitat elsewhere within the site.
Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
