Corporate responsibility OUR CONTRIBUTION IN A CHANGING WORLD We are committed to using RSAs business assets, expertise and knowledge to address the issues that our customers care about most, and to help make the difficult times a little bit easier.
Our five year Corporate Responsibility strategy, Making Things Better, Together, was launched in 2014 and informed by the issues most material to the Company, its stakeholders and customers.
Making things better, together technologies which allow swimmers to insurer, we feel the consequences of these Our strategy uses our business strengths assess their blood-alcohol levels before events in our business particularly acutely and expertise to help build a safer world swimming in open water.
through our interactions with affected for our customers, support communities customers.
We support customers in the Thriving communities to thrive and contribute to addressing region to provide them with information Our business cannot be successful unless climate change, as well as ensuring we and relief, and continue to do everything the communities we operate in also are managing the impact of our own we can to get them back on their feet.
flourish and thrive, and we see this as a business operations.
core part of our role across our operations.
Our commitment to helping build a Safe, secure world We support and encourage our employees sustainable future encompasses supporting At RSA we believe we can play a meaningful to contribute to the economic and social our customers to adapt and respond to and practical role in helping our customers development of their local areas, by sharing climate change, managing the impact of our to avoid risks.
their skills, offering their time, and business on the environment, and insuring fundraising for local causes.
renewable energy projects to accelerate In 2017, we reached millions of people the transition to a low carbon economy.
through media and online campaigns Last year, employees in Canada contributed We manage our own operations efficiently, focused on raising awareness of to building 150 new homes in Edmonton, monitoring our energy consumption, preventable risks across our markets.
Alberta, supporting those affected by last water use and waste, in line with our We use insight, data, communications years wild fires in neighbouring Fort Environmental Policy, and engage third and our product development expertise McMurray.
In the UK, our Ready, Set, Achieve parties to support us in assuring the to help keep people safer in their homes, programme helped young people develop quality of our information and identify on the roads and in their businesses.
the skills, knowledge and confidence they improvement opportunities.
This year, need to secure employment, through Our Danish business, Codan, is helping we reduced emissions from our operations bespoke workshops hosted by our by 4.3 percent per employee by limiting our customers and their families stay safe employees in communities close to online.
In 2017, our educational seminars business travel and increasing efficiency in our sites.
Full emissions data can be and practical advice on how to stay safe when connected to the Internet reached In 2017, we invested 1,893,600 in our found on page 96. over two million people.
This included 265,900 Recognising the shape and scope of our raised for charitable causes by our business operations and their limited In the UK, our telematics and connected employees, who also volunteered business is using the latest technology environmental impacts, our efforts are almost 9,000 hours of their time in focused on the role we play within the developments and behavioural sciences their communities.
Our community to help customers anticipate and avoid insurance sector.
For example, we are investment is guided by our Community contributing to the development of risks, particularly while driving.
Our early and Charitable Policy and monitored trials have shown up to a 10 percent environmental, social and governance through our Corporate Responsibility ESG guidance for underwriters through improvement in driving scores for the function to ensure compliance, including worst drivers, helping to improve road the UN Environment Programme Principles that no conflicts of interest exist, and no for Sustainable Insurance.
We continue to safety for everyone.
political donations are made by RSA Group.
be a leading insurer of renewable energy: In Sweden, where outdoor swimming is through our Centre of Excellence for Sustainable future a popular summer pastime, were also 2017 reminded us of the devastating impact Wind in Denmark we have insured over pursuing innovations to tackle water safety.
90 percent of the worlds current offshore that extreme weather events can have on Around 50 percent of drowning victims communities and businesses following the operational windfarm capacity.
Last in Sweden are found to have alcohol in year we were appointed as lead London series of hurricanes in the Caribbean and their blood, so weve been developing the tragic earthquakes in Mexico.
As an insurer in the Muhammed bin Rashid Al 38 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Trygg-Hansa has supported 16,500 children to improve their confidence and ability in the water Maktoum Phase III Solar Farm project frontline staff and others to help them We strongly encourage our people to which is supporting Dubais ambition to use consider, recognise and support customers speak out if they have concerns about 75 percent clean energy by 2050.
Through according to their individual circumstances.
Our annually-reviewed Group-wide our insight and knowledge of such projects Across the Group we have invested in Whistleblowing Policy, available on we are reducing the risks and costs improving workplace health and wellbeing, our intranet, sets out the procedure associated with their development.
with a specific focus on mental health for colleagues to confidentially raise in Canada and the UK.
We have also concerns about suspected wrongdoing Responsible business strengthened our actions to promote and malpractice.
We are committed to improving the way diversity and inclusion in our business, we operate, to ensure the positive impact Information on policy compliance is outlined in the People section of this report.
of our business is maximised and the escalated to management.
We engage with Anti-bribery and corruption receives updates on our anti-corruption customers, employees and suppliers, We take our commitments to preventing controls at least annually.
Where a breach being open and transparent in how we bribery and corruption risk very seriously.
is material or not in compliance with manage our operations and deliver our Bribery and corruption are not tolerated regulations, we will report externally.
products and services, helping us build anywhere in our business and this standard, Looking forward trust.
We continually monitor the ESG risks led by our Board and Group Executive, Our Making Things Better Together strategy associated with our operations and take applies globally.
Over the course of action to manage those of material concern Our Anti-Corruption, Conflicts of Interest, this year, we will be taking the opportunity to our business, as outlined in the Risk Gifts and Hospitality Policies apply to reflect on the impact delivered over the Management section of this report.
Group-wide and are supported by past five years and to review our approach As signatories of the UN Global Compact, extensive resources and guidance, including to corporate responsibility, to ensure it we are committed to protecting human our anti-bribery toolkit, which is available continues to maximise our potential to rights and eliminating discrimination, to all our businesses.
Our mandatory generate positive impacts on society and and our Human Rights Policy outlines the Group-wide Anti-bribery and Corruption the environment.
expectations placed on our employees, ABC training is supplemented by targeted We are committed to continuing to harness business partners and suppliers in this training for staff in higher risk roles, and all our businesss strengths and expertise to regard.
To ensure we are taking appropriate employees are required to complete make the difficult times a little easier for our steps to address the risk of modern slavery training on whistleblowing.
As a result, customers, and help to keep them and their in our supply chains, we have updated our our employees are equipped to identify communities safe.
Third Party Contracts Policy and Supplier and escalate issues and behaviours which Code of Conduct to set a clear expectation may constitute corruption.
In addition, we have maintain the right culture by regular updated our due diligence processes to reminders of our expectations.
enable us to assess a suppliers position All operating countries must complete on human rights and ESG issues more regular anti-corruption risk assessments effectively.
In the UK in 2017 we assessed covering all aspects of their businesses, 138 suppliers deemed as most high risk including procedures and HR matters to our business to ensure they meet and the high expectations we have of these expectations.
Our operating countries The information required to be contained in the In 2017 we made significant progress to are all given guidance to support non-financial reporting statement under section 414CA Companies Act 2006 is set out on pages enhance the support we offer to colleagues them to continuously improve their 33 to 41 of this Strategic Report.
In the UK we have been anti-corruption controls.
information contained in the sections on the focusing on our training programmes for Groups business model and key performance indicators is also incorporated into the statement.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
