Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Our people Developing our people Investment in people remains an area of focus for us.
In 2017, we: Our people Developed a three year people strategy.
This defines and sets direction for a simpler, global approach, identifying, assessing and developing our talent to mobilise their potential Moved 39% of our high potential senior leaders into new or broader roles to develop core experiences and strengthen our executive pipeline We have a clear purpose.
We help our customers Defy Uncertainty: Delivered our Leadership Accelerator programme to 290 of our this remains at the core of what our people do.
This commitment to senior leaders.
Feedback has been extremely positive and we are customers, high levels of people engagement and skills, and seeing a difference in leadership approach and capability.
A alignment to Avivas values helped contribute to Avivas strong version of this programme will be rolled out to people leaders financial performance.
from 2018 The focus for 2017 has been on our culture: we want to be a Ensured that 83 high potential female leaders from a range of business which is simple, innovative and customer centric in levels have attended Accelerate Leadership from the Inside out everything we do.
ALIO, our female-only leadership programme.
The programme We employ 30,021 people globally and in the UK, we employ offers a unique opportunity to develop our female leaders, build more than 14,600 people.
their confidence and deepen their commitment to Aviva Our strategy Launched our Digital Academy in Poland to help develop the next Our global people strategy sets out how we will accelerate our generation of programmers and future digital talent performance.
We will: Established the Global Graduate Leadership Programme to create Focus on our customers by connecting the day-to-day activities of a high performing pipeline of globally mobile graduates, designed our people with our purpose to build our long-term leadership capability and meet our future Give our people the freedom to act in line with our values business needs.
We currently have graduates located across UK, Make leadership a way of life so all our people contribute to Singapore, Hong Kong, Vietnam, Canada, USA, France, Poland delivering our strategy and think independently.
We want leaders and Italy who dream big and move fast in everything they do Create an inclusive and diverse environment so that everyone can Engaging our people In 2017 our global Voice of Aviva survey focussed on key areas of be themselves insight to drive growth.
Engagement is up one percentage point to Actively invest in the skills, mind-sets and future capabilities we 75% and is now consistent across all of our markets after significant need to win in a digital age improvements for France and Singapore, 85% of colleagues see Our values how their teams work aligns to Avivas strategy.
Our values guide everything we do and the decisions we take: Our culture journey since 2014 has shown significant shifts towards a culture of more innovation and less bureaucracy.
70% of Care More colleagues feel able to challenge complexity and 69% feel able to We start with the customer and prioritise delivering a great outcome try out new and exciting ideas to benefit our customers.
We do the right thing, making sure we and those around in five employees believe that Aviva values their health and us are acting with positive intent.
We dont shrink from the tough wellbeing, up nine percentage points in 2017 alone following the conversations.
launch of a highly successful Health and Wellbeing programme.
Our culture journey will continue in 2018 with on-going focus on Kill Complexity colleague engagement, giving people the freedom and room to We can list our priorities on one hand, picking a few things to do operate and innovate, developing our leaders to lead for the future brilliantly.
We make the call with the right information.
We join and creating the conditions where colleagues can perform at their forces and build it once.
We recognise that we still have more to simplify processes and systems within Aviva and this will be a key focus for 2018.
Never Rest Within Aviva we take our responsibility to consult very seriously.
We fail fast and learn fast, testing and learning at pace.
We embrace We have a positive and constructive relationship with the trade digital.
We are dissatisfied with the way things are done now.
We union Unite as well as a fully elected all-employee representative challenge ourselves to learn about the cutting edge and harness it.
The existence of Your Forum within Aviva is a key We get it done at pace.
way of recognising that we all have a part to play in contributing to the debate on issues and opportunities impacting on our people Create Legacy and our organisation.
We invest with courage, taking smart risks and making good The representative bodies meet regularly with the CEO and decisions to ensure we allocate our resources where they can do members of the GEC throughout the year.
We believe that by doing most.
We think like an owner, taking responsibility.
We go for more so we encourage a culture of trust and open and honest than quick wins.
communication that will help us ensure that our organisation is a better place to be.
Changes to business landscape We continue to provide an employee share scheme and all We continue to strengthen the leadership teams including employees have the opportunity to engage with senior leader restructuring the UK business to ensure the management structure through weekly #Uncut episodes our global streaming platform, reflects the True Customer Composite nature of the business.
results live and regular town halls.
This ensures everyone at Aviva is During 2017 we have welcomed the employees from RBC aware of significant changes in the business and financial and General Insurance into Aviva Canada and successfully negotiated economic factors affecting the business.
with unions to facilitate the sale of our Spanish business with 90% of people transferring across to the new buyer.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 12 S S St t tra ra rate te tegi gi gic repor c repor c report t t G G Go o overn vern vernan an ance ce ce IF IF IFRS RS RS f f fi i in n na a an n nc c cia ia ial l l st st sta a at t temen emen ement t ts s s Oth O Ot ther in her in er inf f for o orma rma mati t tio io on n n Our people Continued Inclusive diversity Health and wellbeing Inclusive diversity is at the heart of how we do business and a key We know our employees are a key factor in making our business requirement for the workforce of the future.
If people can be successful and as such their wellbeing is key.
We launched themselves, theyll be happier and contribute their best thinking.
Wellbeing@Aviva in 2017, an integrated approach to Wellbeing They will also be more in tune with our diverse customer base and covering mental health, physical health, financial education and better able to serve their evolving needs.
Our staff engagement social and community.
This includes the Aviva Wellbeing app, which survey shows that 87% of our people feel that people from diverse allows our people to set personalised action plans to create healthy backgrounds can succeed at Aviva and we want to see this reflected new habits, link wearables and apps to track all activity in one in the diversity of talent we attract and develop within the place, take part in challenges and earn points to exchange for a Company.
We have initiatives in place such as leader training In 2017 we focussed our attention on gender and age, for the for mental health, physical health checks, and free membership to first time setting a 30% target to increase the proportion of women Headspace for mindfulness practice, an enhanced sickness policy in senior roles across the Group by 2020.
We have also published and income protection scheme, key focus on nutrition and we also our gender pay gap in the UK and expect to see that close over time provide additional support via our essentials products for both too.
A key policy change to contribute to our inclusive culture was physio and cancer.
In 2017 we launched our new Carers Policy in the launch of our new equal parental leave policy in Canada, UK, the UK which offers paid time off for carers and we are shortly France, Ireland and Singapore.
It enables any parent employed by launching a new fitness proposition for all our people.
2018 will also Aviva to be eligible to the same amount of paid and unpaid time off, see a higher focus on financial education.
regardless of gender, sexual orientation or how they became a parent birth, adoption or surrogacy.
Our plans for 2018 Innovation, simplicity, inclusion and developing winning We are an equal opportunities employer and ensure a capabilities will be key priorities for us as we continue to transform consistent approach to recruitment and all areas of employment our business.
policies across all our markets.
These policies apply to all Aviva We recognise that we are on a journey to accelerate Avivas directors and employees, business units, and operations, and it is transformation into a company that puts the customers at the the responsibility of CEOs or equivalent to ensure that their centre of everything we do and our focus will be on ensuring our business operates in line with them.
people can deliver in an innovative and simple way.
We are committed to ensuring we provide full and fair In 2018 we will continue to focus on developing an inclusive consideration for job applications from people with disabilities, as workforce which is fit for the future.
well as supporting any of our people who become disabled while working for Aviva.
We have a duty of care to make adjustments to At 31 December 2017, we had the following gender split: roles and responsibilities which will allow a disabled person to work or continue working.
For example, we adapt the working Board membership environment where we can and offer flexible working practices and Male appropriate training to take into account their personal 9 circumstances.
Female As a member of The Business Disability Forum were 3 committed to ensuring that all candidates for recruitment and employees are treated fairly throughout the employee lifecycle Senior management including opportunities for training, promotion and career Male development.
521 We continue to build on the existing strengths of our Female communities and partnerships with the launch of six global 169 employee resource groups focussing on age, gender balance, caring, disability, sexual orientation, race and ethnicity in 2018.
We Aviva Group employees will also be setting targets and tracking progress in these Male dimensions in our core markets and Group functions through 14,618 agreed Statements of Intent overseen by our Global Inclusion Council.
Female To manage employment risk, we conduct pre-employment 15,403 screening checking and operate regular performance appraisals for all employees at all levels, which are independently calibrated The average number of employees employed by the Group during throughout an employees career.
Any exceptions to the policies are 2017 was 30,090. reported to line management and escalated via the appropriate channels.
Read about our approach to responsible and sustainable business As a financial services regulated entity, we have a compulsory in the Corporate Responsibility section of this report and our and tailored annual risk-based training and awareness programme people strategy at www.
com about-us our-people to ensure employees and others acting on Avivas behalf know what is expected of them.
Our people are regularly updated by the senior team through several mechanisms, such as our intranet and #Uncut episodes, giving employees equal and timely access to information on financial and economic factors affecting Aviva.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 13
