Our people BUILDING THE RIGHT WORKING ENVIRONMENT In 2017, we continued building a company with high standards of leadership, effective ways of working, great technical know-how and an inclusive, sustainable culture.
RSA leaders are driven and determined In a lean organisation, collaboration and We expect our leaders to be role models best-practice sharing is vital.
In November, for what it means to be best-in-class.
we held our annual Group Senior Leaders The 30% Club cross company That means that they need to win for event bringing together the community of mentoring programme has been our customers and shareholders and our most senior leaders, enabling them to invaluable.
As a mentee it has be determined in the pursuit of high create new connections, learn about provided me with a personalised performance, resilient and willing challenges and trends in the market and development opportunity to innovate.
contribute to determining our future with access to an independent priorities.
Use of our internal digital To build this capability, there has been collaboration platforms continues to and objective perspective.
a focus on defining and building our grow, enabling our employees to connect My mentor encouraged me leadership skills at all levels to support across multiple locations in more agile to explore outside the obvious us to win in each of our markets.
In the and innovative ways, and provide UK for example, we have developed our career enhancements and real-time feedback.
new leadership development curriculum, more importantly, to focus including Licence to Lead, which equips Over and above the right tools and on developing as a person our leaders with the foundation skills to ways of working, the cultural health of and not just a leader.
drive performance and bring out the best the organisation is critical to creating in their teams.
Similarly in Scandinavia, a sustainable business, and we have Gurjinder Rai over 250 new leaders and functional continued to monitor this on a quarterly Finance Transformation Lead, Scandinavia heads will have attended a tailored basis.
This involves co-ordinating input leadership development programme by from HR, Risk and Audit to monitor April 2018.
In Canada, a new framework any potential cultural risk factors such of Leader Expectations is underpinning as employee engagement, employee assessment of leadership capability and a turnover and succession coverage range of new development programmes for critical roles.
This means that we will be designed to grow this critical can spot any potential problem areas capability.
Senior leaders across the which need to be addressed before Group have continued to participate in a any serious issues occur.
programme of 360 feedback and coaching RSA has great technical know-how to ensure that they continue to develop Technical capability is naturally at the the style and capabilities which are aligned 1 heart of our business.
We aim to be Total number of employees with the priorities of their businesses.
best in class in underwriting, claims, at the end of 2017 RSA leaders channel ambition pricing, portfolio management and risk % of into good outcomes engineering to ensure that our people Group Employees Total Our success depends on delivering our can deliver the best outcomes for both promises to customers while creating our customers and our shareholders.
UK & International 6,503 51% value for our shareholders.
We expect Canada 3,126 25% In 2017, our Group Technical Academy our people to be customer-focused supported our Regions with face-to-face Scandinavia 2,770 22% and to do the right thing by customers development of over 150 people totalling GCC 160 1% this is embedded into our pursuit of over 7000 training hours, and assisted outperformance.
Delivering for our Other 78 1% with a number of continuing technical customers also means equipping our 12,636 development events.
We continue to people to perform their roles by providing develop and deliver a range of technical Notes: them with the tools they need.
40 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Gaelle Tortuyaux, managing director of our French operations, at the Group Senior Leaders event capability development programmes senior management population at RSA.
cross-company mentoring programme to make us best-in-class, sustaining We have appointed a new Group Head This highly regarded programme is our technical advantage and providing of Diversity & Inclusion D&I to develop designed specifically to support female a stimulating working environment for and implement the Groups D&I strategy progression and during 2017 we were those with technical talent.
and take responsibility for the Group D&I able to offer mentoring to women in Council action plan.
And individual regions RSA at the emerging leader level.
RSA is a place where fulfilling continue to make this a priority issue.
careers can be made As part of our engagement of employees In the UK, we are committed to actions We believe that RSA should be as diverse in shaping and giving feedback on our which over time will reduce our gender as the customers it serves.
To attract ongoing D&I agenda, we have begun to pay gap.
For example, when recruiting for and retain diverse and talented people establish employee resource groups.
senior roles, we require diverse shortlists who will thrive, we aim to offer exciting To date in the UK we have groups which of candidates and monitor the conversion and meaningful careers at RSA.
We are focus on gender and on LGBT issues and rates of shortlisted candidates from maintaining our focus on developing we will continue to support the growth under-represented groups to job offer.
our internal emerging talent: the UK and success of these groups, as well as We were also very pleased in November and Scandinavias talent programmes the establishment of similar groups in 2017 to become a signatory to HM Treasurys Accelerate and Fast Track for example, other regions.
Of course, feedback from Women in Finance Charter which support the transition of talented people all employees about what its like to work commits us to achieving a 33 percent at various levels of the business through in RSA is important to us, and in 2017, we representation of women in to more senior roles.
ran another YOURSAY employee opinion our Management Group by 2020. survey.
Our colleagues confirmed that RSA These talent programmes have been To meet these commitments, developing is a workplace with a strong performance successful in developing new leaders women leaders who are already in culture, where there are opportunities at RSA for a number of years.
For the business is critical, and in 2018 we to learn and grow, and where teams example, in 2017 in the UK, female will further increase the number of collaborate well.
They also told us what and male employees were promoted female delegates attending our talent more we need to do to achieve our Best in in broadly equal proportions into development programmes.
We have listened, and as a our senior leadership population.
we are funding attendance on Rotman consequence increased our senior leader However like many financial services Business Schools Initiative for Women in communication of key business messages organisations, change is needed to Business and in the UK we have continued to all employees, including globally shift the dial on gender diversity in the with our participation in the 30% Club streamed Results town halls, face-toface Buzz sessions, and online, open discussions #YamJams on our internal Employee headcount by gender end 2017 social collaboration tool, Yammer.
Year end 2017 headcount Male Female Diversity of thought, background Group Board of Directors 8 2 and experience enables us to innovate Group Executive Committee 8 2 and create better solutions for our customers and to build a sustainable, Senior management 417 209 modern business.
1 Group overall 5,845 6,895 In 2017, we continued to focus on building Notes: 1.
B ased on Group permanent and non-permanent headcount.
the people capabilities and culture which S enior management reflects the same group reported in Women in Finance Charter goals.
2016 adjusted will help us to achieve our best in class comparison group: M: 427, F: 198.
As at 31 December 2017 there were 131 males and 43 females who were ambition for customers and shareholders directors of undertakings included in the consolidation.
It is not a reference and we intend to sustain this effort into group that RSA uses and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity: however it is disclosed to comply with regulatory requirements.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41
