Strategic report Governance IFRS financial statements Other information Corporate responsibility apply to all Aviva directors and employees, business units, and operations, and it is the responsibility of CEOs or equivalent to Corporate ensure that their business operates in line with them.
The Financial Crime Business Standard guides our risk-based responsibility financial crime programmes, which seek to prevent, detect and report financial crime, including any instances of bribery and corruption, while complying fully with relevant legislation and regulation.
We implement a risk-based training and awareness framework to ensure employees and others acting on Avivas behalf know what Defying uncertainty in uncertain times is expected of them and how they should manage bribery and At Aviva we have an approach to business that is both responsible corruption risks.
and sustainable and which aligns with our values and supports our We conduct risk-based due diligence when recruiting and when strategy.
With a clear purpose to Defy Uncertainty, we are using our engaging external partners.
This includes background checks and a bright ideas to help tackle some of the most important social and requirement to align to Avivas anti-bribery and anti-corruption environmental challenges of our time, such as ageing populations principles.
Managed suppliers are asked to sign-up to our Supplier and climate change, for the good of our customers, our Code of Behaviour and are also made aware of our Business Ethics communities and the world.
Code, both of which also include reference to human rights and modern slavery.
In 2017, 81% of Group and UK managed suppliers Meeting our customers needs agreed to our Code of Behaviour or had their own equivalent code We offer a wide range of insurance and savings products to help our of behaviour which requires compliance with all applicable 33 million customers protect whats important to them and save for financial crime laws and regulations, including bribery and a comfortable future.
In 2017, we engaged 88% of our managed suppliers on In 2017, globally we paid out 34.6 billion in benefits and claims, corporate responsibility issues.
supporting our customers when they needed us the most.
To ensure that anti-bribery and anti-corruption controls are In addition, nearly two thirds of our markets offered our operating effectively we assess relevant management information customers a product which enabled them to be more such as key performance indicators on financial crime risks: environmentally responsible or gave them easier access to the 1 compliance oversight: reporting to the appropriate local protection they needed for themselves and their families.
For governance committee: annual attestation to compliance with the example, in Poland we funded 300 external air quality sensors Standard: and inclusion in Internal Audits risk based audit which were added to the national network in places selected by programme.
At a Group level, the Chief Risk Officer provides Avivas local communities.
By helping people monitor the air quality where Board Governance Committee with regular reporting on financial they live, they can take action to protect themselves, their families, crime matters, including Avivas anti-bribery and anti-corruption and their communities.
We are also offering discounts for in-home programme.
air quality sensors to life and health insurance customers in Poland.
Our malpractice helpline, Right Call, makes it easy to report any We continue to improve our processes for the benefit of our concerns in confidence, with all reports referred to an independent customers.
For example, Aviva Singapore has implemented einvestigation team.
In 2017, 41 cases were reported through Right submission for new business applications for individual life and Call 2016: 25, including one related to bribery and corruption health customers.
This has reduced the need for paper forms and concerns.
35 cases reached conclusion, and 6 remain under made applications easier for customers and advisers by providing investigation.
There has been no material litigation arising from any an immediate underwriting decision.
We work hard to offer great customer service and this is reflected in our NPS score which shows that seven out of ten of our Supporting communities businesses are in or above the upper quartile relative to the local In 2017, we launched the Aviva Community Fund in more markets, market average.
giving hundreds of organisations across ten countries the chance to However, we know that we do not always get it right and any secure the support they need to make a difference in their local complaints and feedback we receive are taken seriously and communities.
We also increased our community investment by 5%, investigated thoroughly.
This commitment is reflected in the totalling 11.9 million 2016: 11.3 million and the number of customer business standard all our markets abide by see the inspirational local projects we supported by 50%, totalling 2,400 policies section of aviva.
This in turn helped 792,000 people.
We harnessed the passion and talent of our people at Aviva, with 13% of our Ethical practice employees contributing 48,400 hours of volunteering time and We are committed to high standards of ethical behaviour.
Our giving or fundraising over 1.2 million.
Our Voice of Aviva results Business Ethics Code outlines our high ethical standards and show that 88% of our people believe that Aviva is a good corporate ensures we operate responsibly and transparently.
We require all citizen, up 8% since 2015 and 15% above the industry benchmark.
our people, at every level, to read and sign-up to our Code every These employees are 58% more likely to be proud of Aviva.
year 99% of our employees did so in 2017.
In 2017, we also We are now two years into our strategic partnership with the reviewed and improved our business ethics training that British Red Cross BRC, working together to help communities to accompanies the Code, to reinforce its importance and practical be better informed, prepared, and therefore more resilient if application for our people.
This year we identified and funded four new Red We have a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and Cross community resilience projects across our markets in Canada, corruption.
To manage bribery and corruption risks, Aviva operates Singapore, Italy and Poland.
In the UK we supported the BRC to within a risk management framework which sets high-level policies help those impacted by the Grenfell Tower fire, and the terror and standards across all markets.
These policies and standards 1 For a definition of these products, please see www.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 28 S S S S S St t t t t tra ra ra ra ra rate te te te te tegi gi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t t G G G G G Go o o o o overn vern vern vern vern vernan an an an an ance ce ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IFR IFRS RS RS RS RS S f f f f f fi i i i i in n n n n nanci a a a a an n n n nc c c c cia ia ia ia ia al state l l l l l st st st st sta a a a at t t t temen emen emen emen emen ments t t t t ts s s s s O O O O O Ot t t t t ther in her in her in her in her in her inf f f f f fo o o o o orma rma rma rma rma rmat t t t t tio io io io io ion n n n n n Corporate responsibility Continued Shaping markets for sustainability attacks in Manchester and Westminster.
We are also the sponsor of We believe the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs can the UK-wide BRC Community Reserve Volunteer project, which will guide us, our customers and society towards a brighter, more create a network of 10,000 people to help out when disaster strikes sustainable future.
However, it is only by changing the rules of their local communities and working together with the BRC during capital markets and making finance longer-term and more major emergencies such as flooding.
sustainable that these ambitious goals will be met.
We are therefore In 2018, we plan to increase the impact of the Aviva Community spearheading the creation of the World Benchmarking Alliance and Fund across the world and aim to support 2.5 million beneficiaries the establishment of public, transparent and authoritative league through our community activities by 2020. tables, ranking companies on their contribution to the SDGs.
In September 2017, we jointly launched a global consultation to shape Reuniting our customers with their policies Maintaining contact with our 10.6 million UK life and pension this work and set-up the World Benchmarking Alliance.
We continue customers is extremely important to us and we work proactively to to engage with a range of governments and wider stakeholders reunite them with their policies.
Our focus in 2017 has been on reworldwide.
engaging with customers whose policies are administered by our Aviva has been a member of the EU High Level Expert Group on third party partners, or who are members of a Corporate Pension Sustainable Finance, which is making recommendations to the scheme.
We have also worked closely with the life and pensions European Commission on policy changes required to make the industry and the Association of British Insurers on developing a flows of finance more sustainable.
Among these are proposals to framework for dealing with gone away customers.
consider capital adequacy rules for investments, reviewing By the end of 2017, we managed to re-establish contact with European Supervisory Authorities and clarifying fiduciary duty in the nearly 118,000 customers.
Our work in the early part of 2018 will EU through regulation.
Aviva will continue to advocate for these focus on re-establishing contact with those customers who hold changes at the global level too.
Starting with ourselves In 2017, Aviva received a UN Momentum for Change Award Championing responsible investment Aviva is committed to responsible investment, using our influence recognising our work over the last decade to reduce the to support more sustainable businesses and ultimately a more environmental impact of our business and help inspire action on sustainable economy and society.
As part of our commitment to climate change.
We are a carbon neutral company, and continue to responsible investment we use Environmental, Social and offset 100% of any remaining carbon emissions, with our offsetting Governance ESG insight to re-orientate capital away from shortprojects helping over 1 million people since 2012 live better lives term thinking and towards longer term investment decisions.
e. g. through provision of clean cook-stoves in Kenya.
We are also We actively promote good practice among the companies we driving efficiency in our operations.
For example, in 2017 our invest in.
We aim to identify and reduce ESG risks in our portfolios.
Canadian head office moved into a Gold LEED certified building and For example, by understanding the quality of the Board of directors we are currently merging four other locations into one energy of a company and its strategy on issues, such as climate change or efficient office site.
To date we have achieved a 53% reduction in the Living Wage, we can gauge how well prepared they are to deal CO2e against the 2010 baseline, meeting our 2020 target of 50% with current or emerging ESG issues.
We continue work towards our ambitious long-term target of As an example of our work in this area, Aviva Investors, Avivas a 70% reduction by 2030.
Under the Carbon Reduction global asset management company, is focussing on reducing Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, we reported total antibiotic resistance at 40 large food producing and retailing emissions of 128,185 tonnes of CO2e in 2017 costing 2.2 million.
companies with high exposure to excessive antibiotic use within This mandatory scheme is limited to UK business emissions from their supply chains.
building energy, and includes the property portfolio of our Our investments also support the transition to a low-carbon investment funds managed by Aviva Investors.
We are also looking economy see below for more details.
at ways to further reduce plastic use in our UK offices.
Investing with impact A challenge for today, not tomorrow Across the world, we are working with entrepreneurs to nurture Aviva has a long-term commitment to tackle climate change.
In their ideas and grow their businesses, with the aim of changing 2015, we announced an investment target of 500 million annually insurance for the better.
In 2014 Aviva France launched Aviva for the next five years in low-carbon infrastructure.
We also set an Impact Investing France, becoming the first financial institution in associated carbon savings target for this investment of 100,000 the country to create an investment fund dedicated to financing tonnes of CO e annually.
In 2017, Aviva Investors signed 527.5 2 socially and environmentally responsible companies.
This fund is million of new investment in wind, solar, biomass and energy now endowed with 30 million.
With this pioneering initiative, Aviva efficiency.
wants to participate in the development of social entrepreneurship, Aviva continues to manage the impact of our business on the a particularly innovative sector that creates viable economic environment.
Our Corporate Responsibility, Environment and solutions to address major social issues.
Aviva France also wants to Climate change business standard focuses on the most material demonstrate that investments can create social good as well as operational environmental impacts, which we have identified as healthy financial earnings.
We report these as carbon dioxide During 2017, Aviva Ventures, our global capital investment equivalent emissions CO e on an operational basis in respect of 2 business, also invested in a number of start-ups having a positive Avivas Group-wide operations.
social impact on peoples lives.
This included in the UK, investment More details of our environmental KPI data and our in Owlstone Medical Ltd, a medical diagnostics company independent assurance process can be found on developing a breathalyser that can detect diseases at a very early www.
The company is currently developing tests for lung and colorectal cancer, two of the most common terminal cancer conditions worldwide.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 29 S S S S S St t t t t tra ra ra ra ra rate te te te te tegi gi gi gi gi gic repor c repor c repor c repor c repor c report t t t t t G G G G G Go o o o o overn vern vern vern vern vernan an an an an ance ce ce ce ce ce IF IF IF IF IF IFRS RS RS RS RS RS f f f f f fi i i i i in n n n n na a a a a an n n n n nc c c c c cia ia ia ia ia ial l l l l l st st st st st sta a a a a at t t t t temen emen emen emen emen ement t t t t ts s s s s s O O O O O Ot t t t t ther in her in her in her in her in her inf f f f f fo o o o o orma rma rma rma rma rmat t t t t tio io io io io ion n n n n n Corporate responsibility Continued Operational global greenhouse gas emissions data boundaries Respect for human rights Our carbon footprint boundaries show the scope of the data we We have a human rights policy that identifies our main stakeholders monitor and the emissions we offset.
We report on Greenhouse Gas as well as the most salient human rights issues for our business.
The GHG emission sources on a carbon dioxide emissions equivalents scope of this policy is group-wide and sets out the Groups basis CO2e as required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic commitment to respect human rights.
It applies to all Aviva report and Directors reports 2013 Regulations.
We also refer to the business units, operations, functions and staff, including but not GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and limited to legal entities including joint ventures, acquisitions, emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion disposals, outsourcing arrangements, new products, new asset Factors for Company Reporting 2017. classes and strategic projects.
Our approach to modern slavery is part our overall approach to Tonnes CO e 2017 2016 2015 2 human rights.
In 2017, we updated our human rights policy to make Scope 1 17,915 19,210 19,112 explicit mention of modern slavery as an area of focus.
In addition, Scope 2 31,280 41,008 49,595 we: Scope 3 19,305 19,193 19,991 Engaged with our UK managed suppliers on their work to prevent Absolute CO e 68,500 79,410 88,698 2 Carbon offsetting 68,500 79,410 88,698 modern slavery in their operations: Total net emissions - - - Worked with our UK procurement teams to further improve their processes, ensuring that new suppliers are required to agree to Scope 1 natural gas, fugitive emissions, oil, and company owned abide by our Business Code of Behaviour and our Business Ethics cars.
Code both make explicit reference to modern slavery : Scope 2 electricity.
Reviewed the clauses in our supplier contract templates that Scope 3 business travel and grey fleet, waste and water.
reference modern slavery, to ensure they remain fit for purpose and continued providing training on modern slavery to CO2e tonnes CO2e per per employee m GWP employees: Created a page on our UK intranet dedicated to human rights and 2017 1.6 2.48 2016 2.0 3.12 modern slavery to keep employees informed: 2015 2.2 4.05 Collaborated with the UN Global Compact as part of the UK This includes Friends Life business operations for the whole of 2015. working group on modern slavery which brings together peers 2017 Assurance provided by  LLP available at aviva.
com  from across different industry sectors to share learnings: and Carbon offsetting through the acquisition and surrender of emissions units on the voluntary and compliance markets.
information to support our work in tackling modern slavery and are also a founding member of the Business Against Slavery Governance and risk management working group convened by the UK Home Office.
Our Board Governance Committee oversees our responsible and sustainable business strategy and the policies that underpin it.
As a As part of our human rights due diligence, in 2017 we have looked at company we are subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code the how our community investment projects include women as Code, which we aim to comply with fully.
Details of the Companys beneficiaries.
This is in line with our commitment to respect human compliance with the Code can be found in the Directors and rights and women empowerment.
Corporate Governance Report in the Annual report and accounts We also have a set of internal policies Business Standards that and online at www.
The support our commitment to respect human rights including: activities of the Board Governance Committee can be found in the People Standard and supporting policies and procedures Governance Committee Report in the Annual report and accounts.
covering non-discrimination, freedom of associations, access to We have assessed the environmental risks that we face as a grievance mechanisms : and business at a global and local level.
The most significant of these is Procurement and Outsourcing Standard covering requirements the potential impact of climate change on our customers lives and from suppliers regarding human rights and wider corporate our companys assets.
More detail can be found in this report in the responsibility issues.
Risk and Risk Management section and in our high level response to the recommendations of the Financial Stability Boards Taskforce We will use the human rights due diligence data, covering all areas on Climate-related Financial Disclosure, in the Avivas climateidentified in our human rights policy, to inform our work on human related financial disclosure section.
For our complete modern slavery statement, please We also manage the risks associated with our community see www.
investment activities through the controls outlined in our Corporate Corporate responsibility CR key performance indicators Responsibility Business Standard.
This includes a governance including 2015-2017 figures and the accompanying limited framework for our charitable donations and partnerships and assurance statement by PwC can be found on details of how we manage the risks associated with employee www.
com social-purpose, alongside Avivas 2017 CR volunteering for example, through robust child safeguarding.
This Summary and Environmental, Social and Governance Data sheet.
standard is reviewed each year and communicated to all Aviva More details of our internal diversity, inclusion and wellbeing businesses.
We review compliance annually, and all businesses approach can be found in the Our People section of this report.
demonstrate how they are complying with the requirements.
Where a gap is identified the business is required to produce an action plan to ensure that is rectified.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2017 30
