Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a Group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
30 28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Groups growth and sustainability, which in return provides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the public sector and wider society.
Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,600 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general Productivity Sales 283.8m was paid out as industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, which in turn...
Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total employer related social taxes, net VAT, corporate and other transnational taxes amount to 133.9m for the year 28 31 Stock code: BOY www.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued 1 Our approach Accident frequency Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns 1.9 1.7 2 through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.5 1.5 1.6 are highly valued by our customers.
We aim to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving the management of corporate 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
3 Carbon footprint 4 tonne CO e m sales normalised Our people 2 The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one of the 518.0 key challenges for management is to ensure availability of appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate 503.5 503.0 to have a competent and committed international team that is well- 494.8 493.1 respected in technical and business circles.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Group is committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number Water consumption of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence in 3 4 thousand m m sales normalised management.
A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area of 1.40 1.39 1.34 1.28 1.21 performance management is in place and is being used globally through the management population.
Through communication of clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 management system which supports the process.
Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying Chlorinated solvents with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective 4 kg m sales normalised of age, race, gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or philosophical 120.6 opinions or trade union membership.
Females represent 19% 2016: 18% of our total workforce.
As of 1 January 2018 we have increased female representation on the Board to 43%.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents 5 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total number of employee hours worked.
Note the rate for 2015 has increased from 1.4, as previously reported last year, to 1.5, due to restated data from one site.
CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO release 2 2 due to our energy usage.
Normalised statistics restate prior year figures using current year IEA carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 It is not just important what we do but how we do it and how The Modern Slavery Act we behave in our Company.
How we operate as a Group and the Bodycote plc has conducted a risk assessment on our supply behaviours that we expect from all our employees are expressed in chain using the UK Governments published guidance entitled our Core Values.
Our values represent Bodycote and its people and Transparency in Supply Chains.
Suppliers, in those countries our commitment to the Company and the business.
identified in Walk Free Foundations 2016 Global Slavery Index as being the most vulnerable to human rights issues in the supply Our Core Values are straightforward and are as follows: chain, have been identified for further review and audit.
Honesty and T ransparency We have a Code of Conduct which sets out our policy on We are honest and act with integrity.
Trust stems from honesty compliance with legislation, child labour, anti-slavery and human and trust is at the heart of everything we engage in: our customers trafficking, and conditions of employment, health and safety and trust us to deliver what we say we will, our colleagues trust us the environment.
to act in their best interests and our suppliers trust us to conduct business according to agreed terms.
This is not something we take The Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking statement was reviewed by for granted.
Bodycote lives by a culture of honest and transparent our Board of Directors in September 2017 and was published on our behaviour, which is at the core of all our business relationships.
The statement will be reviewed on an annual basis.
Respect and Responsibility Customers and suppliers We manage our business with respect, applying an ethical Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent approach to our dealings with those we interact with.
upon the Groups business and has no significant suppliers on We respect our colleagues, who are all of the employees of which the Group is dependent upon for a substantial part of its Bodycote.
Part of our respect for our colleagues is our commitment business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal to safe and responsible behaviour and our fundamental belief that obligations.
no-one should come to any harm at work.
We show respect for We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, our customers, our suppliers and our competitors.
We respect to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and the communities around us and behave as responsible corporate quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, citizens by being compliant with the laws and regulations of the building long-term relationships.
countries in which we do business and by ensuring that our effect on the environment is minimal.
We believe in taking ownership for, Community and being mindful of the impact of, our actions.
Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities in which it operates by providing employment opportunities, Creating Value and building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and Creating value is the very essence of our business and needs employer.
to be the focus of our endeavours.
We create value for our customers, our employees and our shareholders.
The realities Responsible business ethics are harsh.
If we do not create value for our customers then we All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical standard, have no reason for existence.
If we do not create value for our consistent with an international UK-listed company.
Directors and employees there will be no-one to create value for our customers.
employees are expected to ensure that their personal interests Our shareholders rightfully require that we ultimately create value do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
Shareholder for them as they are the owners of the business.
employees are advised of, and comply with, the share dealing code.
Human rights Bodycote has systems in place that are designed to ensure Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and conformity Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten with all relevant codes of business practice.
does not make political donations.
We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a form of discrimination based on age, race, gender, ethnic origin, differentiated high-value manner.
The Group does not employ unfair nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the preference, political or philosophical opinions or trade union requirements of applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited from membership.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to minimise either giving or receiving any inducements.
the potential for any contravention of these rules.
Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used By publicly posting our human rights policy on www.
The policy allows employees to report their stakeholders worldwide can alert us to potential breaches of the concern confidentially, verbally or in writing, to an independent policy.
Our internal systems also support compliance with our policy third party provider, ensuring anonymity.
Reports are transcribed and we have a robust Open Door Line for employees to report and sent to the Group Head of Risk, who then determines the alleged violations of law and or our policies on a confidential basis appropriate steps for the matter to be addressed.
and in their own language.
In the jurisdictions in which we employ a Online training courses in respect of Anti-Bribery and Competition majority of our employees, there are laws applicable to many of the Law have been designed and translated into the major languages areas dealt with in our human rights policy.
All relevant employees have completed the interactive courses.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued lost time incidents is related to manual handling of parts and lifting Operational SHE performance operations and has a number of underlying causes.
This is currently Bodycote is committed to continual improvement in our safety, the subject of a Group wide review and will be a focus for risk health and environmental performance SHE.
We are committed to reduction activities over the next few years.
complying with all local legislative requirements as a minimum and establishing consistent and robust best practices at all of our sites All reportable incidents and lost time injuries are reviewed during to deliver consistently high performance across all aspects of SHE executive management meetings and Board meetings.
the executive management team reviews incidents which did not result in injury but were considered to have been serious or to Safety and health have had a high potential impact.
All serious incidents and high The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are potential incidents are also reviewed by the Group SHE Committee inevitably exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to and are cascaded within the business as appropriate to ensure that manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees preventive actions are taken.
This system was further strengthened through the deployment of robust safety control systems and in 2015 with actions being tracked via the online incident procedures, and seeks to establish these at all sites.
Bodycotes online incident reporting and SHE management tool has Environment been operational since 2013.
This has enabled more consistent and A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that thorough reporting of workplace injuries, near misses and unsafe Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water conditions.
Following the implementation, there was an increase and gas consumption, and to re-use heat energy.
The ongoing effort in the lost time injury rate frequency LTI rate in 2013 as sites to lessen the impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote were better able to record and report incidents.
In 2017, the LTI rate seeking ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities.
Bodycote continues to devote significant resource and management focus on safety with the number of At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing Opportunities for Improvement OFIs reported by employees cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the having increased by 47.8% across the Group.
This improvement environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of demonstrates stronger engagement of employees in proactively our customers.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, raising safety issues and rectifying potential safety issues before which is operated around the clock so as to optimise treatment they might lead to an injury.
Accidents, though regrettable and processing cycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be unacceptable, represent learning opportunities.
This is the reason using older in-house technology and running their equipment at that accurate reporting is an essential part of building a robust reduced capacity, both of which drain energy resources.
with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to carbon reduction initiatives.
Accident frequency lost time injury rate Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of our customers 5 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving number of employee hours worked.
metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the In addition to encouraging the reporting of work related injuries, reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costBodycote has sought to encourage the reporting of near misses effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture and unsafe conditions.
This has worked well since the introduction new replacement parts.
The treated parts often last up to twenty of the new global incident reporting system in 2013 and a common times longer than the original.
near miss unsafe condition reporting system at every operational site.
This much improved reporting of incidents permits us to Whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is a address hazards before injury occurs.
As our database continues vital part of the manufacturing supply chain and its use saves the to develop we will be able to analyse and prioritise our safety energy it consumes many times over.
The most frequent cause of Greenhouse gas emissions 2017 2016 2016 normalised CO e Intensity CO e Intensity CO e Intensity 2 2 2 emissions ratio emissions ratio emissions ratio ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 150.3 217.9 137.5 229.1 137.7 218.5 Scope 2 189.8 275.2 184.0 306.5 174.1 276.3 Statutory total 340.1 493.1 321.5 535.6 311.8 494.8 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006.
Normalised statistics restate prior year emissions using current year IEA carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
34 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions resulting from fuel Bodycote uses established systems to develop best practice usage and the operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect at specific sites and across the wider Group.
Examples of 2017 energy emissions resulting from purchased electricity, heat, steam projects undertaken across Bodycote sites are discussed below.
The continued replacement of traditional lighting with LED for The financial control consolidation approach has been used to environmental and improved safety has resulted in further CO 2 report the above data.
This method aligns with the reporting reductions.
Our sites at Sprockhvel, Otterfing, Esslingen, Korntal, scope in the financial statements.
The Group collects electricity Wehingen, Gothenburg and Warsaw will benefit from projected and natural gas usage information from each facility on a monthly total savings of 192.4Te CO annually.
The Group then applies the International Energy Agency IEA At the Ldenscheid plant the second phase of a heat recovery published national carbon conversion factors to calculate the total project will save a further 171.6Te CO each year in addition to the 2 tonnage of CO e produced.
Group operational management actively 2 69.1Te from phase 1.
At Langenfeld 133.6Te CO savings will be 2 monitors their monthly CO e emissions reported and the Groups 2 achieved from new furnace insulation.
Executive Committee reviews the level of CO e emissions on a 2 monthly basis.
A new heat exchange system in Gothenburg for both cooling water and process ventilation has resulted in 10.6Te CO savings and 2 All entities and facilities under financial control are included within means that no additional energy is required to heat the production the disclosure.
Emissions less than 1% of the Groups total CO e 2 area and the main offices.
relating to fugitive emissions and owned vehicles are not significant and are excluded.
As such there are no significant omissions from Meanwhile in Denmark our Ejby plant will reduce CO emissions 2 this disclosure.
by 60.3Te through the new air coolers.
These replace evaporative water cooling towers and, in addition to the energy savings, ISO 14001 accredited facilities eliminate the potential risk of Legionella and associated chemical Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is taken treatment.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects at Bodycotes In addition to process efficiency improvements some sites have sites.
At the end of 2017, 87% of our operating facilities had achieved upgraded the building fabric to improve energy efficiency.
The slight reduction is due to Haag site a project to replace windows and improve insulation the closure of a number of existing certified sites and the acquisition resulted in a 10Te per annum saving of CO emissions.
2 and construction of new sites which have yet to attain ISO 14001.
Since 2013 Bodycote has submitted data on CO usage to the 2 Operational plants which have not yet received accreditation to the Carbon Disclosure Project, one of the leading carbon reporting and standard are working towards it.
Each year the Company has improved its standing Carbon footprint and water consumption in the league tables and is now a C relative to general business The absolute energy usage increased by 5.8%.
At constant groups and is rated significantly higher on verification of data.
exchange rates, it increased by 9.1%.
Chlorinated solvent use The total CO e emissions per m sales in 2017 were 493.1 Te 2016: The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing 2 as previously reported 535.6 Te: normalised 494.8 Te.
activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing facilities have been introduced.
In 2017, the normalised solvent use The Groups total CO e emission data is based on Scope 1 and 2 showed a further decrease of 8.0% compared with the previous year.
Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the UK Governments DEFRA, and data relating to this has been calculated to include countryCautionary statement specific electricity conversion factors.
In previous years this has The Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide been supplied by DEFRA directly.
However, as of January 2017 information to shareholders to assess how the directors have DEFRA no longer supplies these conversion factors for non-UK performed their duty to promote the success of the Group.
This has now been sourced by the Group directly from The Strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements.
the International Energy Agency IEA.
There are some significant These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on differences in these conversion factors.
As a result all previous the information available to them up to the time of their approval of years have now been restated using IEA conversion factors to this report and such statements should be treated with caution due ensure that year-on-year comparisons are consistent.
to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business On a normalised basis, water usage per m sales decreased by risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
On a non-normalised basis, water usage per m showed a Approval decrease of 9.1%.
The Group Strategic report of Bodycote plc was approved by the In 2015 our EU based operational sites reviewed their operations Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: to ensure compliance with the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU.
This Directive is transposed into local legislation and requires sites to monitor their energy usage and assess energy reduction S. C. Harris opportunities which are in addition to the ongoing energy saving Group Chief Executive activities on sites.
One mechanism for ensuring compliance is 6 March 2018 for sites to become certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems Standard.
This enables sites to measure energy usage consistently and target the most effective ways of reducing energy usage.
Our sites in Germany, Austria, Denmark and the Netherlands are largely already certified and working on further energy management programmes.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
