64 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Accountability continued Safety & Environment Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present this years Safety & Environment Report which provides an overview of the Groups main activities and progress in these areas during the year.
More information can be found on these matters on pages 31 and 34 respectively.
Chris Muntwyler Committee Chair The safety of our employees and customers is of critical importance to the Board, as is the responsible management of our environmental obligations.
I would like to thank our Group Chief Executive, Dean Finch, and his management team for their ongoing leadership and Primary role effectiveness in again driving improvements in both these areas To oversee the quality and effectiveness of the Groups safety in 2017. and environment strategies, standards, policies and initiatives, together with risk exposures, targets and performance.
As part of my role as Committee Chair, I visit operations to better understand the safety risks, exposures and challenges faced by The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and approved the business and the actions being taken locally to address them.
annually, are available on the Companys website at I have recently returned from such a visit to six school bus and transit www.
Customer Service Centres in the US where I was accompanied by Bob Ramsdell, Chief Safety Officer of our North America business.
Key responsibilities A review of this trip can be found on page 67. Review the Groups strategy and framework of standards, policies and initiatives for managing safety risks across the Group Safety Monitor and review the Groups safety leadership and performance Safety continues to be our highest priority and a strong safety Review the Groups strategy and approach to the environment culture exists throughout the business.
Overall responsibility for and the external reporting of performance safety lies with the Group Chief Executive supported by Divisional Managing Directors, the Groups Safety Director and local safety Activity highlights teams.
It is they who set the annual plans and priorities for continued Safety targets, performance and initiatives for the Group, improvement and progress against these is reviewed by the Chief its divisions and operations Executives Safety Committee on a quarterly basis.
Lessons learnt and actions taken following the 2016 In recognising the ongoing strategic importance of safety to the Chattanooga accident Group, the Remuneration Committee increased the safety element Safety-related benefits from the Groups Driving Out Harm weighting of the annual bonus for the Executive Directors from and World Class Driver programmes 10% to 18% of salary in 2017: the emphasis continues this year.
Progress and impact from the Groups ongoing investment Additionally, a revised safety underpin for the annual bonus plan and in vehicle safety systems and on-board support technology a new safety underpin for the LTIP is proposed to be introduced as Management of environmental responsibilities and focus part of the Companys new Directors Remuneration Policy see on employee engagement pages 74 to 84.
Local health and wellbeing programmes for employees in all territories Performance The Committee is extremely pleased to report that the Groups safety Membership, meetings and attendance performance for responsible accidents showed further year-on-year improvement in processes, procedures and outcomes in 2017.
Meetings Meetings Committee member Appointed held attended Most notably, there was a material reduction in our Fatalities Weighted Injuries Index FWI score and a significant reduction in the number Chris Muntwyler Chair 11.05.11 3 3 of major injuries and lost time injuries.
Our FWI per million miles Sir John Armitt CBE 01.01.13 3 3 travelled is now at an all-time low, in line with the Groups 2020 target, Lee Sander 01.06.11 3 3 having fallen by 74% since our Driving Out Harm programme was Jorge Cosmen 01.12.05 3 3 first launched in 2010.
However, the executive is far from complacent and believes there is further Joaqun Ayuso 01.06.11 3 2 safety improvement to come from this years strengthening of the Jane Kingston 26.07.16 3 3 programme and the investments we are making in our safety Dr Ashley Steel 01.01.16 3 3 systems, as outlined below.
Additionally, the Committee Mike McKeon 03.07.15 3 3 wholeheartedly supports the Group-wide Target Zero safety campaign recently launched and confirming that any fatality is Matthew Crummack 06.05.15 3 3 unacceptable.
2 Non-Executive Chairman of the Company.
Other attendees by invitation : Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, President and CEO, North America, Group Safety Director, Head of Group Property and, as required, external advisers.
Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 65 Arising from the late 2016 Chattanooga school bus accident, a US Safety systems Department of Transportation DOT audit undertaken during the Our safety investment programme continues at a pace.
The year identified some driver testing and record keeping shortfalls installation of Lytx DriveCam, an incident alert system provided unrelated to the causes of the accident and these have been fully by an on-board camera, as part of our World Class Driver training addressed.
Consequently, the DOT confirmed our operating licence in programme, continues to be rolled out across the Group.
At the Durham as wholly unconditional, which is the highest rating available.
end of the year, all buses and coaches in the UK had been fitted with this new technology, 6,351 in North America and fitment in Driving Out Harm Spain had commenced, with 1,000 planned to be fitted there in 2018.
The Group has operated well established Global Safety Standards for Another 9,800 buses will be fitted in North America this year.
As we seek to move these forward, we are harnessing importance is the coaching of every driver who triggers a recorded the power of digital to achieve a transformation in our ability to event by braking harshly, swerving or through collision and the manage our people and make us best in industry.
To that end, we Committee has noted that this hands-on and immediate response further strengthened our Driving Out Harm programme during the approach is starting to change driver behaviour.
year with the introduction of the following five new Global Safety Policies in April: The implementation of a Group-wide system to facilitate and support the central management of customer complaints is also taking place.
Speed Management This is already live in North America and scheduled to be live across Driving Evaluation the rest of the Group later this year.
Competence Requirements: Driving Evaluations Driver Monitoring The Committee can see the added value of the Groups investment Driver Performance Management.
in these new systems which will help us continue to improve both the effectiveness and efficiency of our driving standards and Divisional plans are in place for full implementation of the policies by safety programmes.
2020 and the Committee has received validation of progress against key milestones from the internal audit function.
It has also seen Safety awards evidence of the benefits to be derived from the new policies, The Committee was pleased to learn of several safety awards for example: received again across the Group in 2017.
Of particular note was the prestigious: there has been a significant reduction in speeding in each of our territories resulting from the introduction of continuous driver British Safety Councils Sword of Honour, which recognises the monitoring versus posted speed limits.
This information is also commitment to excellent health and safety management standards.
enabling us to identify and eradicate all types of driver risk This was received by UK bus for the second successive year distractions: and with the highest score of any transport company in 2017 through our World Class Driver programme, the number of Master and by UK coach for the third successive year.
Both companies are Drivers in the Group who are assessed to externally accredited also now certified to BS OHSAS 18001: and standards in the UK, with the Institute of Advanced Motorists has Fundacin MAPFRE Award for Best Accident Prevention Initiative, risen to 700. which was awarded to our Spanish business, ALSA.
This was in recognition of its World Class Driver project part of the Group-wide programme targeted at reducing risks by improving driver skills.
The award was received by Jorge Cosmen from Queen Sofia of Spain, and is the first time the award has been won by a private company.
Safety is and always will be the These types of external recognition and accreditation give the highestpriority for our business, Committee great confidence in the embedded nature and robustness Dean Finch will see to that.
We of our safety management arrangements across the whole Group.
are good at it, not complacent and always striving to bebetter.
66 Corporate Governance Report Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Accountability continued Safety & Environment Committee Report continued in Spain, an online sports, health and wellbeing platform, Environment SPORTSNET.
This gives employees up-to-date information on We recognise that the Company has an important role to play in local sports activities as well as bulletins on food and health.
enabling and delivering climate change strategies which, in The platform aims to boost healthy habits, especially through partnership with our partners and other stakeholders, can help physical exercise: mitigate the impact arising from the operation of our vehicles and in Bahrain, two medical clinics are operated on site, one at the sites.
Accordingly, the Committee has continued to monitor the main staff accommodation and one at the Isa Town Depot.
These Groups strategy and approach to the environment, as well as the provide free consultations with visiting health specialists from local external reporting of its environmental performance, including hospitals on a regular basis: and greenhouse gas emissions.
in the UK, our continuing award-winning Health Bus.
This provides health monitoring services to employees and in 2017 facilitated With respect to the management of the Companys environmental over 5,000 appointments.
responsibilities, I am pleased to report that the Group maintained full environmental legislative compliance, with zero prosecutions, Committee effectiveness enforcement notices or reported violations in 2017.
The Committees operations and activities formed part of the During the year, we continued to make good progress with our external review of Board effectiveness performed in the year Driving Excellence in Environmental Performance programme.
see pages 50 and 51 and which confirmed that the Committee We have set ourselves some challenging KPIs through to 2018 continues to operate very well and effectively in providing oversight and against that our water usage and total carbon emissions of safety and governance.
improvements are running well ahead of target though our targeted reduction in site emissions has not yet been met.
The focus on Looking forward employee engagement continues, with fleet efficiency and improving In 2018, the Committee will continue to monitor and review the miles per gallon fuel usage remaining key deliverables in all divisions.
structure, content and operation of the Groups safety management Significant improvements continue to be maintained through fleet and environment arrangements, and the actions being taken by the investment, technology and improvement in driving skills.
executive to achieve the Groups objectives on both fronts.
Our UK businesses were again accredited with a Gold Standard for the Carbon Saver scheme and a number of other notable awards were received elsewhere across the Group.
These awards are a testament to our seven-year programme of reducing carbon emmission through a continued commitment to driving sustainability, Chris Muntwyler reducing energy costs and adopting carbon emissions reduction Safety & Environment Committee Chair measures in both our fleet and site operations.
1 March 2018 Health and wellbeing During the year, the Committee reviewed the significant amount of work being undertaken across the Group as we continue to promote, support and deliver a multitude of health and wellbeing activities for employees, comprising a mix of physical, mental and occupational services.
Examples of these included: in the US, a new three-year Health and Wellbeing Strategy launched in 2017.
The first-year focus was on employee education and awareness of the various programmes available while the second-year focus will shift to prevention, with the objective of driving engagement in biometric screenings and other preventative measures: Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Report 67 Committee in action The Board believes the Company should aim to lead the industry on safety and continuously seek to improve our standards.
Our safety agenda is aligned to that led from the top and embedded in everything we do and a rigorous governance framework underpins our approach.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors are regular visitors to our Customer Service Centres CSCs to make sure we walk the talk from the boardroom to our operations.
Above: Chris discussing training processes with Mark Logan, Safety Chris Muntwyler, Chair of our Safety & Environment Committee, Manager at our White Plains, visited six student transportation and public transit CSCs in New York NY, CSC and Connecticut in February this year.
Accompanied by Bob Ramsdell, the North American Chief Safety Officer, he met with local management and personnel and toured each centre looking into the safety processes in place, including driver coaching through the use of our smart camera system, DriveCam, reduction in speeding using It is important and interesting for me to GPS reports, facility safety, and vehicle maintenance and see in person how our strategic safety environmental procedures.
programmes are being implemented and Discussions with drivers, mechanics, site managers and other staff followed on the front-line, as well as the enabled Chris to gauge the effectiveness of these programmes and the level of implementation at each centre.
impact they have on reducing accidents and injuries.
These visits give me a unique opportunity to meet and talk to National Express staff at all levels and hear their perspectives on what works well and where there is still room for improvement.
This real-world view helps me make meaningful contributions to our overall safety effort as Chair of the Safety & Environment Committee.
Chris Muntwyler, Safety & Environment Committee Chair Above: Chris with the management team at our Stratford, Connecticut, CSC Above: Chris watching a technician make a vehicle repair at our Brooklyn, NY, CSC
