Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 76 Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee Report Introduction I am pleased to present the report of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee CRSEC Committee for We are committed to putting the safety the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Committee was established in 2016 in the wake of the Humidifier Sanitizer HS tragedy to try to prevent of our consumers and employees first, such an event ever happening again.
We are committed to putting the and to ensuring that we conduct business safety of our consumers and employees first, and to ensuring that we conduct business responsibly and with a sustainability mindset.
theestablishment of the Committee in July 2016, we have made great strides.
Our initial focus was on getting our governance approach and framework right and putting in place safety, quality and compliance remediation and infrastructure programmes.
During the last year, we have worked tirelessly to ensure that these programmes are integrated throughout the business and that high standards are globally upheld andcontinually strengthened.
Whilst we are on a journey which will continually change and evolve, we have made substantial progress to date and changes have been welcomed by employees.
Composition The CRSEC Committee is made up entirely of Non-Executive Directors who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Committee during the yearwere Pam Kirby Chairman, Adrian Bellamy and Nicandro Durante.
The Deputy Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
Responsibilities The Committee supports the Board in fulfilling its duty to safeguard andadvance the Companys reputation for responsible and sustainable corporate conduct by reviewing, monitoring and assessing its approach to and management of corporate responsibility, environmental, safety and sustainability issues and behaviours, ethical conduct and regulatory compliance.
The Committees scope includes human rights and product safety, regulatory and quality risk assurance and restrictive trade practices and ethical conduct.
The Committees responsibilities include overseeing and making recommendations to executives and the Board for actions to be taken inrespect of these matters, as well as monitoring and reviewing their implementation.
Pam Kirby The Committee meets at least three times per year.
The CEO, SVP General Counsel, Chief Safety, Quality and Compliance Officer CSQC, Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and Compliance Committee VP General Counsel Group Legal Affairs and Head of Internal Audit regularly attend meetings and other senior management attend when deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Time is allocated at each meeting for private discussion between Committee members and with the CSQC Officer and the Head of Internal Audit without the other invitees being present.
From the beginning of 2018, the CSQC also has responsibility forregulatory affairs and is now referred to as the Chief Safety, Quality, Regulatory and Compliance Officer CSQRC.
In addition, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer CECO now attends in place of the VP General Counsel Group Legal Affairs, and will have periodic private discussions with Committee members.
CRSEC Committee meetings generally take place ahead of Board meetings and the CRSEC Committee Chair provides an update of the keyissues discussed to the Board at each meeting.
Minutes of CRSEC Committee meetings are provided to the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
They are reviewed annually to ensure that they continue to reflect best practice.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 77 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Activity Data security In anticipation of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR During the year, the Committee held four scheduled meetings.
Directors attendance is set out in the table on page 63.
The Committee has a legislation which comes into effect on 25 May 2018, we reviewed rolling agenda.
At each meeting, itreceives reports from the Ethics theresults of an audit to identify compliance gaps, and endorsed a Management Committee and the Compliance Management Committee, remediation project to ensure delivery of critical GDPR objectives by which make up the management's governance framework for the Group: May2018.
A risk-prioritised plan has been adopted, based on a detailed The Ethics Management Committee meets quarterly and reports on gap assessment and supported by appropriate resources.
legal compliance matters, whistleblowing activity, potential bribery, corruption and fraud and potential Code of Conduct issues.
Code of Conduct The Compliance Management Committee meets monthly and reports A revised Code of Conduct was reviewed by the Committee in November on consumer safety, employee health and safety, product and 2017 and updated to combine best practice from both the RB and MJN substance regulation including quality, safety and compliance, codes and to reflect our new structure.
The new Code became effective environmental strategy and human rights.
Our Code of Conduct applies to all RB employees globally, our Board and RBs contractors.
It explicitly refers to RBs core The two committees have a direct reporting line to the Executive values responsibility, ownership, achievement, entrepreneurship and Committee.
The Committee also meets with the CSQRC Officer and partnership.
The revised Code sets the protocol for raising concerns other senior managers to ensure that progress is being made towards via a Speak Up hotline, covers fair treatment of employees and meeting the Groups specific Safety, Quality, Regulatory and Compliance mandatory reporting of violations, among many other matters.
SQRC KPIs and in our ongoing corporate responsibility commitments.
Modern Slavery Act MSA statement In addition, during the year, particular attention was paid to the following Our first MSA statement, which outlines the steps we are taking to matters: reduce the risk of slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply chain, was published in March 2017 and is available on our South Korea Humidifier Sanitizer HS website at www.
Our second statement will be published shortly.
The Committee and the Board reflected further on the tragedy in South Korea on how to prevent such a tragedy from occurring again and to Focus for 2018 ensure that our governance structure and programmes continue to put Looking to the coming year, and following the Committee evaluating it's safety at their core.
Lessons learned were shared with management and a performance, we will continue our focus on consumer safety and creating new RB Responsibility value introduced, which has been embedded in a consumer experience that builds confidence and trust.
We aim to have our updated Code of Conduct.
safe and compliant products for all our markets, and to maintain safety and compliance throughout the product life cycle.
Key learnings for RB include: setting the tone from the top and embedding a culture of We continue to review our sustainability objectives and chart progress responsibility among all RB employees, the Board and RB contractors, against our targets.
RBs annual Sustainability Report for 2017 is primarily through revision of internal policies, an updated version of published separately to this Annual Report and can be found on our the Code of Conduct, mandatory training and the creation of a new website, www.
RB value, Responsibility: reviewing product safety systems and policies, including product With RB 2.0 and the reorganisation into two business units, we will be approval processes, product development, reformulation or supplier especially vigilant to ensure that there is no loss in momentum and focus switching and packaging: on delivering the safety, quality and compliance agenda that updating our goods for sale release process which all products must management have committed to.
We will monitor the progress of a pass before they are marketed and ensures the product is safe for sale number of Group-wide initiatives, as well as the establishment of proper and meets its marketing claims: governance and oversight of SQRC issues in each business unit.
ensuring regular, structured reporting to senior management by the adaptation of the current SQRC structure: and I look forward to reporting progress on our accomplishments in next creating new roles within and restructuring the SQRC function, with a years Annual Report.
Pam Kirby We are pleased to say that we have made great strides in addressing Chair of the Corporate Responsibility, Sustainability, Ethics and these learnings, with all of them either work in progress or completed Compliance Committee actions.
19 March 2018 Mead Johnson Nutrition MJN integration Following the MJN acquisition during the year, the Committee undertook a cross-functional in-depth focus on the infant and nutrition category.
As part of the integration of MJN, we reviewed our Code of Conduct and internal policies.
The MJN whistleblower hotline was integrated into RBs.
We also embarked on a number of sustainability performance reviews.
For example, we looked at how MJNs past practices in respect of their greenhouse gas emissions, water, energy and waste performance impact on RBs performance in these areas.
