Corporate social responsibility Protecting Britains young drivers As Britains leading car insurer, our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy isfocussed on road safety.
In particular, we are using our insight and expertise tomake a measurable difference to young drivers in the UK.
Approach Road safety Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR helps us put societys interests at the heart of our business.
We believe we can use our expertise and experience to help reduce the number of deaths and life-changing injuries We partner with leading CSR organisations to ensure that we on Britains roads.
understand, prioritise, and respond to the sometimes competing needs of our different stakeholders across society.
Safer young drivers We manage our approach through a CSR Advisory Group that We have set an ambitious long-term aim of helping to cut comprises senior managers from across the business supported deaths of young drivers in their first 1,000 miles of driving by our CSR team and backed by executive ownership.
We will, of course, need to work with many other CSR Committee oversees our approach.
stakeholders to achieve this goal.
You can find more details of our approach on the Groups 17 to 19-year olds are involved in 9% of all fatal and serious website at www.
com, including our CSR crashes, despite representing just 1.5% of all drivers.
Its less Charter, policy framework, performance against last years well-known that, young drivers are more dangerous in their targets and targets for 2018. first 1,000 miles of driving after passing their test, before then improving.
This is because young drivers are often over confident straight after passing their test.
In addition, they are To find out more about our CSR Committee, less experienced at spotting dangers or hazards on the road see page 68 and often take more risks.
Our own claims experience confirms this, as we see that around one in five young drivers crash in the first year.
To help improve young peoples driving behaviour, we identified three key insights that needed to be true if we wanted to help.
The first was that we needed to be in the car with them, the next that we needed to provide feedback for improvement and finally that we needed to make the learning experience rewarding, fun and competitive.
We designed a free app, which tracks a persons driving.
Once drivers have downloaded Shotgun to their phones, we monitor their driving for 1,000 miles, with each individual journey receiving tailored feedback.
For example: That was a bumpy ride!
Accelerate gradually and be less heavy on the pedals.
To keep drivers engaged, we have put in place attractive rewards and created a leader board to allow people to see how their driving measures up against other drivers on the app.
These leader boards can be personalised to allow people to Shotgun compete with their friends.
With over There are six levels of reward.
Drivers begin on level one, which enables them to get rewards like a free Amazon voucher.
As their driving improves, taking on board their 20,000 feedback they can progress through all levels and choose downloads, our Shotgun rewards from other leading brands.
Level six rewards are app is helping raise higher value and experience-based, such as a free helicopter awareness of safer driving ride.
The rewards are meaningful and help drive engagement among 17 to 25-year olds with the app.
26 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Marketing this product was not easy: we needed to grab the Brake attention of young drivers who typically arent that engaged We maintained our partnership with road safety charity, with the subject of road safety.
To do this, we concentrated Brake, and agreed a new three year programme to produce our efforts on social media, generating awareness with some a series of topical survey reports on driver behaviour and edgy viral content.
This has worked well, helping us to raise attitudes.
Thereports include speed, in-vehicle distractions, awareness of our app with over a million 17 to 25-year olds advanced driver assistance systems and tiredness.
Brake uses and we have so far achieved over 20,000 downloads.
this research for its wider campaigning, education, community We also made sure that a wider audience could find out about and professional engagement activities to raise awareness of how Direct Line is taking a broader role in society and tackling road safety issues.
We also share the results with the media meaningful issues.
There was a wealth of PR-generated media and policymakers.
At the beginning of the year we sponsored coverage that spread the word to parents of young drivers and Brakes Parliamentarian of the Year Awards, which recognise other opinion formers.
Members of Parliament who have campaigned on road safetyissues.
We are really proud to say that the app is already helping to make a real difference by improving road safety for young drivers.
Our analysis of drivers using the app so far shows that for key areas such as speeding and braking, there has been a great improvement.
Early indicators are that around one in three drivers have improved their smoothness, which means less hard breaking or tailgating is happening and one in four have improved their safe driving skills by reducing their speed.
We know that these metrics have a high degree of correlation to overall safety and accident statistics, and so we are confident that Shotgun has already helped save people from death or serious injury.
Road safety partners During 2017, we worked with various partners to highlight a range of road safety issues.
PACTS In December, we launched our fourth Road Safety Dashboard with the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety PACTS.
This pioneering tool uses Department for Transport statistics to produce an index that ranks the road safety record of individual parliamentary constituencies.
MPs tell us they find the tool valuable.
We also sponsored the PACTS Annual Westminster Transport Safety Lecture in the House of Commons where policymakers and campaigners come together to share ideas and best practice.
Department for Transport We continue to engage with the Department for Transport on various topics, including telematics technology, driverless cars and road safety policy, providing written evidence to assist legislative proposals such as on the Departments Automated and Electric Vehicles Bill.
COM 27 Corporate social responsibility continued Our people Our people strategy supports our business strategy, ensuring In 2016, the Group signed up to the Women in Finance we have capable, skilled and engaged people who can Charter.
The Charter is a commitment by HM Treasury and help make buying insurance much easier and better value for signatory firms to work together to build a more balanced and our customers.
Our pledge to the Charter reinforces our other initiatives such as our Diversity Network Alliance in promoting We continue to focus on building pride in the Direct Line diversity and inclusion in our business.
We report our progress Group, encouraging and celebrating the quality and diversity against this commitment annually on the Group website www.
Various volunteer groups, such as our directlinegroup.
Employee Representative Bodies and Local Co-ordination Teams, increase our employees voice within the organisation.
You can find the ratio of female to male employees and the age profile of our employees at 31 December 2017 in the We gauge employee engagement through our Employee charts below.
In 2017 we again significantly improved our engagement score from 73% in 2016 to 78%.
The percentage Gender pay gap of our employees who are proud to work for the Group also Information relating to gender pay gap can be found on the increased from 87% in 2016 to 91%, while 85% tell others Groups website www.
that the Group is a great place to work 81% in 2016.
Living wage Diversity, inclusion and human rights We comply with the principles of the Living Wage Foundation We continue to work towards an environment based on relating to our employees.
meritocracy and inclusion, creating a work place where we celebrate differences and we value our people for always Anti-bribery and corruption being themselves.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out our most important legal obligations and helps colleagues follow key policies.
Our diversity and inclusion practices are in line with the We have an anti-bribery and corruption standard in place Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our Ethical Code to ensure that the Group undertakes a consistent approach for Suppliers requires that all our suppliers adhere to the core to bribery and corruption risks in line with risk appetite.
We support the We encourage a speak up culture across our supplier base, aims of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and are committed to and amongst our colleagues and have a whistleblowing policy ensuring that modern slavery is not present in our supply chain.
For more information see page 67 of the Board Risk In accordance with the Act, we publish an annual statement Committee report.
on slavery and human trafficking on the Group website at www.
Gender diversity Gender diversity Gender diversity Age range ofallemployees ofseniormanagers ofBoardof Directors of employees Male 5,718 2016: 5,768 Male 102 2016: 112 Male 7 2016: 7 25 & under 1,674 Female 34 2016: 32 Female 4 2016: 3 26-50 7,646 Female 5,090 2016: 5,209 51-60 1,244 61 & over 244 28 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Community Environment In response to the terror attacks in London and Manchester Emissions last summer, the Group donated to the British Red Cross UK You can find information on Group-wide greenhouse gas Solidarity Fund.
GHG emissions in the chart below and more details of our emissions in the Directors report on page 102.
We are Furthermore, following the terrible fire at Grenfell Tower, the targeting a 57% reduction in absolute GHG emissions scope Group is working with the Housing Plus Academy to develop 1 and 2 by 2020 against a 2013 baseline.
a programme which begins to build resilience against such tragedies amongst residents of other tower blocks in the UK.
Energy use is the main cause of our emissions.
In absolute Aside from giving tenants a voice, the programme is being terms, we have reduced our emissions significantly after shaped by research, analysis and expert opinion.
The key rationalising and implementing an energy-savings plan across output will be self-help training and materials for residents, our estate over the last five years.
This covered building though it is anticipated that a number of policy proposals will management, air-conditioning, heating and lighting, for also follow.
These outputs will be shared with Government and instance.
We are targeting a 30% like-for-like reduction in relevant agencies.
the Groups energy use by 2020 against a 2013 baseline.
Volunteering and fundraising We communicate the details of a carbon management We know that participating in fundraising and volunteering programme through the Carbon Disclosure Project and this is linked to higher engagement levels amongst our people.
In order to encourage our people to participate, we run a Throughout 2017, we have maintained our commitment network of Community and Social Committees which are to sourcing 100% of the Groups electricity from made up of local volunteers.
These receive central funding renewable sources.
and support from the Group to support Group-wide national appeals and create a programme of events and activities Waste based on the interests of employees at their sites.
We continually seek opportunities to improve our systems for Examples of activities include employees manning our call managing waste.
In 2017, the Group recycled 72% of its centres to take pledges for appeals such as Children in Need, waste 80% in 2016.
This year-on-year fall is due to a 58% supporting national appeals such as the Worlds Biggest reduction in paper waste, which is 100% recycled.
Excluding Coffee Morning in aid of Macmillan and organising quiz paper, the Group recycled 60% of its waste 54% in 2016. nights, fun runs, masquerade balls, festivals, cake sales, charity 98% of our waste, including recycling is diverted from landfill.
football matches and more to raise thousands of pounds for local causes.
We encourage all employees to volunteer individually or as a team through our One Day initiative.
Greenhouse gas 1 emissions tonnes Our Employee Opinion Survey revealed that 33% of staff volunteered or fundraised in company time last year.
Our target for 2018 is to at least maintain this level of engagement.
Matched giving and grants We believe that our peoples feelings about working for the Group are linked to our reputation in the community and we therefore try to align our approach to giving more generally with their interests.
In 2017, our employees donated 9.9% 151,000 through our payroll giving scheme and we donated a further 104,000 in matched giving.
We also provided 66,000 in grants to organisations for which our employees 15y 16y 17y fundraise or volunteer.
This excludes discontinued operations, the Groups former International division.
Total Group emissions for 2015 were 23,143.
