STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Strategy At the heart of all we do By being a responsible business we are leveraging sustainability to drive competitive advantage for our business.
Human Rights Labour Rights OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES Marshalls supports human rights consistent with the Universal From living wages in the UK to the elimination of child labour in India, we are committed to ensuring that what is good for business Declaration of Human Rights.
In conducting business across the globe we respect these rights and seek to uphold, preserve and promote isgood for society.
Our approach to labour rights is driven by the them.
Our corporate responsibility to respect human rights means Ethical Trading Initiative ETI Base Code which we adopted in 2005. acting withdue diligence to avoid infringing upon the rights of others, To ensure that the Base Code is embedded within operations and and addressing any issues that do occur.
We recognise that our supply chains we have social auditors in India, China and Vietnam.
responsibility applies across all business activities, including business relationships with third parties and those within our supplychain.
2018 PRIORITIES Continue to promote ETI membership, peer reviews and our 2018 PRIORITIES Hopefor Justice Strategic Partnership: Continue to focus on the issue of modern slavery and improve Conduct ETI Base Code social and ethical audits in India, compliance procedures within the supply chain: and ChinaandVietnam: and Continue to collaborate with multiple stakeholders.
Develop the use of social auditors in India, to complement the ETI ethical audits.
PROGRESS Human rights regulation for business continues on an upward PROGRESS trajectory and the issue of modern slavery rightly remains firmly in We continue to be members of the ETI and our new ETI Strategic the spotlight.
We are working with multiple stakeholders across the Plan has been developed to support, strengthen and maximise world to help make our business operations and supply chains as ourcontinued drive to uphold and strengthen labour rights across toxic as possible to the organised criminals who seek to exploit the globe.
The Plan honours our commitment to ETI Base Code vulnerable individuals and corporations.
We are collaborating with implementation and will further embed and integrate ethical trade governments, UN agencies, human rights observers, suppliers, into business activities and decision making: ultimately it will seek workers and communities.
Our human rights due diligence and to improve conditions for workers, their families and communities.
monitoring and implementation is extremely dynamic reflecting the nature of the human rights arena.
Our active global supply Marshalls have been accredited by the Living Wage chain risk mapping processes together with our Ethical Risk Index Foundation since 2015. further guide our robust decision making processes.
FUTURE GOALS Detailed ethical risk indices are in place for Further embed and integrate ethical trade into business practice: 44naturalstone product supply chains.
Promote procurement principles that comply with the UN Global Compact and ETI base code: FUTURE GOALS Continue to improve conditions for workers, their families Further develop the Groups global supply chain risk andcommunities: and mappingprocesses: and Maintain commitment to the abolition of slavery in all its forms.
Continue to develop our Ethical Risk Index methodology andprocedures.
Sustainability overview Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impacts onthe environment, and positive engagement with our community andemployees have long been core values of Marshalls.
We aim to align our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and environmental needs of our stakeholders, embedding responsible and ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
MARSHALLS PLC 30 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Climate Change Policy www.
co. uk ccp Carbon Disclosure Project www.
net Find out more online: Environmental www.
co. uk sustainability environment The Environment Responsible Business OBJECTIVES OBJECTIVES Our environmental objectives and targets are driven by a strong Marshalls is committed to conducting business with the utmost commitment to compliance coupled with mitigation plans to integrity and in accordance with the principles set out in the addresslegislative and physical business risks, whilst maximising BriberyAct 2010.
Greater transparency leads to increased trust.
opportunities against a corporate strategic commitment to be Thisinturnprovides the solid foundations required for sustainable asustainable business.
At the heart of Marshalls sustainable business growth.
Bymaking our financial, social, environmental and ethical model is an approach which combines key business issues and key data transparent we can inspire trust which will lead to customers performance indicators with third party verification, legislation and buying more of our products, investors purchasing more of our industry standards including ISO14001 for environmental stock, and engaged employees working harder and smarter.
management and ISO50001 for energy management.
2018 PRIORITIES Further develop the Groups ongoing monitoring, training 2018 PRIORITIES Continue to focus on the Groups Sustainability Strategy, andcompliance procedures: including key focus areas such as eSight energy monitoring Continue to ensure that appropriate training is undertaken systems and increasing use of rainwater capture: inrelation to responsible business practice, including the Further develop detailed site energy usage and carbon intensity Groupsanti-bribery and corruption policies and : and analysis and action plans: and Maintain adherence to all legislative and ISO requirements for Continue to maintain our Fair Tax Mark accreditation and to beopen and transparent about the Groups tax affairs.
Our environmental and energy management.
commitment to responsible tax practice ensures that we seek to pay the right amount of tax at the right time in the right place.
PROGRESS We have clear environmental, energy and climate change policies PROGRESS inplace and are on track to meet our policy commitments.
Key environmental issues for us are climate change, water and biodiversity.
We are clear that bribery is not a victimless crime and that it discourages effective trading by diverting funds away from projects Marshalls successful management of environmental issues has been designed to build communities and help the most disadvantaged recognised by third parties such as Business in the Community.
We have a clear Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy and have launched and effectively communicated Marshalls Supplier Over 2,500 individual product carbon footprints.
This has been further embedded, with employees and suppliers, through a new IT training platform.
FUTURE GOALS Marshalls is making a significant contribution to the Continue to develop environmental targets as key business drivers implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals.
to increase sustainability, cost efficiency and shareholder value: Ensure that environmental targets are aligned with operational FUTURE GOALS and strategic planning: and Continue to promote the UN Global Compacts commitment to Invest in smart systems that allow real time monitoring of energy sustainable development and the implementation of the UNs consumption in relation to carbon reduction measures.
17Sustainable Development Goals: To make an increasing impact in the implementation of these goals especially those goals where Marshalls is particularly well-placed to make a significant contribution.
Marshalls sustainable business model Empowered by our brand values of leadership, excellence, trust andsustainability we work passionately and diligently to uphold theUnitedNations Global Compact pillars of human rights, labour, environment andanti-corruption.
The Group has a sustainable business plan and has set KPIs forthekeyareas of this plan.
It addresses economic, social and environmental aspects of Marshalls operations.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Strategy continued A number of factors have contributed to the Groups energy performance Carbon emissions disclosure Marshalls Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Groups during the year including reduction in carbonisation of the electricity grid supply, product mix, weather temperature impacting on the use of heating commitment to reducing the energy and carbon impact of its business.
cooling fuel and energy management activities.
Two increases in Our target is to reduce Group absolute CO2e emissions in line with the UK Governments targets 37 per cent by 2020 and 80 per cent by 2050 emissions during the year have resulted from the acquisition of CPM Group, which had added absolute 760 tonnes and intensity 11.44 kg per tonne from a 1990 baseline.
The progress indicates that reductions are in line production, to the annual data and an increase in the LGV fleet by 11 per with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
cent full time equivalent vehicles to satisfy customer requirements.
The Group complied with its legal obligation under the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC by The Group reports that it is responsible for the GHG emissions of Marshalls NV.
The CO emission from Marshalls NV activities using the submitting its Annual Report and surrendering appropriate Carbon 2 latest International Energy Associations Emission Factor in 2017 was allowances for the period April 2016 to March 2017 within the time limit absolute 520 tonnes and intensity 10.60 kg per tonne production.
The Group continues to be certified to the Carbon Trust Standard.
The Groups approach to the Energy Savings Marshalls aims to publish its environmental KPI performance for the financial Opportunity Scheme ESOS legislation was to define its energy year in a separate document, the Marshalls Environmental KPI 2018 Report.
management in compliance with the international standard for energy This will cover the energy performance in more detail, together with reporting management ISO50001, gaining accreditation in November 2015 and of the environmental governance, policies, management and key maintaining this through 2017.
The Group continues to voluntarily environmental impact areas such as waste, water and packaging.
The disclose data to the Carbon Disclosure Project receiving a B rating for Environmental KPI 2018 Report will also detail our work with internationally its 2017 submission.
This disclosure includes the wider carbon recognised expert bodies such as the Carbon Trust and the RSPB.
management performance over time and also provides an insight for This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified shareholders regarding the Groups energy, carbon and climate change impact management programme.
verifier on behalf of BSI.
On the basis of the work undertaken this carbon statement is considered to be a fair reflection of the Groups Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual Greenhouse Gas performance during 2017 and contains no misleading information.
Emissions GHG under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 and the Large and Medium-sized Health and safety Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Marshalls is committed to meeting the highest safety standards for Marshalls uses The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting allitsemployees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes, and and Reporting Standard revised edition and the August 2017 developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving long-term Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy BEIS published improvement gains.
This remains a key priority for the business.
CO e conversion factors to measure its GHG emissions.
2 The achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is The Group has conducted an audit of its UK fugitive emissions and directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior found these to be 0.6 per cent of the Group total emissions: accordingly management, as explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63. these are excluded from the report.
The headline target for 2017 was to maintain days lost resulting from The chart below left illustrates the Groups UK absolute CO e emissions 2 workplace incidents at a figure no higher than the 2015 actual result.
in tonnes, including transport activities, between 2013 and 2017.
The actual results achieved were: The chart below right illustrates the Groups CO e intensity emissions 2 46 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from all accidents as a proportion of production output, including transport activities frequency rate: between 2013 and 2017.
11 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate: Scope 1 and 2 emissions Tonnes CO2e Relative CO2e emissions for Scope 1 and 2 from UKoperations kg CO2e per tonne of production Scope 1 41,610 tonnes CO2e Scope 2 12,106 tonnes CO2e 10.17kg CO2e T -3.7% 70,000 12.50 60,000 12.00 12.1 16,436 14,251 14,015 50,000 12,106 11.50 16,769 11.5 40,000 11.00 41,610 40,873 40,012 10.9 38,746 36,166 30,000 10.50 10.6 20,000 10.00 10.2 10,000 9.50 0 9.00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Scope 1 Scope 2 Target MARSHALLS PLC 32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Tonnes COve kgs CO2e per tonne production output STRATEGIC REPORT 20 per cent reduction in lost time incidents LTIs frequency rate: and younger people and females in what has been historically a highly male dominated sector and workplace.
The Company will be considering 12 per cent reduction in incidents reportable to the HSE under the pro-active ways to encourage the attraction and promotion of these Reportingof Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence groups as part of our wider diversity and inclusion policy.
We also welcome and give full and fair consideration to applications The primary target for 2018 will be to achieve an accident rate for the from persons with recognised disabilities, providing equal opportunities year no higher than the 2015 actual result.
The table below shows the for promotion and development and making adjustments to ensure KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, and progress against that such individuals are not disadvantaged in the workplace.
those KPIs over the last 5 years.
Employee engagement and development Accident frequency and severity rates per 1 million hours worked 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Improving employee engagement throughout the Group continues to be an important priority in order for the business to deliver on its strategy and All accidents 65.6 59.1 48.8 49.2 43.4 objectives as well as providing a fulfilling and rewarding place of work for our people.
Initiatives to improve this included various charitable events across All lost time accidents 12.2 7.2 5.1 5.6 4.1 the Group raising in total over 100,000 for our nominated charity, MIND.
All RIDDORs 3.6 3.3 1.6 2.3 1.4 Thebusiness also used the Best Companies framework to conduct another employee survey across all of the Group during 2017, achieving a response All days lost 114.6 80.7 45.8 38.0 24.6 rate of 70 per cent.
This will have been the fifth survey of this type as we Average UK headcount 2,055 2,132 2,237 2,253 2,307 continue to strive to improve our working environments and capture the valuable feedback from our employees and devise improvement plans In 2017, the Executive Board agreed a formal 5-year Health and Safety strategy asaresult.
The Company operates Sharesave and share purchase plans with set objectives.
This strategy clearly demonstrates the commitment of the toencourage employee participation in the Companys success.
business to take the safety of its employees to the highest level.
The engagement programme is supported by an annual Group-wide The business also introduced a Safety, Health, Environmental and Quality communication roadshow programme of senior management visits SHEQ concerns reporting process.
The SHEQ concerns system not travelling around the business with the objective of meeting as many of only gives all employees the tools to report concerns, but also ensures our employees as possible face to face.
This provides the Directors and management identifies the root causation ensuring the right actions are senior management team with an unparalleled opportunity to explain taken to prevent a re-occurrence.
to our employees how the business is performing, how our strategy is working, and what the priorities and objectives are, as well as providing In 2018 the main Health and Safety initiatives will include: information of concern to employees generally, taking soundings on The implementation of Marshalls mental health awareness employee views and answering questions in an open forum.
This involves the introduction of a mental health policy As a business, we are committed to investing in our employees.
The and support network, all management in the business receiving ongoing training and development of our employees to develop our mental health awareness training and the Company appointing and future managers and leaders is of major importance to the business.
training company mental health champions who will deliver mental There is a range of online learning programmes accessible to all employees, health training to all employees: and, in addition, to the management training programme for our first A programme whereby all first line supervisors within the business line managers, in which over 100 employees have now participated, we will complete a new, recently developed, Marshalls Health and Safety have added an additional 3 management development programmes.
stage 2 training programme: These programmes are geared towards emerging and middle management The integration of CPM into the Marshalls Health and Safety and facilitated through the University of Salford, Ashridge Business Management system and culture: and School and Cranfield School of Management.
The introduction of safety observations to all management teams We also continue to try and make our organisation an attractive place of across the business.
work for young people through our ongoing apprenticeship programmes.
These initiatives will enhance the already high standard the Company We now have a good mix of apprenticeships spanning everything from demands in Health and Safety and take it to a completely new level.
engineering through to 4 year apprenticeships in areas such as marketing and Information Systems.
We will continue to build on these schemes to Equality and diversity increase our intake in 2018 and widen the range of options for prospective The ability to recruit, retain and develop the right people is fundamental employees.
We have strong community connections, particularly in to the future success of the business.
The Company believes that attracting locations near our offices and factories, and we plan to develop closer a suitably diverse range of individuals with the appropriate skills and relations with local schools and colleges in order to encourage young experience will help us to achieve its goals.
people into the industry as well as the business.
As such, the Group has policies that promote equality and diversity and Good progress has been made in the year with the development of our is committed to providing equal opportunities to employees and potential new HR system platform which will improve our operational efficiency employees irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability and reliability of data in personnel and payroll administration.
This, in or religious beliefs.
The Company opposes all forms of discrimination and conjunction with our project on job evaluation, will ensure that we are reinforces this through communication, awareness training and policy.
in a position to facilitate better decision making and create a more transparent system for the equal treatment of employees.
Employees The system will also serve as the foundation to develop our future people The Company continues to be a Living Wage Employer, underscoring strategy and complement our wider Group objectives through improved its commitment to fairness and integrity towards our employees.
Our resource planning, performance management, recruitment and talent recruitment policies are geared towards giving full and fair consideration development initiatives with a view to ensuring that we attract and retain towards creating a more diverse workforce and it is clear that there thebest people in an open and fair way.
ismuch to be done in making the Company more attractive to both MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 33
