Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 22 betterenvironment in action 01 02 We said... We delivered... Greenhouse gas GHG emissions In 2017, we: In 2017, we said we would: Since 2012 we havereduced our GHG Increased our on-site renewable energy emissions by 31% in pursuit of our 2020 generation, for example by investing in Look for further opportunities to reduce GHG goal of a 40% reduction thermal solar energy to heat water at emissions across our manufacturing sites our Mira site in Italy Reduced our carbon footprint per dose, currently 2% lower than the 2012 Continued to focus on energy efficiency baseline in our operations Signed first Power Purchase Agreement PPA for Mysore plant in India, where 100% renewable electricity is now supplied Water In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Work across our value chain to further explore Further reduced our water use per unit of Further reduced our water impact per dose: opportunities to reduce the water impact of production, by investing in water efficiency 8% decrease since 2012.
This remains a ourproducts in our operations challenge asthe biggest impact is at the point of consumer use.
To tackle this, we Identify ways to reduce, reuse and recycle water Achieved zero water discharge at three are making products with a lower footprint in our manufacturing sites, and invest in waste sites, meaning all the water they use is at point of use, such as foam or liquid water treatment facilities and monitoring systems recycled or put back into the production soaps, and working with third parties to process produce more water-efficient appliances Upgraded waste water discharge facilities Assessed water scarcity across our locations at our Indonesia, India and Bahrain plants, and invested to increase water with improvements and modifications replenishment made at other facilities Waste In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Continue to drive towards zero waste to landfill, Achieved zero waste to landfill for all Improved recycling and reuse of waste, with an emphasis on finding new ways to reuse RBsites for example at our Shangma plant in and recycle waste China, where installation of more Further reduced our manufacturing efficient waste processing machinery waste per unit of production, putting has led to significant waste reductions uson track for our 2020 target of a 30% reduction Responsible sourcing In 2017, we said we would: In 2017, we: Further develop our palm oil programme, focusing Increased palm oil traceability back Worked with The Forest Trust TFT on increasing traceability within our supply chain tothe mill excluding India to 88% tomap our palm oil supply chain and the implementation of transformation excluding surfactants Completed a labour risks mapping programmes For India: Increased palm oil traceability project in our Indonesian supply chain Increased human rights due diligence in our palm back to the port of origin from 55% and carried out focused human rights oil supply chains in2016 to 90% in 2017, excluding training and engagement with selected surfactants.
processors Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 02 03 We will...
In 2017, our GHG emissions from Total GHG emissions from Scope 1 ourentire operations, including andScope 2 emissions in 2017 were manufacturing, R&D, offices and 227,766 tCO e 2016: 269,045.
2 distribution centres, were made up of: Wecalculate our emissions intensity Scope 1: 63,726 tCO e 2016: per unit of production, which equated Our priorities for 2018 are to: 2 66,247 emissions from to 0.00278 tCO e in 2017 2016: 2 Look for further opportunities to reduce combustion of fuel in our facilities 0.00313 tCO e. 2 GHGemissions across our sites, in particular Scope 2: 164,040 tCO e 2016: 2 byincreasing our use of renewable energy 202,798 emissions from energy See our Detailed Sustainability Report andthrough further energy efficiency 2017 at RB.
com supplied to us, such as electricity, Sign up to RE100, a global initiative bringing heat, steam or cooling together companies who are committed to Note: Our GHG data includes all emissions from operations covered by the Group Financial using100% renewable energy Statements for which we have operational control.
We include emissions for businesses we acquire Evaluate and revise new GHG emissions targets, inthe first full calendar year of our ownership.
We calculated CO e emissions using internationally 2 recognised methodologies, for example, the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as outlined in our Reporting including MJN Criteria and follow dual reporting requirements in line with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
Our GHG emissions reported above follow the market based methodology.
Following a location based approach, our Scope 2 emissions for 2017 are 213,966 t of CO e. 2 Reuse of treated water in processes Our priorities for 2018 are to: RBs plant in Hosur, India set itself the goal Further enhance the water efficiency of of becoming a Zero Discharge Plant.
Doing ouroperations so not only decreases the levels of waste Review where we have material water impacts, water generated, it also reduces the amount inlight of the MJN acquisition, and determine of water being withdrawn an important theactions we can take to significantly influence consideration in a water-scarce region.
water impacts across the product life cycle Following engineering and infrastructure modifications, treated waste water can now be mixed with raw water within the manufacturing process.
This has led to water savings averaging over 600,000 litres each month.
treatment plants sludge residues a 10% Waste reduction through Our priorities for 2018 are to: improvement over the previous equipment.
machinery investment Achieve zero waste to landfill for sites acquired RBs Shangma plant in China identified an through MJN This has led to a reduction of over 100 opportunity to reduce their waste volumes tonnes of sludge being disposed of each Further reduce waste and increase the reuse and by installing more efficient plant machinery.
year and a 6% reduction in the site's recycling of waste A new sludge pressing machine meant that todaywaste.
approximately 60% of the water content Mobilise RB's Plastics Task Force to define could be pressed from their waste water programmes, targets and goals to reduce, reuseand recycle plastic across our portfolio As part of a broader study, a survey of all Human rights monitoring Our priorities for 2018 are to: our palm oil suppliers was initiated with and partnership Further increase the scope and effectiveness of Impact Consulting, providing a better We supported a programme with TFT to our responsible sourcing programme, in areas insightinto the systems in place across our build a constructive working relationship such as palm oil and latex upstream supply chains to manage human with a large palm oil mill.
The research will support further Integrate MJN into our responsible raw materials employees and subcontracted workers led engagement with suppliers, refineries and sourcing programme and ensure compliance toan action plan being agreed to remedy mills around human rights.
programmes are in place for high risk materials.
issues arising most of which had been closed out by the end of the year.
