Strategic report Corporate social responsibility At Clarksons, our approach to corporate social responsibility CSR is a natural extension of our vision and values integrity, excellence, fairness and transparency.
We are committed to both providing a great place to work for our employees, with market-leading facilities, technologies and working practices, and giving back to the community, by supporting new entrants to the world of shipping and more generally by helping those where team Clarksons can make a real difference.
As our business evolves so does our commitment to CSR.
During 2017 we have again contributed to some incredible charities and continued to monitor and support those that we have supported in the past.
We have watched with pride as projects supported by the Group have JEFF WOYDA flourished during the year, making a positive difference to the lives of CORPORATE SOCIAL many people.
Our endeavours to support these causes, both financially RESPONSIBILITY and through the volunteering of our staff, has many benefits, but COMMITTEE CHAIR ultimately we aim to bring about positive social change and provide a lasting impact on the people and communities that we help.
We are always conscious to give back to the maritime sector.
One of As a business, and as employees, our more significant CSR projects for 2017 involved partnering with the Sailors Society to deliver a mobile medical unit to retired and active we are committed to supporting seafarers and their families living in the Chennai and Pondicherry areas in Tamil Nadu state, India.
This is a project that we scoped and worthwhile causes and projects committed to in the latter part of the year and we are excited to see worldwide as we strive to give it evolve over the coming months.
Another cause new to the Group in 2017 is a project inspired by a back to communities in need.
community leader local to our head office, Mick Carney MBE.
Mick uses sport, specifically boxing, to engage disadvantaged young people and then mentors them to become the best they can be in all areas of life.
This is an ethos that is reflected within our own business and our support of this charity allows us to offer not only badly needed funding for the day-to-day running of the centre but also social mentoring for young people involved in Carneys Community.
This is not the first time that we have supported a scheme which uses sport to enrich peoples lives and form a basis for helping them through their challenges, as in the past we donated to School of Hard Knocks, a rugby charity.
Sport forms an Corporate social responsibility in pictures Clarksons employees Houston was awarded The 2nd annual have volunteered, the trophy for highest Clarksons Charity donated and contributed fundraiser for the Giving Day held across Wounded Warrior to a selection of Project andHurricane charitable causes 8 Harvey Relief.
of our global offices across the globe: Clarksons Hong Kong team took to the trails 1m on Hong Kong Island raised for charities for the 3rd Annual across the world Hong Kong Sailors since 2013 Society Trek.
48 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information important part in many of our staffs lives, and We have hosted lectures with the UK Chamber of teamwork is such a positive contributor to the ethos Shipping, Institute of Shipbrokers, ITIC, Womens of Clarksons, that we strongly believe in these International Shipping and Trading Association charities, and have been delighted to see the positive WISTA and the London Shipping Law Centre and impact they are making to so many they help.
have welcomed many well-known leaders in the shipping cluster to share their experiences and We have also provided support to Friends of knowledge with team Clarksons.
All staff are Chernobyls Children, a charity aiding disadvantaged encouraged to invest time into professional children in and around the city of Mogilev, one of the development, including many different forms of areas affected worst by the Chernobyl nuclear mandatory training, such as anti-bribery and disaster of 1986, and to the Hurricane Harvey Relief corruption and cyber security awareness programs.
Fund, especially poignant given the location of our We also offer work experience to students from the office in Houston which suffered from the ensuing UK and overseas and keep close relationships with floods.
In Norway, we donated to Sykehus Klovene, universities and business schools around the world specialists in providing positive respite for children specialising in maritime and international trade.
who are currently undergoing challenging, life-saving treatment, and in the UK we have volunteered and As market leaders, we know that it is our contributed to homeless charities in London and responsibility to lead the way and be at the forefront continue to work with them as they look to help the of new ideas.
In order to do that, we need to stay unacceptably high number of people currently up-to-date with the market and encourage and invest sleeping on the streets in the capital.
in our employees providing qualifications with CIMA, CIPD, ICS, MBA, PHD or many other forms of study Together with the phenomenal fundraising which which can help their personal development.
takes place every year by our remarkable employees, team Clarksons continues to make a real difference to We are conscious that we are always learning, charities across the world through countless acts of regardless of age and experience and, in order to strength and endurance, be it marathons, triathlons, provide the best in class to our employees, clients conquering base camps or even sailing around the and communities, we must continue to evolve what world.
Helen Trundle, an application support manager we offer and pioneer new technology to support our in the London office, recently competed in the Clipper industry.
As we rethink the industry we know we need Round the World Race which sees international crew to be ready for the future by investing in our members race 40,000 nautical miles around the community, investing in our people and ensuring globe.
It is the longest ocean race in the world and weare ready to shape the future of shipping.
one of the planets toughest endurance challenges.
Through our charity and mentoring work, we do not Jeff Woyda lose sight that our reputation is key to our long-term Corporate social responsibility committee Chair success and we endeavour to use our experience to provide knowledge to others both in and outside of 9 March 2018 the business.
Congratulations to Gosia Focusing on three Kwapinska who won our main causes: 116 first Clarksons Bake off.
Maritime, The proceeds went to charities The Luminary Bakery.
children across and health 5 years Eat, sleep, sail, repeat.
Carneys Community Helen Trundle competing and Clarksons coming in the Clipper Round the together to engage World Race, the longest disadvantaged young ocean race in the world.
com 49 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued We are aware that there is much to be done to Our people are our business encourage more women into the shipping industry Without enthusiastic and engaged employees we and to progress into senior roles.
With this in mind, simply could not do our job delivering the highest we endeavour to ensure that regardless of gender, quality service to our clients.
Employees are expected Clarksons feels inclusive and focused on developing to use good judgement and act in the best interests of all employees within the business, across the world.
both the Clarksons Group and our clients at all times.
Each and every member of the Clarksons team shares Please visit www.
com  to view our gender pay gap report.
our common values and aspirations to conduct our business in an ethical, honest and professional Clarksons has undergone significant growth over the manner wherever we operate.
last decade, including the acquisition of Platou in Clarksons is an equal opportunities employer which 2015, which means that many employees have been entrusts its reputation and market lead to the best employed for less than ten years.
Nevertheless, we global workforce in shipping.
Our business is are proud that 23% of Clarksons employees have meritocratic.
We seek to appoint the best candidate been with the organisation for more than ten years, for each and every vacancy.
Candidates are and 3.5% have been employed with the business for considered against fair and objective criteria which 25 years or more.
Thiscommitment to the Company enable all employees, irrespective of gender, race or and its values ensures that there is continuity of disability, to advance in their career.
practice throughout the organisation and a Shipping is an industry that people enter into because sophisticated understanding of how the Clarksons they are enthusiastic about world trade.
This industry business model is maintained.
remains an attractive employment option as it offers Engaging with our people career opportunities, flexibility and incentives for those who commit themselves.
Employees are key stakeholders in our business andwe take our engagement of employees seriously.
Of the 1,512 staff within the Group at 31 December Our flat management structure means that employees 2017, 388 or 26% were female 27% in 2016.
There have access to the senior management team and were 273 managers within the Group, of which 45 or Managing Directors work alongside their trainees.
From total new hires made in 2017, 27% were female.
Our people We pride ourselves on our employee retention.
Clarksons 51 is more than just a job to many number of years and our family culture is employed by our something that sets us apart longest serving from our competitors.
We are confident that through regular training and educational 53 opportunities and continuing to employees with 25 build a strong international years or more workforce reflecting diversity continuous service.
and cultural richness, we will continue to pave the way forward in our industry.
50 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information We regularly communicate with our employees on For employee shareholders, we offer an in-house matters relating to both our Company and the wider share dealing service, enabling employees around maritime industry using a variety of methods such as theworld to take advantage of special rates with our our monthly Clarksons Voyage online magazine and preferred brokers.
In 2017, we were pleased to launch iQ video updates by in-house experts.
Global MDs an International ShareSave scheme for our Norwegian week takes place each January when divisional employees.
In the future, we hope to offer this in other Managing Directors from around the world meet at locations around the globe.
our headquarters in London for a week-long series Furthermore, Clarksons offers a number of ofseminars, workshops and meetings.
opportunities to employees to develop in their careers Employees are able to participate in the Companys and learn more about the shipping industry as a share schemes including Long-Term Incentive Plans whole.
Employees are encouraged to broaden their and the ShareSave scheme, which give eligible knowledge of the business and industry where employees the opportunity to become shareholders possible.
For example, in London, the training inthe Company and to share in its continued growth development team run lunchtime seminars with and success.
As shareholders, employees have an industry experts and specialists.
Employees across opportunity to engage with the Board, in particular the Company are encouraged to attend these atthe AGM each year.
seminars in order to increase their understanding ofour business and to build relationships with We are a global business with an international colleagues who they may not encounter in their workforce and the combination of languages, cultures day-to-day roles.
and ideas brings a level of diversity and cultural richness that is the envy of our competitors.
Clarksons Our training schemes remain unique in our industry, employees represent over 60 nationalities globally blending the collective skilled advice and guidance reflecting our cultural diversity.
Clarksons continues to from our experienced employees along with the operate a prominent trainee broker recruitment process tutelage of external experts from all areas of the which attracts in excess of 2,500 applications annually.
shipping, trading and commodity markets.
These Our global presence means that we can attract training schemes take the form of an intense five-day employees with the opportunity to work for the biggest programme and are very popular amongst employees shipbroking company in the world and are able to offer as well as the employees of our clients who recognise international mobility within the Group to ensure both the strength and credibility of the training that we offer.
During 2017, we were pleased to begin building arelationship with a global womans shipping and Investing in our people trading association.
It is hoped that by working with At Clarksons employees are empowered to do their organisations such as this, Clarksons can increase the best work.
We hire the brightest talents, give them the visibility of shipbroking and related services to women tools to shine, including IT systems and high quality as a career.
training, and ensure they are suitably rewarded.
Our Trainee Broker Scheme is open to school, college Clarksons is committed to investing in talent retention and university graduates as Clarksons believes that and staff development, ensuring that as we grow the qualities of commitment, talent and passion we both organically and through acquisition the right seek in a trainee require a more diverse approach people are identified and developed.
Trainees can expect a fully-rounded In terms of employee benefits, the Company offers education where their individual talents are nurtured a range of immediate and post-probation benefits and developed into what we hope will enable them to including private health insurance, discounted become the future leaders of our business.
In addition gym memberships, childcare plus vouchers, cycle to the Trainee Broker Scheme, we offer a small to work scheme, season ticket loans, eye tests, number of paid internships to students each year pension scheme, life assurance policy and an andthrough long-standing relationships with employee assistance helpline.
In some locations, schoolsand academies we are able to offer regular there are canteen facilities offering free lunches work experience opportunities in our broking and and subsidised breakfasts.
com modern-slavery-act to view our latest statement on modern slavery and human trafficking under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. www.
com 51 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Office HSC Health and safety As reported in 2016, all the employees responsible We believe that it is vital to look after the health, safety forday-to-day health and safety management in office and wellbeing of our staff.
Clarksons endeavours to locations have received refresher training and any create a working culture that is inclusive for all and to with new health and safety responsibilities in 2017 maintain our high standards across all sites.
Providing were trained for the first time.
Each office location a safe and secure workplace is central to this ethos.
now has appropriate numbers of employees with Our policies and procedures are designed to minimise IOSH Managing Safely certification.
the risk of injury and ill health of all employees as well as any other parties involved in the conduct of our Projects undertaken by the office HSC in 2017 include: business operations.
Implementation of a new contractor approval Looking after our employees around the world process: In February 2017, the Clarkson PLC Board approved Review of first aid requirements at each location a revised Group health and safety policy statement.
and refreshing training where appropriate: This outlines the Companys commitment to health Increased reporting and communication to PLC and safety globally and appoints the Chief Financial Board on health and safety matters: Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Jeff Woyda, to oversee health and safety as a sponsor on behalf of Monitoring relevant legislative compliance at the Board.
This policy statement will be kept under eachlocation: review to ensure that it remains fit-for-purpose as Legal responsibilities training for key Directors theGroup grows and evolves.
andthe Company Secretary: and Working on development of a bespoke health Each global site is responsible for managing its andsafety e-learning package for employees.
ownhealth and safety to a good local standard in compliance with relevant legislation and regulations.
For 2018, the office HSC plans to build on progress With the exception of port-side activities in Egypt, made and increase awareness of safety in the allGroup locations outside UK conduct office-based workplace amongst office employees.
This is activities only and therefore considered relatively expected to include training.
CPSL HSC Health and safety in the UK There have been a number of positive improvements In the UK, we have the largest concentration of for CPSL during 2017 including expanding their safety employees in a single location Commodity Quay, management system and achieving internationally plus some of our highest risk locations such as port recognised occupational safety accreditation of agency and freight forwarding.
Following a thorough OHSAS 18001 for all CPSL sites.
review of our health and safety management systems CPSL demonstrated further commitment to the in the UK, 2017 was the first full year of operation for health, safety and wellbeing of their employees in our new health and safety committees HSCs and 2017 by employing a dedicated health and safety policies.
Following his appointment, the We are pleased to report that all HSCs have met their health and safety manager has led a review of existing required number of meetings for the year under the risk assessments, safe working procedures and terms of reference: operating systems.
In addition, he has overseen theimplementation assessments, processes and Committee Required Meetings held procedures where appropriate as part of the Office HSC 4 4 Companys commitment to continual improvement.
CPSL HSC 6 6 CPSL HSC has focused on a number of projects UK HSC 2 2 during the year: Locations represented by the Office HSC include Empowering employees to report near misses: London Commodity Quay and Empson Street, COSHH training for employees: Ledbury and Aberdeen Shiprow.
All other UK Training a certified Dangerous Goods Safety locations are covered by CPSL HSC.
Advisor: Improved visibility at CPSL Board level: and Increased involvement at all levels in the business from operations to Directors.
52 CLARKSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Governance Financial statements Other information Looking ahead to 2018, the CPSL HSC is pleased to Environment report that there is further training planned including Clarksons recognises that its global operations have aroll-out of a new bespoke port safety awareness an environmental impact and we are committed to e-learning course.
In addition, investment has been monitoring and reducing our emissions over time.
confirmed for operational improvements at key sites.
This is the fifth year that Clarksons is reporting its The focus for the upcoming year is to improve greenhouse gas GHG emissions as required by the reporting, drive forward the prevention of Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors accidentsand utilise technological advances Reports Regulations 2013. insafetywhere possible.
Clarksons reports all material emission sources for 1 which we have operational control across 21 UK HSC countries.
Our Tokyo office, which opened in 2016, The UK HSC includes representatives from the office hasbeen included in this years reporting for the and CPSL HSCs as well as the Company Secretary 2 firsttime.
on behalf of senior management.
Each UK HSC meeting is an opportunity for both HSCs to share best This year we have adopted a longer-term approach practice and discuss ways to improve the combined toenvironmental reporting through active data UK approach.
These meetings help set the agenda management.
We are pleased to see that data quality forsafety management across the UK as a whole.
and coverage continues to improve across our sites.
Areport prepared by the UK HSC is provided to the Increased engagement with our offices in 2017 has Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer captured additional data across key business following each meeting and provided to the Board activities.
To provide a more accurate representation attheir next meeting.
This has improved visibility and comparison of our environmental impact over atBoard level of health and safety management time, we have restated our 2016 emissions.
Emissions performance The following chart illustrates the information flow As an expanding business we have increased our between the PLC Board and the HSCs: estate footprint and, whilst we have consumed more energy this year, our carbon footprint has decreased UK HSC structure by 6% from 3,476 tCO e in 2016 to 3,255 tCO e in 2 2 2017, due to a number of external influences.
Clarkson PLC Board Global emissions by scope Oversight led by Chief Financial Officer Tonnes CO e 2 and Chief Operating Officer 2017 2016 Scope 1 Direct control UK HSC Natural gas, company cars, Representatives from CPSL and UK HSCs refrigerants 1,178.6 1,213.5 plus senior management Scope 2 Indirect control Purchased electricity, heat, steam 3 and cooling 1,930.1 2,083.9 Scope 3 Clarksons influences CPSL HSC Office HSC Transmission and distribution only 146.6 179.0 Sub-total 3,255.3 3,476.4 Emissions intensity Regular representation from each UK site along tCO e per FTE 2.00 2.64 with key health and safety personnel 2 Our scope 1 emissions have decreased by 3% compared to 2016.
This can largely be attributed toreduced consumption of on-site fuels at Ipswich Sentinel, plus we have had no fugitive emissions toreport for 2017.
Reported electricity emissions decreased by 7% in 2017, with Clarksons European offices responsible for 65% of our scope 2 impact.
UK offices continue toaccount for the majority of this 93%, with a 15% decrease in the UKs electricity conversion factor contributing a 98 tCO e reduction in these emissions.
com 53 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Our London head office at Commodity Quay is Other building emissions water, waste and paper responsible for 80% of our UK consumption.
We have account for 2% of our 2017 carbon footprint, with taken steps to increase the accuracy of our reporting other business travel rail, taxis and non-company at this site and identify energy saving opportunities cars contributing a further 1%.
Tonnes CO e 2 Emissions breakdown by region tCO e 2017 2016 2 Additional scope 3 Business travel, water, waste, paper 7,458.9 7,015.5 Total all scopes 10,714.2 10,491.9 Emissions intensity tCO e per FTE 6.59 7.97 2 Methodology Clarksons GHG emissions were calculated in 2016 accordance with the requirements of the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2017 revised version, Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Defra, 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1.
Comparison of emissions by region tCO e scope 1, 2 Additional notes on methodology: 2 and scope 3 transmission and distribution.
As we take an operational approach to defining our boundary, building emissions from employees working from home are excluded from our reporting.
Clarksons new Seoul office, which opened in December This is the second year that we are disclosing our 2017, is excluded from this years reporting but will be extended scope 3 emissions in line with reporting included in future years.
best practice, to cover additional business travel 3.
Clarksons scope 2 emissions using location-based emissions factors.
In line with WRI best practice, our scope 2 marketflights, rail, non-company cars and taxis and based emissions for 2017 are calculated at 2,278 tCO e and 2 buildings related emissions water, waste and paper.
calculated using residual mix factors by country and location-based factors.
In line with the restatement of our scope 1 and 2 emissions, we have also captured new business travel data.
As such, we have restated our scope 3 emissions in 2016 to allow for a more robust comparison between 2017 and 2016.
Given the global nature of our business, flights represent our most material emission source and are responsible for 67% of our total scope 1, 2 and 3 carbon footprint.
