Strategic Report Sustainability Report Sustainability is a key strategic priority for the Group: as we focus on improving the sustainability of our operations, and help our customers to do the same, we drive growth, increase efficiency and play our part in engineering a more sustainable future.
Our sustainability vision: Managing sustainability To engineer a more sustainable future.
We have a well-defined management structure to help us achieve our sustainability objectives.
Our sustainability mission: We will operate sustainably through responsibly managing our Supported by business for on-going financial success: operations in accordance Group Chief Executive with laws and regulations: social and environmental impacts: ethical Responsible for the Group and social responsibilities: and customer and supplier relationships, Board of Directors sustainability strategy to improve the sustainability oftheir operations.
We commit to engineering a sustainable future by focusing on five core areas: our workplaces, our supply chain, our environment, our Sustainability Committee customers and our communities, setting objectives and targets in Senior Managers Divisional Director, Spirax Sarco Americas: each area.
Group Supply Chain Director: Group EHS Executive: WMFTG Supply Chain Director oversee strategy implementation and Our sustainability strategy: 2017 update review progress against strategic objectives Throughout the year our focus has been on the implementation of our five year plans within each of our material sustainability topics.
Further information can be found in the reports for each topic on Divisional Directors, pages 54 to 61.
Regional and Sustainability A key priority during 2017 was to raise awareness of the sustainability General Managers strategy sponsors strategy across the Group.
During the year we launched a Ensure the Groups Senior managers allocated to sustainability e-learning module, which is available in 15 languages: sustainability policies are each sustainability objective 2,732 employees completed the training during 2017.
Increasing the upheld and implemented by our operating units number of employees who have completed the training will be a focus for 2018.
We were pleased to welcome Gestra and Chromalox into the Group during 2017 and have begun to raise awareness of the sustainability strategy within these businesses and to involve Sustainability strategy project leaders and teams them in its strategic implementation.
Establish strategic priorities, with sponsors, and oversee strategic implementation The Sustainability Committee met quarterly throughout the year, with presentations by the project leaders of each topic.
The Committee oversees progress and performance and supports the Employees and organised employee groups implementation of the strategy.
Progress was reported to the Group Oversee, record and report on strategic implementation Chief Executive, Executive Committee and Board of Directors.
andperformance within their local workplaces Environmental, Health and Safety Engineering sustainable value creation requires the consistent implementation of ethical business practices, respect for the environment and our local communities, and acommitment to delivering outstanding solutions to customers.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive 52 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sustainability objectives 1.
Our workplaces To achieve Health and Safety H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and Engineering for fostering good behaviours, while targeting zero accidents.
excellence To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles.
To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
To invest in developing the knowledge and skills of our people.
Our supply chain Engineering the To focus on continuous improvement in our supply chain with particular emphasis on sustainability.
responsible way To incorporate sustainability factors into our product design process, including energy efficiency, emissions, serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and ethically sourced materials.
Our environment To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through reducing water use and Engineering for minimising and managing effluent and waste.
our planet To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions.
Our customers Engineering To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through helping them reduce their environmental impacts, improve plant efficiency and sustainable solutions productivity, and maintain product quality.
Our communities To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and offer financial support to Engineering approved charities.
better futures Sustainability spotlight: achievements in 2017 Spirax Sarco Singapore Broad-Based Black Economic recognised at iChemE awards Empowerment, South Africa During 2017, Spirax Sarco Singapore received In 2017 Spirax Sarco took steps to support the a highly commended award in the Training and Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Development category, from the Institution initiative and at the same time give something Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc of Chemical Engineers IChemE, Singapore back to the local community.
is a constituent of the in recognition of the companys provision of Spirax Sarco Services, a subsidiary of Spirax industrial steam training in Myanmar.
FTSE4Good UK Index Sarco South Africa Pty Ltd, was established FTSE Group confirms that Spirax-Sarco Since 2015, Spirax Sarco has partnered with to provide on-site maintenance services to Engineering plc has been independently the Myanmar Engineering Society to provide customers in South Africa.
Spirax Sarco South assessed according to the FTSE4Good a month-long training course to engineering Africa will continue to offer all other Spirax Sarco criteria and has satisfied the requirements students to build their steam systems knowledge solutions and services.
The new company is 51% to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good and help improve energy management in owned by a charity called Tomorrow Trust, which Index Series.
Created by the global index Myanmar.
Spirax Sarco provides all of the training supports orphaned and vulnerable children company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is materials, stationery and expertise for the course, throughout their educational journey.
an equity index series that is designed and three company employees give a total of 120 The charity focuses on developing academic and to facilitate investment in companies hours a year in support of the programme.
life skills, supporting students through school that meet globally recognised corporate The iChemE awards, which are widely and college until they graduate fully prepared responsibility standards.
Companies in the recognised as the worlds most prestigious for a career in their field of study, empowering FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent chemical engineering awards, reward them to reach their full potential as self-sustaining environmental, social and governance criteria, organisations that deliver engineering excellence, members of society.
and are positioned to capitalise on the societal benefit and sustainable impacts.
benefits of responsible business practices.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 53 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for excellence Health and Safety the embedding of a H&S culture across the Group, which empowers Objective: To achieve Health and Safety H&S excellence through employees to raise concerns and take action to report near misses.
engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours We employ 39 full-time, qualified H&S professionals and additional part-time while targeting zero accidents EHS employees 2016: 32.
As part of our due diligence process to ensure Target: Zero accidents compliance with Group policies and procedures, during 2017 we completed 787 internal continuous improvement EHS inspections across our supply sites 2016: 489.
As we focus on leading indicators we At the end of the year, 15 of our 26 manufacturing sites held increase risk awareness and establish a OHSAS 18001 certification and a number of companies were working culture that drives safe behaviours.
All Watson-Marlow manufacturing Mark Wyatt sites established Behavioural Based Safety programmes during 2017.
Group Environment, Health and Safety Executive During 2017, we opened a new Distribution Centre in Singapore.
During the extensive refurbishment of the building we followed our internal Management of Change procedure to ensure the highest standards of H&S were met.
The Centre was opened without any lost-time accidents.
Overview Actions taken in 2017 Health and Safety H&S excellence is the cornerstone of our business.
We concentrated on two key themes throughout 2017: first, the training of Reducing accidents and maintaining a safe working environment for our managers and second, investment in engineering controls to reduce risk.
employees, contractors, visitors and customers are our primary aims.
The first session of our Worldwide Leadership Conference was focused We are actively promoting a H&S culture, encouraging our employees to on workplace safety.
The 107 senior managers present were instructed adopt safe working practices at all times.
The Group Chief Executive and in the steps required to develop a strong safety culture.
The training Board of Directors oversee our H&S programmes and performance, with also focused on the importance of engaging employees and monitoring H&S a standing agenda item at every Board meeting.
All Group companies H&S performance using leading indicators.
An external guest speaker are required to adhere to the Group H&S Policy, operate within Group delivered a powerful presentation about a serious industrial accident that programmes and have detailed H&S management systems in place locally.
he encountered while working for a global industrial company and the long-lasting impact this had on individuals and the business.
During 2017, Performance in 2017 we also delivered Institution of Occupational Safety and Health Safety for During 2017, our over seven day lost-time accident rate fell to 3.0 accidents Executives and Directors training to 30 executives and senior managers per 1,000 employees 2016: 3.4.
We benchmarked our performance within the business.
against RIDDORs Over 7-Day Rate of Reported Non-Fatal Injury Per 100,000 Employees, 2012 13-2016 17 in the UK manufacturing sector, To further strengthen the safety culture, programmes and performance which was 365 3.65 per 1,000 employees.
Our H&S performance in 2017 within our Spirax Sarco sales companies, we created regional EHS was therefore better than the industry average.
Excluding businesses leadership roles and have appointed nine new EHS professionals whose acquired in 2017, the number of accidents resulting in over three days of lost remit will be to provide advice, training and H&S solutions to our companies, time, which includes over seven day accidents, fell to 20 in 2017.
Four over while implementing the Groups roadmap to EHS excellence.
three day accidents occurred post-acquisition in businesses that joined During 2017, we removed 59 machines from the business after a H&S risk the Group in 2017, taking the total number of over three day accidents was identified.
During the year, 14 of our 26 manufacturing sites did not have any We have also started to align recent acquisitions, Gestra and Chromalox, over three day accidents and Watson-Marlow MasoSine maintained their to our H&S programmes and are investing in increasing the number of H&S world-class safety performance, this year achieving 18 years without a lostprofessionals employed in these businesses.
We significantly increased the number of H&S training units delivered to Next steps for 2018 24,747 2016: 14,958.
As part of our Behavioural Based Safety programme Roll out cross-business H&S audits across the Steam we have focused on reporting of employee concerns and near misses.
Specialties division 5,485 employee concerns were raised during 2017 2016: 7,845.
Create and deliver a bespoke Safety Leadership training programme for Each concern was reviewed and corrective actions taken.
A total of 562 senior managers near misses were reported during the year 2016: 250.
Each near miss Roll out and adoption of the Group Lock-Out Tag-Out Policy across was thoroughly investigated, corrective action taken, and learning shared supply sites across the Group.
The high number of concerns raised and near misses Embed regional EHS leaders within the Steam Specialties division reported demonstrates the success of our awareness campaigns and KPI H&S accidents with over 7 days H&S total number of accidents H&S total number of accidents of lost time per 1,000 employees with over 7 days of lost time with over 3 days of lost time 2017 3.0 2017 15 4 19 2017 20 4 24 2016 3.4 2016 17 2016 24 2015 3.3 2015 16 2015 24 2014 5.4 2014 26 2014 31 2013 4.4 2013 21 2013 32 Accidents in businesses acquired in 2017 Accidents in businesses acquired in 2017 Includes over 7 day lost-time accidents.
54 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for excellence Employment practices We communicate with employees through a variety of channels, to ensure Objective: To promote diversity and equality through employment that they have an understanding of the operations and performance of practices that are free from discrimination and in the Group.
We undertake confidential employee surveys to assess our accordance with international human rights principles performance as an employer and have well-established grievance and whistle-blowing procedures to enable employees to raise concerns.
Target: 33% of women on our Board, as opportunities arise Performance in 2017 Equitable and fair employment practices During 2017, two sizable acquisitions increased our global headcount by are central to ensuring the ethical and nearly 30%.
These two businesses have a similar gender profile to the sustainable operation of our businesses.
rest of the Group, meaning that our gender balance remains relatively unchanged with 5,628 males 2016: 4,243 and 1,630 females 2016: 1,141 Jim Devine Group Human Resources Director across the workforce as a whole and 490 male 2016: 392 and 103 female 2016: 77 senior managers.
However, on a like-for-like basis, excluding acquisitions, we made good progress in improving our senior management gender diversity, with the percentage of female senior managers increasing from 16% in 2016 to 20% in 2017.
Board gender diversity remained Overview unchanged with seven males and two females.
During 2017, we participated in the FTSE Women Leaders Hampton-Alexander Review.
With 22.2% We have policies and commitments around the way that we treat people female representation on our Board and 19.5% of Executive Committee and we base our employment practices on our Core Values, in particular and their Direct Reports combined being female, we were ranked 124th in the value of respect.
Along with the Group Whistle-Blowing Policy, our HR the FTSE 250 for senior management gender diversity.
We recognise that policies and systems provide a strong framework to protect the rights of further actions need to be taken to increase the representation of women.
employees and ensure their fair and equitable treatment.
A diverse workforce brings vitality and creativity to our workplaces and Actions taken in 2017 increases our ability to sustainably create value for our stakeholders.
During 2017, we formalised our commitment to the promotion of diversity We seek to increase diversity at all levels of the organisation, with a within our business as we established a Group Diversity and Inclusion particular focus on gender diversity.
Our remuneration practices are Policy.
We also increased our target for women on the Board to 33%, designed to reward and recognise skills, experience and achievement, and as opportunities allow.
In accordance with Gender Pay Gap Reporting to be free of gender bias.
Employees are remunerated fairly for the work that requirements in the UK, we implemented Gender Pay Gap reporting.
they do and we do not promote or require excessive working hours.
Our 2017 Gender Pay Gap Report can be found on our website.
Applicants and employees are treated equally during recruitment, transfer, During 2017, we worked hard to address our gender imbalance through promotion, training or salary assessment, and we do not discriminate on fair and transparent recruitment practices and compensation packages: the basis of an individuals gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, beliefs, talent management and succession planning: and by seeking to recruit maternity, or any other protected characteristic, as prescribed by law.
and appoint females into senior management positions within the Group.
We are a member of the Business Disability Forum UK and the In addition, we sought to redress gender stereotypes through educational Employers Network for Equality & Inclusion UK, give full and fair outreach programmes in schools and universities, we continued to sponsor consideration to applications for employment made by disabled the Cheltenham Science Festival and partnered with the Cheltenham persons, having regard to their abilities and aptitudes, and support the Science Group, a community interest company that is seeking to inspire continuing employment of individuals who become disabled during their children to love science, engineering, technology and maths.
Disabled persons are entitled to the As part of an on-going assessment of our employment practices and same professional development and opportunities for promotion as other our due diligence processes to ensure that our policies are upheld and Company employees.
implemented across our businesses, we initiated a Group-wide HR survey Our Group Human Rights Policy recognises the right of all individuals to and, for the first time, implemented a Global Employee Survey.
Following the lead a dignified life, free from fear and want and free to express independent Employee Survey we established employee focus groups to enable more beliefs, as well as the right of employees to equal opportunities, nondetailed feedback on areas identified for improvement and to ensure open discriminatory treatment, a safe working environment and a fair wage.
and honest dialogue between our employees and senior management.
We do not use forced, compulsory or child labour either directly or within our supply chain: we respect the rights of children: maintain workplaces free Next steps for 2018 of victimisation, harassment or bullying: and accept the rights of employees We will apply a Group-wide focus to identify opportunities to increase to association and collective bargaining.
female representation in senior management roles and will define an action plan to help us to achieve this Board gender diversity Senior management gender diversity Workforce gender diversity 103 2 1,630 Male Male Male Female Female Female 7 5,628 490 At year end Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 55 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for excellence Ethical business practices Training Objective: To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero Objective: To invest in developing the knowledge and skills of tolerance approach to bribery and corruption our people Target: Zero incidents of bribery and corruption Target: Increase the impact of our technical and leadership training offering Developing and supporting a culture of Developing our people is essential to integrity and ethical standards is of the ensure that we deliver ever improving highest importance for the Group.
service and products to our customers.
Andy Robson Shaun Laubscher General Counsel and Company Secretary Head of Talent and Organisational Development Overview Overview The policies, practices and employee training put in place across the Group Developing the knowledge and skills of our people is central to our are developed specifically to provide a foundation for ethical business strategy for growth and for the long-term sustainability of our business.
operations and to foster the Core Values of Respect, Accountability, All employees are actively encouraged to pursue development Passion, Integrity and Delivery.
Our Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC opportunities.
As they enhance their knowledge and skills we are better able Policy, along with our ABC employee training, is a fundamental part of to deliver value to our customers and provide shareholder value.
our programme to establish guidelines and promote a culture of ethical We have 53 training centres located worldwide, through which we deliver behaviour in our operations across the globe.
This training is provided technical training to our employees, and have developed an extensive in 15 languages in order to ensure that it is effective and to also convey e-learning library.
Our sales and service engineers undergo rigorous on-thethe significance of compliance with these standards across the business job training and mentoring and employees at all levels are encouraged to worldwide.
We are committed to bringing our Core Values and culture to our participate in professional development opportunities.
newly acquired businesses, Gestra and Chromalox, and to ensuring that we are a business free from bribery and corruption at all levels.
Performance and actions taken in 2017 During 2017, we continued to strengthen the knowledge and skills of our Performance and actions taken in 2017 sales and service teams and to develop our pipeline of talent.
In 2016 We continue to provide a third-party, confidential whistle-blowing helpline, we established the Spirax Sarco Academy to oversee the learning and Safecall, to allow employees to raise concerns about any wrongdoing in development of the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties division.
By the end of the workplace.
Safecall received several calls in 2017, an indication that the 2017 we had translated the training materials and made them available in 16 service is being successfully presented and made available to employees languages and rolled out the Academys compliance programmes to almost across the Group.
All reports received by Safecall were thoroughly 1,100 of our customer facing employees.
investigated by a relevant management team member and, as appropriate, Watson-Marlow also invested in strengthening and expanding its training follow-up measures were implemented.
The Audit Committee reviewed programmes, adding 50 new e-learning units to the companys online post-action reports to ensure the management response was satisfactory.
training library during 2017, taking the total number of courses to 70.
With the addition of approximately 450 new employees following the Gestra Comprehensive online product training was delivered to support new acquisition, the Safecall whistle-blowing helpline was rolled out to the product releases.
In addition, four three-day sales conferences were held, Gestra operating companies.
Chromalox, with its 1,150 employees, has attended by nearly 400 employees, which focused on product and market continued to use Convercent, a similar third-party whistle-blowing hotline training to support and strengthen the effectiveness of the companys direct provider.
Both Gestra and Chromalox have procedures in line with Group sales teams.
policy to investigate and address any concerns raised through the whistle- 13 senior managers attended a two-week Advanced Management blowing hotlines.
Programme, run by the Ashridge Business School, during the year, taking Our online ABC training module was completed by 317 employees in 2017, the total number who have attended to 85.
The programme covers such taking the total number of employees who have completed the training topics as effective people management: driving growth and innovation: since its introduction in 2012 to 4,777.
A further 659 employees completed and delivering results.
By investing in the professional development of our an ABC refresher course during 2017.
Chromalox continued to implement managers we better equip them to support the long-term success of the its existing ABC training course for its employees, but will adopt the Groups business.
In addition, 31 managers participated in our Advancing High ABC training in 2018.
Compliance with both the ABC training and the whistle-blowing procedures Next steps for 2018 are validated by our internal and external auditing functions.
Continue to roll-out the training materials of the Spirax Sarco Academy Next steps for 2018 across the customer facing employees of the Steam Specialties division Refresh our ABC training by creating and rolling out a new ABC training Enhance our leadership development offering to managers and course to all Group companies senior leaders Continue to promote the use of the whistle-blowing hotline and online Global Gifts and Hospitality register across the Group 56 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering the responsible way End-to-end supply chain Objective: To focus on continuous improvement in our supply chain Modern Slavery Act statement with particular emphasis on sustainability Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc prides itself on setting high standards Target: 90% of direct material suppliers, by spend, of recently for sustainable and ethical business practices in its operations acquired businesses Hiter, Aflex, Gestra and Chromalox to worldwide.
Included in those high standards is a commitment to have signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by Dec. 2018 respecting and protecting the human rights of all individuals and combating all forms of modern slavery or human trafficking in all parts of our business organisation, including our supply chain.
By focusing on achieving excellence in all We are continuously developing and improving our business aspects of our supply chain, while also practices and policies in line with that commitment.
We support monitoring the standards of our suppliers, we a strong, collective stand to identify, prevent and raise awareness enhance the sustainability of our operations.
of modern slavery and human trafficking practices in all parts of Ian Farnworth the world.
Group Supply Chain Director To read the statement in full, please visit the Groups website.
aspx Overview Performance in 2017 Improving the sustainability of our end-to-end supply chain, which Having exceeded our phase 1 target of 90% of direct material suppliers, by encompasses all the activities that transport and transform materials and spend, to have signed the Code in 2016, our phase 2 target was for 90% components into finished products and delivers them to customers, is a key of sales company direct suppliers, by spend, to have signed our Code by strategic objective for the Group.
86% of suppliers signed the Code in 2017 taking the total number of suppliers who have signed the Code, excluding new businesses, We operate a regional manufacturing strategy, with 26 manufacturing sites to 94%.
We will continue to focus on reaching our phase 2 target in the early globally.
By manufacturing close to the point of sale we improve customer part of 2018.
During 2017, we exited 12 suppliers who were not prepared service by reducing lead times, ensure that our products meet local to sign the Code and we are working with the remaining suppliers on a specifications, reduce transportation requirements for finished products and continuous improvement basis to further develop their capabilities.
provide local employment in the regions in which we operate.
In accordance with our Group policies, no breaches of Human Rights or A central component of our supply chain sustainability programme is our incidents of modern slavery were identified in our supply chain during 2017.
Supplier Sustainability Code Code, which outlines the expectations that we have for suppliers, particularly in relation to the fair treatment of employees Excluding suppliers of businesses acquired in 2016 or 2017. and their environmental impacts, and enables us to embed sustainability Actions taken in 2017 criteria into our purchasing processes.
During 2017, we continued to roll out the Code to all new direct material The Code specifies that our suppliers must not use forced, bonded or nonsuppliers and extended the scope to include suppliers of our sales voluntary labour: should establish recognised employment relationships in companies.
We also commenced a limited roll out of the Code into recently accordance with national laws, including non-discriminatory employment acquired businesses, in those areas deemed to be of greatest risk.
practices, maximum working hours and the freedom of association: and exercise clarity in relation to wages.
We enhanced our monitoring of the environmental and sustainability performance of suppliers as we formalised a broader set of criteria into Suppliers facilities must be constructed and maintained to an acceptable our supplier audits and began to audit suppliers against these more standard and their activities must be safe for the health of their employees, rigorous criteria.
This due diligence process enables us to monitor supplier their contractors, the local community and the users of their products.
performance and conformity with Group policies.
Suppliers must have an appropriate H&S policy, H&S operating and management systems and seek to prevent work-related injuries and We have undertaken training of key personnel in supply chain risk illnesses, through effective risk mitigation.
management and reinforced and standardised our approach to supply chain risk management.
Suppliers must avoid the use of substances dangerous to their employees health and safety: including, but not limited to, carcinogenic, mutagenic Next steps for 2018 and toxic to reproduction substances.
All products and services delivered Phase 3 roll out of the Code to direct material suppliers of recently by suppliers must meet the quality and safety standards required by acquired businesses Hiter, Aflex, Gestra and Chromalox applicable laws.
Expand supplier audits incorporating sustainability criteria and enhance We expect our suppliers to operate within the laws of their country, the training of key audit personnel conduct business ethically and free from bribery or corruption, and adhere Apply audit results in the supplier selection process to preferentially to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the select suppliers Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
We do not Continue to mitigate supply chain risks countenance the use of child labour.
Lastly, our suppliers are expected to take steps to mitigate their environmental impacts, deliver a high product quality and source responsibly.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 57 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering the responsible way Engineering for our planet Product responsibility Water and waste Objective: To incorporate sustainability factors into our product Objective: To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through design process, including energy efficiency, emissions, reducing water use and minimising and managing effluent serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and waste and ethically sourced materials Target: To identify opportunities for waste reduction, increase Target: Continuing compliance with all applicable EHS standards, recycling rates and reduce water use while meeting customer expectations of performance and cost Overview We view water as an important resource that requires careful management and take steps across our business to use it efficiently.
We select specialist Applying eco-design principles to new contractors to manage waste, focusing on technical recycling capabilities product development enables us to and safe Duty of Care practices.
deliver safe and ethically produced products to the market.
Performance and actions taken in 2017 Stephen Dewfall During 2017, we appointed a third-party adviser to review our water and Group R&D Manager Steam Specialties waste data collection processes, prior to seeking external verification of the data.
The review identified some potential verification challenges for waste data from sites outside of Europe.
We have decided not to report global Group waste data until assurance processes are fully implemented and demonstrate improved levels of material confidence.
All of our European sites operate under the EU Waste Framework Directive.
Overview Therefore, we are confident in the accuracy of their data.
During 2017, our We apply robust product development processes and incorporate best European sites excluding acquisitions generated 1,811 tonnes of waste, of practice in the areas of  and compliance with safety which 1,543 tonnes 85% was recycled and 268 tonnes 15% was sent to and environmental standards, to ensure that our products are safe for landfill.
There were no incidents relating to breaches of legislation or harm to our customers to use, are manufactured using ethically sourced materials the environment.
We apply eco-design principles: avoid During 2017, our manufacturing facility and Group headquarters in the use of hazardous materials: consider the availability of raw materials: Cheltenham became the first of our businesses to achieve zero waste to and place strong emphasis on in-service performance, product life and landfill and, in a drive to minimise waste and highlight the importance of continuous improvement.
waste management, we ran our 2017 Worldwide Leadership Conference All products and product developments undergo assessment and validation as a paperless event.
This was achieved by providing all delegates with by analysis or physical testing, in line with legislation and national standards electronic devices for viewing presentations and conference materials, and relevant to the location of sale or release.
Structured internal compliance making notes.
By going paperless, we saved over 41,000 sheets of paper.
processes enable the identification of regulatory requirements and Our water use varies considerably due to changing demands for steam compilation of supporting evidence.
Where applicable, third-party validation generation during new product development, quality and safety assurance testing is employed.
Central policies exist to ensure responsibilities for testing.
During 2017, our global operations excluding acquisitions had a product safety and compliance are clear and understood.
Our products are sold with Installation and Maintenance Instructions, To reduce water consumption, an increasing number of our sites, ensuring that they can be safely installed and maintained.
particularly in water stressed regions, are harvesting grey water for site irrigation and flushing toilets: this is a design requirement for new Performance and actions taken in 2017 manufacturing plants.
During 2017, we established an auditable process to link supply chain Throughout the year we completed EHS site audits and treasure hunts sustainability to our eco-design and new product development processes across our Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow facilities, to review compliance within the Spirax Sarco Steam Specialties business and Watson-Marlow with the Group EHS Policy and to identify opportunities to improve our Ltd.
This means that we will only design new products that contain materials environmental sustainability.
available from suppliers that have signed the Supplier Sustainability Code, preventing us from specifying materials or substances that do not comply Next steps for 2018 with eco-design standards or from using suppliers that cannot meet our Sustain our commitment to waste minimisation and zero waste to required standards.
landfill through the example of our Cheltenham operations We also completed a best practice review of eco-design practices across Improve waste data quality and reporting from all global operations the Group excluding the 2017 acquisitions.
Raise awareness of water as a key resource and reduce consumption Roll out environmental audits in Gestra and Chromalox Next steps for 2018 Complete a best practice review of new product development processes in recently acquired businesses Gestra and Chromalox Waste recycling, Europe, 2017 % Standardise Group eco-design principles across the new businesses 15% Improve the use of quality and warranty returns data as an indicator of the success of our eco-design processes Recycled or recovered waste Identify a feedback mechanism that uses production quality metrics to Landfill assess the manufacturing effectiveness of our eco-design principles 85% Excludes businesses acquired in 2017.
58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering for our planet Energy and carbon Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption that the Objective: To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations calculation was not carried out in accordance with the applied international by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing norm for the quantification, monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions carbon emissions GHG-Protocol.
Target: To achieve a year-on-year reduction in our energy The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2017 to 31st December consumption and CO2e emissions intensity 2017 inclusive are: 17,230 tCO2e for Scope 1 and 14,828 tCO2e for Scope 2.
We are proactively managing our energy TV UK Ltd, London, February 2018 use and reducing the CO e emissions 2 The increase in total emissions reflects the expansion of our business, intensity of our operations.
including the new operations that were acquired or established during 2016 or that began trading on 1st January 2017, whose emissions were included Richard Hildersley for the first time in 2017, set against emissions reductions made elsewhere Group Energy & Environment Manager across the Group as a result of our energy saving activities.
Excluding new businesses we reduced our emissions by 2%.
Despite the total increase, we are pleased to report that we made further progress in reducing the emissions intensity of our business.
During 2017, our emissions intensity reduced by 4%, giving a 20% reduction since 2013, our benchmark year.
Overview Anthropogenic climate change is a global challenge that can only be Actions taken in 2017 addressed through the concerted effort of individuals, businesses and In addition to the environmental site audits and treasure hunts that were governments.
In accordance with national and international directives, we carried out during the year, the Group Energy and Environment Manager endeavour to reduce the carbon intensity of our business and minimise our conducted several site reviews to assess conformity with Group policy and carbon footprint.
to identify possible opportunities for improvements.
We employ an operational control definition to outline our carbon footprint To facilitate ease of reporting, during 2017 we undertook a review of global boundary.
Included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, carbon accounting software, with the intention of procuring our selected administrative and sales offices where we have authority to implement software in 2018. our operating policies.
For each of these entities we have measured and reported on our relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1 refers Spirax Sarco Ltd UK, Spirax Sarco China and Watson-Marlow Ltd UK to direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company: achieved certification to energy management standard ISO50001, taking Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of energy the total number of our manufacturing sites with the standard to six.
generated off site, including electricity.
Excluded from our footprint All remaining Spirax Sarco steam business manufacturing sites are actively boundary are entities where we do not have operational control.
In 2017 working towards certification to the standard.
Also excluded from the footprint boundary An efficiency review of the Combined Heat and Power plant in Spirax are emission sources from operating companies established or acquired Sarco UK led to a 6% increase in productivity, with further improvements, during 2017.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and including grid export, identified for 2018.
Compressed air efficiency was Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK significantly improved in Spirax Sarco USA, through investment and Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 to management techniques, improving energy efficiency.
Spirax Sarco France calculate our total CO e emissions figures.
2 also undertook a detailed review of compressed air systems within their manufacturing facility.
Performance in 2017 Our CO e 2017 emissions data have been audited by TV UK Ltd, part of 2 Next steps for 2018 TV NORD Group, which has provided limited assurance as follows: Implement carbon accounting software TV UK Ltd is acting as the independent verifier of the carbon footprint of Further extend factory lighting conversion to LED technology across the Spirax Sarco.
Based on our checks and reviews, taking into consideration Spirax Sarco steam business and Watson-Marlow a materiality level of 10% and a limited level of assurance we have found Implement compressed air system enhancements in Spirax Sarco no evidence suggesting that the calculated greenhouse gas emissions are France, USA and UK, utilising waste heat recovery and through materially misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of optimising hardware and controls the greenhouse gas-related data and information.
CO e intensity tonnes per m of inflation Total Group CO e emissions Greenhouse gas emissions inventory 2 2 adjusted sales, at constant currency scope 1 and 2 tonnes 2% 2017 36.8 2018 17,230 14,828 32,058 Electricity 24% 38.2 30,704 2016 2017 Business travel 46% 2015 39.1 2016 30,050 Natural gas Other 2014 44.9 2015 34,431 28% 45.8 33,961 2013 2014 Excludes businesses established or acquired in 2017.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 59 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering sustainable solutions Customers energy saving products for which we can quantify savings with reasonable Objective: To provide products and services that improve the accuracy.
Many other of our products, such as blow-down heat recovery, sustainability of our customers operations through helping FREME, Heat Pipe Heat Exchangers, Thermocompressors and Vapour them reduce their environmental impacts, improve plant Condensers, will also provide CO2e savings but as these are not easily efficiency and productivity andmaintain product quality quantifiable they are excluded from our methodology.
Overview Actions taken in 2017 Our direct sales business model is founded on our ability to provide Following a review of the products included in our customer CO2 emissions solutions to customers that improve their operational sustainability saving metric, we identified a small selection of additional steam system through increasing efficiency, reducing energy, water or chemical use, or products for which it is possible to quantify CO savings with sufficient 2 reducing waste.
accuracy to enable their inclusion in the calculation.
Additional products included within the metric in 2017 are: Smart Electro-Pneumatic Positioners, Reducing energy use and lowering CO2e emissions are key sustainability drivers for our customers who are seeking to lower costs and increase their which have industry-leading low levels of air consumption and reduce compressed air usage, having a direct impact on energy consumption and environmental sustainability.
We provide products and services that help CO emissions: BSA Bellows Sealed Stop Valves, which eliminate stem steam users to reduce their energy consumption, increase the efficiency of 2 their steam systems and recover and reuse thermal energy.
Our electrical seal leakage: and Spirax EasiHeat packages, which generate hot water using steam, avoiding the energy losses associated with the storage of hot process heating and temperature management solutions can deliver energy savings and efficiencies, and the unique action of our pumps can water.
The assumptions and methodology used to include these additional products were reviewed by Ricardo Energy & Environment, who also provide significant energy savings over other pump types.
For example, reviewed the assumptions for all other products included in the calculation MasoSine pumps, from Watson-Marlow, are particularly adept at handling viscous fluids, which other pumps require large electrical motors to operate.
Flash Vessels, Steam Traps, Condensate Pumps and Flow Meters and updated the model.
Switching to a MasoSine pump for high viscosity pumping applications can deliver up to 50% power savings in comparison to lobe or circumferential During the year we undertook two test projects to demonstrate the piston pumps.
sustainability of the Qdos pump, from Watson-Marlow.
In the first, we completed a benchmark test comparing the accuracy of the Qdos pump The products and services of our Steam Specialties division can deliver efficiencies in water use, reducing total site consumption.
For example, against two key competitor pumps, to demonstrate the chemical savings, in litres, of the existing installed base of Qdos pumps.
The test has been by improving the efficiency of condensate return, our products prevent condensate from being discharged to the drain, enabling its reuse.
We also completed and a White Paper is in development.
In the second test, the Qdos pump was monitored in a paper industry application, to demonstrate supply solutions to capture and utilise flash steam, which would otherwise the positive environmental impacts of the pump as expressed in fossil fuel be lost to atmosphere, and improve the quality of boiler feedwater, reducing the frequency of boiler blow-down, thus reducing water use.
energy consumption savings and subsequent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
The test has been completed and data is being analysed.
The application of Watson-Marlow pumps can also significantly reduce water use.
Within the mining industry, the installation of a Bredel pump, from Next steps for 2018 Watson-Marlow, can reduce water consumption by over 70%, equating Conduct a customer trial to analyse the impact of fide-scaling to savings of 900,000m of water per year compared with a common management on heat exchanger efficiency centrifugal pump.
Assess the impact of single use systems on energy and water savings Performance in 2017 in the Biotechnology industry We estimate that a select range of energy management products sold Complete a customer trial to examine the energy saving benefits of during 2017 will reduce our end users CO emissions by 5.8 million tonnes 2 using Qdos pumps in a moulded fibre application annually.
The methodology used to determine this external impact has Explore the feasibility of using Watson-Marlow technology to pump been independently assessed with the assistance of Ricardo Energy & solid butter in a dairy application and assess the energy saving benefits Environment.
The methodology used was updated during 2017 to include an expanded range of Spirax Sarco steam business products see Actions in 2017 and to ensure that the underlying principles are consistent with Case study: Spirax Sarco Australia helps current data on steam system operations as well as taking revised emission customer reduce gas use by 23% factors into account.
The calculation is based on a selected range of In a drive to increase energy efficiency and reduce gas consumption at their meat processing plant in Dubbo, New South Wales, Fletcher International Exports identified steam system efficiency improvements Tonnes of CO emissions our end users 2 as an effective way to rapidly reduce gas consumption.
Working with saved as a result ofpurchasing our energy Fletchers on-site engineering team, Spirax Sarco identified four key management products areas for improvement 1 recover flash steam and reuse it in other processes, 2 increase condensate return, 3 increase boiler house 2017 4.8m 1.0m 5.8m efficiency and 4 improve steam distribution.
The engineered solution 2016 4.4m designed by the project team had significant benefits, which were measured and verified by independent, third-party engineers.
2015 4.4m As a result of the installed solution, gas consumption reduced by 4.8m 2014 23%, saving an estimated 27,000 gigajoules of gas per year, equating to monthly savings of approximately AUS$45,000 over 26,500, or 2013 4.6m AUS$540,000 319,000 per year.
In addition to energy savings, boiler CO savings from existing product range 2 water consumption is expected to reduce by eight million litres a year CO savings from expanded product range and chemical use has also been reduced, saving a further AUS$10,000- 2 15,000 6,000-9,000 a year.
Including installation, the project is Spirax Sarco steam products only, excludes Gestra.
expected to have a payback period of 12 months or less.
60 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Engineering better futures Community engagement The community engagement data collection framework, which was Objective: To engage positively with the communities in which we established and rolled out at the end of 2016, was utilised in 2017, enabling operate and to offer financial support to approved charities more detailed performance data to be reported this year.
Target: All Group manufacturing companies to participate in at least During the year we launched the Groups first Community Engagement one community engagement activity in 2018 Awards, with all Group companies having the opportunity to enter.
Twelve outstanding entries were received from across the business, Overview including entries from Gestra, Watson-Marlow and Spirax Sarco.
As a global business, we can be a force for good in our local communities Congratulations to the winners: Spirax Sarco New Zealand small company, around the world.
We seek to have a positive impact in the communities Spirax Sarco China large company, joint winner and Spirax Sarco in which we operate by making charitable donations to worthwhile causes Argentina large company, joint winner, which were selected by the Group and contributing time, resources and expertise where there is a local need.
Sustainability Committee and approved by the Group Chief Executive.
Our Group Charitable Donations Policy guides our community engagement The winning companies each received 5,000 to be spent on community activities.
Our primary focus is education particularly in the sciences and engagement activities locally.
The Sustainability Committee also awarded a engineering, but we seek to identify and respond to local needs and will Highly Commended prize to Spirax Sarco Brazil: 1,000 to be spent on the also offer support for the underprivileged young, disadvantaged, disabled companys community engagement activities.
and elderly, and contribute to natural disaster relief.
Next steps for 2018 Performance in 2017 Strengthen the community engagement data collection process During 2017, we again increased funding to the Spirax Sarco Group Promote employee volunteering across the Group Charitable Trust, which made 56 donations ranging in size from 150 to 20,000 with a total value of 231,150 2016: 180,150.
For example, 2017 Community Engagement Award Winners we donated 20,000 to the National Star College in Cheltenham, which provides specialist further education and training to young people aged 16 Spirax Sarco New Zealand to 25 with complex physical, educational and emotional needs, taking total Designed and donated a bespoke, modular Heat Exchange system to donations from the Trust to the College to 159,000 in the last 10 years.
the Engineering facility of the University of Canterbury in Christchurch.
We also donated 20,000 each to the American Red Cross Hurricane The purpose of the donation is to enable hands-on training for young Irma and Hurricane Harvey relief funds.
A further 150,000 was donated to engineers, allowing students to manipulate process conditions in a charitable causes by our operating companies during 2017 2016: 87,000. safe and controlled fashion.
The donation promotes steam engineering In addition to financial donations, our operating companies donated the knowledge, helping to meet a skills gap, and raises awareness of Spirax equivalent of 33,000 in in-kind donations such as products and office Sarco amongst young engineers.
equipment, incurred management costs and contributed over 1,900 hours of working time to community engagement activities.
Using an average hourly salary to estimate the cost to the company of employee volunteering, Spirax Sarco China we estimate that the total value of our operating companies community In ZunYi a city in the poorest province of China many talented students engagement activities in 2017 was in excess of 230,000.
In addition, our drop out of school because their families cannot afford the daily living employees donated 96,000 of their own money and 344 hours of their costs needed to keep them in education.
Working with a local charitable own time in workplace organised fundraising and community engagement organisation, in 2017 Spirax Sarco China donated RMB 1,000 each to activities.
We also achieved our 2017 target of establishing community 50 Grade 11 students and RMB 2,000 each to 35 Grade 10 students, to engagement champions across the Group.
help with their living costs.
Students were selected based on academic performance and family circumstances poverty.
The students will be Actions taken in 2017 supported through the full three years of high school.
A team of eight During 2017, each of our operating companies appointed a community volunteers from Spirax Sarco also delivered a 1.5 hour class each week, engagement champion, either individually or in conjunction with another for 12 weeks, to 55 pupils at a local school for the children of low income Group company.
This network of community engagement champions migrant workers.
are responsible for identifying opportunities for participation in community engagement activities, organising activities, sharing success stories and data collection.
While integrating into the Group, Gestra and Chromalox Spirax Sarco Argentina have each appointed a central community engagement champion.
Formed a cross-functional Community Engagement Committee and Once fully integrated, these companies will expand their network developed a community engagement roadmap.
Throughout the year, of champions.
a wide range of activities were undertaken such as the donation of products, furniture and hardware that are no longer in use to schools, universities and technical colleges: interview training for young people: Group Charitable Trust donations 000 lectures to university and college students: the donation of waste paper to raise money for a childrens hospital: and sponsorship of a charity for children with cancer.
2017 231.1 2016 180.1 Spirax Sarco Brazil 150.8 2015 In partnership with Hiter, acquired in 2016, Spirax Sarco provided five 2014 155.1 hours of training to 27 students 14-19 years old to help them prepare for finding their first job.
In another activity, Spirax Sarco, Hiter and Watson- 2013 159.1 Marlow joined several other local companies to revitalise a poorly funded local school.
The companies donated the paint and the volunteers each gave a days labour.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 61 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Governance Report Governance Report Our governance 1.
Andy Robson Group Chief Executive Executive Director, WMFTG General Counsel and Company Secretary 2.
Trudy Schoolenberg Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Full Board biographies can be found onpages 66-67 Core expertise Nationality Gender 1 1 2 2 1 9 3 3 2 3 7 7 6 3 1 Engineering Product British Dutch Male Female development 1 2 International American Irish Senior Finance management Sales and HR 1 marketing N. J. Andersonholds dual British and American citizenship.
Operational 2 J. Pikeholds dual British and Irish citizenship.
62 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Report 6.
Kevin Boyd Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director 7.
Jamie Pike Executive Director, EMEA Independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director In this section Chairmans introduction 64Remuneration 85 Board of Directors 66 Remuneration at a glance 85 Leadership 68 Remuneration Committee 86 Effectiveness 72 Statement by the Chairman of the Committee 87 Nomination Committee 75 Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 88 Accountability 77 Remuneration Policy Report 2017 99 Audit Committee 77 Regulatory disclosures 109 Risk Management Committee 81 Statement of Directors responsibilities 112 Relations with shareholders 84 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2017 63 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
