Corporate Responsibility Savills is committed to being a good We focus on those key areas where we the most difference: People, Clients, Environment and Community.
Through a corporate citizen in all aspects of its believe we can make a difference and our operations and activities.
The Company, localised approach provides the flexibility localised approach and by focusing on these key areas we give our businesses the freedom therefore, holds itself accountable for required to have meaning and impact at a its social, environmental and economic local level.
At Savills, we learn through to adapt quickly and to respond at a local level to new opportunities in the markets in which impacts on the people and places experience and we actively encourage our where it does business.
businesses to share their experiences and they operate.
The Board receives annual and ad hoc updates on CR activities and progress.
develop best practice to ensure that we All of our businesses are required to continue to improve as an organisation.
To ensure that we can readily identify emerging comply with local legal standards as an issues and respond to them on a timely basis, absolute minimum.
Responsibility for our CR programme sits with we continue to include the consideration of the Group Chief Executive and the Board.
CR CR-related issues in our Key Risk Registers.
We endeavour to manage our impact in a strategy is co-ordinated by our CR Steering responsible and sustainable manner.
To fulfil Group, comprising senior representatives from this aim the Group actively embraces a range of businesses and central teams.
The a range of policies and practices that aim to strategy is implemented and delivered at foster a positive approach towards corporate country level focusing on four aspects of CR responsibility as an integral part of our which we believe are key to the success of our day-to-day activities.
business and where we believe we can make Our Business Principles Pride in We Everything Take great pride in delivering the highest quality service.
Seek to employ only the best people.
Take an We Entrepreneurial Seek out new markets and opportunities for clients.
Approach to Take a creative and entrepreneurial approach to delivering value.
Business Are forward-thinking, and always aim to build long-term client relationships.
Aim to be a leader in every market we enter.
Help our People We Fulfil Their True Encourage an open and supportive culture in which every individual is respected.
Potential Help our people to excel through appropriate training and development.
Share success and reward achievement.
Recognise that our peoples diverse strengths combined with good teamwork produce the best results.
Believe that a rewarding workplace inspires and motivates.
Strive to provide an environment in which our people can flourish and succeed this allows us to recruit, motivate and retain talented people and build on our status as an employer of choice.
Engage with our people to communicate our vision and strategy through well-established internal channels.
Always Act We With Integrity Behave responsibly.
Act with honesty and respect for other people.
Adhere to the highest standards of professional ethics.
Savills plc 30 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our People It is our vision to be the real estate In Asia, we are progressively extending our Developing our people for advisor of choice in our selected CPD programme, tailoring it as appropriate the long term markets and deliver superior financial to best meet local requirements.
We want people to grow their careers at performance and this can only be Savills and develop the skills and talent We have also extended our CPD programme achieved through the dedication, needed to grow our business.
commitment and excellence of believe in the value of developing future ourpeople.
talent from within the Group and the wider Our graduates are our future leaders.
They business community and we are working are given responsibility from the day they join Our people strategy remains focused on hard to help nurture the entrepreneurs and the business, in teams which highly value supporting delivery of the highest standards leaders of the future.
their contribution, allowing them to be of client service through motivated and involved in some of the worlds most engaged people.
We believe that a positive We continue to invest significantly in the high-profile transactions and developments.
culture is essential to high quality client development of all our people, for whom Graduates are surrounded by experienced service.
This positive culture is encapsulated we recognise that career development and professionals and team members from in our business philosophy and our values.
whom they can seek advice and learn.
Our reputation has been built on our people Individual achievement is rewarded and and we believe that staff whose behaviours We deliver training and development in all Savills looks for graduates with reflect in our business philosophy deliver the areas including management and leadership, entrepreneurial flair and diverse skills.
In the excellent client service that we strive to client and business skills and professional UK, Savills were proud to be named The provide.
Our business philosophy also and technical skills.
We recognise that Times Graduate Employer of choice for captures our commitment to ethical, personal development occurs in many ways Property for the 11th year in a row and we professional and responsible conduct and our and we encourage all our staff to attend continue to see a record number of entrepreneurial, value-enhancing approach.
conferences, internal events, and participate applicants for this and our student summer in projects to supplement their Continuous Our people strategy highlights are set out scheme and work placement programmes.
In 2017 Savills was also ranked 83 up 11 places in the Times Top 100 Graduate For example, in the UK, the format of our Employee engagement Employers and number 1 on Rate my training varies from one-hour masterclasses, Placement for our summer scheme We continue to focus on employee webinars, and video content, to two-day programme.
We continue to work with some engagement through a number of areas of pitching courses and management and of our UK industry peers, the Changing the focus.
For example, in the UK we are leadership workshops.
We encourage and Face of Property CTFOP group, on improving the capability of our leaders and support all our staff to complete their CPD initiatives such as an apprenticeship managers through our key programmes and all our internal courses programmes have programme to offer jobs to school leavers.
We have CPD points associated with them.
All of this is improved the clarity of our reward and supported by a dedicated training team, who In the US, Savills we implemented a Young benefits through the use of a new Total offer individual career development advice Leaders Programme and our Savills Studley Reward Statement, so that all our employees and a dedicated page on the Company Academy, a multi-year business mentorship clearly see the full reward package.
We take intranet which pulls together all the programme aimed at harnessing the talent employee wellbeing seriously and have information our people need to plan their of the rising stars, is now in its second year.
introduced a wellbeing programme, which personal development.
In order to manage includes Savills focused events and individual development and ongoing learning, In 2017, in Asia Pacific, we ran four Inspire committing to the Time to Change pledge, for we have launched a Learning Management courses in Greater China, North Asia, South increased recognition of mental health in the System LMS in the UK.
The LMS is mobile East Asia and Australia: a two-year course workplace, on World Mental Health Day.
compatible, allows individuals to track and for emerging leaders of the business who will manage their development, watch video be assigned a lifetime mentor and schooled podcasts and download course materials.
in the art of business leadership.
In 2018 we are launching the Inspire Programme for the next generation of leaders in the business.
Savills plc 31 Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Responsibility continued Our People continued The UK Government has introduced As an organisation committed to diversity in its A diverse and inclusive culture legislation that will require employers with workforce, we will continue to strengthen our We look to create an inclusive culture in which 250 or more UK employees to disclose policies, processes and practices to develop difference is accepted and valued.
We believe information on their gender pay gap.
The our diversity and inclusion plans within the that our inclusive approach gives us a gender pay picture for Savills UK, calculated Groups markets and geographies, in competitive advantage and underpins the in accordance with the published alignment with our corporate goals.
We will success of our business by giving us the ability requirements has been published on continue to endeavour to improve the to select our people from the highest quality the Savills UKs website.
representation of women at Board and senior individuals in the widest available pool of talent.
levels within the organisation and to sustain an inclusive culture in which all talent can thrive.
Our people come from a wide range of backgrounds and have a diverse range of skills and experience.
We believe that we have created a culture in which those skills, UK Savills Diversity Group experience and perspectives are nurtured One of our initiatives was to launch a Diversity Group in the UK which is now in its and encouraged.
As an example of our third year.
The objective is to highlight the diversity of our business and ensure that we commitment to diversity, in the UK we are are communicating clearly and effectively about our people and our clients.
This year focused on increasing the diversity of our has seen a number of significant activities for our Diversity group.
We have launched business in order to reflect the needs of our unconscious bias training led by the UK Executive Committee, which is now part of clients and have achieved the RICS Equality all development programmes including Company induction.
We are fully engaged in a diversity health have also been key areas of focus.
Other Initiatives which the Diversity Group programme Changing the Face of Property continue to be involved in include: which focuses on improving diversity across social and economic background, disability, 1.
Savills with schools LBGT, age and gender.
We have also Our current graduates attend a local state secondary school to deliver presentations about improved our maternity policy, introduced careers in property.
This highlights the variety of roles in real estate as well as opportunities mentoring and coaching for women and held for students to engage on an individual basis.
a number of events with clients and keynote speakers.
In addition, we proactively review 2.
Careers in property our promotions to ensure that the numbers going forward for promotion, by gender, are Savills Graduate team collate a guide to the real estate industry, looking at careers in the industry from governing bodies, educational institutions and employers to provide in line with the make-up of the division.
For the LBGT network, we have held a number candidates with a comprehensive guide to joining the industry.
This is currently shared with all UK university careers services in the UK.
We also support the Property Needs of events, participated in the London Pride March and we are now listed on the You and Urban Plan campaigns in schools.
Apprenticeships We believe that creating an inclusive and Savills Surveying Apprentices join teams across the UK.
After six years in the business diverse culture supports the attraction and they will gain their BSc in Real Estate and their full MRICS status.
retention of talented people and supports effective performance.
Changing the Face of Property CTFOP people for who they are, their knowledge, We continue to be a member of the CTFOP group, a collaboration of employers, skills and experience as individuals and as governing bodies and education providers who work together to raise awareness of the valued members of the Savills team.
We industry, and drive equality.
We attend the Skills London as well as a number of career work together to bring out the best in each fairs, and supported the Trailblazer Apprenticeship scheme with RICS.
We also ran a other and to sustain the strong working number of internal diversity events for our Gender and LGBT groups.
We also relationship ethic that has nurtured our can participated in the London Pride March with the rest of the CTFOP companies.
As at 31 December 2017 our total global workforce of 35,398 colleagues comprised 19,327 males and 16,071 females.
Of these, 184 were senior executives 163 males, 21 females comprising members of the Group Executive Board and Board members of the corporate entities whose financial information is incorporated in the Groups 2017 consolidated accounts in this Annual Report.
The Companys Board of Directors comprised seven members six males and one female.
Savills plc 32 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Clients Excellent client service is at the core we communicate and what additional value We recognise that there are clients that of our business.
We strive to develop we give our clients.
This provides an important benefit from a full Savills service offering.
strong, long-term partnerships with our independent rating of the standard of our client To deliver the best value to these clients we clients and to deliver an exceptional and service which is reviewed regularly and used have a client management programme in personal client experience which is to refine the Savills client experience.
place with a dedicated Client Relationship tailored to our clients requirements and Management CRM team.
Each of these In the UK, for example, Savills top clients have needs.
We do this by ensuring we have clients has a tailored client care plan which a dedicated client relationship lead client specialist teams who can deliver the includes a review of the current year, key advocate whose core responsibility is to act best quality advice throughout the client priorities, client communications and as a focal point for client servicing enquiries, property life cycle.
We work hard to interactions, financials and importantly, and, in particular, to allow any service issues ensure that in managing our client agreed actions and responsibilities.
Our on current instructions to be quickly identified relationships we are solutions-oriented, client teams are further supported by a and addressed.
These client advocates also pro-active and focused on excellent central client management system which play a key role in reviewing our performance client communication.
consolidates client data into readily with our clients, in tandem with the client accessible client intelligence reports, ensuring Gaining a deep understanding of our clients review programme, ensuring we understand we are providing the joined up approach businesses through an ongoing dialogue is where we have met or exceeded expectations our clients expect.
fundamental to delivering a service which and those areas in which we can do better.
Client review meetings are Ultimately this approach provides a complete We are progressively extending this approach a vital part of our approach to client care.
We insight into our clients priorities so that we can globally, tailored to meet local requirements.
invest in an independent client review make the appropriate skills, expertise and programme to understand how well we plan resources available.
and execute the services we provide, how well Our Responsibility to the Environment Across our global business Savills is For example, in Australia, we engage contract currently covers 75% of some 127 offices.
Moving to a national contract has committed to reducing the impact that proactively with several key industry and our operations have on the natural not-for-profit environmental groups, including enabled the introduction of enhanced recycling facilities at a local level, as well as environment and to minimising the risk Property Council Australia, The Green of injury and ill health staff and others Building Council and Sydneys Better additional control over the final destination of our waste, avoiding landfill disposal who are affected by our businesses by Building Partnership.
providing safe and healthy working whereverpossible.
As part of this continuing drive to mitigate our environments.
impacts, and as a hallmark of quality, our Greenhouse gas emissions Safe working practices form an integral part offices continue to work to secure ISO14001 Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement of our day-to-day business and we aim to find 2004 status: the international standard for includes all emission sources required under practical solutions to health and safety risks.
255 the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report To this end, our safety strategy is focused on Savills teams in the UK have now achieved this and Directors Report Regulations 2013 for priorities such as reducing occupational accreditation.
During 2018 the accreditations the financial year to 31 December 2017, exposure to workplace hazards, maintaining in place will transition to the revised 2015 compared against our baseline year to regulatory compliance and seeking to edition of the 140001 international standard.
For comparative continuously develop and strengthen our purposes, data is also shown for our In Hong Kong, Savills continues to participate health and safety arrangements.
previous reporting year, 2016. in various environmental protection activities, Environmental impact such as Chinese New Year Waste Electrical Scope and Electronic Equipment Recycling Across our global business, Savills is We continue to expand the scope of our Collection Services awards were obtained by committed to reducing the impact that our data collection regularly.
In consequence, 25 our managed buildings, Wood Recycling operations have on the natural environment.
we are now reporting on GHG emissions at and Tree Conservation Scheme and a By actively seeking to reduce our a more granular level from our UK, Europe, scheme on Source Separation of Commercial environmental impact, we are able to achieve US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Hong and Industrial Waste.
increased operational efficiencies and Kong, Japan, Singapore, and key Chinese savings, both internally and for our clients.
In subsequent years, we will In the UK, Savills has worked to improve the continue to strive to add to this list where environmental performance of its own office As one of the leading real estate advisors, emission activities are found to be material estate through a series of waste and energy Savills acknowledges the importance of and where reliable activity data is available.
During 2017, Savills demonstrating leadership in this area.
This moved to a national contract for the disposal includes measuring, and being accountable of non-hazardous waste streams, the new for, our global environmental impact.
Savills plc 33 Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Responsibility continued Our Responsibility to the Environment continued Methodology activity data was not found to be wholly The corresponding figures for our per capita reliable or readily available, we have intensity ratio show a 7.7% reduction To coordinate the collection of GHG data determined the relevant emissions by using compared to the previous year, which is worldwide, a network of Environmental a range of standard carbon accounting particularly pleasing given our global FTE Reporting Nominees ERN has been measures, including extrapolating data and numbers increased by more than 3% during established, reporting to the Group Legal use of indicator based estimation floor area the reporting period.
When measured against Director & Company Secretary.
To allow easier comparison our base year of 2013, this now represents an third party verified environmental reporting between reporting locations and year on year improvement of more than 20%.
software has been adopted by this network results, a standardised per capita intensity to ease data collection, ensure data quality, This substantial reduction has been achieved ratio based on the number of full-time disseminate results effectively, and complete through progressive initiatives to improve the equivalent employees has been utilised.
We emission calculations more efficiently.
environmental efficiency of our offices, consider that this is the most effective means including more energy efficient lighting, better of reflecting our wide range of activities in a The adopted reporting methodology is the climate control and IT upgrades.
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and measures are complemented by broader Reporting Standard.
Through the ERN As evident in the table below, our total sustainability strategies at the corporate level network we have attempted to calculate emissions decreased by approximately and include the application of green building greenhouse gas emissions using actual 4.49% in 2017. principles during the selection refurbishment activity data for the reporting period, of our occupied spaces, space consolidation, wherever possible.
In the instances where and the continued focus on improving energy metering monitoring.
2013 Environmental Objective 2 2017 2016 base-line 1 Total Global GHG Emissions tCO2e tCO e tCO e Group Executive Board 2 2 Commitment GHG Emissions Scope 1 Direct 2,479 2,518 1,292 Savills is confident in making GHG Emissions Scope 2 Indirect 6,050 6,450 5,132 continued steady reductions to our Total Gross Emissions Scope 1 2 8,530 8,968 6,424 corporate environmental footprint in the coming years.
To that end, the Total Employees FTE yr. av.
8,243 7,998 4,508 Group Executive Board, in October 3 GHG FTE Intensity Ratio 1.03 1.12 1.42 2017, resolved to adopt a global objective of a 5% total global reduction Notes: target over a 3 year period, calculated 1 Emissions factors based on Defra DECC Guidelines 2011 and other globally recognised methodologies.
against the 2016 reported GHG 2 Total global emissions for Carbon Reporting 2013: UK, Rest of Europe, Australia New Zealand and Hong Kong only.
emissions figures, normalised by 3 Total gross emissions, divide by total full-time equivalent employees FTE year average.
utilising the Full Time Equivalent FTE year average employee numbers.
Our Responsibility to our Community Our offices and our people are actively We believe that the community engagement We are a membership of FTSE4Good, involved in their communities through our programmes that we have developed have a evidencing our commitment to support of charitable causes and other positive impact on the areas where our meetingglobally recognised corporate social and business organisations, including people live and ensure that Savills is firmly responsibility standards.
making financial, in kind and time engaged with the communities we serve.
The FTSE Group confirms that Savills plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Savills plc 34 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Spotlight on Community Fundraising in the US Project WeCan in Asia Savills Studley is dedicated to promoting It was Savills first year as part leadership, volunteerism and support of of the Project WeCan which aims charitable organisations.
Our employeeto empower local secondary led initiatives focus on childrens health, schools.
This year, we sponsored wellness and education, cancer research Pui Ying Secondary School in and community-based projects that Aberdeen.
Savills has participated better the local environment.
a number of events associated with this project, including inspiring One of our signature CR initiatives is the talks by our management at the JDRF Real Estate Games which is a sponsored school hall, and day-long Olympics-style event in which attended the signature event, the commercial real estate firms in the Young Innovators Bazaar.
We Washington, DC region compete to raise believe our support and advice funds for T1D diabetes research.
The for the students will enhance event has grown to become our industrys their skills including leadership, premier fundraiser.
It now includes more entrepreneurship, communication than 130 companies and 2,500 and project management.
participants with plans to expand to New York, Chicago and Los Angeles.
Supporting the charity YoungMinds Savills Graduate Charity Committee have been supporting the charity YoungMinds which works to improve the wellbeing and mental health of children and young people.
The charity helps young people, their parents, the professionals who work with them and the policy makers in the government to improve mental health for children and young people in the UK.
As part of its commitment to the charity, Savills held fundraising events as part of YoungMinds #HelloYellow week, championing the wellbeing and mental health of young people.
Caring Company 10 consecutive years In recognition of Savills Guardians efforts in support of charitable causes, Savills Guardian continues to hold the Caring Company 10 consecutive years logo as acknowledgement of Savills Guardians participation in the Caring Company Scheme.
Savills plc 35 Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 38 Corporate Governance Statement 38 Chairmans introduction 40 Leadership 44 Board of Directors 46 Group Executive Board 47 Effectiveness 50 Accountability 51 Audit Committee report 56 C ompliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 58 Directors Remuneration report 74 Directors report 76 Directors responsibilities Savills plc 36 Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Savills plc 37 Report and Accounts 2017
