Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Introduction first Homebuyers Panel, chaired by our attachments to serving armed forces This report provides an Customer Experience Director.
personnel, and supporting service charities update on our performance such as SSAFA and Help for Heroes.
The Group continued its commitment during the year and further Further details, including our commitments, to the nation through its own Armed can be found on our website.
Bovis Homes is proud relevant policies, can be to be a supporter of the Armed Forces Our focus on engaging with our Covenant and is committed to ensuring subcontractors has begun to show found on our website, that our nations Forces personnel past and dividends, with daily activity briefings bovishomesgroup.
present, and their families, are treated with now being operated across substantially respect and fairness.
In recognition of this all of our sites.
It is pleasing to note Highlights commitment, Bovis Homes recently received that our health and safety performance the Silver Award of the Defence Employer has improved with a reduction in the The majority of our staff have completed Recognition Scheme.
We continue to Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR to 410 customer service training with a view to expand our support in a number of ways, 2016: 620.
This compares to the HSE returning our customer satisfaction rating most notably this year by offering work Construction AIIR of 397. to a 4 Star level.
We have also held our 2017 See page 38 People performance Improve our customer satisfaction rating 1 Improve customer service training Formation of homebuyers panel Embed our core values across the Group and new joiners Continue to develop our apprenticeship programme Review ways to improve employee engagement 2017 See page 42 Health and safety performance Reduce annual injury incidence rate 2 Improving leadership behaviours Enhancing quality of workforce engagement Increasing awareness of occupational health risk 2017 See page 46 Environment performance Refine our waste reduction strategy 3 Reduce active waste per home Reduce active waste sent to landfill Set target for active waste per plot Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures 2017 See page 50 Community performance Continue to develop our strategic offering to assist with 4 affordable housing Continue to build on our relationships and support our subcontractors and suppliers Key: Priority not met Priority partially met within range Priority met | | 36 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Focusing on our CSR priorities Supporting sustainability, our people and communities || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 37 37 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR People 1 2017 2016 KPIs Staff turnover 31% 20% Training days 3,914 2,892 Apprentices 20 29 Customer satisfaction rating 2 star 3 star Based on HBF star rating announced in March of that year relating to the prior period of 1 October to 30 September.
which allows the majority of our Customers Employees employees to see and amend their benefits During 2017, our focus has been on The Group operates solely in the UK and from any internet-enabled device.
customer service, with the handover of complies with all relevant legislation high quality homes to customers a priority.
The Group continues During the year we also updated our staff to apply its employment policies to not communications strategy with the rollWe have seen a significant improvement in discriminate between employees, or out of a new People Forum, a monthly customer satisfaction trend during the year potential employees, on the grounds of employee engagement survey and the and made good progress in addressing all gender, sexual orientation, age, colour, launch of a refreshed intranet service, of our legacy customer issues.
creed, ethnic origin or religious belief.
The People Forum supplements The vast majority of our staff completed each regional business Employee Liaison Bovis Homes passionately believes in customer service training.
New staff meetings and comprises of employee equality and diversity for all.
To that end, complete the training shortly after joining representatives from each of our regional we have an Equal Opportunity policy which the Group.
It provides an opportunity is rigorously enforced and promoted.
In for employees to raise and discuss their addition, Bovis Homes has never been the We recruited a Customer Experience concerns and bring ideas for fostering subject of litigation alleging discrimination.
Director who led the inaugural greater employee engagement to a GroupIt is also Group policy to give full and fair Homebuyers Panel meeting during wide forum.
The new online employee consideration to the employment needs the year.
A further Homebuyers Panel engagement survey provides a monthly of disabled persons and persons who meeting was held in early 2018. snapshot of staff satisfaction and a way become disabled whilst employed by for employees to provide anonymous The Groups HBF customer satisfaction the Group where requirements may be comments or suggestions to managers rating was 2 star 2016: 3 Star.
Since the adequately covered by these persons and and the HR team.
Despite the significant start of the HBF year 1 October 2017, the to comply with any current legislation with changes that affected the Group in 2017, Group is trending at a 4 star HBF customer regard to disabled persons.
The Groups the online surveys indicate a healthy level satisfaction score.
policies are supported by the Groups of engagement.
Dignity at Work policy which prohibits The Homebuyers Panel is now established bullying, harassment or victimisation.
The Bovis Homes Annual Awards with meetings having taken place in celebrate the talent and dedication of our September 2017 and January 2018.
The total employee turnover rate increased people across the country.
The awards The group consists of a cross section of to 44% 2016: 27% which reflects the recognise those individuals and teams that customers who are at various stages of number of redundancies made during particularly represent the Groups values of their journey with us.
They continue to the year as part of the reshaping of the Integrity, Caring and Quality.
We remain provide valuable insight, feedback and business.
Unplanned staff turnover was committed to our valuable apprentice ideas on what we can do to continue to 31% 2016: 20%.
A higher than usual scheme with the intake during 2017 lower improve the experience that we deliver for number of resignations was also seen as we went through a major restructuring our customers.
during the period of the restructure.
In addition, there continues to be Representatives from our Commercial and demand for skilled workers in the home Technical teams attend the meetings to building industry.
We have implemented a ensure that this first-hand feedback can be number of initiatives in order to attract and incorporated into homes at the build stage.
retain staff, including the introduction of a new benefits portal mybenefitstoolbox | | 38 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Putting the focus on people Bovis Homes Annual Supporting our staff to Awards deliver quality for customers | Bovis Homes Group PLC 39 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR As well as the Company induction that In 2016, the Group adopted an AntiDirector and employee profile all new starters attend, the Group has Slavery and Human Trafficking Policy in The following table shows the gender split updated its appraisal process to ensure support of its efforts to combat modern within the Group as at 31 December 2017. that its values of Integrity, Caring and slavery.
A statement in line with the In common with the construction industry, Quality are considered and discussed by provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the majority of the workforce is male employees and their line managers.
is available on our website.
While a lower proportion of senior management and Whilst Bovis Homes does not formally The Group continues to operate both a directors are female, the Group encourages recognise a Trade Union, it is supportive defined benefit pension scheme and a and supports diversity, including gender.
of its employees rights to freedom of defined contribution pension scheme.
As at 31 December 2017, there were association including the right to form and It also operates an auto-enrolment nine senior managers all male who were join trade unions.
Employees often bring pension scheme.
The Group has a Share directors of Group subsidiaries.
Trade Union members as representatives to Incentive Plan, Save As You Earn share formal meetings and we value their input.
option scheme and a Long Term Incentive Analysis by role and gender We also elected employee representatives Plan to motivate employees and encourage Role Female Male Total and substitutes in 2017 and use this strong involvement with the Group.
group in relation to a remit of collective Non-executive directors 1 5 6 Staff are kept informed of the Groups consultation.
Executive directors 0 2 2 performance and matters of concern or Senior managers 1 13 14 Bovis Homes supports the Minimum Wage interest to employees via the Dug intranet Managers 71 146 217 and ensures that all employees are paid in service, a news magazine and emails excess of it.
The Group has not been found that are sent to all staff.
Consultations Site and sales staff 126 360 486 to have failed to pay the Minimum Wage are held at staff meetings and personal Support staff 224 202 426 and remains an ardent supporter of it and briefings are provided by elected Apprentices 5 47 52 its aims.
Each regional Total 428 775 1,203 business meets regularly with employee Bovis Homes complies with the principles representatives to discuss matters that Analysis by age of the Construction Industry Joint Council may impact staff.
of CIJC Handbooks even though it does not Team provide presentations to staff at all Age employees % formally recognise the same.
regional offices at key points in the year.
21 years 53 4.4 The Group believes that it has a key role 21 30 years 204 17.0 As at 31 December 2017, the Group to play in ensuring that employees have an directly employed 1,203 people 31 40 years 273 22.7 appropriate work life balance.
In common with the 41 50 years 301 25.0 we are committed to working towards construction industry, the majority of our 51 60 years 288 23.9 ensuring that no employees work excessive site-based population is employed by hours.
In addition, we seek to minimise 60 years 84 7.0 our subcontractors.
During the year, our weekend and late night working to an Total 1,203 100 average workforce population was 5,121 absolute minimum and then only when 2016: 5,161. it is essential.
When it does occur, Bovis Homes seeks to redress the balance by giving people time off in lieu.
Moreover, the Group has introduced a process of buying and selling holiday.
Bovis Homes also encourages flexible working which allows employees to leave work early on a Friday.
As part of the commitments we have made for our Armed Forces Covenant, we have also been exploring further ways to support employees that are active reservists.
| | 40 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Additional training is also arranged by our All subcontractors are made aware of Training regional businesses where they identify our policies relating to anti-bribery and We have continued our investment in specific needs.
corruption and encouraged to adopt their training during the year, spending 1.2m own policies.
Employees, subcontractors 2016: 756,000 on employee training in Our Apprenticeship scheme has continued and others are encouraged to use our support of the Groups policy to train and to develop with 20 new apprentices joining whistleblowing service to report any develop employees to ensure that they the Group during the year 2016: 29. suspicion of bribery or corruption.
In 2017 are equipped to undertake the functions 10 whistleblowing reports were made We signed the Home Building Skills and tasks for which they are employed, which included matters relating to bribery Pledge an initiative to collaborate with and to provide the opportunity for and corruption.
others tackling the industry skills gap career development equally and without by supporting the Home Building Skills discrimination.
All employees are subject to the Groups Partnership and working to its shared corporate hospitality policy.
Details of All new starters attend the centralised goals.
We have embarked upon a training corporate hospitality are reviewed by the company induction on their first day with offering to contractors as part of this Audit Committee on a regular basis.
the company, delivered at the Bovis Homes initiative by delivering SSSTS qualifications Training Centre, which opened in July at minimal cost to our specialist Priorities for 2018 2017.
They receive a welcome personally contractors.
Maintain current customer satisfaction from a member of the ELT followed by trend with a target of 4 star for the subject matter experts providing key Human rights 2018 HBF Customer Satisfaction Survey.
information on subjects such as our values, The Group has not adopted a formal HR, H&S, learning and development and IT.
human rights policy but will continue to Improve employee retention through This is a major step forward in generating monitor whether this is an appropriate improved rewards and benefits offering, a team ethos from day one and is development for the organisation.
At this leadership training and employee complemented by regional and functional time it is considered that the Group has a wellbeing initiatives, together with a induction at the normal place of work collective number of policies in place that revised recruitment strategy to attract from day two.
support basic human rights as outlined in talented individuals.
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Training needs are identified against the for all individuals with which we interact Groups H&S core training matrix and and a separate human rights policy is where there are role specific training not necessary.
Training needs are further discussed with individual employees as part The Group recognises the importance of of their probation and annual appraisal.
this area and has adopted policies that In addition to this, training needs can be support the underlying principles.
identified on other occasions, either by In particular, we have appropriate policies senior directors as a result of a change in place regarding employment matters in business need, or as a result of an including freedom of association and individual changing position or being diversity, health and safety, anti-slavery promoted.
The Group has an educational and human trafficking, anti-bribery and sponsorship policy to support employees corruption and whistleblowing that are personal development and will meet there to protect fundamental rights.
course expenses, including allowing day release, where appropriate.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery Employees continue to receive regular training covering topics such as health, The Group is committed to high ethical, safety and environmental matters, IT, legal and moral standards and all members management, sales and customer care.
of staff are expected to share this A total of 3,914 training days were commitment.
The Group has adopted an delivered during the year via our anti-bribery and corruption policy and has Group Learning & Development team procedures in place designed to prevent 2016: 2,892, equivalent to 3.1 days per bribery and corruption from taking place.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 41 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Health and safety 2 KPIs 2017 2016 Annual injury incidence rate AIIR 410 620 RIDDORs 21 36 In early 2017, we incorporated our The Bovis Homes Safety Awards recognise Our health and safety directors tours as part of a wider site excellent performance in health and H&S Steering Group review process and this has now been safety at our sites.
The judging took began an extensive successfully embedded into the business.
place in November 2017 with nine sites winning Regional Excellence Awards.
review of our H&S The changes implemented have begun Four sites were Highly Commended and to be evidenced through a significant processes with a new went through to compete for the Group reduction in our annual injury incidence Excellence Award, with a further three sites inspection regime pilot rate to 410 in 2017 2016: 620.
commenced during We have continued to actively promote The superb examples of health and safety the year.
worker engagement at site level identified during the judging for the through daily activity briefings DABs.
A new internal inspection regime was awards has been shared with the regional These provide an opportunity for site introduced during Autumn 2017 featuring build directors for implementation across management to communicate with an overall H&S performance KPI which the business.
subcontractors and those on site on tasks has been set for all sites and also provides scheduled to occur that day and particular Alongside the Bovis Homes Safety Awards, a Gold Green Amber Red Black risks that may arise as a result.
They also the Group competed with other house dashboard indicator that is updated by the provide a forum for subcontractors to builders in the National House Building regions daily.
This approach replaces the provide feedback and for near-misses to be Councils Pride in the Job Awards, where former NHBC monitoring method used to discussed and improvements implemented.
four of our site managers were selected generate performance KPIs.
It has been from more than 16,000 site managers well received by site teams and is not Health and safety remains a number working across the country to receive only seen as a fairer and more accurate one priority, with this topic being one Quality Awards.
Our team at Loachbrook measure but also focusses on recognising of the first to be covered at our new Meadow, led by Oliver Cookson, went on good practice.
In turn this has increased starter induction.
to win the next level of award, the Seal of the level of engagement with both site Excellence and as regional winner in the The Groups senior leaders also completed management teams and contractors and large builder category was shortlisted for Leading Safely training from the Institution is consistent with our strategy to bring the Pride in the Job Supreme Award.
of Occupational Safety and Health and about behavioural change.
Since this a Leading Safety Differently workshop.
was introduced a continuous level of Priorities for 2018 This is part of our drive to promote the improvement has been observed over a integration of health and safety, and Update our standard operating 5 month period.
develop the right behaviours, at all levels procedures to support a safety The review has seen active engagement of the business.
from our site managers which ensures We also took the step of providing Revise our site induction process to that operational feedback is included as defibrillators and relevant training to all of ensure it remains engaging, including a part of the review.
Other initial changes our sites.
The defibrillators are not just for trial of an electronic induction process.
include the recruitment of additional use on site and can be used by those in safety advisers to work with our regional the vicinity if required.
businesses in making Bovis Homes a safe place to work.
| | 42 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Committed to health and safety Comprehensive health and safety training for all employees | Bovis Homes Group PLC 43 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Case study Oliver is crowned best in the whole North West NHBC Seal of Excellence Pride in the Job Weve got great team at Loachbrook as well as Olivers professionalism and Oliver Cookson Meadow, who work conscientiously, want dedication to the job.
celebrated a huge to do the job well, and build homes that Were thrilled that he has won the success at a major we can all be proud of.
house-building industry Oliver went forward to the Supreme Now in its 37th year, Pride in the Job awards ceremony.
Awards Gala - the national final - at the celebrates the exceptional contribution Park Plaza Westminster Bridge Hotel in He was named the best site manager in site managers make in creating homes of London, along with the winners from the the North West region in the National outstanding quality.
House Building Councils NHBC Pride in The large builder category is for site the Job large builder category.
Oliver reached the regional stages of the managers employed by a company that competition after being selected from The accolade, presented at the Hilton builds more than 1,000 new homes with more than 16,000 UK site managers for an Manchester Deansgate Hotel, recognises NHBC warranty cover per year.
NHBC Pride in the Job Quality award for Olivers expertise in guiding the team excellence in on-site management earlier Darrell White, managing director of the at Bovis Homes Loachbrook Meadow in the year.
West Division of Bovis Homes, added: location on the outskirts of Congleton.
This is a tremendous performance by He received a coveted Seal of Excellence Oliver, who lives in Middlewich, said: Oliver and his team at Mercias Loachbrook award at the Manchester event, before Im absolutely thrilled to have won the Meadow, and a testament to his then going forward to land the major award - its going to take some time to absolute focus on health and safety, his regional prize.
sink in - but I wouldnt have achieved communication skills, and his passion for anything without the fantastic team that Joanne Morrison, Managing Director of the delivering quality homes for customers.
Bovis Homes Mercia region, said: Were extremely proud of the high-quality homes But for their hard work, I wouldnt have that Oliver and his team are building at been getting up on stage to collect this Loachbrook Meadow.
I think we all bring the best out in each other and they respect me and I The award recognises the great respect them - its a two-way street.
communication and teamwork on site | | 44 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Heyford Park, Upper Heyford | Bovis Homes Group PLC 45 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Environment 3 KPIs 2017 2016 Recycling 94% 93% Waste per plot 5.72 6.10 GHG emissions 2.01 1.61 This partnership has led to increased Total waste per plot was 5.72 tonnes The Group has adopted accuracy in the recording of waste and 2016: 6.10 based on completed plots and an environment policy its final treatment.
We also changed the work in progress.
We are targeting waste and recognises its size of plasterboard sheeting specified per plot of 5 tonnes for 2018. for our homes in order to reduce responsibilities to The Group continued to divert almost all offcut wastage.
of its waste from landfill to other uses at protect and enhance We have set a target to reduce waste 94%.
Our recycling rate for site waste is the environment and to by 15% for the 12 months from August outlined below: minimise, so far as it is 2017, the date our partnership with Reconomy was fully implemented.
safe, practicable and economically sound, any Tonnes 2017 2016 adverse environmental Total waste diverted from landfill 21,167 21,337 impact of its activities.
Comprising: Timber 1,985 The Group seeks to minimise its impact on the environment through a number of Plaster 1,522 activities including reducing waste from Hazardous 1 its activities, limiting as far as practicable our greenhouse gas emissions, ecology Other 17,659 and sustainable water management and the maintenance or incorporation of open Total waste to landfill 1,375 1,606 space in our developments.
Comprising: Timber 0 The Group recognises that as a leading Plaster 0 national home builder it needs to minimise its impact on the environment.
We always Hazardous 2 aim to operate efficiently, reducing waste and minimising the energy and natural Other 1,373 resources we use.
Total waste 22,542 22,943 During 2017 we launched a new waste Number of plots 3,645 3,997 strategy in partnership with Reconomy with the aim of reducing the overall Only consolidated data available.
amount of waste sent to landfill and improving our recycling volumes.
We continue to research and develop more efficient build processes and modern methods of construction which should reduce the amount of waste generated from our activities.
| | 46 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Looking after the environment Aiming to take a sustainable approach | Bovis Homes Group PLC 47 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR A joined up approach to waste management Case study By moving away from the use of general Regular review meetings with Build All waste and recycling waste skips and implementing a focused, Directors, together with the production services for Bovis Homes group-wide policy of effective waste of a waste tracker to monitor cost and are managed by its appointed partner, segregation at source, the partnership tonnes per completed plot, have Reconomy the UKs leading provider of achieved significant success in 2017. enabled the swift identification of any outsourced waste management services.
In the Mercia region alone, which was corrective actions, thereby ensuring Since first joining forces in 2009, the the first to fully implement Reconomys the delivery of Bovis Homes waste two companies have formed a close waste management strategy, waste management KPIs.
Regular reporting working relationship, with an ongoing costs per plot fell from a high of 824 in and communication has also led to the commitment to minimising waste August 2017, to 468 by year end.
creation of a regional league table for volumes, increasing recycling rates and waste performance, which has fuelled These results have been attributed to reducing waste sent to landfill.
internal competition and driven the phased and considered rollout of the further improvements.
waste strategy across all Bovis Homes developments, thereby allowing for a Tony Filson, consistent and joined-up approach.
Reconomy During the year, measures were operated GHG emissions have been calculated using Greenhouse gas emissions to collect emissions data from our emission factors from UK Governments We continue to recognise the importance construction sites.
Where this data was GHG Conversion Factors for Company of climate change and minimise our impact incomplete at the year end, we have Reporting 2017.
Scope 1 emissions arise on the environment.
extrapolated total emissions by using i an from the consumption of gas at our Our impact on climate change also means averaging approach to extend data to a facilities, diesel on construction sites and that careful thought is given to the homes full year for sites with part-year data, and UK business mileage in fleet cars.
Our preference is for a ii applied an average calculated from all from air conditioning in offices have been fabric first approach to ensure that the sites to sites returning inadequate data.
excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 heating of space, which has the greatest The calculations allow for sites which emissions represent purchased electricity.
impact on a homes energy efficiency, opened and closed during the year.
Scope 3 emissions represent business is mitigated as far as possible within the mileage completed in private vehicles.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 January 2017 to We continue to review green energy 31 December 2017 with prior year comparatives provision on our developments, including Emissions from: 2017 2016 2015 Unit the use of photovoltaic roof tiles in place of traditional panels.
Combustion of fuel at our facilities and construction sites 5,638 4,780 4,168 as well as fleet vehicle use Scope 1 emissions We have revised our company car policy Purchased electricity Scope 2 emissions to limit CO emissions on all new vehicles 1,522 1,627 1,324 2 to 120 g km.
We also renewed our forklift Total GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 7,160 6,406 5,492 truck fleet and specified machines no more than 2 years old, to ensure Scope 3 emissions private vehicle mileage 786 677 424 improved efficency.
Companys chosen intensity measurements: Performance and 1 i Total GHG emissions per legally completed unit 2.17 1.77 1.49 methodology ii Total GHG emissions per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 2.01 1.69 1.46 GHG emissions have been reported from all sources required under the Companies Tonnes of CO e. Tonnes of CO e per legally completed unit.
Tonnes of CO e per 2 2 2 Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors 1,000 sq ft legally completed.
1 re stated to include scope 3 emissions.
These sources fall within the Groups operational control.
There has been increase in GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures as a The Group does not have responsibility result of an increase in fleet vehicle use and more accurate fuel usage by forklift trucks via for any emission sources that are not a telematics system.
included in the consolidated financial statements and are outside the boundary Priorities for 2017 of operational control.
Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures.
Reduce waste to 5 tonnes per plot.
| | 48 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Open space, ecology and sustainable water management Our developments are about more than whether a site is likely to contain required to limit surface water discharge just homes and the incorporation of open archaeological remains and any mitigating and any potential for localised flooding.
space and communal areas is considered at actions that may be required.
This involves active consultation with the an early stage.
Environment Agency and water authorities We work closely with local authorities to to ensure that there is, as a minimum, no All of our sites are subject to extensive retain and protect trees wherever possible impact from our development on local pre-construction assessments.
Our ecology and provide mature environments for flood conditions.
Our approach is not assessments include an evaluation of local wildlife populations.
Where trees to acquire sites on flood plains and to the suitability of habitats for protected are removed, we aim to provide a net incorporate sustainable drainage systems species and proposals to mitigate the improvement to the number of habitats, where appropriate for the development.
impact of our developments more through planting and the inclusion of bird generally.
Mitigating measures can include and bat boxes and other wildlife habitats.
We specify Forestry Stewardship Council translocating species and creating wildlife FSC or PEFC certified timber is used for all All sites are reviewed at acquisition stage corridors.
An archaeological assessment of our developments.
to determine the likely ground conditions will also be undertaken to determine and the type of surface water measures Case study Playtime is now a reality for Hemel Hempstead pupils Volunteers from Bovis Homes, Osborne and the local council got together to deliver the play park for the Hertfordshire Council, along with many local children.
talented Osborne people has made this The opening of the Two Waters Primary playpark into a reality for the children.
National house builder Bovis Homes play area took place in April 2017, and Osborne teamed up with their Chris OConnor, Regional Technical with many attending, including local supply chain partners and the local Director at Bovis Homes said: Were dignitaries, parents, teaching staff and of community to build a playpark for a delighted to be part of this work and course the children.
The official ribbon primary school in Hemel Hempstead.
it is the result of a truly collaborative was jointly cut by Jon Millar at Osborne, project between Osborne, our supply Two Waters Primary School is close to Reception Teacher Bethany Ward and chain partners, the local community and the site of Bovis Homes new 325-home Mayor of Dacorum Robert McClean.
We look forward to seeing redevelopment of the Manor Estate in Jon Millar, Osborne Project Manager for the children take full advantage of these Apsley where Osbornes expert engineers the site said: I am really pleased that new facilities as we continue our work have built a bridge over the busy collaboration with Bovis Homes and bringing new homes to the community.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 49 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR Community 4 KPIs 2017 2016 Affordable housing completions 1,072 1,074 Planning obligations spend 26.4m n a During the year we continued to build on other initiatives including fundraising The Group has a CSR our affordable housing offering by working for the SSAFA Big Brew Up event and policy which supports with RPs and government agencies to sponsoring the RAF Police Rugby team.
the creation of sustainable offer a range of different tenures providing It has also continued its policy of helping solutions that meet the affordable housing developments that are ex-servicemen and women find new needs of our partners and the communities roles in the Company through the designed for social in which we work.
Career Transition Partnership CTP, and inclusion.
We offer Help to Buy and our own supporting staff members who choose to Trinity Discount Scheme for Armed be members of the Reserve forces.
We recognise that we have a fundamental Forces personnel as part of our Armed role in tackling the countrys housing Many military homebuyers like the Ferrier Forces Covenant.
supply challenge and work with registered family at Sherford right have already providers to provide affordable housing We have been working with a number taken advantage of the unique forces across a range of different tenure types.
of providers to develop a bespoke purchase assistance scheme, which has We also offer the Governments Help to specification for the homes we deliver to now been available for almost a year and Buy Scheme on all of our developments.
RPs in response to the growing demands is open to serving forces personnel, both they are under.
It allows service As part of each development we create personnel to combine buyer assistance we commit to provide resources and Of our 3,645 homes 2016: 3,977 schemes with a package of offers from improvements to the local area in completed in 2017, 1,072 were sold to the Company, in order to purchase their agreement with the local authority.
RPs, representing 29% of the homes we own Bovis Home as simply and affordably sold 2016: 1,074 and 27%.
We work with our supply chain to ensure as possible.
that they are appropriately resourced Armed forces covenant and have the relevant skills and, prior to Supply chain appointment, conduct due diligence on Bovis Homes is proud to be a supporter We continue to work with our supply chain suppliers and subcontractors.
of the Armed Forces Covenant and is to ensure timely delivery of our homes committed to ensuring that our nations in an environmentally and socially aware We provide assistance and sponsorship Forces personnel past and present, way.
Our suppliers and subcontractors to local good causes and support our and their families, are treated with are involved at an early stage in site employees in raising money for charities respect and fairness.
A copy of our development to ensure adequate resource that are important to them.
specific commitments can be found planning is in place and health and safety on our website.
In recognition of this remains a number one priority.
Affordable housing commitment, Bovis Homes recently Working collaboratively with our public received the Silver Award of the Defence The use of local and regional suppliers sector partners is central to the way we Employer Recognition Scheme.
means that our developments provide operate and we are proud to be playing a benefits for the wider community, In the last 12 months, Bovis Homes has key role in tackling the countrys housing through job creation and opportunities taken part in a variety of events aimed supply challenge.
We work with local for other local businesses to support at equipping Forces personnel for civilian authorities and registered providers RPs to the development.
life, such as a Life Skills fair at Tidworth ensure the provision of affordable housing Garrison, and has supported a number of on the majority of our developments in a way that meets local needs.
| | 50 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Creating communities Supporting our customers on their new home adventure | Bovis Homes Group PLC 51 Our corporate social responsibility priorities CSR We collaborate with our supply chain on Community and infrastructure Charity the development of skills for the industry, improvements The Group continues to support fundraising with our apprenticeship programme events and local sponsorship opportunities All of our developments are subject to incorporating secondments to learn key that are important for our staff.
Staff have extensive public consultation prior to work construction skills.
been involved in activities and supporting commencing, which identifies the needs local good causes.
We have continued to of local communities and provisions such We offer work experience placements to make facilities available to staff, with local as affordable housing, open space and those attending school and college.
Charitable donations and educational needs.
We work with our suppliers to provide sponsorship are managed by each regional During the planning phase for our innovative designs and products as well business to ensure that local causes and developments, we always seek to as providing training on topics such as charities important to staff are given priority.
incorporate leisure and amenity areas health and safety and site supervisor safety.
In order to support our staff, during 2017 together with integrating developments During the year our contractors were able we introduced a payroll giving initiative to into local public transport infrastructure.
to participate in a site supervisor safety enable employees to contribute to their Where appropriate, local resident travel training scheme course accredited by chosen charities directly from their salary.
vouchers may be provided to encourage use the Construction Industry Training Board of public transport.
Priorities for 2018 Our larger developments will often include In return for our commitment, our suppliers Continue to develop our strategic offering provision of a local school, which will also must meet our anti-bribery and ethical to assist with affordable housing.
A whistleblowing Continue to build on our relationships procedure is in place to support our All of our sites have defibrillators installed and support our subcontractors and contractors and their staff.
and staff are trained how to use them.
suppliers trough regular meetings and These can be called upon by local training opportunities.
communities and we have also taken the step to ensure that these defibrillators remain within the local area once our developments have been completed.
Case study Bovis Homes announces plans to present local communities with life-saving defibrillators Life-saving equipment will be donated to towns and villages by Bovis Homes, as part of our ongoing commitment to health and safety, and to the communities in which we work.
We have announced that the portable, easy-to-use defibrillators currently installed at our locations will be offered to local communities after the developments have been completed.
But research suggests that survival rates electric shock to the heart aimed at Bovis Homes will have employees based improve significantly if a defibrillator is restoring its natural rhythm, save lives.
at developments who have received used within five minutes of a cardiac One of his closest friends suffered a training in the use of the defibrillators.
arrest - from 6 per cent to 74 per cent.
cardiac arrest while playing football, but Roger Morton, Head of Talent at Bovis Defibrillators are available for use at all a team of paramedics were playing on Homes, explained: Every second counts our locations during the lifetime of our an adjoining pitch and one of the players when someone suffers a sudden cardiac build and sales presence.
had a defibrillator in his car.
arrest and, without immediate help, Bovis Homes Site Manager Dave White Dave said: My friend wouldnt be here between 90 and 95 per cent of cases above has personal experience of how today but for a defibrillator, so its vitally prove fatal.
defibrillators, which deliver a controlled important that everyone has easy access to them.
| | 52 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Case study Bovis Homes donated 300 to the playgroup Green-fingered playgroup ready for the winter thanks to Bovis Homes Come rain or shine, children at a Its a fantastic community resource, and Its great to have all the tools there waiting Moreton-in-Marsh playgroup will the allotment gives children a chance to for the children when they arrive.
now be able to tend to their get outside and learn more about where The kids love using the allotment and allotment thanks to a donation food comes from and how plants grow.
learning where vegetables come from and from Bovis Homes.
Were delighted to have been given the we use the produce as healthy snacks!
The childrens allotment now has a new opportunity to contribute to their gardening Three-year-old Molly, who attends the shed to house its tools and gardening efforts and we hope their new shed helps playgroup, said: My favourite thing about equipment, after Bovis Homes donated them to have a bumper harvest!
the allotment is the runner beans!
Jo Creek, Deputy Playgroup Manager, said: We were only too happy to provide The shed has made a huge difference to some help for the Moreton-in-Marsh the group, as it is a bit of a walk from the playgroup, says Stephanie Spry, nursery to the allotment.
Strategic report approval The strategic report outlined on pages 2 to 57, incorporates the financial highlights, the Chairmans statement, the strategic review, the Chief Executives report, the financial review, the risks and uncertainties review and corporate social responsibility review.
By Order of the Board Earl Sibley, Finance Director 1 March 2018 | Bovis Homes Group PLC 53 Winchester Park, Winchester | | 54 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility Focused on getting it right Committed to being the best we can be | Bovis Homes Group PLC 55
