Strategic Management Stakeholder engagement Our Employment Principles set out a common We work with, take into account and respond to the views approach for our Group companies policies and procedures, recognising that each Group and concerns of both internal and external stakeholders, company must take account of local labour law and practice, and the local political, adapting to emerging risks and striving to meet the economic and cultural context.
In developing expectations placed upon us as a multinational business.
our Employment Principles, we have sought the views of a cross-section of internal and Listening to our stakeholders helps us better understand their views and concerns, and external stakeholders, and have consulted enables us to respond to them appropriately.
It gives us valuable inputs to, and feedback on, with employee representatives and where our strategic approach, as well as our policies, procedures and ways of working.
This helps relevant with our works councils.
usto continually improve and strengthen them and ensure we are meeting the expectations of our stakeholders.
All Group companies have committed to our Employment Principles and, through This section provides greater insight into our policies and procedures underpinning the our internal audit processes, are required to Winning Organisation and Sustainability aspects of our strategy.
It also outlines progress demonstrate how these are embedded into against our policy objectives, with a focus on our people and culture, environmental matters, the workplace.
community and social initiatives, respect for human rights, and anti-bribery and corruption, which we know are important considerations for our shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Health and safety Our Health and Safety Policy recognises the We have a number of Group policies and principles in place, including our Standards of importance of the health, safety and welfare Business Conduct SoBC, that set out our commitments in these areas.
These policies and of all employees and third party personnel in procedures are endorsed by our Board and support the effective identification, management the conduct of our business operations.
We are and mitigation of key risks and issues for our business in these and other areas.
A summary committed to the prevention of injury and ofour SoBC and other policies in these areas is set out on page 31. ill-health, and strive for continual improvement All Group companies have adopted the SoBC or localised equivalent.
All staff working in health and safetymanagement and across theGroup are required to complete training, and an annual sign-off, confirming performance.
This policy is supported by theiradherence to the SoBC.
our Environmental, Health and Safety EHS management system, outlined on page 31.
Details of our Group Policies Our Speak Up channels, available at and Principles are available at www.
com speakup, enable anyone We have a Group-wide goal of zero accidents www.
com principles working for, or with, our Group to raise and our approach to health and safety is based concerns in their local language, in on risk management and assessments, staff confidence and without fear of reprisal.
training and awareness, and specific initiatives focused on higher risk areas of our business.
Our ongoing dialogue and engagement with We know that, as a responsible company, all Our key performance indicators in this stakeholders including employees, suppliers, engagement activities we undertake must be area include: farmers, regulators, local communities and guided by high standards.
These standards wider society support our compliance are set out in our Principles for Engagement.
Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR : with international standards and evolving All Group companies and employees are In 2017, there was an increase in our LWCIR regulations, and helps us to understand required to act in accordance with our from 0.24 in 2016 to 0.28 in 2017. the issues and challenges our stakeholders Principles for Engagement.
We support third Lost workday cases LWC : The number of face.
This enables us to be better placed parties on policy issues of mutual interest, but work-related accidents including assaults to co-develop solutions to address issues we will never ask a third party to conduct itself resulting in injury to employees and to and challenges.
in any way that contravenes these principles.
contractors under our direct supervision, We engage with regulators around the world Our people and culture causing absence of one shift or more, to support regulation that is based on robust increased from 155 in 2016, to 181 in 2017.
We are committed to protecting the safety evidence and thorough research, that respects and wellbeing of our employees, and building Serious injuries SI and fatalities: The total legal rights and livelihoods, and delivers a culture where they can develop and thrive.
number of serious injuries and fatalities to on intended policy aims, while recognising The principal risks for our business in this employees and contractors increased from unintended consequences.
area relate to the risks of injury, illness or 56 in 2016 to 74 in 2017.
Transparency is crucial to our approach.
death in the workplace, discussed further The 2016 figures related to LWC and SI have been We are open about what we think, and as part of our principal Group risk factors updatedtoinclude reportable injuries from 2016 acquisitions.
whether we are in favour of new proposals for on page 53.
We also recognise that we For detailsof previously reported figures, see page 35 of regulation or not.
Where we may not agree, must continue to attract and retain the our2017 Sustainability Report, which can be found at www.
com sustainabilityreport we always try to be constructive and propose best people, as competition for talented practical alternatives that can still support the employees intensifies.
Employee development achievement of regulatory aims and public Overall responsibility for health and safety andengagement health objectives.
is held by the Director, Operations, and the We have a comprehensive Group Talent We have long recognised the OECD Principles Director, Group Human Resources has overall Strategy in place, focused on attracting, for Transparency and Integrity in Lobbying, responsibility for all employee and human retaining and developing the best talent.
and the views and positions that we advocate resources HR matters.
Our Management Thisis discussed further on pages 25 and 26. on key issues are available on our website at Board oversees the development and bat.
com regulation management of talent within the Groups We undertake a biennial global employee Regions and Functions, and monitors opinion survey Your Voice across the Group, progress against our key objectives and which increases employee engagement across performance indicators.
the business and helps us continue to improve and update our work environment.
30 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Policies Principles Summary of areas covered Key stakeholder groups Standards of Business Conduct Anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, and entertainment and gifts.
Employees and contractors SoBC Respect in the workplace, including promoting equality and diversity, preventing Governments and regulators harassment and bullying, and safeguarding employee wellbeing.
Local communities and society Respect for human rights, including prevention of child labour and exploitation oflabour, and respect for freedom of association.
Political contributions and charitable contributions.
Financial integrity, accurate accounting and record-keeping, and information security.
Anti-illicit trade, competition and anti-trust, and sanctions compliance.
Health and Safety Policy Health, safety and welfare of all employees, other members of our workforce Employees and contractors andthird party personnel.
Suppliers, business partners, farmers Local communities and society Environment Policy Our commitments to carrying out our business in an environmentally responsible and Employees and contractors sustainable way, including agricultural, manufacturing and distribution operations.
Suppliers, business partners, farmers Local communities and society Employment Principles Employment practices, including commitments to diversity, reasonable working Group employees hours, family friendly policies, employee wellbeing, talent, performance and equal opportunities, and fair, clear and competitive remuneration and benefits.
Principles for Engagement Our internal standards guiding all engagement activities, underpinning our Employees and contractors commitment to corporate transparency.
Governments and regulators Local communities and society Supplier Code of Conduct Standards required of our suppliers worldwide, including business integrity, anti-bribery Suppliers and business partners and corruption, environmental sustainability and respect for human rights covering Employees and contractors equal opportunities and fair treatment, health and safety, prevention of harassment Local communities and society andbullying, child labour, and exploitation of labour, and freedom of association.
Strategic Framework for Sets out our Group corporate social investment strategy and a framework for Local communities and society Corporate Social Investment ourlocal operating companies to implement that strategy.
NGOs and development agencies Further details of our Group policies and principles can be found at www.
com principles Further details of our Strategic Framework for Corporate Social Investment can be found at www.
com csi Our key performance indicators in this for many years and is based on international to play an active role both in their local and area include: standards, including ISO 14001. business communities.
Employee retention: In 2017, total turnover Each of our Group companies has an Our Charitable Contributions Policy in our of management-grade employees was EHS Steering Committee, with overall SoBC is supported by the Group Strategic 1,610, representing 14% of the total environmental responsibility held by the Framework for corporate and social initiatives management population.
applicable General Manager or site manager.
CSI, which sets out our Group CSI strategy and EHS is also a standing agenda item for how we expect our local operating companies Employee engagement: In our 2017 management meetings and governance to develop, deliver and monitor community YourVoice employee opinion survey, committees at area, regional and global levels.
investment programmes within three themes: ourkey Engagement Index score was 83%, Our governance structures raise awareness of 12percentage points higher than the Sustainable Agriculture and Environment: environmental risks across our business and FMCGcomparator norm of 71%.
our aim is to create a consistent approach Empowerment: and Diversity: Representation of women in senior across our Group to manage them.
management roles increased from 16% The primary environmental focus areas in 2016, up to 21% in 2017 2017 data Our Group Head of Sustainability has for our business include energy use and includes RAI Companies.
oversight of the Group CSI Strategy, and carbon dioxide CO emissions, water use 2 Board-level governance is managed through In addition to our long-standing Employment and availability, and waste and recycling.
our Audit Committee, which reviews the Principles, we have also adopted a Board In our supply chain, the primary focus areas strategy and an analysis of activities including Diversity Policy, discussed on page 62, which relate to the environmental impacts of investment and alignment to the Groups is specifically applicable to our Board and tobacco farming.
priorities at least once a year.
Our approach to reducing the environmental Our key performance indicator in this impacts of our operations is long established Environment area relates to the total amount of money and we have an internal reporting system We are committed to reducing our invested in charitable giving and CSI projects.
in place for monitoring Group-wide environmental impact across our supply Together with RAI Companies, in 2017 the environmental performance.
Please refer to chain and operations and our Director, Group invested a total of 18.7 million in cash, pages 27 to 29 for details of our approach Operations, has overall responsibility for and a further 14.3 million in-kind charitable toenvironmental management and progress environmental management.
contributions and CSI projects, including against key performance indicators.
1.09 million given for charitable purposes in Our Environment Policy applies across all our the UK.
Much of this investment is delivered Community and social initiatives activities including our supply chain.
through partnerships with external stakeholders As an international business, we play an The Policy is supported by our comprehensive including communities, NGOs, governments, important role in countries around the Environmental, Health and Safety EHS development agencies, academic institutions, world and have built close ties with local management system, which has been in place industry associations and peer companies.
We encourage our employees BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 31 Strategic Management Stakeholder engagement continued Our key performance indicators in this area Our Speak Up channels, discussed on Respect for human rights focus on the number, and results, of reviews pages28 and 29, enable anyone working The Group has a long-standing commitment and audits conducted as part of our due for, or with, our Group to raise any concerns to respect fundamental human rights, as diligence processes for our suppliers and in their local language, in confidence and affirmed by the Universal Declaration of business operations.
In 2017: without fear of reprisal.
Independent on-site reviews were Our Delivery with Integrity programme The greatest risks for human rights abuses conducted on 16 of our tobacco leaf discussed on page 28 focused in 2017 on are in our tobacco leaf supply chain which, suppliers in 14 countries.
ensuring our policies and training, particularly as with the wider agricultural sector, is in relation to anti-bribery and corruption, recognised by the International Labour Independent audits were conducted on remain at the forefront of best business Organization to be particularly vulnerable 65direct materials suppliers in 29 countries.
practice, on increasing the accessibility of our to these risks due to the sheer scale and 102 indirect suppliers in 16 countries whistleblowing procedures, and enhancing characteristics such as large numbers of underwent a self-assessment in 2017. global oversight of reported issues.
casual and temporary workers, family labour in small-scale farming, and high levels of BAT business operations in 19 higher The design of the programme was informed rural poverty.
Human rights challenges in risk countries underwent enhanced due by extensive due diligence on current best our non-agricultural supply chain depend on diligence to confirm compliance with practice, including in managing bribery and the nature of the sector, the type of goods applicable Group policies, standards corruption risks.
As part of the programme, and services supplied, and the country and controls, and to provide details of we refreshed the Groups approach to of operation.
any additional local measures in place to managing potential issues for our business enhance human rights management.
inthis area, including: With the majority of our employees working in business areas where we have robust Regulatory engagement activities, guided by Anti-bribery and corruption oversight and control, human rights risks in the Groups Principles for Engagement and Corrupt practices are illegal, cause distortion our own operations are substantially avoided.
supported by targeted training to highlight in markets and harm economic, social The challenges that do exist are mitigated associated risks: and and political development, particularly by the suite of robust policies, practices, and indeveloping countries.
Engagement of third parties as suppliers compliance and governance procedures andconsultants to the Group, supported that we have in place across all Group Our SoBC makes it clear that it is wholly bythe deployment of a revised third party companies.
However, we recognise that we unacceptable for Group companies, our due diligence procedure during 2018. need to continually work to ensure these employees or our business partners to be are effectively applied and that we carefully involved or implicated, in any way, in corrupt Please refer to pages 69 and 70 for more monitor the situation, particularly in higher practices.
Our SoBC is fully aligned with information about the application of the risk countries, such as where regulation or the provisions of the UK Bribery Act and SoBC in 2017, the Audit Committees enforcement are weak, or there are high levels is designed to meet the standards of the responsibility for oversight and monitoring of corruption, criminality or unrest.
OECD Convention on Combating Bribery ofcompliance with the SoBC, and our of Foreign Public Officials in International reported compliance metrics.
Our due diligence processes for our business Business Transactions.
operations and supply chains enable us to monitor the effectiveness of, and compliance Note: Data from RAI Companies is excluded from this section Our policies are continually kept under review unless stated otherwise, as we continue the integration.
with, our Human Rights Policy commitments and, on the acquisition of RAI in 2017, we and our Supplier Code of Conduct, and to updated our SoBC to reflect the requirements identify, prevent and mitigate human rights of the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act, risks, impacts and abuses.
You can read more and other relevant US law and regulation.
In 2017, we also updated our SoBC to take account of the requirements of the UK In addition to our due diligence work, we Criminal Finances Act.
developed a new human rights e-learning training package in 2017, targeted at our We also developed a new e-learning course on Procurement and Legal and External Affairs anti-bribery and corruption in 2017, targeted functions, which was completed by over specifically at employees who conduct 1,000 managers worldwide.
In addition, external engagement with key stakeholders, we delivered training and communications governments and regulators.
This will be on human rights issues for over 67,000 completed by over 3,000 employees in beneficiaries in rural communities.
Alongside this, a new mobile app will be launched in 2018 to provide employees with on-the-go guidance on how to act in specific situations.
32 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
