Business Environment Business Environment Principal Group risk factors @ Overview Assessment of Group risk Time frame The principal risk factors that may affect the During the year, the Directors have carried Short term Group are set out on the following pages.
out a robust assessment of the principal risks Medium term and uncertainties facing the Group, including Each risk is considered in the context of the those that would threaten its business model, Long term Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Following a Strategic impact description of each risk, its potential impact The principal risks facing the Group have Growth and management by the Group is remained broadly unchanged over the past summarised.
Clear accountability is attached year with regards to Marketplace, Excise and Productivity to each risk through the risk owner.
Tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation Winning organisation risk factors.
The Board identified two new The Group has identified risks and is actively principal risks during 2017: the risk related monitoring and taking action to manage the Sustainability to the development and commercialisation risks.
This section focuses on those risks that of NGP and the risk associated with the the Directors believe to be the most important @ Considered in viability statement integration of RAI.
Due to actions put in after assessment of the likelihood and place since the closure of the acquisition, Yes potential impact on the business.
Not all of theintegration of RAI is no longer considered these risks are within the control of the Group No to be a principal risk.
and other factors besides those listed may affect the Groups performance.
Some risks The Directors considered a number of other may be unknown at present.
Other risks, risks for the Group, and while recognising the currently regarded as less material, could risks and monitoring action plans, such risks become material in the future.
were not deemed to be principal risks for the Group.
A summary of these other risks which The risk factors listed in this section and the are monitored by the Board through the activities being undertaken to manage them Groups risk register is set out in the Additional should be considered in the context of the disclosures section on pages 226 and 227.
This is described in the section on risk management The viability statement below provides a and internal control in the corporate broader assessment of long-term solvency governance statement on page 68.
The Directors have considered section should also be read in the context a number of factors that may affect the ofthe cautionary statement on page 239. resilience of the Group.
Except for the risk Injury, illness or death in the workplace the Directors have also assessed the potential impact of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability.
This is indicated in the impact on viability statement key under each risk.
@ denotes phrase, paragraph or similar that does not form part ofBATs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
@ Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Groups continued strong cash generation from operating activities.
This assessment included a robust review of the principal risks that may impact the Groups viability as indicated on pages 49 to 54 which are considered, with the mitigating actions, at least once a year.
The Directors also took account of the Groups operational and financial processes, which cover both short-term 12 year financial forecasts, 23 year capacity plans and longer-term strategic planning.
The assessment included reverse stress testing core drivers that underpin the specific risks to ensure the business is able to continue in operation, while not breaching the required gross interest cover of 4.5 times see page 38.
Each impact would, individually, have to be between 5x and 17x worse than a prudent annual forecast, or would all have to arise simultaneously with no mitigating or corrective actions to affect the Groups ability to meet the liabilities as they fall due.
The Directors noted that the Group would be able to adjust certain capital requirements, including but not limited to the investment in the Groups manufacturing infrastructure in the short term and the 6 billion credit facility 2017: 600 million drawn, to mitigate the impact of the effect of the principal risks, each of which have specific mitigation activities as disclosed on pages 49 to 54.
The Group operates in a unique environment, being subject to inherent uncertainties with regards to regulatory change and litigation, the outcome of which may have a bearing on the Groups viability.
The Group maintains, as referred to in note 28 on the Accounts Contingent Liabilities and Financial Commitments, that, while it is impossible to be certain of the outcome of any particular case, the defences of the Groups companies to all the various claims are meritorious on both law and the facts.
If an adverse judgment is entered against any of the Groups companies in any case, an appeal will be made, the duration of which can be reasonably expected to last for a number of years.
The Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period.
However, given the inherent uncertainty involved regarding litigation and regulation, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, based on the stress testing and scenario planning discussed above, is three years.
48 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
