STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report Community values have always been atourheart.
There is more to being a responsible business than our charitable funding, namely the quality of our food, theimpact we have on the environment and how we treat our employees.
In 2013, we began to develop a corporate In August 2016, the government published of regular pizzas and those made with our social responsibility CSR strategy by its Childhood Obesity Strategy, which Delight Cheese.
analysing our current business practices outlined requirements to reduce sugar We also have an ingredients bible listing and devising a plan for the years to come.
across a range of product categories in the any additives included in our products to help We have a successful business, built on a UK.
Throughout 2017, we have worked with customers understand why they are present.
simple business model deliver hot, our suppliers to start the reformulation freshly handcrafted pizza to our customers process to reduce the level of sugar in our We are proud to state we continue not to as quickly as is safely possible.
cookies, which is currently our only remaining use artificial colours or flavourings in any of dessert that does not meet the voluntary our pizzas or side orders and removed trans We have a responsibility to uphold the solid guideline recommendations.
We also offer a reputation our business has formed since gluten-free pizza base, which is becoming we arrived in the UK in 1985.
To ensure we We continue to work with our suppliers to increasingly popular with our customers.
build a sustainable business for the future, reduce the amount of salt in our products, we have developed a responsible delivery and this year we launched a new sweetcorn Product sourcing and animal welfare plan, our CSR strategy.
with no added salt and sugar and also The origin and quality of the food we offer reformulated our tuna and tomato pizza our customers is paramount.
Combined, these changes have FOOD helped us to remove nearly a tonne of We have developed long-term relationships Achievements in 2017 saltfrom our products.
with our suppliers, many of whom have been Removed nearly 1 tonne of salt as part of in place for more than a decade.
We also ongoing reduction programme.
Nutrition take great pride in ensuring the quality of We know it is possible to include pizza in Validation of accuracy of nutritional data.
our products and continually assess each abalanced diet, and we are committed to Implementation of first Animal of our suppliers.
providing transparent nutritional information WelfarePolicy.
to enable our customers to make Animal welfare is important to us and to informeddecisions.
We are proud of the food we serve.
In 2017, we published our EveryDominos pizza is bursting with first Annual Welfare Policy relating to our To ensure this transparency, we provide greatquality ingredients like hand-stretched supply chain base in the UK and Republic calorie information on our website and via fresh dough, Welsh mozzarella and of Ireland.
This document sets out the our app.
We publish detailed nutritional vine-ripened tomatoes.
This is why our standards we expect of our suppliers profiles for more than 1,500 combinations pizzas can transform any occasion, from a andthe processes we have in place for relaxing evening at home to a big family party.
Healthy eating As customers tastes change, choice is Since the becoming increasingly important.
At Dominos, we are passionate about innovation, so we beginning of 2012, are constantly looking for ways to improve we have removed our food.
We follow the ongoing public over 40 tonnes of debate on healthy eating closely.
We have salt from our a dedicated internal steering group focused pizzas.
on ensuring we are making progressive changes to our food ahead of evolving customer expectations.
We want our customers to be in charge.
They are able to choose the toppings, thecrust, the type of cheese and, most importantly, the number of slices they eat.
We generally recommend about three slices per person and continue to offer Delight Cheese with a third less fat than standard mozzarella.
We are proud to be one of the few pizza brands to offer a reduced fat mozzarella option.
Since the beginning of 2012, we have removed over 40 tonnes of salt from our pizzas and reduced fat content in ingredients such as pepperoni and beef.
28 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENVIRONMENT The mileage saving Achievements in 2017 in 2017 was 202,160 3% reduction in GHG emissions despitean 8% increase in global miles a benefit production volumes.
19% reduction in emissions intensity ratioto 0.28 tCO e per tonne of dough 2 produced, down 37% since baseline.
9% reduction in owned vehicle emissions, with UK & ROI delivery fleet mileage reduced by over 500,000 miles.
91% recycling rate achieved across alloperations.
Investment in energy efficiency In June 2017, work commenced on our new high specification supply chain facility in Warrington with production expected to go live in April 2018.
Once operational, this facility will provide a very high level of control over energy management and resource consumption with all production activities supported by the latest innovations and technologies including: automated energy management system for electricity, natural gas and water: complete air management system using duty standby air compressors: internal and external LED lighting systems: We demand suppliers comply with all EU, suppliers is ongoing to ensure compliance, occupancy control sensors: local and UK animal welfare legislation, including in the use of antibiotics.
We irrespective of species or geographical continue to take steps to improve standards, all machinery meets high EU energy location.
We work closely with our suppliers agreeing specific targets and timelines for efficiency standards: and to ensure animals are able to exhibit normal enhancements with suppliers.
We remain behaviour patterns, are properly supervised committed to providing more information, increased water filtering and recycling during transport, and are handled by trained so our stakeholders are aware of the measures for tray washing systems.
stockman, slaughterhouse workers and we are taking in this important area.
All animals are stunned prior to Reduction in delivery mileage Objectives for 2018 slaughter.
We do not permit the use of Since opening our new depot in Highbridge Continue to reformulate products, antibiotics within our supply chain for in 2017 and the introduction of double-decker helping to further improve our health anything other than treatment purposes.
trailers, we continue to use these vehicles andquality credentials.
Medicines, including antibiotics should on trunking routes from West Ashland to notbe used for disease prevention or as All new products must follow strict Highbridge and from Penrith to Livingston.
nutritional criteria to ensure that they Despite an 8% increase in production volumes meet government guidelines on salt, from UK operations, our improved fleet In 2017, we held training courses to ensure sugar, calories and portion sizing.
efficiency continues to deliver emissions colleagues, including those responsible for savings and we are delighted to report a Introduce key performance indicators developing and procuring products, and for 15% reduction in UK delivery emissions alone.
relating to animal welfare to track and communicating with our customers, fully monitor supplier performance.
understand our principles within this area.
Our programme of annual audits for meat Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 29 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Striving for zero waste to landfill The methodology used to compile this data and references to the accounting and We continue to strive towards achieving is in accordance with the requirements of calculation methodologies for any assumptions, zero waste to landfill.
91% of the total the following standards: the World Resources estimations and recalculations performed waste produced was either recycled or Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Defras have been documented.
recovered in 2016 17, down slightly from Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including For more insight into our overall 94% reported in 2015 16. mandatory greenhouse gas emissions environmental performance, please access reporting guidance June 2013 : and ISO Greenhouse gas emissions Intensity ratio the Environment page on our corporate 14064 part 1.
We continue to track Greenhouse gas GHG website, https: corporate.
co. uk emissions over time against the total volume We continue to use a financial control .
of dough produced and our performance approach to define our organisational Objectives for 2018 shows that we are becoming increasingly boundary: as a result, we report GHG To roll out the automated energy resource efficient.
Reported scope 1 and 2 emissions from all six markets considered management system at our emissions for this reporting year are 0.28 as part of the Groups current financial WestAshland facility.
tCO e tonne of dough produced, compared consolidation: United Kingdom: Republic of 2 to our baseline figure of 0.44 tCO e tonne Ireland: Switzerland: Iceland: Norway: and To maintain accreditation to ISO 50001.
Our intensity ratio has Sweden.
Accountability for our overall To continue to invest in energy-efficient decreased by 37%, well ahead of our environmental performance rests with our products and services where relative reduction target of 25% by 2018. executive management.
These indicators have been adjusted to Our franchisees emissions are excluded To continue our policy of reducing fuel reflect the acquisition of our Nordic from our reporting on the basis that we do consumption relative to tonnage delivered.
operations in the reporting period.
not have sufficiently accurate information To continue to focus on electricity Methodology to report on their impacts.
Where data was reduction associated with lighting, We report on all emissions sources stipulated incomplete i. e. less than 12 months of refrigeration and motor replacement.
under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic datawere available GHG emissions were and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. extrapolated from the available information Greenhouse gas emissions Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September1 and 2016 17 marks our fifth year of GHG emissions reporting.
Our material GHG emissions from business activities in this period amount to 11,710 tCO e, consisting of: 2 2 Tonnes of CO e Percentage 2 Emissions baseline Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e change from 2 2 3 source 2012 13 2015 16 2016 17 baseline Scope 1: CO e from fuel combustion and 2 Natural gas 769 711 763 1%  Kerosene 100 47 116 17% Refrigerant 189 6 97% Owned 4 vehicles 6,790 7,279 6,646 9% Scope 2: CO e from purchase of electricity, heat, Purchased 2 5 6 steamor cooling by the Company for its own use electricity 4,284 4,355 4,179 2% Total 12,132 12,392 11,710 3% 1 Our financial reporting year is the calendar year: however, we have set our reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
2 W e report all material GHG emissions, using tonnes of COequivalent tCO e as the unit, to account for all GHG emissions which are attributable to human activity, as 2 2 defined in section 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008 a.
3 These figures have been adjusted to reflect the acquisition of our Nordic operations.
4 Includes fuel consumed petrol, diesel and red diesel by our supply chain delivery fleet, company cars and corporate store delivery fleet.
5 T his work is partially based on the country-specific CO e emission factors developed by the International Energy Agency, OECD IEA 2017, but the resulting work has been 2 prepared by Carbon Smart Limited and does not necessarily reflect the views of the International Energy Agency.
6 O ur scope 2 emissions calculated using location-based emissions factors are 4,179 tCO e. In line with WRI best practice, our scope 2 market-based emissions for 2016 17 are 2 10,184 tCO e, calculated using UK tariff-specific emission factors and country residual mix factors.
2 A closer look at the numbers Due to rising customer demand, we experienced a 16% increase in production volumes in 2016 17 and reinstated our Kingston Supply Chain Facility at the start of the year.
Work also commenced on a new facility in Warrington, which will likely lead to an increase in UK energy consumption in 2018.
30 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Engagement and wellbeing We strive to provide a great, safe and Our 2017 People Plan inclusive environment for our colleagues and are always seeking to understand what continued to make progress improvements we can make in their experience at work.
on the things that matter All colleagues who work with us receive an excellent benefits package which includes toour colleagues.
Over 86% of colleagues participate and track their steps to improve their health and wellbeing and in return get discounted gym rates and get Despite the addition of these sites to our Launched a new e-learning portal rewarded for healthy shopping habits.
reporting scope, total scope 1 and 2 enabling colleagues to access learning emissions have decreased by 6% on and development content.
In 2017, we launched a new colleague 2015 16, with some variations at an engagement survey, titled Make a Welcomed many new colleagues to individual emissions source level: Difference, to understand the level of our theGroup through acquisitions in team satisfaction.
We had an outstanding natural gas and kerosene consumption International and corporate stores.
96% response rate across our Head Office increased by 121 tCO e, following additional 2 and an overall 73% team satisfaction score 2017 has been an exciting year of change UK and Switzerland sites reporting and across our Head Office and Supply Chain.
and growth, a year where we have continued the inclusion of our Nordic operations: Change on what matters happens through to grow our Dominos team and progressed action planning so our line managers and emissions arising from Company-owned our journey to be a great, safe and inclusive function sponsors across Head Office and vehicles account for the majority of our place to work.
We celebrated success this Supply Chain are actively taking ownership scope 1 emissions and have decreased by year with our colleagues through regular for their team action plans.
This is primarily a result of all-colleague meetings, pizza lunches, the Dominos brand and desire to go the the continuation of efficiency measures recognition vouchers, a summer family day extra mile is very strong, something we introduced to our supply chain delivery and our Christmas party.
Colleagues took are very proud of.
fleet in 2015 16 which have seen fuel part in the UK Corporate Games, the consumption drop by 11%: and largest multi-sport event with over 500 businesses taking part.
This year we reached electricity emissions have dropped by the finals and gained awards for the 4% following a 15% decrease in the bowling, football and dragon boat teams.
UKsemissions factor and offset by theinclusion of additional UK and Switzerland sites.
It is likely we will seeacontinued increase in electricity consumption when Warrington comes online in 2018.
COLLEAGUES Achievements for 2017 We provide all We launched our new colleague engagement survey, titled colleagues who MakeaDifference, with a 96% work withus with response rate in our Head Office an excellent and73%team satisfaction score benefits package.
acrossHead Office and Supply Chain.
Our 2017 People Plan made progress on supporting business growth, recruiting and retaining the best talent, developing our colleagues to be the best they can be, and ensuring we have the right avenues to listen and respond to colleagues on what matters to them.
We launched a new performance management and development toolkit, titled My Journey to Greatness, tools to help colleagues deliver objectives anddevelop their skills.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 31 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued COLLEAGUES CONTINUED We recruited Performance and development over70% of our new We launched a new My Journey to Greatness Colleagues through performance and development toolkit to our Dominos help colleagues and line managers define recruitment personal objectives, track performance and build robust personal development website.
We also launched an e-learning portal, so colleagues can learn and access training materials in a time and location to suit them.
For those who like to learn together, we delivered Slice & Dice flexible learning sessions.
Attracting talent and succession planning This year our new in-house recruitment function hired over 70% of our new colleagues direct through our Dominos recruitment website.
We are pleased to own this part of the colleague lifecycle more closely to make sure we attract the right candidates with the right competencies and passion for the Dominos culture.
Ourcolleagues are our greatest ambassadors and they know us best, so we launched a colleague recommend-a-friend programme so we can jointly welcome great new candidates to the Dominos team.
Gender diversity Following business acquisitions, during the year we welcomed over 2,000 colleagues from Norway, Iceland and Sweden into GENDER DIVERSITY Dominos Pizza Group.
Our new international 2017 UK, Ireland, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden andIceland markets add to the diversity of our Dominos 2016 UK, Ireland and Switzerland team with new colleagues now working alongside existing teams in the UK, Ireland Female Male and Switzerland.
Objectives for 2018 Embed our colleague value proposition.
All Group employees Listen to our colleagues through our 2017 30% 70% Make a Difference engagement survey 1,031 of 3,490 2,459 of 3,490 action plans.
2016 19% 81% Promote colleague health and wellbeing and the benefits of working for Dominos.
193 of 999 806 of 999 Recruit and retain the right talent with the right competencies and cultural fit.
Senior leadership team Deliver our leadership training programme 2017 26% 74% to embed the Dominos Way of managing 15 of 57 42 of 57 performance and development to enable a high-performance culture.
2016 32% 68% 12 of 37 25 of 37 Group Directors 2017 25% 75% 2 of 8 6 of 8 2016 25% 75% 2 of 8 6 of 8 32 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMMUNITY Achievements in 2017 Teenage Cancer Raised over 1.4m for charity: Trust: We are over 1m for Teenage Cancer Trust: almost at2m!
over 15,600 for Barretstown: over 16,500 for the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice: and over 406,000 for Pennies.
Pennies We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies.
Its digital charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to round up their orders to the nearest pound.
2017 was a fantastic year for fundraising and, on behalf of the charities, we would like to pass on a big thank you to our customers who have embraced Pennies in their millions.
On average, 170,000 customers donate via Pennies each month.
The average weekly donation total was 7,000 in 2017.
Dominos customers have raised over 3.25m since 2010.
In 2017 alone, they raised over 406,000 through almost 2million micro-donations.
Continued to boost fundraising by customers using Pennies in the Trust specialist nurses for a year, who are Since our partnership began in 2009, Republicof Ireland for Barretstown.
responsible for leading nursing care of all Dominos has raised over 120,000 for the young people on a Teenage Cancer the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice.
We are proud to have been the landmark Trust unit and beyond.
The 2017 fundraising total equates to partner for Pennies and to have seen this 4,000 nursing hours.
trend of online donations grow considerably Throughout 2017, Dominos team members since it began in 2010. and franchisees took part in various Since our partnership began in 2004, fundraising challenges and customer-facing Dominos has raised over 265,000 for Pennies receives 7.5% of all donations as a activities and provided pizza for Unit Barretstown.
It costs 3,500 to bring a contribution to its charitable objectives and PizzaNights.
child to camp for eight days allowing to drive the movement for the benefit of them to take part in Barretstowns unique the charitable sector as a whole.
Right now, for every young person Teenage Therapeutic Recreation programmes, Cancer Trust reaches, there is another they designed to help them recover from the The full 92.5% of donations in Great Britain cannot.
To reach every young person who emotional trauma of serious illness.
went to our 2017 beneficiary, Teenage Cancer needs them, Teenage Cancer Trust is Trust.
In Northern Ireland, the Northern expanding its team of expert Nurses to Charity Objectives for 2018 Ireland Childrens Hospice also received the work in local hospitals and patients homes Evolve the charity programme in line full 92.5%, and in the Republic of Ireland, so that young people can receive the expert with fresh business priorities.
our newest charity partner Barretstown treatment they need, no matter where they alsobegan receiving 92.5% of customers Increase overall giving, aided by the live.
They need to raise 20m a year by donations from launch in September 2016. recent introduction of Pennies into the 2020 to make this happen, and Dominos is Republic of Ireland.
proud be part of helping them get there.
Teenage Cancer Trust: We are almost at2m!
Continue to galvanise fundraising with Our social impact Teenage Cancer Trust was appointed as our customers, franchisees, store teams To date, Dominos has raised over 1.9m our charity partner of choice in England, and office colleagues.
In 2017 alone, Scotland and Wales in the summer of 2015, the fundraising total equated to over with a goal of raising 1m over a two-year 16,000 hours of expert care from a period.
To date, we have raised almost specialist Nurse for a young person 2m, which could fund 44 Teenage Cancer withcancer.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 33
