Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility The Committee invites specialists from around the Group and BBA Aviation is a values-led organisation and external parties to present on their areas of expertise.
It also monitors our Vision, Mission and Values guide each of developments in the CR field.
our employees every day, wherever we are.
You can read more about our approach to CR on the BBA Aviation website where you may also download many of the policies referred Our Values describe our aspirations as to in this section.
individuals and as a company and we all take External Benchmarks care to behave in ways that are consistent Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the with them whatever we are doing.
FTSE4Good index and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
It is BBA Aviations objective, over time, to maintain and improve its Corporate Responsibility CR and sustainability are embedded into ranking within the FTSE4Good index and seek further external CR our Vision, Mission and Values and are fundamental to everything we benchmarking to guide our efforts and drive continuous improvement do at BBA Aviation.
CR and sustainability means taking a responsible in CR performance over the next five years.
approach to the operation of our companies and the conduct of our personnel and we do this by integrating social and environmental Safety Council and Charitable Giving Committee concerns into our business operations: embracing the opportunities BBA Aviation also operates a Safety Council and Charitable Giving and managing the risks of social and environmental developments: Committee to oversee our activities in those areas.
Our Safety and living our Values to support our objectives.
Council includes Health, Safety and Environment HSE professionals Taking a sustainable approach is crucial if we are to achieve our longfrom across BBA Aviation.
Its role is to direct and monitor safety at term goals and is also important to our employees, our customers, BBA Aviation and promote safety best practices and behaviours.
Our our suppliers and to everyone that has a relationship with us.
Charitable Giving Committee reviews and approves applications for additional funds to BBA Aviations charitable giving programme, which Responsibility for CR is now in its eighth year.
Overall responsibility for CR sits with the Board.
Day-to-day management is delegated, via the Executive Management Committee, to the CR Committee, which sets direction on CR and sustainability issues.
The Committee is made up of senior members of the BBA Aviation team with relevant business roles and the ability to share knowledge and best practice across the Group.
The Committee meets regularly each year and the Committee Chairman reports progress to the Executive Management Committee and to the Board.
CR motivates our teams and we aim to involve employees personally in our CR efforts and pursue things that matter to them through the CR Committees Special Issues agenda, covering: continuous improvement in environmental performance, including alternative fuels: community involvement: local participation and charitable giving: employee recognition: and diversity initiatives.
24 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Reporting on Corporate Responsibility Our Values align and link all of our businesses together as one team.
We report on CR using our Values.
Performance We focus on the delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous improvement and reliability.
Performance is relevant to everything we do at BBA Aviation.
It applies to our operational and financial results and to our non-financial CR goals such as safety, reliability, customer service and environmental progress.
We report on a range of sustainability and CR KPIs in the key areas of safety and environmental performance and we cascade internal SMART goals to each of our business units and functions that motivate all of our teams to do their very best and contribute to the success of the whole Group.
CR Dashboards During 2017, we have been developing dashboards to be used by our sites to proactively monitor local CR metrics using data from our SHEBBA reporting and tracking system.
To date, aside Performance Integrity from health and safety metrics, SHEBBA data has typically been We focus on the delivery of We earn the trust and aggregated and monitored at a higher level to ensure goals are long-term and sustainable respect of our stakeholders value, continuous with honesty, fairness, met.
Providing easily accessible data at a site level will enable improvement and reliability.
openness and by honouring local goal setting and drive greater engagement with our overall our commitments.
targets and better reporting on metrics such as recycling, waste Safety and volunteer hours.
We are dedicated to Responsibility safety and security, the We are committed to The dashboards will be available during 2018 and are intended to elimination of hazards and managing our impact include metrics on the following: protecting people, property on, and contributing and our environment.
positively to, society and Environment water, electricity, gas and fuel usage, recycling the environment.
plastics, paper and aluminium and waste including People hazardous waste We are committed to Service Community volunteer hours investing in and empowering We strive continually to Local health and safety metrics are already available.
our people through anticipate customer training and education needs, exceeding their and to providing them expectations.
with opportunities for rewarding careers.
25 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Safety Safety Performance Safety Performance We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of Recordable Incident Rate RIR Number of locations achieving hazards and protecting people, property and our environment.
RIR is our primary Health and zero RIR Protecting the health, safety and security of our teams, our sites, Safety performance metric.
131 out of 209 BBA Aviation our customers and all those who come into contact with us is a RIR is measured as the total reporting locations achieved priority for BBA Aviation.
Our goal is zero preventable incidents number of injuries and illnesses zero RIR during 2017, reflecting ZIPP and our Health and Safety strategy seeks to deliver an multiplied by 200,000, divided 63% of our reporting locations.
environment and proactive safety culture at all sites to make by the number of actual hours this achievable.
The increase in 2017 was primarily Each employee, supported by their local Health and Safety due to a higher than usual team, takes responsibility for their own safety, that of co-workers, number of slip, trip and fall and of anyone visiting or using our sites.
We are focused on injuries in wintery weather reporting hazards and acknowledging and learning from near conditions in the first quarter.
misses and the root causes of incidents.
We include hazard and security incident reporting as a requirement at every site so that we maintain high awareness of and deeply engage everyone at BBA Aviation in safety issues.
2017 2017 Our Health and Safety Approach is available to download from the CR section of the BBA Aviation website.
During 2017 we continued the implementation of our Safety Management System SMS, including completing all training on hazard reporting, and we have created new-joiner online training.
Our Global Safety Day in April 2017 focused on situational awareness and personal responsibility, with our teams working Align & Move, Dallas Airmotive on a range of scenarios from active shooter to slip, trip and Dallas Airmotive Align & Move is a common sense approach fall hazards.
We are also planning on introducing safety leading to injury prevention.
It consists of a ten-minute series of indicators such as completed observations: audit corrective exercises and stretches undertaken at the start of every action completed: percentage of turnover and overtime shift led by volunteer Align & Move coaches.
The entire DAI hours: and employee training completed to support continued overhaul workforce was trained in the programme and, improvement in our safety performance.
whilst daily sessions are voluntary, they are very popular as people immediately start to feel the benefits of being People physically prepared for the day ahead.
The programme has We are committed to investing in and empowering our significantly reduced sprain and strain injuries.
people through training and education and to providing them with opportunities for rewarding careers.
Our people are the foundation of our success.
Their service skills and their functional, operational and engineering expertise are the core of our business.
Ensuring that BBA Aviation attracts, develops and retains the best people is vital to the Groups success and the achievement of our goals.
26 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility We provide every member of the team with equal opportunities The table below shows the percentage of women employed in to thrive, as well as specific and relevant job-related training various roles as at 31 December 2017: designed to expand individual capabilities and give people Total Number of % of the tools needed to reach their potential.
Our Passport to Population Population women women Leadership training programme was undertaken by nearly 200 Board 7 1 14% leaders during the year.
This highly interactive programme Executive Management was developed internally and promotes the concept of leaders Committee 9 1 11% developing leaders by involving the executive management Senior Management Group 85 17 20% team in training sessions.
These are set up as mixed groups Directors of subsidiaries included with participants from across the business and with a range of 1 in consolidation 50 4 8% leadership levels.
Over two modules, participants develop a All employees of the Group 6775 1675 25% range of new leadership skills, including leading and managing 1 change: encouraging diversity, inclusion and collaboration: This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
developing and engaging others: leading daily continuous improvement and coaching for peak performance.
We encourage all employees to have their say in both formal and informal ways and run specific engagement programmes across the Group to bring our teams closer together and ensure they feel part of the whole.
Recognition is also important exceptional performance is valued and rewarded through programmes such as Service with a Leading EDGE and Tow It Like You Own It at Signature and long service is celebrated.
Individual business and function recognition activities are supported by the BBA Aviation Above & Beyond card programme which recognises individual achievement at all levels of the Group: and BBA Aviations annual Vision, Mission and Values Awards.
Diversity and inclusion We believe in an inclusive culture where there is no differentiation One Young World, Bogota 2017 in behaviour or actions relating to an individuals race, ethnicity In October, BBA Aviation sent eight young leaders from or creed, gender, age or orientation that could be considered across the Group to the One Young World OYW Summit offensive or exclusionary, and we strive to accommodate personal in Bogota, Columbia for the first time to join participants needs.
We value diversity of background and experience, believing from across the globe, from multiple businesses and them to enhance the performance and culture of our business, organisations, to debate, formulate and share new ideas and apply this philosophy when seeking qualified individuals to fill on solving the pressing issues facing the world.
The goal roles at BBA Aviation.
of the OYW organisation is to empower young leaders We have a framework in place that incorporates relevant best to make lasting connections to create positive change.
practice and promotes a common understanding of diversity Our delegates returned as energised and enthused OYW and inclusion across the Group.
This includes BBA Aviations Ambassadors with plans to partner BBA Aviations CR Equal Opportunities and Anti-Harassment Guidelines which Committee to drive engagement and communication within set out our approach to these matters.
the Group on various CR matters.
BBA Aviation intends to send a delegation to the OYW 2018 Summit to be held in Our BBA Aviation Celebrates!
initiative was introduced during The Hague.
2017 to recognise a variety of cultural holidays and events and seeks to celebrate the diversity of our global team at a grass roots rather than top down level.
Recognising that gender is only one form of diversity to which we are committed, we are pleased that women make up 25% of our employee population and 20% of our senior management group, the latter being 16% in 2016.
Two female non-executive directors joined BBA Aviation on 1 January 2018, meaning our current Board is made up of three women and six men.
27 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility BBA Aviations companies and locations are encouraged to focus Service their efforts on activities and organisations in the fields of aviation, We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, education and engineering and those that benefit the communities exceeding their expectations.
Participating in these efforts engages Our customers expect high quality, reliability and excellent employees and builds strong teams as well as helping others.
service from every business and person they deal with at BBA Aviation.
We aim to exceed expectations in everything we do Our local efforts are complemented by the BBA Aviation parent and have designed our businesses with customer service at the company charitable giving programme which was launched in forefront and with the ability to innovate and anticipate customer 2010.
The programme invites recommendations for donations requirements both now and into the future.
Our internal Ascend every six months and, to date, has donated more than $1.6 million initiative is a continuous improvement programme in place to charities and organisations around the world.
in every part of BBA Aviation seeking to implement projects Environment that will make it easier to do business with us and easier for We are committed to working in ways that limit the impact of our employees to work together.
business activities on the environment and aim for continuous improvement in environmental performance every year, Responsibility including the elimination of environmental incidents.
We monitor We are committed to managing our impact on, and external developments to ensure that we remain compliant with contributing positively to, society and the environment.
all environmental legislation and watch developing technology Community for example alternative fuels and vehicles to understand if they We recognise the benefits of working in partnership with the might have application at BBA Aviation.
communities in which we operate, and our sites play an active role in local projects and local and national organisations through Every BBA Aviation site records and tracks the use of key volunteering, fundraising and taking part in events.
resources to monitor efficiency and enable us to report and improve environmental performance.
We regularly review performance and look for ways to reduce and prevent pollution and reduce emissions, energy and water use and waste.
We also aim to increase levels of recycling across the Group.
See CR Dashboards in the Performance section on page 25.
Our Environment Policy and Approach is available to download from the CR section of the BBA Aviation website.
Environmental KPIs BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for a number of years and KPIs are normalised for comparison purposes to dollars of revenue.
We use the services of an external consultant to review the process for collecting and consolidating this data.
Hurricane Relief The table below shows the disclosures, in a format that is In late 2017, hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria had a consistent with previous disclosures: devastating effect on communities in Houston, Florida and the Caribbean, with many BBA Aviation personnel and 1 1 1 Units 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 their families affected.
Teams from across the Group rallied Electricity consumption to support rescue and relief efforts, from setting up and KWh $m revenue 46,983 49,241 50,676 49,206 48,155 supporting a staging location for a US Military Task Force GHG emissions and assisting the coastguard, the American Red Cross and FEMA Federal Emergency Management Agency to Tonnes $m revenue 38.38 38.29 53.41 53.42 49.54 collecting supplies and arranging their safe passage to Water consumption affected areas.
Employees across the world also pledged 1,000 litres $m revenue 170 159 203 169 161 money through three fundraising campaigns, raising nearly Revenue $100,000 including matched funding from BBA Aviation.
28 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Greenhouse gas emissions reporting data Integrity The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders Report Regulations 2013 require quoted companies to report with honesty, fairness, openness and by honouring globally on greenhouse gas emissions GHG reporting.
have reported on all the required emission sources.
All of these Acting with integrity is critical to maintaining good and sources fall within our Consolidated Financial Statements.
continuing relationships from those we have with customers and other external stakeholders to the way we interact with 1 2017 2016 each other.
This is vital for our current and future success.
Combustion of fuel and operation Ethical conduct and legal compliance are key expectations at of facilities 35,858 29,892 tCO e 2 BBA Aviation and any breach is taken extremely seriously.
We Electricity, heat, steam and cooling continually look for ways to strengthen our compliance and purchased for own use 55,130 52,389 tCO e 2 control programmes to ensure we uphold these standards, Total 90,988 82,280 tCO e 2 which are fundamental to the way we operate.
GHG intensity measurement BBA Aviation has a range of formal policies relating to such areas Emissions reported per $m of revenue 38.38 38.29 tCO e 2 as Ethics, Gifts and Entertainment and Equal Opportunities.
1 2016 figures have been recalculated to remove ASIG.
These policies are reviewed regularly and compliance with our policies is monitored through BBA Aviations Internal Audit We have used the World Business Council for Sustainable process and informal and formal reporting processes.
Ethics Development World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas training is conducted every year.
Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised Our Ethics policies are available to download from the CR section edition, and emission factors from the UK 2013 Governments of the BBA Aviation website, as is BBA Aviations Modern Slavery GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Statement and its statement on Global Tax Strategy.
Human rights We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations core conventions.
BBA Aviation has not adopted a formal human rights policy as we believe that our existing adopted policies and our Vision, Mission and Values recognise the importance of how we conduct our business and its impact on a wide range of stakeholders and therefore our responsibilities in relation to human rights.
The requirement for a specific human rights policy will continue to be monitored.
Electric crew cars and charging stations Signature has installed electric vehicle charging stations at 12 locations across the network and Tesla chargers at five.
These are a complimentary service available to customers at locations where there is demand and additional sites are being evaluated for future installs.
Signature also introduced to the fleet hybrid electric crew cars which are used by crews requiring transportation off the airport.
These are currently available at 11 locations.
