06 Strategic report UNDERSTANDING OUR STAKEHOLDERS SHAPING STRATEGY THROUGH ENGAGEMENT Investors Universities Students Employees Communities Suppliers Why its We seek to provide We aim to be the partner Creating a Home for Success Our people are the heart of our student We operate in 24 cities across the UK, Unite Students utilises technology important to balanced, clear and of choice to mid and highfor our students is our purpose.
proposition and engagement with all providing a home for around 50,000 and supplier relationships to be at engage transparent communications ranking Universities.
It is important We engage with the students our stakeholders.
Providing a home for our the forefront of our sector.
With the right that allow investors to better Universities understand how our who live with us every day.
contact centre on hand 24 7 in times students means playing a part in the local third parties in place, we can deliver understand our business and Home for Success purpose aligns Students need to know we of crisis and for lockouts, to our student community, whether thats through being quality properties and service, while our strategy, and how we with their own ambitions for their understand their needs, and ambassadors there to help students responsible neighbours or giving driving efficiency.
Quality properties, that our unique insight is being settle in to their new home, together we something back through volunteering value through earnings and in great locations with great leveraged to provide them with deliver a Home for Success.
We also engage with capital growth.
service are an asset to a living environment that helps local communities around the planning Universities and can make them get the best out of their and building of new properties.
We hold regular meetings, Universities trust us to provide Our unique insight allows us to Our values guide us to deliver a We support those who need it, A rigorous tender process ensures Stakeholder Capital Markets Days, a safe and secure home for deliver products and services strong internal culture focused on high whether that be raising 272,000 for our partners share our corporate interests results briefings and trading students a key element our students need.
Our My Unite performance, operational efficiency the British Heart Foundation, or through commitment to excellence, innovation updates with institutional of students experience at app helps students connect to and engagement.
We strive to be a employee volunteering on away days.
shareholders, equity analysts University, supporting personal flatmates and services such as responsible and attractive employer, We pioneer new ways to work with We take a leading role in industry and investors.
All reports and and academic achievement.
With all-inclusive bills proud of our high retention rates and non-profit and charity partners to build developments.
presentations are available and 24 7 maintenance and career development.
We are committed stronger local relationships.
We consider on our website.
Through the Unite Foundation support services, we help our to fostering a diverse and inclusive community needs in the development of we work with 28 Universities students focus on their studies.
We are a Living Wage employer new buildings, for example by prohibiting to provide scholarships for a We want them to feel at home and hold Investors in People Gold status.
cars on site or adding retail facilities safe and secure home for 170 with uS.
We also strive to do to a planning proposal.
Working together, what is right by supporting the we can create better futures Unite Foundation, which for our students.
provides accommodation scholarships to young people who have been in care or are estranged from their families.
Investors are a key source We continue to grow We strive for the best customer Our people are the key to our serviceWe work hard to grow and develop local Working with the right partners ensures we Relevance to of efficient capital, enabling the proportion of beds let experience for our students, focused business, delivering for both our relationships, ensuring our students and are able to drive efficiencies and improve the business the business to invest through long-term nominations delivered by having the best customers and our University partners.
employees have a positive impact on margins, from both an operational and and grow.
agreements with Universities, people, the best service and Employing and training the best people communities in which we operate.
development perspective while model and underpinning security the best properties.
enables us to provide great customer delivering consistently high quality of earnings.
strategy Read more about Read more about Read more about Read more about Read more about Read more about Investors on p59 Universities on p11 Students on p03 Employees on p09 Communities on p51 Suppliers on p48 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 07 Investors Universities Students Employees Communities Suppliers Why its We seek to provide We aim to be the partner Creating a Home for Success Our people are the heart of our student We operate in 24 cities across the UK, Unite Students utilises technology important to balanced, clear and of choice to mid and highfor our students is our purpose.
strategy Read more about Read more about R ead more about Read more about Read more about Read more about Investors on p59 Universities on p11 Students on p03 Employees on p09 Communities on p51 Suppliers on p48 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
