Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Board is accountable for the In addition, we have improved our Our Customers governance of the Groups corporate processes and systems to identify We aim to help to address responsibilities and sets the structure for report and monitor the resolution of any housing need by building their effective management.
The Board remaining issues in the few weeks after a range of homes to suit different sets the Groups sustainability strategy acustomer takes possession of their customers in locations across the UK.
as part of its overall business strategy.
We monitor how quickly We focus on offering new homes for Our Corporate Responsibility CR any issues are dealt with and we have our customers at lower price points Committee is responsible for reviewing, introduced an escalation policy for any providing a comprehensive range of monitoring and evaluating sustainability matters not resolved within required selling prices, with an emphasis on performance within our business and for timescales.
This provides management first time buyers and first time movers.
providing feedback and suggestions to greater visibility of the service we are Indeed, our average selling price during the Board.
CR Committee membership providing toour customers.
In response 2017 was 213,321 with just under 45% is drawn from all parts of the Groups to feedback from our customers, of our private sales being delivered at operations.
This helps to maintain clear we haveintroduced maintenance prices below 200,000.
The market alignment with the Groups strategy and appointments at weekends and average UK house price was c. 227,000 also helps the effective communication of out of hours opening of customer in December 2017.
The Governments our sustainability strategy.
Help to Buy shared equity loan scheme is continuing to enable greater access to As customers often reserve their Our Sustainability Policy outlines five key the owner occupier market, principally new home many months before it principles relating to Our Customers, for first time buyers, by supporting the is completed, one particular area of Our People, Our Wellbeing, Our purchase of a newly built home with a 5% importance is having an accurate moveEnvironment and Our Communities.
In October 2017 the Government in date.
We have continued to improve These principles help us to ensure our announced a further 10bn of funding for our communications to customers on business is responsible and sustainable.
Mortgage lenders are also the expected completion date of their Detailed information on our approach keen to support these customers and property, in order that they are better able to Corporate Responsibility, including offer the most favourable interest rates to plan for their move.
our progress in 2017, objectives for on loans associated with this scheme.
2018 andour stakeholder engagement Our customer care initiatives have During the year we sold 7,682 new matrix can be found in our 2017 resulted in continued improvement in our homes to customers who secured a Help Sustainability Report available at rating scores in the HBF National New to Buy mortgage.
The recent cut in stamp www.
duty by the Government in November Our score in relation to the question 2017 may also provide support for first Would you recommend Persimmon to time buyers to enter the market.
has increased to 79.1% for St. Edeyrns Village, Delivering good quality new homes with 2017 2016: 74.6%.
This is just below Cardiff.
a high standard of customer service the 80% required for the HBF to rate us J is a priority for the Group.
We focused a four star builder.
We will continue to on three areas in 2017 which were: focus on improving our customer care to maintain high build quality with the during 2018.
Customer care performance increase in production: to improve conditions will continue to be included the service we deliver to customers in in performance related pay for relevant the month after they move into their employees aligning their interests with this new home and to continue to improve focus on customer care.
communications regarding the date a During 2018 we will remain focused customers new home will be ready.
on continuing to deliver tangible Although we have increased our build improvements in our customer numbers significantly in recent years, our satisfaction ratings in particular by quality control procedures and increased focusing on site staff induction training use of standard house types have helped tocover all customer care processes to maintain our build quality.
andcontinuing to offer a more flexible service to customers.
Source: ONS Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 11 Fin Performance v27.
indd 39 07 03 2018 11:27 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued We are continuing our commitment In 2017 we became a signatory to the Our People to graduate, trainee and apprentice Home Building Skills Pledge, which It is important to the success recruitment which has been augmented contains specific commitments relating of our strategy that we have this year by recruitment of diploma toindustry collaboration, training a highly skilled and diverse workforce.
students from colleges, some of whom standards, diversity and inclusion and The right skills to buy land, plan our joined us as part of our commitment to promoting careers in the sector.
developments, build quality homes and the Home Building Skills Partnership provide good service to our customers We believe that all employees and see below, enabling us to maintainour are essential.
Our merit-based culture subcontractors can perform to their supply of new skilled talent onto our is an important part of the Groups full potential with the right support and sites.
We have also engaged a number growth and success as it supports the training.
We have maintained our training of Apprentice Masters in many of wellbeing and career aspirations of our commitment for our workforce across all our operating businesses to provide workforce and rewards them for the disciplines in our business, including IT, on-site guidance and training to our Groups success.
health and safety and sales.
We provided new recruits to enable them to make over 10,600 training days excluding A major challenge for the Group remains a smooth transition from college to apprenticeships to employees and our ensuring we have a steady and stable the working environment.
The Group construction workforce in 2017 2016: supply of skilled labour to support the currently employs c. 580 trainees and c. 10,500 an average of 2.3 days per delivery of our new homes.
Combat to Construction, employee 2016: 2.3. labour market for housebuilding skills our initiative to utilise the skills and is experienced across the industry.
knowledge of former members of the We consider that a diverse work force We continue to invest in systems and UKs armed forces continues to develop.
will support the delivery of the Groups processes to build the skills base of We currently have 127 employees on the strategy.
As at 31 December 2017 we the business.
Combat to Construction programme, of employed 4,713 people, 25% of which which 73 have successfully completed were female 2016: 4,483, of which 25% Our workforce has continued to grow to their training.
The quality of the Combat were female.
We had two female and six support the expansion in the number of to Construction programme and the male directors on the Companys Board homes we build.
The Group employed career opportunities we are able to offer and 19 female colleagues in our 144 4,713 employees at 31 December 2017 continue to be recognised by the Ministry strong senior management team.
Our strengthened selection, of Defence andin 2017 we were rethe Group was reaccredited by Innovatec engagement, induction and training awarded with the ERS Silver Award.
AS at the Silver Level for our approach processes provide opportunities for all to equality, diversity and inclusion in ourstaff to fulfil their responsibilities to The Group is committed to playing a full Employment and Customer Service.
Persimmon has and active role in the Home Building Skills a long established tradition of promoting Partnership, a joint initiative between the We demand the appropriate levels of from within the business wherever Construction Industry Training Board conduct from all of our stakeholders, possible and our growth has provided CITB and the Home Builders Federation including our employees in all of our opportunities for a number of our staff which aims to train over 40,000 new operations.
We value our reputation to take on greater responsibilities and tradespeople by 2019 to help address for ethical behaviour, integrity and develop their career with us.
the skills shortage that presents such a reliability.
We have Human Rights and key challenge to expanding output by Anti Bribery policies, a code of Ethics Brickworks, the industry.
and a Modern Slavery Statement, Harworth.
which are all available on our website at J www.
As we are a UK housebuilder and the vast majority of our sub-contractors and suppliers are also UK based, we do not consider that human rights abuses and modern slavery represent a significant risk to our business.
However, we have appropriate procedures in place to provide assurance that our employees and suppliers are working to the high standards we demand.
During 2017 we reviewed our Modern Slavery Risk Assessment and considered that further interrogation of our supply chain Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 11 Fin Performance v27.
indd 40 07 03 2018 11:27 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 41 was appropriate.
We are conducting The Group Health and Safety Policy Our Environment a supplier due diligence survey to provides additional guidance for our We are committed to further improve awareness within our management teams and in 2017 a managing the direct and supply partners.
particular focus was on improving indirect impacts that our operations and the sharing of best practice across new homes have on the environment.
We have identified the most significant the Group with the aim of ensuring We identify all major environmental risks potential human rights impact areas to the requirements of this guidance are that we face in both the short and long be: the labour and employment rights of uniformly applied across our sites at term and our development processes our employees, subcontractors and those each stage of the construction process.
include appropriate management working within our supply chain: the health This was achieved by the delivery of actions that will mitigate these risks.
and safety of our workforce and the rights both Senior Management briefings and Addressing these issues at the start of communities where we undertake our Effective Leadership and Management of our development plans ensures our developments.
As a responsible employer, Training for Operating Business Project environmental performance remains we are committed to compliance with all Managers to enhance their skills to plan, robust and helps the Group secure UK labour, health and safety, planning and manage, monitor and review health and more sustainable business processes.
Further information can be found in our Staff are given details of the Groups policies, including our Environment Policy, In addition, the presentation of site Anti-Bribery policy and management Waste and Resource Management Policy inspection findings was enhanced reinforce the adherence to our policies and Climate Change Position Statement during 2017 to enable our Operational and procedures.
In addition we have which are available on our corporate Management to better interrogate specific whistleblowing facilities to ensure website at www.
com health and safety KPI performance criteria employees and others can raise corporate.
and improve monitoring and review of concerns confidentially.
We monitor our own operational Our Wellbeing efficiency and direct environmental During 2017 we reported 49 The wellbeing, including health impact in a number of ways including construction work related incidents in and safety of our employees, measuring our greenhouse gas emissions our housebuilding operations to the supply chain workforce, and others, CO e and the amount of waste that 2 Health and Safety Executive under the including customers who are affected by we generate and recycle for each home Reporting of Incidents Diseases and our work activities is a top operational we build.
Last year we set ourselves Dangerous Occurrences Regulations priority for the Group.
a target to reduce the intensity of our RIDDOR.
This was 2 more than the carbon emissions by 10% from 2016 The Board ensures that the investment previous year 2016: 47 however due to to 2025.
The target excludes our brick in Group Health and Safety resources, the increase in production we improved manufacturing plant as it was not devoted to ensuring our development the level of build per RIDDOR, completing operational in 2016.
We have collated sites and offices remain safe and healthy 330 legal completions per RIDDOR data captured across the Group and environments, is appropriate to support 2016: 327.
The RIDDORs per thousand from our suppliers to identify the amount Operational Management at Group, workers remained similar to last year at of energy used in our own operations Regional and Operating Business level.
3.62 accidents per thousand workers in 2017.
We have then used DEFRA The Health and Safety team under the 2016: 3.59. environmental reporting guidelines direction of our Group Health and Safety and emission factors from DEFRAs Director has considerable experience in Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors providing both a pro-active advisory and Repository as a methodology for reactive incident led approach to identify calculating our emissions.
A summary is and mitigate health and safety risk.
set out in the table below: Pre-start and ongoing planning of construction activities as our sites Greenhouse Gas Emissions progress is undertaken by our tonnes CO e 2 management as they strive to achieve 2017 2016 and maintain high levels of health and Scope 1 emissions from gas, transport safety performance.
This includes andconstruction site fuel use 26,870 28,047 confirming the competency levels of Scope 2 emissions from electricity use 3,960 4,552 individuals through the Construction Skills Total greenhouse gas emissions 30,830 32,599 Certification Scheme and organisations Greenhouse gas emissions per home sold 1.92 2.15 via the Safety Schemes in Procurement.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2017 11 Fin Performance v27.
indd 41 07 03 2018 11:27 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued The amount of CO e per home sold in The most important indirect In addition to the benefits for our 2 2017 represents a c. 10% decrease on environmental impact of our development customers there are additional benefits the prior year and we have therefore activities is the ongoing effect of our for the Group.
The frame build system already achieved our carbon reduction new homes.
Our focus is to build new helps to achieve a more consistent target.
There are a number of factors homes to high sustainability standards build quality and a more streamlined which have contributed to this result harnessing the benefits of good design, construction process.
This enables including a c. 13% reduction in the and improvements in materials and Space4 houses to be built over a purchase of diesel by the Company, building techniques to deliver new reduced timeline compared to traditional in part due to a reduction in the homes with high sustainable qualities.
brick and block houses and allows the number ofemployees electing to use We are particularly pleased that our new Groups bricklaying resource to be more a company fuel card.
In addition, there Brickworks at Harworth near Doncaster efficiently utilised.
The process is also less has been a c. 1% decrease in red has started to supply concrete bricks susceptible to delays caused by adverse diesel consumption on site which has to the Groups operating businesses, weather conditions and uses less heavy been achieved through the use of more underpinning our ability to increase machinery helping us to reduce our efficient and appropriately sized plant.
The plant is one greenhouse gas emissions.
These reductions, together with a 15% of the most advanced in the UK with the Our Communities reduction in the emissions conversion potential to produce around 80m bricks We believe that close collaboration factor for grid electricity have reduced the each year, which is around two thirds of with planning authorities and intensity of our emissions.
The manufacture engagement with local communities of concrete bricks uses significantly We will continue to monitor our energy is intrinsic to the delivery of much less energy than the firing process of use with the aim of pursuing actions to needed new housing and the creation manufacturing clay brick, producing reduce our energy costs and minimise of successful and sustainable c. 100 kg less CO e per tonne of bricks.
By understanding local Concrete bricks are also an absorber our carbon reduction target has been needs we can refine our plans and ensure of CO e due to the re-carbonisation 2 achieved far quicker than we originally the right mix of properties is constructed.
This further anticipated and partly through measures reduces the net CO e emissions of the Our land replacement processes focus 2 which are beyond our control we have concrete brick over the course of its life.
on acquiring new land in attractive reset our target to reduce the intensity of locations where demand for homes is our carbon emissions by 10% from 2017 The direct and indirect environmental high.
These sites give customers access to 2026, on a like for like basis.
benefits of Space4s timber frame build to a full range of services and variety system are considerable.
The highly In 2017, we again participated in the CDP, of house types aligned to local need.
insulated wall panels and roof cassettes formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project, The Groups developments are designed have strong sustainability credentials climate survey and our rating improved to promote social inclusion, incorporating which produce benefits for our customers to C Awareness from D Disclosure in housing for families with a broad span including enhanced air tightness and 2016.
This survey requests information of incomes.
In 2017 we provided 2,769 acoustic performance and reduced on climate risks and low carbon homes, or 321m of housing, to housing energy costs.
Using Space4s modern opportunities from the worlds largest associations and a further 236 homes method of construction supports the companies.
By sharing information in or 27m of housing to private customers delivery of an average energy efficiency this way we aim to demonstrate the using Discounted Market Sales Housing.
for the Groups new homes as measured importance we attach to the challenges Discounted Market Sales Housing is sold by the Standard Assessment Procedure posed by climate change and how we at a discount of around 20-30% below SAP of 83, which is around 40% more are addressing these issues, both at a the local market value.
The discount energy efficient than existing housing strategic and operational level.
stays with the property in perpetuity and stock which has an average SAP rating these homes can only be purchased During 2017 the percentage of waste ofaround 60. by customers who meet eligibility we recycled remained broadly similar criteria established by local councils.
to 2016 at 92% 2016: 93% thereby We provided 3,005 homes, or 348m minimising the amount of waste sent to of affordable housing, for lower income landfill despite the amount of waste per families 2016: 2,448 houses or 262m.
home built increasing to 7.25 tonnes 2016: 6.6 tonnes.
We are investigating the key reasons for the rise in waste per home built with a view to identify further opportunities for reduction.
indd 42 07 03 2018 11:27 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 43 Through the drive for excellence in planning and delivering our development plans we have the opportunity to create places where our customers want to live and work.
We seek to engage the local community actively in the development and planning process, from consultation and feedback through the planning journey with continued communication ofthe developments progress.
We understand that the process of development and the consequences of investment decisions have a lasting effect upon local communities.
The delivery of new homes comes with the responsibility of ensuring that the impact upon the lives of new and existing residents is understood and mitigated.
Under the Healthy Communities We are pleased to report that the planning process, we invest in local Junior Heywood football team, Roach Persimmon Charitable Foundation made communities in many forms, such as Dynamoes, received a donation from 748,842 of donations in 2017 to local parks and public open space: education the Healthy Communities campaign.
community groups and good causes provision, community buildings and D and to local sporting organisations.
roads and other infrastructure, either In addition, the Persimmon Charitable The Foundation continued our through direct construction or through Foundation launched its Healthy Community Champions initiative, which financial contributions to local authorities.
Communities campaign in May 2017. provides funding for numerous small During 2017 we contributed over 64m to Each of our operating businesses made charities and voluntary organisations at local communities 2016: 65m through a monthly donation of 750 to a local the heart of the communities we serve.
planning contributions to local authorities.
sports club or association particularly This initiative is now well into its fourth Of the money contributed over 20m aimed at amateur sport for young year and since the beginning of the related to education provision and 8m people aged under 21.
In January 2018, campaign we have made donations to related to affordable housing provision.
each business nominated three of the c. 2,000 charities and local good causes clubs who had applied for funding from We have several thousand suppliers to in the communities we serve across the launch to be chosen for the list of 30 our business all of which are assessed UK.
Charities apply to the Persimmon finalists who will compete to receive a ona number of factors such as quality, Charitable Foundation via our website top prize of 200,000.
The winner will cost, availability and sustainability www.
com charity for be the organisation which receives the credentials and all of which are expected funding support up to a value of 1,000 most votes from the general public.
to sign up to our Supplier Principles.
to match their own fundraising initiatives.
Two runners up will receive 50,000 each Where possible we aim to source locally.
Each of our operating businesses has the and the other finalists will receive 5,000 We directly engage with our largest opportunity of supporting two applicants each.
The winner will be announced in suppliers in order to collaborate for every month.
Through our engagement we work with suppliers, particularly The Group made donations of 601,092 those with whom we have long term to the Persimmon Charitable Foundation relationships, to develop more sustainable during 2017 and 63,500 to other ways of trading, for example through good causes.
fewer deliveries and less packaging.
