Creating value across the cycle We believe that a long term view and a proactive approach are needed to deliver value through the housing cycle and in the wider environment in which Our people we operate.
Key to this approach is our management We aim to be the employer of choice in the of risk, which protects shareholder value whilst still enabling us to take advantage of opportunities and housebuilding industry.
drive further growth from the business.
We believe that financial results must be achieved in the right way and as a responsible business we acknowledge both our obligations to the communities we operate in and the What we do opportunity to work with our stakeholders to create value together.
We believe that we can deliver We aim to be the employer of choice in the housebuilding industry, attracting and retaining the best people to establish a culture that gives enhanced value through the housing cycle and benefit shareholders by driving the outputs of our strategy in all individuals the opportunity and support to develop to their full potential, regardless of market conditions or their background.
three main areas: Dividend Policy Why is it important for all our stakeholders?
Medium term financial targets 2016-2018 Individually, and by working together, our employees are crucial todriving Further continuous operational improvement our success.
We believe that having the right people with the right skills at all levels in our organisation is critical to building a quality, sustainable Our medium business and delivering our strategy.
termtargets 2017 How are we different?
2016-2018 performance We have a strategic approach to our human resources and have further An average annual improved our approach to talent, succession, resourcing and reward, as return on net operating well as learning and development.
assets of: 30% 32.4% An average operating profit margin of: c. 22% 21.2% Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Having introduced With the ongoing Total dividends to be paid many new initiatives challenge for skills and in cash to shareholders 14.0% and frameworks in resources in the over the period: Voluntary 2016 including housebuilding sector employee turnover enhanced flexible and the targets we 1.3bn 450.5m benefits, new have set ourselves, we Risk link to KPI development will continue to focus programmes and on how we effectively D Our long term strategic goals: widening our hiring attract, develop, and Deliver at least a 15% return on net operating channels, 2017 has retain our people so assets through the housing cycle focused on ensuring that they are fully that these are engaged with the Read more on Earn top quartile operating profit margin embedded and owned company to deliver pages 22 and 23.
Grow net assets by 10% per annum on average by the business, and both our short term through the housing cycle including returns seen as business targets and longer term to shareholders asusual.
In doing so, we aspire to We will be hosting a Strategy Day in May become known in the 2018, wherewe will update the market sector as the employer of choice.
onour views of long term strategy.
Definitions can be found in the Group Financial Review on page 43.
For more details on our bonus schemes, please see the Remuneration Committee Report on page 74.
Our vision and mission: underpinned by our core values andcultural principles.
Business model Selecting land Managing the planning and community engagement process We believe that the quality of our landbank is one of the key strengths for Taylor Wimpey.
We aim to be the industry leader in managing the planning and community engagement process.
What we do What we do Good-quality land with planning is the critical raw material for our We aim to be the industry leader in all aspects of planning and to obtain business.
The land that we acquire, together with the planning potential the right planning consents that enable us to respond to a changing we work with local authorities and communities to create, is key to market, reflect the desires of our customer base and deliver the quality defining products, locations, target customer base and prices, and homes we want to build, whilst meeting our financial objectives.
underpins our confidence in our future financial performance.
Why is it important for all our stakeholders?
We believe that local communities should have a say in development.
The value we create for our shareholders, communities and customers This enables us to achieve the right planning permissions and ensure our all starts with land.
We add value through planning, allowing us to developments are valued by their local communities.
generate the best quality returns.
Land is a scarce resource and we want to make the best use of what is available, select the right sites and How are we different?
transform them into vibrant and thriving communities.
We actively seek the views of local communities and other stakeholders.
We develop a tailored planning and community engagement strategy for How are we different?
each site and work closely with communities and other local We have a strong short term landbank at c. 75k plots.
Our investment stakeholders throughout all aspects of the planning process.
We believe and scale are based on our view of land quality and capital risk in a that we have a responsibility to contribute to our local communities and cyclical market.
We are focused on selecting the right land and that this responsibility grows with our success.
developing it in a sustainable manner.
We have one of the largest strategic land pipelines in the sector with c. 117k potential plots.
Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Our KPIs Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Our future profitability Continue to work with In 2017, we contributed Continue to maintain is underpinned by our land vendors, 413 million to the local best practice 53% 7,863 short term landbank communities and communities in which community Strategically sourced Plots converted from of c. 75k plots with local authorities to we build across the UK engagement.
completions the strategic 52% sourced from convert land from the via planning obligations, Continue to land pipeline to the the strategic land strategic pipeline into providing, for example, investigate ways to pipeline.
In 2017, the short term short term landbank local infrastructure, engage with a wider 74,849 53% of completions landbank.
Continue to affordable homes, and more diverse were built on land work on land light Risk link to KPI public transport and range of people Owned and controlled previously sourced structures and active education facilities within the local plots with planning or A from the strategic management as we 2016: 363 million.
communities in resolution to grant pipeline.
We continue continue to drive a As at 18 February which we operate.
planning to prioritise opening higher return on 2018, weare building our outlets as capital employed.
on 97% of our sites Risk link to KPI Read more on efficiently as possible.
Continue to focus on with implementable pages 26 and 27.
land and developing it in a sustainable manner.
Stakeholder engagement: We strive to be an open, transparent and responsive company for all our stakeholders.
