Strategic Report Sustainability Sustainable Product Innovation We know that it is only by being close to The extrinsic sustainability impacts of our Making high performance, our customers that we can understand products include the social, environmental high quality products and fulfil their needs finding new ways to and financial benefits that our products with the sustainable benefits improve sustainable product performance have in use.
We are working to quantify our customers want and need, and reduce environmental impacts.
these benefits for some of our product to meet consumer demands application areas, calculating associated In 2016 we introduced the concept of carbon savings.
intrinsic and extrinsic sustainability benefits.
Intrinsic refers to attributes such Our rigorous quality assurance processes as renewable raw material content, product ensure the satisfaction of our customers purity and cradle-to-gate life cycle and the safety of consumers.
We are Key Material Areas assessment.
We assess the compliance leading the way in the transformation to of our new products with the 12 Principles Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Product Design of Green Chemistry and in 2017 our New RSPO certified palm oil derivatives, and are Deliver the most innovative and Protected Products NPP scored continually striving to increase transparency andsustainable ingredients toour customers an average of 10.6 out of 12.
The growth in our raw material supply chains.
of crops from which many of our raw All of this activity and more differentiates materials are derived, removes CO2 from and futureproofs our Business, the atmosphere, resulting in low carbon Product whilst offering our customers many footprints for many of our products.
Ensure that the ingredients we produce contribute positively tothe environment Highlights and society throughout their life cycle 61.1% Top 1% Environmental Impact of our raw materials were from renewable is where we are placed amongst all companies Minimise the impact sources in 2017, an industry leading position assessed by the sustainability platform ofouroperations EcoVadis, with a score of 83 100 Quality Assurance 60% 94% Contribute to, and increase in sales of products made with RSPO of our Rising Star products, those expected to proactively seek, higher quality standards across certified palm oil derivatives compared to 2016 be a top 50 seller in the next five years, offer a product and operational known sustainability benefit in use aspects of our Business toensure consumer safety Life Cycle Assessment Cradle-to-gate In order to continue developing low carbon, Intrinsic benefits Extrinsic benefits sustainable products to meet our customers requirements, we need to fully understand Raw material End of product where the current environmental impacts of source life our products lie.
We have recently invested in extending our in-house life cycle assessment LCA Consumer product capability, using internationally recognised use phase software to model the cradle-to-gate LCAs of selected product families, following Upstream raw material processing ISO 14067 and examining the climate change impact category.
Customer product manufacture In 2017, our focus was on our new ECO product range of 100% bio-based surfactants, where we have shown that switching to bio-ethylene oxide reduces Croda product Distribution the carbon footprint of the resulting ECO manufacture of Croda products.
We will continue to look at and sale product To find out more, read our 2017 additional product families, prioritising Sustainability Report at according to business and customer needs.
com sustainability Life cycle of our products Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Strategic Report | Sustainability Planet and Process Our manufacturing processes take raw processes we operate.
In addition Minimising our impacts materials and intermediates from our to maintaining full compliance with within our customers supply suppliers and we subject them to the law in every country where we chains chemical and physical processes that operate, we have our own Process require resources such as energy, air Safety Framework that we apply to and water.
We strive to minimise the our sites, and we invest in maintaining resources and minimise the waste sufficient internal capability to do this.
generated with every kilogram of Keeping our plants safe is part of our product we make.
We then pack our licence to operate.
products in recyclable packaging, and Avoiding the transportation of flammable Key Material Areas where possible aim to manufacture the raw materials over thousands of miles products as close as possible to our from the southern USA is a major Environmental customers to minimise the energy benefit of our new ECO process, Impact required for transportation.
recently established at our Atlas Point Minimise the impact ofouroperations We measure the impacts of our manufacturing site, in North America resource consumption and waste p10.
This removes the risks associated generation, and have set targets with transportation of hazardous to reduce these impacts.
materials as well as saving energy Quality Assurance for transportation and its associated Contribute to, and The impacts of our operations are not proactively seek, higher greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
We are acutely aware quality standards across product and operational of the hazards presented by some of the aspects of our Business to ensure consumer safety Highlights Process Safety Keeping our manufacturing sites safe and legally compliant 15.9% 4.4% reduction in total waste sent to landfill since reduction in water usage since 2015 versus 2015 versus our target of 10% by 2020 our target of 10% by 2020 A 14.9% 1 rating by CDP for our Climate Change report reduction in scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity since 2015 versus our target of 10% by 2020 Our chosen measure of GHG emission GHG Emissions intensity divides our GHG emissions by value Since 2015, our baseline year, total emissions 2 added : a measure of our business activity.
have fallen by 0.6% even as our Business has Since 2015, our GHG emissions intensity has expanded and new capacity has been fallen by 14.9%, illustrating how our Business commissioned.
Within this, scope 1 emissions has grown without a negative impact on have increased by 3.1%, whilst scope 2 GHG emissions intensity.
Their formal Independent Verification Statement is available atwww.
com carbonverification 1 Scope 1 emissions are calculated using the International Energy Agencys published conversion factors for the tonne To find out more, read our 2017 equivalents of CO2.
Scope 2 emissions are location based Sustainability Report at 2 Value added is defined as operating profit before depreciation www.
com sustainability and employee costs at 2015 constant currency Croda International Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report People and Community People underpin everything we do People remain the focus of five out of 10 Ensuring the success and and are the focus of our Business.
of our Material Areas, which ensures that safety of our people and where it is important to do so, we go Our family culture, can-do attitude, supporting the communities beyond the human rights, anti-corruption entrepreneurial spirit and talented people in which we operate and anti-bribery matters required by law.
set us apart from our peers.
Investing in our people ensures that everyone can fulfil In 2017, we demonstrated our their potential: whilst creating an inclusive commitment to health and safety by environment means that everyone can rolling out a behavioural safety training achieve their best.
programme recognising that behaviour is at least as important as the process.
Key Material Areas The health and safety of our employees Also in 2017, we completed our Global is paramount and we are increasingly Employee Culture Survey p02, we focusing on the physical and mental Occupational developed a series of actions to increase welfare of our employees.
Health & Safety the number of women in senior roles Empower employees to We are proud of our peoples personal and and we also began implementing a new have health and safety at professional achievements, both within the the forefront of their thinking global Human Resources HR system.
Croda family and in the wider world, as These significant investments will they represent us in industry and through continue in 2018 where we will focus Our People volunteering work in our local communities.
on the results of the survey and continue Create an environment where people can thrive to implement our diversity actions.
Highlights Diversity & Inclusion Embrace and empower all individuals 107,000 Living Wage training hours were recorded by employer in the UK, accredited by the Living 82.7% of employees Wage Foundation Knowledge Management Safeguard our knowledge Global 50.0% and expertise Behavioural Safety Training Programme of 1% Club time was spent on educational implemented initiatives Community Diversity and Inclusion Education & Executive Committee Members Involvement We embrace the differences of a multi-ethnic, Support the communities multi-geographic and multi-skillset company in which we operate, 88.9% 8 male with a primary focus on 2016: 90.0% Across the Group encouraging young people to work within science and technology 67.1% 2,890 male 1 1.1% 1 female 2016: 10.0% 2016: 67.5% Board of Directors 32.9% 1,419 female 2016: 32.5% 75.0% 6 male 2016: 75.0% Regional and Business Board Members and Senior Functional Heads 25.0% 2 female 2016: 25.0% 83.8% 88 male 2016: 81.6% We continue to comply with the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles To find out more, read our 2017 and Rights at Work.
Key policies can be 16.2% 17 female Sustainability Report at found at www.
com sustainability Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23
