STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Corporate responsibility report Sustainable growth KAZ Minerals is a responsible developer and operator of mining assets in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
Corporate responsibility is at the core of our strategy and licence to operate.
Our approach to corporate responsibility KAZ Minerals is a responsible developer and operator of mining assets in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
We are committed to maintaining high levels of corporate responsibility as we grow our business and share the benefits of natural resource extraction with our key stakeholders.
Our employees, investors, local communities, governments and other stakeholders expect us to develop mineral wealth for the benefit of wider Our employees, investors, society in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan, to ensure our employees and contractors are provided with a safe local communities, governments working environment and to minimise the impact of and other stakeholders expect our activities on the surrounding environment and local communities.
us to develop mineral wealth We are carefully managing the environmental and for the benefit of wider society social impacts of our activities during a period in in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
which the Groups production has grown significantly with the ramp up of Bozshakol and Aktogay.
Oleg Novachuk Chair The Group employs approximately 1,200 staff in Kyrgyzstan where it National context and contribution operates the Bozymchak copper-gold mine, contributing $11 million in KAZ Minerals is a copper miner based in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
In Kazakhstan the Group operates the newly developed Bozshakol From 2011 to date the Group has invested a total of approximately and Aktogay mines and concentrators, as well as three mines and $4.0 billion in the construction of its two major growth projects, associated concentrators in the East Region, employing approximately Bozshakol and Aktogay.
In addition to their financial contribution, 11,800 staff.
In 2017 the Group exported 112 kt of copper cathode these new mines created employment for around 3,000 operational from Kazakhstan to customers in both Asia and Europe 2016: 93 kt staff who received extensive training in the use of modern equipment and 144 kt of copper in concentrate mainly to China based customers and production techniques.
In December 2017 the Group announced 2016: 48 kt.
As a result of our economic activities, the Group a new expansion project at Aktogay, requiring a further $1.2 billion generated revenues of $1,663 million in 2017 and made a total tax investment in the construction of a second processing facility at the contribution of $365 million in Kazakhstan, including $183 million of site, which will double sulphide ore processing capacity and increase MET and $182 million of Corporate Income Tax and other taxes.
copper production by around 80 kt per annum over the period from 2021-27 and 60 kt per annum thereafter.
com 43 Corporate responsibility report continued Economic value generated and distributed Health and safety $ million 2017 2016 Fatalities Direct economic value generated We are disappointed to report that there were four fatalities at our Gross Revenues 1,938 969 underground operations in the East Region of Kazakhstan in 2017.
Two incidents resulted from electrical safety failures, one as a result Economic value distributed 1 of a rock fall and one from contact with moving machinery.
The Operating cash costs 523 288 2 root causes of these incidents represent key risks for the Group Employee wages and benefits 170 181 and are the subject of ongoing programmes to improve safety 3 Payments to providers of capital 222 179 standards at our underground operations.
Following all fatal 4 Taxes paid incidents, operations in the affected area are suspended and Kazakhstan 317 173 senior management attend the site within a short period of Kyrgyzstan 7 4 the incident occurring.
United Kingdom Community investments 10 8 Fatalities 17 4 Economic value retained 689 136 16 6 1 Operating cash costs as disclosed in the Financial review see page 34, being the difference between Gross Revenues and Gross EBITDA adjusted to exclude total employee costs see note 8 to the financial statements and social spend, as Fatality frequency rate reflected in the table above.
2 Employee wages and benefits represents cost incurred by the Group of the total 17 0.13 labour cost and associated social taxes see note 8 to the financial statements.
16 0.14 3 Payments to providers of capital represents interest paid on borrowing facilities during the period see consolidated statement of cash flows on page 112.
4 Taxes paid for each region is reflected in the payments to governments table on KAZ Minerals considers all fatalities to be avoidable and has a page 42 see Financial review and is the total taxes paid adjusted to remove target of zero fatalities.
There have been no operational fatalities in employee and employers payroll taxes, which are reflected within employee any of the Groups open pit mining assets at Bozshakol, Aktogay and wages and benefits for each region and excludes social spend, reflected as community investments.
Bozymchak since the mines commenced production, covering a total of 25 million man hours.
Open pit mining is inherently safer than Bozshakol Pit Wall Monitoring System A key health and safety risk in the operation of an open pit mine is pit wall collapse.
KAZ Minerals has invested in technology to continuously monitor pit wall stability at Bozshakol using the Leica GeoMos system.
By detecting small movements, prior warning of potential deformations can be given and steps taken to avoid damage or safety risk in the event of a slide.
44 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS underground mining and significant efforts have been made at our Occupational health new operations to establish and maintain a strong health and safety There were 38 new cases of occupational disease recorded in 2017, culture from the outset, in line with international best practice.
The majority of new cases in 2017 resulted from musculoskeletal disorders and neuropathic pain.
Occupational Injuries health problems arising today are usually the result of long-term The Group reports its health and safety performance according exposure to risks such as poor ergonomics, vibration, dust or noise.
to the occupational injury and disease classification definitions The Group has in place preventative measures to remove or reduce published in January 2014 by the ICMM.
these risk factors where possible, for example by limiting the time The average TRIFR for ICMM members in 2016 was 4.26. that employees spend in roles which expose them to occupational The reporting of minor injuries and near misses are important health risk factors such as vibration.
management tools for improving health and safety performance.
Improving our performance Under ICMM definitions, all injuries including minor injuries Looking ahead to 2018 we will be investing in improvements to our requiring treatment beyond first aid or resulting in the workers emergency response capabilities and increasing direct supervision of inability to perform his or her routine work function on the next working practices at site level.
We have an established programme calendar day, are recordable injuries.
A culture of open reporting of of workshops and other communication initiatives to share best minor injuries and near misses has been successfully implemented in practices across the Group.
In 2018, we aim to improve leadership, the new Bozshakol and Aktogay mines, which enables pre-emptive culture and behaviour and learnings from incident investigations.
action to be taken to manage risks.
The Group is working to In 2017 the Group approved a new three year health and safety encourage a similar reporting culture across all of its assets and strategic plan to improve performance.
The plan aims to strengthen therefore the reporting of recordable injuries and near misses the leadership and cultural foundations for safe and productive may increase in the short term.
work as well as addressing specific priority risk areas for workplace There were 51 TRI cases in 2017, in line with the 51 incidents safety and occupational health.
Due to a reduction in man hours worked, the Environmental impacts reported TRIFR has increased to 1.60 from 1.20 in the prior year.
KAZ Minerals seeks to reduce the impact of its activities on the The main causes of injury across the Group were falls from same environment and to increase environmental awareness amongst height, falls from height and rock falls.
The highest increase in its employees, contractors and suppliers.
The Group has an recordable injuries occurred at Aktogay where there were 13 environmental policy which sets out its commitment to recordable injuries 2016: 5, representing a TRIFR at Aktogay of environmental protection, reduction of emissions and waste and 3.06 2016: 1.95.
The leading cause was falls from height or from efficient consumption of resources such as energy and water.
same height, of which there were five in 2017, compared to no falls in 2016.
The Group conducts detailed environmental due diligence prior to the development of new mining projects and continually There were 13 serious injuries out of a total of 51 recordable monitors the impact of its activities on the environment, publishing injuries, compared to 19 serious injuries in 2016. key performance indicators annually.
Where possible, the Group aligns its environmental reporting with the GRI4 framework which Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate is a set of sustainability reporting standards published by the Global 17 1.60 Reporting Initiative GRI.
GRI is an independent organisation 16 1.20 established in 1997 to create common standards for sustainability reporting by companies and governments.
Total Recordable Cases The Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee is a Board Committee which is responsible for oversight of the Groups 17 51 38 89 16 51 43 94 environmental policies, reporting, standards and compliance.
Senior management are responsible for the Groups overall environmental Total Recordable Injuries performance.
For more details on the HSE Committee please see Total Recordable Deseases the HSE Committee section in the Governance framework on page 68 of this report.
Total Recordable Cases Frequency Rate 17 2.79 16 2.21 www.
com 45 Corporate responsibility report continued The commencement of processing at the Aktogay sulphide Energy use concentrator in February 2017 and the ramp up of the main TJ kt sulphide ore processed energy consumption sulphide plant and clay ore processing plant at Bozshakol resulted in a 109% increase in combined electricity consumption to 5.06 PJ, 17 0.24 from a total of 2.42 PJ consumed in 2016.
In the East Region and 16 0.46 15 0.86 Bozymchak electricity consumption remained in line with the prior year at 1.85 PJ 2016: 1.85 PJ.
The Group has undergone a period of significant change since Diesel Consumption PJ 2017 2016 2014 following the Restructuring in which 12 out of 16 mines and Bozshakol 0.75 0.76 other assets were divested, followed by the completion of the Aktogay 0.42 0.32 construction of the major growth projects at Bozshakol and East Region 0.33 0.39 Aktogay.
The new mines are world class copper assets with Bozymchak 0.16 0.15 amongst the lowest operating costs in the world.
Two important Total 1.66 1.62 contributors to the low operating costs are the energy efficiency of the processing facilities and the low levels of waste rock that must Diesel consumption increased to 1.66 PJ, 2% higher than the level be removed per tonne of copper ore mined.
As the new mines consumed in 2016 as mining activity increased at Aktogay to feed have ramped up production and come to dominate the Groups the ramp up of the new sulphide concentrator.
Consumption of output, the overall energy efficiency of our operations has diesel at Bozshakol reduced by 1% to 0.75 PJ as the increase in improved.
The amount of energy used per kt of sulphide ore ore extraction to 34,612 kt 2016: 28,272 kt was offset by a lower processed has reduced from 0.86 TJ in 2015 to 0.24 TJ in 2017. volume of waste material mined of 6,425 kt 2016: 11,219 kt.
Diesel Our improving energy efficiency demonstrates the benefits of using consumption was also lower in the East Region as ore extraction large scale, modern technology as well as the natural advantages of volumes reduced to 3,919 kt from 4,664 kt in the prior year, open pit mining of copper deposits with low strip ratios.
following the closure of the  mine at the end of 2016.
Energy use by asset PJ 2017 2016 The Group utilises an automated remote dispatch system at Bozshakol 3.71 2.44 Aktogay and Bozshakol to monitor fleet movements and utilisation Aktogay 2.53 1.05 in real time, enabling constant adjustments to improve efficiency East Region 3.33 3.39 and minimise diesel consumption.
Bozshakol and Aktogay also Bozymchak 0.36 0.34 benefit from close proximity to pre-existing rail infrastructure Total 9.93 7.22 which enables rail networks to be used to transport copper Energy use by type PJ 2017 2016 concentrate to customers, eliminating the need to transport Electricity 6.91 4.27 concentrate by diesel powered trucks.
Diesel 1.66 1.62 CO emissions 2 Heat 1.27 1.25 CO emissions by type kt 2017 2016 2 Coal 0.02 0.02 Scope 1 410 416 Petrol 0.07 0.06 Scope 2 1,733 1,056 Total 9.93 7.22 Group 2,143 1,473 Total energy use increased by 38% in 2017 compared to the prior Copper production 258.5 143.5 year, reflecting the increase in copper output which grew by 80% CO per unit of copper 8.3 10.3 as Bozshakol and Aktogay ramped up.
Energy use of 3.69 PJ in 2 the East Region and Bozymchak was in line with the prior year Ore processed 41,671 15,688 2016: 3.73 PJ.
The main driver of the increase in energy use was higher electricity consumption at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
CO per unit of ore processed 0.05 0.09 2 Electricity Consumption PJ 2017 2016 CO emissions intensity per tonne of copper produced has 2 Bozshakol 2.95 1.68 continued to reduce in 2017, falling by 19% compared to 2016, to 8.3t.
Aktogay 2.11 0.74 CO efficiency per tonne of ore processed has also improved, 2 East Region 1.68 1.69 falling by 45% to 0.05 t from 0.09 t in the prior year, reflecting the increased utilisation of large scale, modern technology at Bozshakol Bozymchak 0.17 0.16 and Aktogay.
Total 6.91 4.27 46 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Total CO emissions in 2017 increased by 45%, reflecting the growth communities or the surrounding environment before approving 2 in copper output as the Groups new mines ramped up production.
Scope 1 emissions of 410 kt were in line with 2016 emissions of 416 All of KAZ Minerals mining and processing sites benefit from access kt, with increased mining activity at Bozshakol and Aktogay offset to sufficient fresh water and none of the Groups operations are by reduced emissions in the East Region and Bozymchak.
Scope 2 located in water stressed areas.
We seek to conserve and recycle emissions increased by 677 kt to 1,733 kt, as power consumption as much water as possible, with the main sources of reusable water at both Bozshakol and Aktogay increased in line with higher being from tailings and mine water inflow.
The Bozshakol and Aktogay processing volumes.
sulphide concentrators are expected to recycle over 75% of water The Group is committed to minimising the CO intensity of its withdrawn.
Each operational site uses a combination of surface water 2 operations as stated in its Environmental Policy.
The Group HSE and groundwater sources and seeks to access different water sources Committee is responsible for the monitoring of CO intensity.
to those used by local communities.
Water withdrawal rates are 2 The operations General Directors and Chief Operating Officer monitored and reported annually.
are responsible for implementing efficiency initiatives to minimise Water withdrawal by asset megalitres 2017 2016 energy consumption at site level.
Bozshakol 29,034 15,863 Reductions in CO intensity have been achieved through the 2 Aktogay 8,552 1,105 transition to modern open pit mining.
In the longer term the Group East Region 11,356 13,291 will seek to increase the use of renewable energy sources where Bozymchak 278 226 possible.
The 0.17 PJ of electricity consumed at the Bozymchak Group 49,220 30,485 mine comes from renewable energy sources hydropower.
Water withdrawal across the Group increased by 61% to The Government of Kazakhstan is committed to increasing 49,220 megalitres in 2017, compared to 30,485 megalitres in 2016. electricity generation from renewable sources as part of its national Aktogay required significant quantities of water during the initial development strategy, with a target of 30% of power generation by ramp up of its sulphide concentrator which commenced operations 2030 and 50% by 2050. in February 2017.
This was similar to Bozshakols requirements CO intensity, t per $ million revenue 2017 2016 2 during the same stage of ramp up in 2016.
Water withdrawal at Revenue $m 1,663 766 Aktogay increased to 8,552 megalitres, compared to 1,105 megalitres Total CO emissions consumed in 2016 by the oxide heap leaching operations.
2 Scope 1, Scope 2, kt 2,143 1,473 Bozshakol water withdrawal also increased by 83% to 29,034 megalitres as the ramp up of operations continued in 2017.
CO emissions, t per $ million 2 The rate of withdrawal is expected to reduce in the future as revenue 1,289 1,923 process water is now being reclaimed from the tailings storage area and recycled through the concentrator, as planned.
The Groups CO intensity by revenue, as measured by the Carbon 2 Disclosure Project tonnes of CO per $1 million of revenue, has Water consumption in the East Region and Bozymchak reduced 2 improved as the major growth projects have ramped up and by 14% to 11,634 megalitres following the closure of the Yubileynocommodity prices have increased, from 1,923 tonnes in 2016 Snegirikhinsky mine at the end of 2016 and a 10% reduction in the to 1,289 tonnes in 2017. quantity of ore processed.
Water Water withdrawal by source megalitres 2017 2016 The Group is committed to reducing water consumption Surface water 32,775 20,278 where possible, as set out in its Environmental Policy.
The Group Groundwater 16,445 10,207 HSE Committee is responsible for monitoring water use.
The Group 49,220 30,485 operations General Directors and Chief Operating Officer are responsible for implementing efficiency initiatives to minimise Total water extraction of 49,220 megalitres consisted of water consumption at site level.
32,775 megalitres extracted from surface water sources including rivers or municipal water supplies and 16,445 megalitres extracted Sources of water for use in new mining projects are considered from groundwater wells.
The increase in water extracted from in detail prior to commencement of construction and this analysis groundwater wells is due to the ramp up of output at Aktogay, forms an integral part of any scoping or feasibility study.
The KAZ where water is drawn primarily from groundwater sources.
The Minerals projects division, together with senior management and increase in surface water consumption is due to the ramp up of the Board, will always consider the availability of fresh water for Bozshakol, where water is sourced from the Satpayev canal system.
copper processing and any likely adverse effect on local www.
com 47 Corporate responsibility report continued The total discharge of water back into the environment in 2017 was Bozymchak.
Generation of waste rock at Bozshakol and Aktogay 1,745 megalitres 2016: 5,302 megalitres.
The main reason for the is not considered to be a significant stakeholder issue due to the reduction in 2017 is the exclusion of water treated on behalf of remote locations of the mines and their separation distances from other operators, which was previously included in the Groups 2016 local communities.
Waste rock generation decreased to 14.3 million reported volumes.
Discharge of water took place at three locations tonnes in 2017 2016: 19.1 million tonnes as the new open pit mines in the East Region.
Two of these locations are at underground transitioned from stripping to ore extraction, to feed the mining operations which are situated large distances from the concentrator ramp ups.
processing plants, making it uneconomic to pump the water back Aktogay generated 1.1 million tonnes of waste rock in 2017 for reuse.
The third discharge occurs at waste rock dumps adjacent compared to 6.4 million tonnes at Bozshakol.
Aktogay will continue to a retired open pit mine, where acidic drainage water is collected.
to generate less waste per unit of ore mined in the long term due At each of these locations the water is treated prior to release to to its lower strip ratio of 0.2 compared to 0.7 at Bozshakol.
The the environment and the quality of discharged water is monitored.
strip ratios at both Bozshakol and Aktogay are low compared to Waste industry averages.
Waste rock by asset Mt 2017 2016 Tailings by asset Mt 2017 2016 Bozshakol 6.4 11.2 Bozshakol 24.1 10.9 Aktogay 1.1 1.3 Aktogay 12.6 0.1 East Region 0.1 0.7 East Region 2.5 3.1 Bozymchak 6.7 5.9 Bozymchak 1.0 1.0 Group 14.3 19.1 Group 40.2 15.1 The Group is committed to the responsible management of mineral The safe and effective management of tailings waste is a high waste and other waste products, as set out in its Environmental priority for the Group.
Strict internal operating procedures are Policy.
The Group HSE Committee is responsible for monitoring in place for the monitoring and maintenance of tailings storage waste management.
The operations General Directors and Chief facilities, including regular inspection and testing of nearby Operating Officer are responsible for waste management at groundwater to detect seepage and to maintain structural integrity.
The Group is also required to comply with the laws of the The largest volume of waste generated by the Group is waste rock Government of Kazakhstan and the Government of Kyrgyzstan from the mining of overburden, mainly at Bozshakol and in relation to the licencing, upkeep and maintenance of tailings East Region Environmental Waste Improvement Initiatives We have 15 ecologists working in the East Region.
Ourteam at the Irtyshsky complex is constantly looking for ways to minimise our impact on the environment.
For example, the waste water treatment plant is being reconstructed and the new facility will remove more pollutants such as oil products, sulfates, nitrites and nitrates.
We also carried out projects to improve the management of industrial construction waste at the Nikolayevsky and Orlovsky concentrators and the Irtyshsky mine.
Shynar Tleukenova Chief Environmental Specialist, Irtyshsky Environmental monitoring in the East Region 48 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aktogay tailings storage distribution system At the Aktogay site we developed a new procedure for the distribution of tailings within the designated storage area, using Central Thickened Discharge CTD technology.
A central unit disperses high pressure tailings material from the main pipeline between 30 separate outlets, reducing the pressure of the flow of the material significantly and resulting in a more uniform and stable distribution of tailings.
Aktogay tailings storage facility storage facilities.
State authorities regularly inspect the Groups and rehabilitation.
The provision for these costs amounted to tailings facilities to ensure compliance with these regulations and the $67 million at 31 December 2017 and can be found in note 26 Group periodically arranges for inspection of its tailings facilities by to the financial statements on page 135 of this document.
provision represents the discounted values of the estimated costs to decommission and reclaim the mines based on the current At Bozshakol and Aktogay, a central thickened discharge method is estimated life of mine of each deposit.
in use, which is most appropriate for the terrain and conditions at these sites.
The flat terrain surrounding Bozshakol and Aktogay and In December 2016 mining operations at  their remote locations mean that there is a comparatively low risk ceased as mineral resources at the mine were fully exploited.
A of environmental damage from tailings storage issues.
closure plan has been developed by the Group and is expected to be approved shortly.
The closure plan includes the sealing of all mine In the East Region, active tailings storage facilities are located at access points, the contouring of waste heaps, removal of buildings Orlovsky, Nikolaevsky and Belousovsky and there is a closed facility and infrastructure, and management of water runoff.
The site will at Berezovsky.
be returned as closely as possible to its pre-development state as At Bozymchak, the Group employs a dry tailings facility where required by legislation.
After the appropriate remedial works have material is filtered before storage to reduce moisture content to been undertaken, no significant adverse impacts on the local approximately 14%, before waste is deposited in plastic lined cells by environment are anticipated.
Use of this type of facility was selected during the design Environmental permitting and compliance phase due to Bozymchaks mountainous terrain and the possibility Environmental permits are granted for our operations, setting of seismic activity.
annual limits for emissions, water use and water discharge.
If levels All of the Groups tailings storage facilities are operating within exceed these limits, charges are applied in proportion to the safe limits.
Ongoing work programmes are in place to develop the amount of emissions or usage in excess of the limits.
The Group tailings dams in line with future production plans and to address any reports the total charges paid and any material environmental issues identified.
incidents with materiality determined by their nature or resulting in a fine in excess of $100,000 in this Corporate responsibility Tailings increased from 15.1 million tonnes in 2016 to 40.2 million report and in the Corporate Responsibility section of its website.
tonnes in 2017, in line with the increased ore processing volumes at Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The Group paid excess emissions charges of approximately $80,000 in 2017 2016: $640,000 mainly in relation to minor Mine closure permitting charges at the Irtyshsky complex in the East Region.
The Group is committed to rehabilitating mining sites after closure, These payments are administrative in nature and are not considered as it is required by law in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.
The operations to be fines for breaches of regulations.
Excess emissions charges are General Directors are responsible for the Groups compliance with not related to any potential risk to the environment or the safe closure and rehabilitation obligations.
operation of our tailings facilities or other environmental The Group periodically reviews and updates closure plans for management systems.
each of its sites including calculating the likely costs associated with closure.
Funds are set aside to cover the costs of closure www.
com 49 Corporate responsibility report continued Other environmental fines amounted to a total of approximately reviews the terms and conditions of employment in its own $180,000 for the Group, spread across 12 separate instances none operations to confirm that the Code of Fair Employment is of which are considered material and with no single payment being fully applied within the Group.
exceeding the Groups quantitative materiality threshold of $100,000.
Consultation and communication KAZ Minerals respects the right to freedom of association and we Employees consult with our employees and trade unions about changes to our The Group seeks to attract and retain skilled staff by offering safe business and employment conditions.
All employees are entitled to working conditions, fair remuneration in line with market rates of join a union of their choice.
At the year end, 83% of the Groups pay and social benefits packages for its employees and their families.
employees in Kazakhstan belonged to one of the three trade unions Policies and due diligence active in the mining industry, an increase compared to 69% in 2016 The Group has in place a number of policies governing its following growth in union membership at the new Bozshakol and relationship with employees including the Code of Fair Employment, Aktogay sites.
and the Equality and Diversity policy.
The Group periodically Employee Communication Direct Line Events Every year for the last three years Oleg Novachuk has hosted Oleg Novachuk, Chair, said: This event is very useful for me the KAZ Minerals Direct Line event, in which employees are because it is an opportunity to hear what people think, how invited to participate in a live question and answer session with theylive, what challenges they face and how I can help them.
All of the Groups sites are brought together Employees can hear directly from me what the future holds using video conferencing.
Over 1,400 employees participated in forthe company and how we are going to develop over the the 2017 Direct Line, which lasted for four hours and covered coming years.
In total, over 250 questions were submitted and written answers were provided separately if the topic was not covered in the live event.
2017 Direct Line event 50 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employee Communicator programme In 2017 we rolled out a new initiative to improve communication between management and our employees.
Each operational complex has assigned anofficial Communicator to improve the exchange of information and ideas between the different parts of the Group.
We have seen many benefits from the programme this year, with improved understanding ofthe Groups goals and ambitions at all staffing levels.
Communicators also fulfil an important role as providers of feedback directly from employees.
Maksut Zhapabayev, Head of Communications, Almaty Pay and benefits Training and development We aim to provide fair remuneration to our employees and Professional development is one of the Groups five core values.
to incentivise safety and productivity.
Operational employee We are committed to ensuring that employees continue their and divisional manager remuneration comprises base pay plus a professional development, with the aim of increasing productivity, discretionary award linked to health and safety performance and efficiency and safety.
The Group takes a long-term view of building production targets.
Divisional manager remuneration also typically capabilities and leadership qualities amongst its staff since these are includes an element of discretionary bonus linked to production critical to our growth strategy.
The Group takes measures to align In 2017, employees each received an average of 60 hours of training wage increases with living cost inflation, in particular for lower paid 2016: 45 hours typically consisting of 33 hours of safety training, employees.
All employees are paid above both the minimum wage 24 hours of professional education and three hours of additional and the living wage as defined by the Government of Kazakhstan.
Operational training includes a significant health and In accordance with regulations in Kazakhstan and our employee safety component that is not recorded separately as health and agreements, we make payments to employees and former safety training.
Topics include safe operation of machinery and employees for illness and disability sustained at our operations.
vehicles, electrical and fire safety, labour protection training, Thefinancial impact of our ongoing illness and disability obligations physical fitness and professional development.
are covered in the consolidated financial statements in note 25 Training needs for the new workforce at Bozshakol and Aktogay on page 133. have been significant.
The aim is to transfer skills from senior and experienced team members to a new generation of operators.
com 51 Corporate responsibility report continued Equality and diversity employees, with international expertise retained to provide support Our goal is to employ a skilled workforce that reflects the demographic on specific technical matters.
of the regions in which we operate.
We aim to develop the expertise KAZ Minerals has a relatively high female representation in its required for our operations from our existing workforce, recruiting workforce benchmarked against major mining companies, at 24% locally where possible.
Our operations are located in Kazakhstan and oftotal employees and an equal representation with 23% of senior Kyrgyzstan and in 2017, 98% of the Groups permanent employees managers female.
25% of the members of the Board are female.
were nationals of these countries.
KAZ Minerals is committed to offering equality of opportunity to all current and potential future employees, regardless of ethnicity, In circumstances where specialist skills are required, we draw gender or background.
During 2018 we will continue to build on on international expertise with a view to transferring knowledge the successes that we have achieved.
and best practice in the medium to long term.
The number of expatriates at KAZ Minerals is limited and they are largely employed Female employees % of total at Bozshakol and Aktogay working alongside local teams who KAZ Minerals 24% will take over the management of operations in due course.
At Peer average 15% Bozshakol, following the initial commissioning and establishment of working practices, operational management has been transferred Notes: Peer group information sourced from data published in 2017, KAZ Minerals from expatriates on fixed-term assignments to permanent data shown as of 31 December 2017.
Corporate Values KAZ Minerals established its five key corporate values in 2015.
These are the principles by which we seek to conduct our business.
They guide our decision making and how we monitor our performance.
By upholding these values we will build a strong internal culture, improve relationships with our external stakeholders and deliver value to our shareholders: Safety Long Term Teamwork Professional Integrity Protect the health Efficiency Take responsibility development Uphold honesty in and wellbeing of all Anticipate for personal and Improve everything that we ofour employees thelong-term team goals, accept competency and do.
Keep promises and contractors consequences of compromise, skills, encourage and admit mistakes and protect the todays actions encourage education and safety of the colleagues and training, share environment appreciate experience and different knowledge with perspectives colleagues The Group organises regular competitions to reward projects and initiatives undertaken by employees which reflect our corporate values.
InApril 2017 the winning project was an initiative called Pit Stop, which promoted the use of video recordings of concentrator maintenance toimprove the process for future work.
The project reflected the Groups core values of long-term efficiency, professional development and teamwork.
52 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ethics, compliance, anti-bribery and corruption Green procurement Integrity is one of the Groups five core corporate values.
The The Groups Environmental Policy includes a commitment to reduce Board is responsible for managing our approach to ethics and waste, prevent pollution and minimise the overall impact of the compliance and is committed to maintaining the highest standards.
Groups activities on the environment.
The Suppliers Charter The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme includes commitments from our suppliers to i comply with local has been developed in line with the requirements of the UK Bribery environmental protection regulations and implement the necessary Act 2010 and has been in force across all operations, with relevant actions to limit the impact of their activities on the environment: ii clauses included as part of the Groups standard terms and promote greater environmental responsibility and the use of goods conditions with suppliers since 2011.
See page 73 for a description and services which help to mitigate our environmental impact, as of the Groups policies and due diligence procedures undertaken in well as better managing and utilising resources such as energy, relation to anti-bribery and corruption.
In 2017 all existing contracts paper, water and waste: and iii promote the development were updated to incorporate a new Suppliers Charter which and distribution of environmentally friendly technologies.
includes the Groups expectations of its suppliers with regard Code of Fair Employment to the prevention of bribery and corruption.
The Group established a Code of Fair Employment in 2016 The Group maintains an anonymous reporting facility Speak Up which sets out the standards it expects to be upheld in relation to encourage employees to report any concerns regarding breaches to its own employees as well the employees of suppliers or of ethics.
A risk assessment is used to identify the categories of contractors to the Group.
As part of the exercise conducted employees which require training in anti-bribery and corruption.
during 2017 to incorporate the Suppliers Charter into all the This includes employees working in procurement, sales, finance Groups contracts, suppliers were also required to agree to and general management and individuals who interact with the terms of the Code of Fair Employment.
The Code of Fair Employment can be viewed on the Groups website and contains commitments to prevent forced labour, Suppliers child labour, human trafficking and inhumane treatment.
The The Groups supply chain includes contractors and suppliers retention of passports or identification documents, taking of providing labour, energy, transport, smelting, equipment, deposits, restrictions on freedom of movement and the charging consumables and raw materials required for the production and of recruitment fees to workers are forbidden.
All employees must sale of copper.
At the end of 2017, a total of 63 contracting firms have contracts of employment, be paid above the legal minimum were working at the Groups underground mines in the East Region wage, be treated equally and have access to adequate and a further 28 firms were employed at the new open pit mines grievance procedures.
at Bozshakol and Aktogay, together employing around 5,000 The Group is committed to the prevention of modern slavery contractor employees at our sites.
and human trafficking in its supply chain and publishes an annual Suppliers Charter statement, approved by the Board, as required by the UK Modern KAZ Minerals is committed to high standards of corporate Slavery Act 2015. social responsibility.
To ensure that our suppliers understand what Supply chain monitoring standards we require of them, we established the KAZ Minerals In addition to requiring suppliers to sign up to the Suppliers Charter, Suppliers Charter in 2016.
A copy of the charter can be viewed a training programme was implemented for approximately 800 on the Groups website.
individuals from procurement teams and managers involved in the The Suppliers Charter sets out the Groups expectations in the areas supervision of contractors in 2017.
The aim of the training was to of anti-bribery and corruption, employee wellbeing, environmental raise awareness of the standards contained within the Suppliers responsibility, community relations and human rights.
Suppliers Charter, in particular those relating to modern slavery and human are encouraged to report all suspected or actual breaches of the trafficking.
Staff are expected to monitor suppliers and contractors principles set out in the Suppliers Charter either to KAZ Minerals to prevent instances of modern slavery in the Groups supply chain management or by using the anonymous Speak Up system.
and to report any suspected breaches of the Groups policies through the appropriate channels.
During 2017 the Group amended its supplier agreements approximately 2,500 contracts to include a commitment to upholding the standards set out in the Suppliers Charter.
Suppliers were required to sign the amendment as a condition of continuing to work with KAZ Minerals.
The Group also conducts a due diligence exercise on new suppliers to ensure that we only work with suppliers who meet our standards.
com 53 Corporate responsibility report continued Indigenous peoples and resettlement Human rights The Groups commitment to respecting the rights of indigenous KAZ Minerals has a formal Human Rights policy, approved by the peoples and its approach to resettlement are contained in its Board and available to view on the Groups website.
See page 74 Human Rights Policy, described on page 74.
The areas in which for a description of the policy.
the Group has operated or developed new mining projects KAZ Minerals recognises all human rights as defined in the historically have been sparsely populated and resettlement of Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We are committed to indigenous populations has not been necessary.
It is unlikely that ensuring our operations do not infringe these rights, for instance future projects will require resettlement, but the Group will always by providing fair, safe and secure working conditions in line with the seek to avoid involuntary resettlement.
KAZ Minerals is committed International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental to the protection of culturally sensitive areas.
Principles and Rights at Work.
We respect the right to freedom Under the terms of subsoil use law in Kazakhstan, the Group is of association and consult our employees and trade unions about required to give preference to Kazakhstan nationals during the proposed changes to our business and employment conditions.
Due performance of subsoil use operations and to invest in the training diligence undertaken in pursuance of the Groups Human Rights of local workers.
policy includes consultation with local communities during project development or any major operational changes that may affect Social projects and local procurement them and monitoring of working conditions for our own employees KAZ Minerals supports communities in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan and the employees of contractors and suppliers, as described above.
by investing in projects that benefit society close to its operations We respect and protect local heritage and culture.
as well as national projects.
Social investments of $10 million were made during 2017.
Communities Consultation and communication The Group has a social investment policy and monitors projects KAZ Minerals is committed to promoting community development that are funded to ensure they meet the aims and objectives of and maintaining lines of communication with communities near its the Group.
The types of projects the Group seeks to support are: operations and potential new projects.
The operations General i projects local to the Groups operations in the areas of healthcare, Directors have overall responsibility for community relations in education, infrastructure and sport: ii national projects in the their respective areas.
Community Consultation KAZ Minerals is committed to consulting regularly with communities close to its operations.
Formal meetings take placearound licencing of new project developments.
Other consultations are held to discuss local development initiatives orsocial projects which the Group may support.
In December 2017 a group of community representatives from the nearby villages of Aktogay and Kopa were hosted at the Aktogay mine site.
During the visit we visited the tailings storage area and saw that birds are nesting on the site.
The site is generally very clean and tidy.
We were shown how geomembranes are used to prevent leach solution from seeping into the local environment.
Our guides showed us everything andanswered all of our questions.
Nursha Balabekova, former chemistry teacher and local resident 2017 Aktogay community site visit 54 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Sports facilities KAZ Minerals supports sport through social projects close to our mining operations, contributing to the construction of sports facilities for the benefit of local communities.
Groups countries of operation also in the areas of healthcare, Materiality assessment education, infrastructure, culture and sport: and iii projects to We reviewed our materiality assessment in 2017, promoting promote the culture and economic profile of the Groups countries biodiversity to a Moderate priority and adding equality and of operation.
diversity as a high priority: Projects supported in 2017 included the purchase of medical equipment for hospitals in the East Region, a programme to fund Emissions to air Anti-bribery and corruption information technology in schools, sponsorship of a football team, GHG emissions Contractor safety the construction of sports facilities in Pavlodar and support for the Human rights Energy use 2017 EXPO Future Energy event in Astana.
At Bozymchak the Licence to operate Equality and diversity Group invested in infrastructure improvements for the use of the local community such as the construction of bridges and roads.
Safety training Fatalities Labour relations includes As required by subsoil use law, the Group also prioritises local collective bargaining and procurement to assist diverse economic growth within Kazakhstan.
freedom of association During 2017 the level of procurement from outside Kazakhstan has Tailings management been higher than in the past due to the requirements of the major Training and development growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay, which employ modern Waste management technology that is only possible to source internationally.
In the East Water use and management Region local procurement was 77% of total spending 2016: 76%.
Workplace injuries and incidents Biodiversity The Group is committed to the protection of biodiversity in the Anti-competitive behaviour Occupational health areas which may be affected by its operations and avoids operating Business integrity Pay and benefits in areas with high biodiversity value.
and compliance Resource use efficiency Contractual integrity The Groups priority for biodiversity management has been to Economic development mitigate any adverse effect that the development of the major Employees wellbeing growth projects at Bozshakol and Aktogay could have.
These Rehabilitation closure issues are carefully considered in the feasibility stages of planning a new project and in consultation with local communities.
Resettlement Revenue and tax transparency Social investment Supplier conduct Biodiversity Moderate Internal business priorities High www.
com 55 Moderate External stakeholder priorities High
