54 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Our people We are proud of our employees commitment to our vision and purpose creating compelling and joyful experiences for customers and helping retailers ourish From our apprentices to our senior asset We are the first shopping centre landlord Highlights of the year managers our employees are vital to to be able to boast the gold Investors in fullling our purpose.
Our people are People award across our UK portfolio.
talented individuals, and our culture The award recognises our commitment to all our centres achieve the Investors in enables them to be bold, creative and our people and their role in our business.
People gold award genuine in their work to make shopping at our first apprentices take up intu a joyful experience for our 35 million Diverse and inclusive permanent roles in intu visitors and thousands of retailers.
In Diversity is important to us as a people pensions auto-enrolment successfully return, we aim to be a great employer, business with over 400 million customer implemented for intu Retail Services promoting diversity and inclusion, treating visits a year our workforce should both our consolidated staff data system, our employees fairly and enabling them reect and understand our customers iTrent, extended to intu Retail Services to grow professionally and personally.
and the communities around our centres.
We have at least 27 different nationalities A united and successful team and the ethnic background of our staff is We employ 2,589 staff: 2,467 employed close to that of the country as a whole.
Our culture in 17 locations across the UK, in 16 Our purpose is simple to create centres and our head office in London, 39 We maintained our position in the top compelling, joyful experiences that surprise in our Madrid office and now 83 at Madrid 20 per cent of FTSE 250 and 350 and delight our customers and make them Xanad.
Of the UK staff, 2,036 are directly companies for the number of women at smile.
This is the key to achieving our employed by our in-house facilities board, senior and executive management commercial focus running the most company, intu Retail Services.
This year levels with over 30 per cent of female popular shopping centres in the UK and we have extended the unied employee staff at this level FTSE Women Leaders, Spain.
It is an intentionally simple focus database and payroll system, iTrent, to Hampton-Alexander Review 2017.
We that can be understood and delivered by bring all our intu Retail Services and intu continued to work with the Mentoring everyone in the organisation.
Management Services employees Foundation, to enhance the opportunities together under a single system for the for women to reach executive roles.
Our culture permeates our business.
Everyone, regardless of role or seniority, In order to attract a diverse range of goes through the same brand immersion to We have strong recruitment processes to candidates, we are part of an industry understand our purpose and our values.
recruit the best people, and a system that initiative, Pathways to Property, to provide Our values bold, creative, genuine gives employees career progression so we work experience for school students from encourage us all to behave in the right way can ll roles internally.
This year 54 staff less traditional backgrounds and do the right thing: for our customers, were recruited from within and 375 our retailers, the environment and society.
Many of these were to new We are signed up to the National Equality Our people understand if they apply our roles as we adapt to changing markets.
Having completed the values in their work they will help create initial assessment process we have a plan a successful and responsible business.
in place to meet the standard by 2019.
Our culture drives our business.
Strategic report Our people 55 Gender pay gap We welcome the new gender pay gap The gender pay gap is different to equal Our median pay and bonus gaps are legislation and increased pay pay, which takes into account the nature signicantly smaller than the national transparency that will result.
The of a role and its seniority.
We regularly picture with a slightly higher proportion gender pay gap compares the average review the pay across the organisation of women than men receiving bonuses.
pay for men and women in our business.
with the aim of ensuring that the pay of Our higher mean bonus gap is largely If there are more men than women in men and women is the same for due to the current signicantly higher senior positions, as is currently the case equivalent roles and seniority.
proportion of men in the most at intu, this results in the overall average senior positions.
of the pay of men being higher than that of women.
Pay gap Bonus gap Proportion Proportion Difference between the average Difference between the average of women of men receiving pay of men and women bonus paid to men and women receiving a bonus a bonus Median 2.6% 0.0% 84.7% 84.5% Mean 7.8% 51.5% The chart below shows the gender pay gap for different groups of employees within the business.
In a number of areas we have a negative gender pay gap, which means that the average pay of women is higher than that of men.
Super regionals Larger city centres Smaller city centres Total employees 1,145 Total employees 568 Total employees 282 Overall gender pay gap 9.90% 1.61% 4.39% based on mean hourly rate 39% 35% 34% 61% 65% 66% Regional centre directors, general managers, senior 1 8.
6 83% % 8.63% 9.99% 8.63% 3.08% asset managers Asset managers, marketing managers, operations managers, 7.97% 3.14% 12.10% centre-based management roles Supervisory, admin, front line delivery roles 8.63% 9.10% 3.16% including technicians Female employees Male employees Read more at intugroup.
co. uk A good job Equality Act Gender Pay Gap Information customer and environmental services Part of being a great employer is treating regulations as they come into force.
See teams, ensures the services they provide our staff members fairly and paying them infographic above.
are consistent and legally compliant.
All our staff over 18 who have These programmes keep us at the completed their probation are paid above Talent development forefront of being a master operator the National Living Wage, even staff not Our learning and development team run and enable us to deliver our world strictly covered by regulation.
We ended a programme of internal and external class service.
all zero-hour contracts in 2016. training for the whole business.
Customer Journey training helps centre teams We are committed to ending the gender enhance the customer experience of intu.
pay gap and we comply fully with the Steps to Success training, for security, 56 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Our people continued above and beyond.
In 2017, its third year, Age prole around a thousand employees were rewarded for making people smile.
Under 35 32% This years winner was Joseph Mifsud, 35 55 47% an Orient Support Assistant at Over 55 21% intu Trafford Centre.
Employee engagement Ensuring our staff understand our business and know how they can contribute to intus success continues to UK gender prole be crucial to our progress.
It has been The graduates integral to our success so far and was part Senior development managers Oliver Hunt Female Male of our promise to our staff when we and Simon Crouch started as graduates at rebranded to intu.
From the beginning we were given 1,017 1,450 channels to communicate with staff: real projects and were rewarded for our 2016: 1,048 2016: 1,507 our intranet Mint, employee magazine hard work and commitment, says Simon.
Chorus, insight, strategy presentation, My early work covered activities from twice-yearly results presentations and planning to procurement, from purchasing UK gender prole senior managers staff briengs.
Each location has its own an interest to selling a centre, says Oliver.
They are now managing multimillion pound Female Male development projects and mentoring the Since November 2012 we have run an next generation of graduates.
Retail has 10 31 annual employee survey with consistently always been a dynamic sector, says Simon.
2016: 12 2016: 30 high employee engagement scores in the Working at intu gives us a real opportunity region of 750.
The 2017 staff survey has to help shape the future of shopping.
been postponed until spring 2018 to allow We have expanded our webinar-based us to consider the information the survey training for management development has supplied, combined with information and continued our Leadership from all our other sources, such as Development programme to develop Investors in People, fines, customer Human rights individuals.
This year eight candidates surveys, Tell intu and other insight, to At intu we respect the dignity, liberty and completed a 12-month development put really meaningful actions in place.
equality of everyone we work with.
We are journey to cultivate their leadership skills.
committed to implementing the UN We continue to encourage staff to guiding principles on business and human intu was the first major property achieve their personal and professional rights.
We only work with people who company to have a national goals and to take part in our corporate choose to work freely and we respect their apprenticeship scheme, now in its third responsibility, community support and rights to equal opportunities and freedom year.
The pilot group have completed sustainability programmes.
their training and all six gained one in five took advantage of the working We work with our suppliers, retailers and permanent jobs within the business.
The days intu makes available for volunteering associated companies to ensure they second cohort of 14 has moved into their activity, double last years number.
meet acceptable standards of human second year and nine new recruits will dignity in their own sourcing policies.
Our plans for 2018 We will continue to evaluate the pay and build on the intu culture in the UK and conditions of all our employees, to ensure Rewarding excellence Spain through stronger performance all staff earn above the National Living Since 2016 we have been piloting management and staff engagement Wage, and enjoy fair working conditions.
performance management schemes that focus on equality, diversity and Fair treatment of people who work for connect more closely to our business inclusion, including further progress intu or our suppliers is a key focus of our strategy, linking performance, strategy to reduce the gender pay gap corporate responsibility approach.
We are now rolling these out enhance the talent pipeline through across the business and have recruited a graduate, management and leadership Modern Slavery Act rewards manager to benchmark staff, development schemes This year we worked to implement the harmonise terms and conditions and greater alignment of intu Retail requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, develop more tailored incentive and Services terms and conditions including a new policy on Modern Slavery recognition schemes.
and processes and Human Rights and communications mitigate the risk of employee to our suppliers on their responsibilities.
Our employee reward and recognition uncertainty leading to short-term programme Win Your Dream celebrates skill gaps during the proposed Read more at intugroup.
co. uk employees across intu who have gone corporate transaction
