08 Strategic report THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 QUALITY PEOPLE Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 09 We followed this up in October with 26 roadshows across the country, involving over 1,000 employees to discuss with them how we continue to make Home for Success a reality for all of our students.
Investing in our people Investment in the training and development of our people is crucial to our success.
We retain our Investor in People Gold accreditation, and are proud to be a Living Wage employer.
We continue to invest in leadership development, primarily through our Becoming a Supervisor and Becoming a Manager programmes.
This year, our focus has been on customer service training.
Service Style, new for 2017, has been designed to help all employees to think about the little things they can do every day to make life better for our students and each other.
It focuses on what we notice when were dealing with other people and how we act on it.
Its a critical element of Home for Success, and aims to ensure we are focused on our customers and their needs.
ASV acquisition Our people make Home for Success a This year Unite acquired Aston Student reality for our students and University 26 Village in Central Birmingham, our largest partners.
They make Unite a great place acquisition, comprising 3,067 beds across to work and an unmatched provider of Employee roadshows to make Home five large detached properties located on student accommodation.
for Success a reality for our students Aston Universitys campus.
Read more about Our service and commitment to Home for Success on p05 The integration of such a large property students grows from our commitment presented a significant operational to our employees.
This year weve worked challenge.
56 University staff joined Unite to align our employees objectives and as part of the acquisition.
They successfully contributions to Home for Success, the completed rigorous training in our brand, thinking that underpins everything we offer values and operating standards to ensure to students.
Were also making sure we a seamless handover of the property continue to recruit great people with a and the best possible experience for new recruitment website which showcases our students.
why Unite Students is a great place to work.
Office move Recognition In March 2017 Unite moved to South Quay Stars Awards House in central Bristol.
The Stars Awards is our annual recognition event where we reward the great work and We carefully examined how other brilliant performance of our teams and organisations utilise their working space, employees across the business.
This year, including Philips, IKEA and the Environment the categories have been redesigned to Agency, and how theyre more effectively reflect Home for Success.
using their office space, with agile working spaces.
We designed our new space to Long service help employees work more flexibly and As well as the award winners, this year there collaboratively.
Agile working supports the were also 205 people reaching milestones health and wellbeing of our employees, of service.
We had 35 people reach ten making our new office space a great years service, four people at 15 years place to work.
service and one reaching 20 years service.
Our continued commitment to our people Performance is key to who we are and helps us to Team Talk Connect deliver Home for Success.
This event, held at the NEC in Birmingham in March, brought all our city and headquarters teams together under one roof to discuss Unites strategic direction, Home for Success, new values, plans for the future and latest developments.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
