CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PEOPLE We recognise that our people are critical for the delivery of our Reignite Growth strategy.
We are committed to creating an environment that promotes accountability and high performance that is underpinned by a strong safety culture.
Diversity As a Company operating internationally with a global customer base, the character of our communities is diverse.
We consider diversity of our people intrinsic to strong operational performance.
Appointments are always made on merit and we seek to leverage the benefits of a wide and diverse talent pool.
A summary of our employment policies appears on page 77 of the Directors report.
Further information about what the Board is doing about gender diversity at Board level is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 46.
Our total number of employees is circa 1,600 and the table Operational performance and acting below shows the breakdown by gender diversity for different responsibly go hand in hand.
behaviours make our business more Gender diversity statistics efficient, protect the value of our assets 31 December 2017 and escalate the delivery of our Reignite Male Female Growth strategy.
Board 5 62% 3 38% Executive leadership 1 team ELT 12 92% 1 8% We are a member of We only use RSPO 2 Senior management 47 84% 9 16% FTSE4Good products in our 3 Senior manager 18 90% 2 10% Personal Care sector All employees 1,198 77% 366 23% 26 February 2018 Male Female Board 5 62% 3 38% Executive leadership 1 team ELT 8 73% 3 27% We received a silver 2 Senior management 46 84% 9 16% award from EcoVadis 3 Senior manager 17 85% 3 15% All employees 1,198 77% 368 23% 1 Excluding the CEO and CFO.
2 Defined as grade 10 and above, excluding CEO and CFO and the ELT.
3 Defined under the prescribed regulations.
Employees Employee turnover c. 1,600 6.2% 2016: c. 1,400 2016: 6.3% 26 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information BUSINESS CONDUCT Business conduct and ethics Our Code of Conduct the Code sets out our core values and the standards of conduct expected of everyone who works for Elementis.
Relaunch of our Code of Conduct During 2017, the Code was refreshed and relaunched jointly by the CEO and the General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer.
A new online training course encompassing the spirit of the 5 core principles was given to all employees.
To help employees understand and adopt these values, principles and standards in their daily work life, information and training is provided, supported by comprehensive whistleblowing procedures and an anti-retaliation policy.
Employee locations The Code is translated into 6 languages and supported with interactive online training to help employees stay up to date with their responsibilities.
All new employees are required to undertake training on the Code and refresher training is given 31% to all employees periodically.
The Board and ELT consider the located Code to be critical to the Groups continuing success and in in Europe how it meets its corporate responsibilities.
41% located in Americas 28% located in Asia Investment in our people We continue to recognise the importance of investing in our people.
We have introduced a talent management programme to develop management succession plans.
We encourage training opportunities for potential candidates to further develop and be considered for internal opportunities as they arise.
We have also invested in the level of management below the ELT, who have received the DISC personality training and attended Training hours Languages workshops on how the business has shifted from a divisional to a functional organisational structure, in order that they can 2,000 6 deliver the Groups strategic priorities.
Throughout our sites, 2,000 hours of compliance To help employees we continue to invest in a range of wellbeing initiatives.
training completed by understand and adopt our employees in 2017. values, the Code is translated 2017 people highlights into 6 languages.
Implemented a formal talent management programme to develop succession plans for all key roles Adopted a performance management system globally where employees have accountable goals at all levels in the organisation Implemented workday to effectively manage human capital, talent and recruitment throughout the Group The areas covered under Maintaining a safe, healthy Integrated SummitReheis US employees into Group systems the Code include: and affirmative workplace Improved female representation on the ELT from 8%, Fair dealing Equal opportunities at 31 December 2017 to currently 27%.
Confidentiality and privacy Anti-harassment Record keeping Offensive materials Communications Alcohol and drugs Trade practices and Conflicts of interest anti-trust compliance Gifts and hospitality Insider trading and Theft and misuse of fair disclosure Company assets Bribery and other Corporate opportunities, corrupt practices Intellectual property, Product liability and network use International business Integrity and security dealings Political contributions and activities 27 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Underpinning our Code is a compliance training Bribery and corruption policy programme We have a zero tolerance policy for bribery and corruption of any sort.
Our Code covers bribery and corruption and is further supported by an anti-corruption policy.
Employees are required Training courses assigned Audience to report breaches of the policy to a supervisor or the General to employees in 2017 Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, and processes are in place to prevent retaliation against any employees who Code of Conduct All employees communicate good faith concerns relating to bribery and other business conduct.
Respect in the workplace All employees Product stewardship We strive to provide innovative products that create value for our customers and that are safe for people and the environment Global trade sanctions ELT, management and when used for their intended purpose.
An integral part of this professional grades process is our commitment to excellence in product safety and global compliance and these core values drive our global Data privacy GDPR Trialled to GDPR working product stewardship programme.
group HR IT Legal Company Secretariat To support the highest levels of product safety and regulatory compliance we have comprehensive product safety and Trademark basics Marketing product stewardship processes in place to ensure the following: The hazards of our products are fully understood and communicated to our customers Anti-trust ELT Any risks are managed to minimise potential impacts to people and the environment Our products are sold in compliance with all applicable Eliminating forced labour, Initial roll out to ELT, local and country laws and regulations.
slavery, and human management, professional trafficking and sales grades Within this context, we regularly review the risks of the chemicals we manufacture, recommend risk management where appropriate, monitor changes in regulations, and make health, Human rights safety, and compliance information available to customers, We support the statements in the Universal Declaration of government authorities and the public.
Human Rights, as well as the International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Notable product stewardship accomplishments during 2017, latter being freedom of association and the effective recognition were the successful completion of the EcoVadis Corporate Social of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced or Responsibilities assessment, the integration of SummitReheis compulsory labour, the abolition of child labour and the into our product stewardship and export control systems and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and a favourable compliance audit by the US authorities.
We also support the principles of the UN Global Compact which includes those on fundamental human rights.
EU REACh Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and We prohibit the use of child and forced labour and are committed restriction of chemicals as well as the new REACh programmes to the principles of equality of treatment and non-discrimination.
in China, Korea and Taiwan, were well managed to allow the Collective bargaining arrangements and union arrangements successful global registration of new innovative products.
exist at a number of our locations.
We continue to invest in the scientific and regulatory expertise Business practices are in place with our contractors, needed to meet the market demands for safer and more customers and suppliers in relation to human rights, privacy sustainable products in an environment of ever increasing and safety matters.
number and complexity of chemical regulations.
In 2017, we made a significant upgrade in our hazard communications Modern slavery and compliance software to better meet the challenge of new The Modern Slavery Act came into force in 2015.
We have taken global regulations.
steps to make sure our employees and supply chain partners are aware of the Act and its requirements.
In April 2017, we issued our first statement explaining how we have addressed the risk of slavery and human trafficking in our business.
An updated Modern Slavery Act compliance statement will be published on our corporate website, www.
28 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Safety remains our top priority and we take our commitment HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT to safety for our employees, contractors, and all visitors to our At Elementis, we place a great emphasis on protecting people facilities seriously.
We continue to invest in safer technology and operating responsibly.
Our Health, Safety, and Environment and reduce our employees exposure to occupational hazards.
Policy and Values provides the fundamental basis of how we We recognise that creating an injury free work environment develop, manufacture and distribute our products around the requires engaging employees to proactively identify world.
This policy is manifested throughout our global HSE opportunities to improve safety and eliminate risks.
All employees programme which is comprised of management systems and understand that they have Stop Work authority and will take internal procedures that define our regulatory obligations, the action to stop an activity that is not in accordance with our industry best practices that we employ, risk management and adopted procedures.
the various programmes that drive continuous improvement.
Global HSE programmes Continuous improvement cycle Raise Job safety awareness analysis Recognise Engage Incident Internal performance people investigation auditing Corporate policies and procedures External Process Measure Identify risk risk hazard results hazard assessments analysis Environmental sustainability Take action Health and safety performance Elementis uses the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA definitions for Recordable Injuries and Illnesses, the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 for Lost Time Accidents LTA, and Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR as a means for benchmarking performance.
The following sites have achieved exemplary safety performance in creating an injury free work environment.
Operations without a recordable injury or illness 5 years Milwaukee, 14 years Wisconsin 4 years Corpus Hsinchu, Christi, 5 years Taiwan Texas Anji, China 15 years Changxing, China 29 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED We use TRIR as our principal measure of safety performance.
subject to stringent environmental regulations and compliance The below graph shows our performance in comparison with requirements.
Comprehensive emergency response plans the latest data from the US chemical industry and the American are in place at all locations as a precaution and as a means Chemistry Council Responsible Care members: to mitigate the impact in the unlikely event of a major incident.
Total recordable incident rate 2017 environmental highlights Continue to operate responsibly no releases impacting Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked the environment and no environmental penalties 3.0 US Chemicals Elementis Silver rating in the 2017 EcoVadis Sustainable Supplier Elementis exc.
assessment, with a score in the top 10% of all suppliers SummitReheis 2.0 ACC RC Only used RSPO Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil certified quaternary amines in manufacturing products for the Personal Care sector and we are exploring how 1.0 we can further reduce the use of palm oil Continued participation with the CDP climate change 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 programme formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project Elementis expectation is that our performance should show We modified operations in our Songjiang plant to steady improvement.
However, over the last 2 years our rate significantly reduce the level of VOC emissions has increased slightly and in response we have implemented a number of initiatives.
The main contributing factor to the increase in 2017 is the acquisition of SummitReheis.
Excluding the SummitReheis site statistics, the incident rate for Elementis Greenhouse gas emissions GHG is 0.88.
Since the acquisition, a comprehensive integration plan We report GHG emissions according to the requirements has been developed and we are working diligently with the site of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors teams to ensure that SummitReheis safety culture is consistent Report Regulations 2013. with the policies and values across all our sites.
GHG emissions are calculated from energy purchased and 2016 2017 process calculations.
Energy units are converted into carbon Elementis Elementis dioxide equivalent CO2e using official data provided annually excluding including by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Elementis SummitReheis SummitReheis Defra.
Emission factors associated with non-UK electricity Total Recordable Incident consumption in 2017 were derived from International Energy Rate incidents per Agency IEA data.
200,000 hours worked 1.03 0.88 1.10 The principal GHG due to operations at our locations is carbon Whilst we regret all injuries, it is notable that across the Group dioxide from natural gas combustion.
There are also GHG only 2 of the recordable incidents resulted in Lost Time Accidents emissions from other fuels, chemical reactions in production requiring more than 3 days away from work and neither incident processes, wastewater treatment and carbon dioxide used for required hospitalisation.
Our GHG emissions reporting process has previously been audited by  LLP, our internal auditors.
The audit report found our procedures to be 2017 safety initiatives appropriate and the data collection and conversion process to Promoted 10 Life Saving Rules to prevent serious injury be robust and supportable.
to people working at our facilities Elementis operating sites and principal offices are included Launched a global web based training programme within the scope of this reporting requirement.
A number of small office locations have been excluded because the level Introduced a corporate training programme to develop of CO2e emissions was deemed not to make a material supervisors safety leadership skills contribution to the total.
In addition, the 2017 data is impacted by the addition of 4 sites from the SummitReheis acquired Commenced integration of a global software platform business pro-rated for our period of ownership.
for improving the effectiveness of our HSE programmes We provide 2 intensity ratios for measuring our performance Implemented a safety recognition programme for in this area: tonnes CO2e per tonne of production and tonnes acknowledging manufacturing locations that achieve CO2e per kWh of energy consumed.
Over a period of years significant milestones in safety performance both of these indicators should give an indication of energy efficiency improvements including cleaner fuels consumed.
Note that Scope 1 and 2 emissions and the intensity ratios Environmental performance are subject to variations due to changes in the mix of products Elementis recognises its responsibility for sustaining the quality manufactured, volumes and energy efficiency improvements.
of the environment in the communities in which we operate to protect biodiversity.
Emphasis is placed on using technology that reduces emissions, generates less waste, reduces consumption of natural resources, conserves energy, and takes advantage of opportunities where renewable energy sources are available.
In addition, our manufacturing processes are 30 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Greenhouse gas emissions Base year 2017 2016 2013 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tonnes CO2e 218,198 194,687 221,076 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use tonnes CO2e 92,390 88,365 89,500 Total Scope 1 and 2 tonnes CO2e 310,588 283,052 310,576 Intensity ratio: tonnes CO2e tonne production 0.73 0.74 0.77 Supplementary intensity ratio: kg CO2e kWh energy consumed 0.26 0.26 0.27 Out of Scope: Biofuel tonnes CO2e 7,248 7,904 0 CO2e values were derived using Defra published factors and data from IEA.
Note that Scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions are affected by changes in production volumes and product mix.
Energy consumption 2017 2016 Absolute Per tonne of Absolute Per tonne of 000s production 000s production Energy consumed GJ 5,333 12.6 4,794 12.5 For reference: 1 GJ 277.8 kWh Note that energy consumption in 2017 included a significant additional contribution from the SummitReheis sites.
Beyond that, energy consumption varies with production volumes and product mix.
Renewable electricity Reducing emissions Reducing consumption Ongoing savings Electricity at Newberry CA New boilers have been The new boilers at Delden Air balancing for building site has 28% renewable installed at Delden to reduce reduced boiler natural gas heating and ventilation, energy content.
consumption in 2017 by together with monitoring to more than 16% with a optimise building equipment consequential reduction operation, will produce in emission level.
significant ongoing savings at Elementis management headquarters in East Windsor, New Jersey.
Water consumption Elementis shares the global concern over water scarcity.
We operate mostly in areas where water availability is not an immediate issue, nevertheless water consumption is minimised where possible by treatment and recycling.
Water consumption data is provided on the corporate website: www.
Other environmental data Our activities are closely regulated via robust environmental permits.
Air emissions, discharges and waste are within the normal variability of operations and maintenance activities.
Details are provided on the corporate website: www.
For more information about our CSR activities and policies www.
com  31 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
