4 42 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT THE MOVE TO CLEANER ECONOMIC GROWTH IS ONE OF THE GREATEST INDUSTRIAL OPPORTUNITIES OF OURTIME GREG CLARK SECRETARY OF STATE FOR BUSINESS, ENERGY AND INDUSTRIAL STRATEGY, CLEAN GROWTH STRATEGY Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 43 43 We engage with a range of people who 2017 HIGHLIGHTS aredirectly or indirectly involved in our business and affected by what we do.
IDENTIFYING STAKEHOLDERS 16,604 18 Like many businesses we have a diverse Number of visitors to Community sessions group of stakeholders who are affected by electricinsights.
co. uk our activities across the United Kingdom, We listened to people Europe and the US.
These include our 16,604 people visited near to our gas-red shareholders, employees, customers, ElectricInsights, a power station projects suppliers, communities, government Drax collaboration with at 18 drop-in sessions regulators and policymakers, academia, researchers at Imperial this year non-governmental organisations, opinion College London, to learn formers and the media.
more about our national electricity network We communicate with different audiences 28% regularly and keep track of stakeholder Group website visits relationships.
We use stakeholder feedback 170,724 people visited to inform the planning and delivery of our our Group website business activities.
in 2017, an increase of 28% on 2016 We conduct an ongoing mapping exercise toassess how the stakeholder landscape is developing and to ensure we are recognising the expectations of a broad range of stakeholders and that across our businesses 1.67bn we do the right thing every day.
Contribution to GDP Investor engagement is discussed Draxs 2017 Economic Impact onpage69 report by Oxford Economics estimates that Draxs direct, PUBLIC AFFAIRS indirect and induced contribution It is vital to our business that we develop to GDP was 1.67bn in 2016 and andmaintain good relationships with the Group supported 18,500 jobs governments, regulators and individuals inpublic life.
10.6m No party political donations were made in Twitter feeds the UK or elsewhere in 2017 or 2016 and ourinteractions with those engaged in the In 2017 our Tweets political arena were aimed solely at the appeared in 10.6m promotion of the Groups business interests.
Twitter users feeds What counts as political expenditure withinthe EU encompasses a wide range ofactivities, many of which would not be considered as political in the normal sense.
For that reason, in order to avoid 185,888 83% inadvertently breaching EU legislation, Drax Charitable donations New social media presents a resolution at its Annual General followers in 2017 In the course of 2017 Drax Group donated Meeting to seek shareholders approval for 185,888 to charitable causes and 53,465 Followers on Twitter, expenditure of up to 100,000 by the to non-charitable causes Facebook, Instagram Company and its subsidiaries.
and LinkedIn increased by 83%, from 10,215 to 18,644 13,200 Visitor numbers We welcomed 13,200 visitors to Drax Visitor Centre this year 4 44 4 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CONTINUED COMMUNICATING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Drax has a long history of engaging with stakeholders and ensure they can access Communicating effectively is a vital aspect people, businesses and local authorities.
the information they need about our policies, of being a successful business.
Honesty is Weengage with stakeholders and partner practices and strategic direction.
one of the Drax core behaviours and we aim with many other organisations to make to be transparent and open.
progress on sustainability topics throughout The table below summarises our key the year.
We use the most appropriate stakeholder engagement activities in 2017 communication channels to listen to our and the topics raised.
STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION Stakeholder group Key engagement activities in 2017 Overview of topics raised Communities and We have been in extensive dialogue with a number of communities around the UK Management of throughout 2017 as our expanding Business to Business offer widened our environmental impacts local authorities geographic footprint and we progressed our various gas-red power station projects Transport management through the planning process.
Community initiatives Our employees also strengthen our links to local communities by volunteering andsponsorships tosupport local organisations.
The Northern Drax provides a Board member and is a keen supporter of the Northern Powerhouse Powerhouse Partnership.
We generate and sell power to business customers.
Haven Power and Opus Energy Customer service support Customers engage with their customers daily, including through our dedicated, UK-based Sales and product details customer service advisers at Haven Power andan online portal at Opus Energy.
Energy efficiency Employees We communicate with our employees through various channels, such as the intranet, The One Drax strategy Open Forums and newsletters, and keep them informed of any important Learning and developments in the Groups operations.
development We began the roll out of our new One Drax people strategy which has been The purpose and future designed to address the key issues that were raised by our employees, such as the direction of the Company need for clearer learning and development programmes and more effective internal Career progression communications.
Drax Group companies also run graduate programmes focused on two areas of thebusiness: commercial analysts and IT.
Our apprenticeship programme offers opportunities in a number of different disciplines, including: electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, electrical control, an instrumentation engineering and corporate support function at DraxPower or administrative, customer service and facilitates management roles atHaven Power and Opus Energy.
We work closely with employee representatives for the third of our workforce covered by collective bargaining.
Business-led employee Forums, along with employee-led feedback groups are in place for employees on individual contracts.
Think tanks We frequently meet with a number of think tanks and academic institutions in theUK, Carbon pricing Europe and US to inform our thinking around various policy issues and co-operate on andacademia Developing technologies issues of shared interest.
for future energy needs We are collaborating with universities across the UK as part of our research Sustainable wood andinnovation work, including: Imperial College London, the University of sourcing Nottingham, the University of Leeds and the University of York.
We are sponsoring Battery technology three PhD projects at the University of Shefeld to understand developing andstorage technologies to enable Drax to support the UKs energy system inthefuture.
Schools We have a long tradition of supporting education and helping children to develop STEM skills their STEM science, technology, engineering and maths skills.
Our activities Biodiversity and ecology included the launch of Project Reinvent a challenge for secondary school students to develop an idea to improve their community using STEM skills.
Our Skylark Centre and Barlow Nature Reserve is open to the public and regularly offers experiences for schoolchildren to learn about nature and ecology.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 45 45 STAKEHOLDER COMMUNICATION continued Stakeholder group Key engagement activities in 2017 Overview of topics raised We regularly engage with regulators and policymakers to ensure our business European Unions Government understands and contributes to the evolving regulatory agenda.
biomass sustainability andregulators policy We engage with the UK Government, particularly the Department for Business, Energy, Innovation and Skills and Her Majestys Treasury, on a range of topics Ofgems Targeted including: the importance of biomass sustainability: carbon price support: the future Charging Review of coal: the decarbonisation, decentralisation and digitisation of the energy sector: Closure of unabated coal and innovation, training and skills.
power stations We engaged with representatives from the European Commission, European Controlling the costs Parliament and Council of Ministers to inform the development of pan-European ofbiomass under the sustainability criteria for biomass as part of the Renewable EnergyDirective II.
The Renewable Obligation Directive is expected to be nalised in early 2018.
NGOs play an important part in challenging our thinking and we engage with Emissions to air, including Non-governmental representatives from a number of leading UK and international NGOs active on particulates organisations NGOs climate and energy issues.
Closure of coal In November, we invited a number of NGOs and other stakeholders to two generation roundtables in London and Brussels to discuss our approach to biomass Carbon Price Support sustainability.
The roundtables were facilitated by leading environmentalist TonyJuniper, who presented on his recent fact-nding visit to Draxs Biomass operations in the United States.
Drax Biomass conducted a stakeholder consultation on risks associated with wood bre procurement, as part of its efforts to meet the standards set out by the Sustainable Biomass Program SBP and the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Regulator and network We have engaged with Ofgem and National Grid on the need to deliver a secure and Delivery of a secure reliable network at least cost to the consumer, in addition to promoting efficient andreliable network businesses investment decisions and market behaviours via the system operator incentive scheme and industry licence, code and charging arrangements.
Sharing timely and accurate communication with shareholders is central to our Results and prospects Shareholders relationship with investors.
We shared results, prospects and our latest thinking with andinvestors Operations investors through a wide range of channels.
These included our Capital Markets Day, Business strategy Annual General Meeting, our Preliminary and Interim results announcements, our annual report and accounts and trading updates.
Relevant documents can all be Remuneration policy found online at www.
The remuneration policy for 2017-2019 and the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016 were approved by the majority of investors in 2017 but we are conscious that a significant minority of shareholders voted against the policy and particularly the report.
This feedback has been considered and noted.
We engage proactively with our key fuel suppliers.
We have developed a biomass Expected standards Suppliers and supplier engagement programme and our approach includes regular site visits to ofconduct Contractors improve overall performance.
For coal sourcing, we carry out visits to suppliers sites.
Prompt Payment Code Drax Biomass requires and monitors biomass suppliers professional logger training Guidance on statutory as part of our certication requirements and commitment to our stakeholders.
obligations, such as modern slavery Trade and industry We work closely with a number of trade and industry associations, particularly those Ofgems Targeted active in the energy, renewable energy, timber and forestry sectors.
Charging Review associations We continued to play an active role in Energy UK, the trade body for the UKs The Renewable Energy electricity industry, with our Group Chief Executive on its Board.
We are a founding Directive member of Biomass UK the Renewable Energy Associations biomass power sector Health and safety group.
Drax also serves on the Policy Board of the Renewable Energy Association.
inoperations We are co-founders and an active member of the Sustainable Biomass Program SBP.
SBPs vision is an economically, environmentally and socially sustainable woody biomass supply chain that contributes to a low carbon economy.
In Europe we are represented on the Board of the European Biomass Association AEBIOM and are members of Eurelectric.
The US Industrial Pellet Association, of which Drax Biomass is a member, has regular meetings at which members share best practice for managing health and safety, a critical part of our industry.
