Strategic Report Corporate Building a responsible business that benets all stakeholders.
Responsibility We want to continue to build a successful, creative, commercial and global Diversity at ITV organisation.
We believe that conducting our business in a responsible way hasafundamental role in achieving this goal.
1 Gender split at 31 December 2017 2 Board of Directors As the largest commercial broadcaster in the UK and a growing international business, wereach millions of people on a daily basis through our programmes and channels.
6 3 Wearewoven into the fabric of society, both mirroring and shaping popular culture.
66.7% 33.3% Aswellas complying with our legislative and regulatory requirements, we believe in 3 Senior management usingthe power of our content to make a difference in society for our viewers, our people and ourcommunities.
To help shape our corporate responsibility CR strategy, we engage 89 67 withour stakeholders to identify the issues most important to them and our business.
57.1% 42.9% Our approach All employees Our strategy focuses on three priorities: people, planet and partnerships.
Each of our priorities highlights the risks and opportunities that are most relevant to us, and we 3,024 3,366 havemade four commitments under each, that incorporate our main assets and business 47.3% 52.7% operations.
These three pillars are underpinned by core responsible business practices suchas good governance, business ethics, data protection, responsibility of content and performance management.
ITV will be publishing its first gender paygap report in line with new reporting requirements.
The report will be published separately and available online.
Priority Leveraging Leveraging Responsible business How we work our reach our people day-to-day with others 1.
E mployee gender split is based on total headcount at31 December 2017.
People Inclusive Inclusive Inclusive culture Inclusive access programming workforce To build awareness to programmes 2.
W ith the arrival of Carolyn McCall in January 2018, To ensure our To ensure our and capacity and and services theBoard of Directors gender split is now 60% male, programmes workforce reflects create a culture To work with 40% female.
portray the the diverse that attracts, oursupply chain 3.
A n employee who is a director of a subsidiary of diversity of modern make-up of develops and toencourage theCompany or who has responsibility for planning, society by the modernsociety.
retains the best inclusivity directing or controlling the activities of the entity people on-screen talent possible and standards and orastrategically significant part of it.
and the editorial enables everyone tomake sure content.
Planet Greener Greener Greener footprint Greener partners programming workforce To minimise To work with To ensure our To build the our direct ourvalue chain programmes awareness and environmental toencourage communicate capacity of our footprint of energy, environmentally responsible workforce to water and waste responsible environmental haveapositive in our operations.
standards and messaging through impact on the behaviours.
Partnerships Empowering Empowering Empowering Empowering charities and our workforce our viewers communities causes To empower our To use our To inspire and To use our mass workforce to give programmes at engage our local audience reach back, through the heart of popular communities to and influence to timeand skills, culture to raise make a positive raise awareness tosupport local awareness of difference.
or donations communities pressing social fornational and and causes.
topics and inspire international change.
Responsible business To embed responsible business practices at the heart of everything we do, including good governance, business ethics and stakeholder engagement, and to strive for continual improvements.
20 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Corporate responsibility People Planet Partnerships We strive to ensure diversity in our Our aim is to increase awareness of We believe partnerships mean on-screen programming and in our environmental sustainability through collaborating with others to make workforce, ensuring that were relevant ourprogrammes while minimising the apositive contribution to society.
Our people are the environmental impact of our operations.
Everyweek, our programmes reach over driving force of ITV.
We run our business Through our reach and value chain, 60%ofthe UK population.
As a producer in a way that nurtures an engaged wehave the chance to create long-term broadcaster, our biggest impact is andinclusive workforce.
This means change by bringing environmental theinfluence our content has on the attracting people from all backgrounds awareness and sustainable behaviour thoughtsand actions of our viewers.
to work at and with ITV, enabling into the heart of popular culture.
We recognise the opportunity this everyone to be their best atwork.
presents to reflect modern society, shape conversations and encourage action on the things that matter.
Our on-screen social cause strategy is focused on health and wellbeing, to inspire, engage and empower people to make a difference totheir own and other peoples health.
ITVs Employee Network Groups Low emission vehicles 1 million minutes Active networks like ITV Ambassadors, Improving the environmental impact of In the UK more than one million older ITV Pride and The Womens Network help our operations is an important focus at people are chronically lonely, and connect colleagues and help identify ITV.
In2017, our ITV Daytime team, who Christmas isone of the loneliest times.
ways to make ITV an even more inclusive look after Good Morning Britain, Lorraine, Thats why, in December 2017, Good place towork.
In 2017 we launched two This Morning and Loose Women, bought Morning Britain repeated its awardnew networks: ITV Balance for working a range of Plug-in Hybrid Electric vehicles winning campaign, 1 Million Minutes, parents, grandparents and carers, and ITV to replace older diesel models.
These asking viewers to pledge just30 minutes Embrace, the Black, Asian and Minority vehicles each drive about 40,000 miles of their time to support an older person.
ayear to broadcast footage from outside Partnering with a number of charities, the studio.
Not only do the new vehicles the campaign was promoted on-air in save fuel and money, they are technically theUK and abroad, including Austria, more advanced, and so transmit better Australia, Canada and South Africa.
Theresponse from viewers was amazing, with over 22.7 million minutes pledged during the month of the campaign, which makes a real difference to so many lives.
Further information More information on our responsibility initiatives can be found online.
