The Weir Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategy in Action: People The Group is committed to delivering azero-harm workplace for all our people.
Everyone has the right and responsibility to stop operations if theyhave any safety concerns.
Keeping our people safe Overview The Group is committed to delivering a zero-harm workplace for all our people.
This means ensuring they have a safe journey to work, care for each other and return to their families safe and healthy each day.
A safe Weir is ultimately a more efficient and productive organisation generating value for all our stakeholders.
To achieve this we have a comprehensive strategy based around our Weir Zero Harm programme, which started in 2011 and since then has continually evolved, delivering year-on-year improvements in safety for all our people.
Progress achieved in 2017 was enhanced by a focus on behaviours.
This saw a concerted Group-wide effort to encourage people at every level of the organisation to look for, demonstrate and promote the behaviours that keep them and their colleagues safe.
Roberto Kuahara, Divisional Vice President of Operations and Value Chain Excellence at Weir Overall, this emphasis on behavioural Oil & Gas, led the team that delivered behavioural safety helped achieve a 20% safety training to 90% of Weir Pressure Pumping.
improvement in total incident rate to0.53.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 It was seen as critical that every person in the business unit understood the Companys health and safety roadmap and what role they could play in improving their own working space and environment.
Changing behaviours Sharing best practice In 2017, our new health and safety charter In early February 2017, Weir Pressure and programme was rolled out across Pumping rolled out initial pilot training all businesses.
One of our units, Weir across a number of functional areas Pressure Pumping, based in Fort Worth, including Supply Chain and Operations, Texas, is our largest facility and over the with the aim of embedding a new course of the year they have delivered behavioural approach within the marked improvements across a number businesstowards health and safety of areas.
This was achieved by moving to a It was seen as critical that every person more proactive approach when dealing in the business unit understood the with health and safety issues, with all Companys health and safety roadmap employees empowered to call out safety and what role they could play in improving concerns to colleagues and managers.
their own working space and environment.
Part of this training included teaching To achieve a change in behaviour and managers to seek mentoring opportunities attitude within the business, it was that are designed to enable comfortable essential that all employees were conversations between colleagues about given the training and tools needed reducing risk.
to improve their safety and the welfare of their colleagues.
Around 90% of the workforce were trained in 2017, and by the end of the year, 694 mentoring opportunities had been recorded, each one providing a unique opportunity for management to speak with an employee and discuss potential improvements.
The more of these discussions that take place, the less likelihood there is of an injury or accident occurring.
The business is also ensuring that all observations are shared globally online to allow the wider Group visibility and the opportunity to learn from theseprocedures.
