Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 57 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability review The Weir Groups vision is People a zero-harm workplace for Inspiring our people to flourish people and an environment where everyone goes home safe and healthy.
Chief Executive Officers Safety Committee Bringing safety and The CEOs Safety Committee was established in 2016 to give Board-level operations even leadership to the Groups ambition of becoming a zero-harm workplace.
The closer together Committee consists of senior leaders Introduction from across the Group, including the Weir Valves & Controls USA Inc. three divisional presidents and the WVC USA is proud of their current ChiefPeople Officer and embodies safety record, but that doesnt stop thepriorities of our Safety Charter.
the team from constantly looking for TheCommittee oversees Safety, Health areas for improvement.
and Environment SHE performance, ensuring the Group systems and The company based in Ipswich, processes are best set up to deliver Massachusetts, has always had a ourZero Harm vision.
safety-centric culture and, in 2017 its President Mark Claffey and its SHE Excellence Committee Director of Operations Bert McGrath The Safety, Health and Environment implemented a system which is SHE Excellence Committee supports designed to capitalise on their People are at the heart of the the Board and provides leadership, employees passion for safety and Groups We are Weir strategy with co-ordination and support for the delivery empower them to implement change.
our commitment to caring for our of the Group SHE objectives set by the colleagues, our neighbours and CEOs Safety Committee.
It is tasked by WVC USA took elements of the famed the environment and inspiring the Board to drive continuous SHE Japanese system, Kaizen, and applied them all to flourish.
improvement across the Group through it to areas of their business operations.
setting and assessing rigorous standards Kaizen translates as continual The quality and commitment of our that are comprehensive, risk-based, improvement and is a system which is people has always been a competitive deliverable and built on the best practice often used within lean manufacturing.
advantage for the Group, from the of our peers, customers and professional Weir Valves and Controls USA, taking engineers that design our equipment to bodies.
The progress towards an the key elements of Kaizen, now the operations staff who manufacture it increasingly behavioural safety culture has encourages cross-functional teams to and the on-site experts who support been the priority of the SHE Excellence review existing processes, products our customers around the world.
Committee and is evident in the focus and services to look for new, safer onthe engagement elements of our methods and solutions.
As a business that relies on a highZeroHarm strategy.
performance culture, we appreciate The system has been successful the importance of offering our people SHE performance throughout its first year, with teams of the opportunity to fulfil their potential 2017 is a year that the Group should feel employees from different fields feeling and provide a workplace that keeps proud of when it comes to SHE.
Having empowered to find solutions through them safe, engaged and inspired to challenged ourselves to make a material innovation and out of the box thinking.
do the best work of their lives.
reduction in the number of lost-time Mark Claffey stated: I am proud of the incidents as well as maintaining our To achieve that, we invest in Ipswich plant employees who have continuous positive trend regarding safety programmes, learning and embraced and actively participated in overall recordable injuries as represented development opportunities and this safety process.
As we continue by the Total Incident Rate, we delivered leadership.
We are also committed on the path to Zero Harm, a true safety an excellent performance.
All three to developing a new sustainable culture shift is only successful with Divisions made significant improvements engagement score to measure education, awareness and participation and contributed to a 33% reduction in our progress in developing an of all shop and office employees.
Lost Time Incidents from 30 to 20 and even more effective organisation.
a 20% reduction in the broader Total Bert McGrath added: I am very Incident Rate to 0.53.
In addition, the In addition to developing our impressed with how everyone has injuries associated with the lost time employees, the Group takes its reacted to the safety Kaizens and the incidents were much less severe.
responsibility to developing the next results we have seen so far.
Our generation of employees seriously.
business has always been safety This includes supporting programmes focused and this new system that encourage more young people generates real enthusiasm for to consider engineering as a career.
safety and a mindset to innovate.
The Weir Group PLC 58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability review: People continued Our commitment to becoming a more Total incident rate TIR Gender diversity diverse and inclusive workplace made total employees significant progress in 2017: 4 3.58 A project team was re-formed to 3 work on Group-wide D&I initiatives.
2 D&I plans were developed by every 1.03 1.61 business unit and there has been 0.75 0.67 1 0.53 0.81 good initial progress.
Groups from our Senior Management 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Team have worked on D&I initiatives Male Female throughout theyear.
Open innovation challenges have 12,891 2,015 been held throughout 2017, which Contributing to this performance bring diverse teams together to was a refresh of our Weir Zero Harm develop innovative solutions to strategy to reflect a more behavioural business challenges and opportunities.
approach to safety and our drive to Weir Gabbioneta, based in Italy, took make safety a part of every conversation part in a diversity day event, to within the third element of Weir Zero Gender diversity promote the diversity and inclusion of Harm.
Everywhere in the Group, people Board disadvantaged people within the labour are engaging with safety in a way that market.
People dealing with impaired is giving everyone the opportunity to vision, deafness, motor disability and identify safer ways of working and Down syndrome were keen to seize sharing the responsibility of looking the opportunities that the world of after each other in the workplace.
Strategic developments in SHE Weir University, our online learning 2017 saw the introduction of the platform, continues to offer a range Groups Global e-management system, Male Female of modules to help our people SHIELD, dedicated to SHE.
SHIELD increase their knowledge and skills.
gives the Group a platform on which every single employee has a presence.
7 4 In 2017, we continued to encourage It has streamlined the recording, more young people to consider STEMinvestigating and reporting of all related careers in many of the countries in SHE-related activity across the whole which we operate.
In the UK, for example, Gender diversity Weir footprint and it provides a timely we have continued our support and and accurate analytical tool to help senior management involvement with Primary Engineer and inform the wider SHE strategy.
As part of our continued commitment to the Delivering our duty of care Arkwright Scholarship Programme, Many of the Groups employees travel we provided one week summer workregularly and we have a comprehensive experience placements in Canada and process to ensure they stay healthy and the Netherlands for one scholar from safe at all times.
This includes offering our 2015 intake and two scholars from advice before, during and after any trip.
The students This provides our significant travelling Male Female spent time learning about our businesses population with the reassurance that in both countries, visiting the engineering, wherever they are going and whatever operations and commercial teams.
The 189 31 they may encounter, there is a worldstudents reported on all aspects of their class system supporting them.
trips and met with Jon Stanton at the end of the year to share their experiences Diversity and Inclusion D&I Gender diversity withhim.
Weir has been supporting As a global company operating in over Arkwright since 2012. graduate intake 70 countries, we benefit from a wide diversity of talents and aim to ensure everyone is given the opportunity to flourish regardless of their gender, race, beliefs or background.
Male Female 68% 32% TIR Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 59 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Employee engagement These innovations were in addition Employee engagement enables our to more established communications employees to realise their potential channels such as the Group intranet and contribute to improving and bulletin newsletter.
A communications survey of employees During 2017, we embedded We are received more than 1,400 responses Weir throughout the Group including with the majority indicating they felt hosting the first ever global CEO Town employee engagement across the Hall meetings.
These enabled employees Group had improved in 2017 and they from every part of the Groups operations had a good understanding of the to gather and question the CEO on We are Weir strategic framework.
Leadership capability any issue of their choice.
The level of We continue to invest in our leadership engagement was high and the feedback development programmes, including was very positive.
This was followed Weir Leader 4.0 and the Weir Business by regular CEO briefings and the Management and MBA programmes.
introduction of a direct AskJon email To complement this, we have introduced address via which employees can raise a new Weir Leader framework which is any issues they may have.
In addition, the Group launched an internal The senior leadership of the Group has social network to allow employees to been strengthened through a mix of share best practice across operations.
internal and external hires and a number of There was a strong uptake, with more key roles have been introduced in support than 4,000 members regularly sharing of our technology agenda, in particular.
stories and collaborating across the world.
role models: helping them achieve Weir Leadership Weir Minerals their aspirations by motivating them to reach their full potential: providing Programme Africa a platform todiscuss the needs of female students and their role in South In 2017, we launched the Weir Leader In 2017, Weir Minerals Africa was Africas socio-economic development: 4.0 Programme with 26 leaders from delighted to participate in the annual as well as to showcase the exciting across Weir coming together to embark  Day for the opportunities within the engineering on a nine-month learning journey.
Weir hosted and manufacturing environments.
53female learners and eight teachers, Theeventsupports our ongoing The programme has been designed from nine different schools, at both our commitment to the development to build Weir Leaders capability and Isando and Alrode facilities.
The event ofSTEM programmes and attracting commitment to deliver We are Weir had several objectives, including talentinto manufacturing and against the background of Industry 4.0. providing an insight into the world of engineering, in particular.
work to give female students positive The core of the programme is centred around two four-day sessions where thefocus is on understanding We are Weir and leaders role in delivering itsuccessfully, being clear on the expectations of them as a Weir Leader and about the legacy they want to createfor Weir.
Through a framework that incorporates strategic, performance, inclusive and change leadership dimensions, the participants completed a 360 feedback that will allow them to continue to work on the capabilities and behaviours they will need to achieve impact and success.
Further details of our people development programmes can be found at www.
weir The Weir Group PLC 60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability Review: Understanding our pay gap People continued How we calculate How we calculate the median difference the mean difference Weir gender pay gap report 2017 Lowest Median Highest hourly pay hourly pay hourly pay Respecting equal Number Mean male  of male average pay employees diversity and inclusion The Median pay The Mean difference and hourly pay difference hourly gap Number Mean female At Weir, we aim to be the most admired of female average pay engineering business in our markets employees and well achieve that ambition by being the employer of choice everywhere we operate.
We are committed to attracting Proportion of employees receiving a bonus and retaining the best people, and no matter where we are in the world we encourage fairness, respect and equal opportunities for everyone.
We value differences and believe that diversity of people, backgrounds, skills and experience makes us stronger and Male Female more effective.
In this report, we provide our gender 16% 18% pay gap information for our consolidated UK businesses, and we outline how we are working to close the gap.
Although Weir operates within industries which have been dominated Karina Zevallos by men historically, we are committed Managing Director, We need to encourage and tomaking Weir a more diverse and Weir Minerals Peru inclusive workplace and we will attract more women at all levels continueto deliver opportunities for of the organisation.
Here in Peru women to develop their careers.
By we have a female Managing 2020, we have committed to ensuring that one-third of the Board, the Group Director and Finance Director, Executive and their direct reports will which I believe is unique in Weir, befemale.
In addition, the Board will annually review our progress against but I am sure it will become gender pay D&I initiatives.
The requirements and our outcomes The UK Governments Gender Pay Gap Regulation requires legal employing entities with 250 or more employees Jenny McGeough Manufacturing Director, to publish details of their gender pay Weir Minerals Netherlands and bonus gap.
In Weir, there are two There is a definite move to make employing entities required to publish Weir more diverse and inclusive, this data, but we have taken the which is great.
Personally, I have opportunity to publish the consolidated data for our four UK companies as this found the Group to be a good covers our entire UK workforce.
place to build a career irrespective of gender, but of course wed all like to see more female role models across the business.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 61 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 and these roles are male dominated.
two programmes: 1 Leaders It is expected that over the next few Awards and 2 Institution of By 2020 we have committed years, the bonus gap will increase in line Primary Engineers and Institution with the vesting of our LTIP awards for of Secondary Engineers.
Leaders to ensuring that one-third of the leadership group, and also to reflect Awards is a free-to-schools the Board, the Group Executive the vesting outcomes of awards held by programme, where pupils from our Executive Directors and UK-based both primary and secondary schools and their direct reports will Group Executive Members.
In addition, the the programme, pupils interview an Board will annually review Improving diversity and working engineer and then, inspired by them, to close the gap use engineering to solve a problem.
our progress against gender As a global company, we aim to reflect They illustrate their invention and all pay D&I initiatives.
the diversity of our customers, and we entries are marked by engineers or seek to recruit, develop and promote those working in the industry.
people regardless of background and Students at the Faculty of Engineering personal circumstances.
at the University of Strathclyde then select a winning entry to be turned We are committed to making Weir into a prototype each year.
Through a more diverse and inclusive place to the Institution of Primary and 1 Weir UK work because we believe it improves Secondary Engineers, it is Primary Mean and median pay and bonus gap the performance of our teams and we Engineers aim is to develop the Mean Median are committed to delivering current and skills and confidence in teachers first Gender Pay Gap 8% 10% new initiatives to make Weir a more and then extend from this secure Gender Bonus Gap 22% 11% diverse and inclusive place to work.
foundation into the classroom, with programmes focusing on skills Driving best practice: a crossdelivery and development.
Weirs Proportion of males and females business group working on Groupown engineers are also working with receiving a bonus wide D&I priorities including diversity Primary Engineer in schools where training.
During 2017, we established they have a presence, attending Male 16% Female 18% #, on Yammer, some of these sessions.
which is being used by our Leadership development: we are Proportion of males and females employees to share knowledge, looking to expand our learning and ineach pay quartile band learning and best practice.
development programmes to provide Pay Quartile Male Female On a regular basis, our businesses more support for women with the undertake diversity audits against our establishment of mentoring groups.
This enables As we roll out this initiative, we Upper Middle 88% 12% us to identify areas of best practice will also pilot a reverse mentoring Lower Middle 88% 12% and to develop action plans to address programme to build awareness, Lower 76% 24% areas needing improvement.
of resulting actions and initiatives is Flexible working: we are working Gender pay and equal pay monitored by our Group Executive.
with our local business leadership The gender pay gap is different from Encouraging women into STEM: Weir teams to investigate ways we equal pay, which relates to men and Flow Control France is working with allow employees to work to suit women being paid the same for similar the French Ministry of Education to their personal responsibilities roles or work of equal value.
Our pay promote diversity and inclusion in the and circumstances.
policies are designed to ensure equal engineering sector, partnering with We are a member of Opportunity pay for equal jobs and we have the government on an initiative which Now which empowers employers processes in place to ensure pay aims to boost the number of women to accelerate change for women levels are reviewed consistently.
pursuing careers in mechanical in the workplace.
We have also founded We are a member of Race for Understanding our background and the Association of Female Engineers Opportunity which is committed to what our pay gap tells us to support and promote successful improving employment opportunities In common with other companies within women in engineering to students for ethnic minorities across the UK.
the engineering sectors, the majority in colleges and university.
Charles Berry, our Chairman, is on of our employees are men 86.5% as at Weir Wise: we have partnered with the steering group of the Hampton- 31 December 2017.
Although we are the University of Strathclyde to Alexander Review which aims to taking actions to bring more women into inspire young female students to improve the representation of our companies and to promote internally, become the next generation of women in leadership positions they are currently under-represented in engineers.
On a two-day programme, of FTSE 350 companies.
our senior roles which is reflected in the participants learn about the benefits upper pay quartile outcomes.
Globally, of studying maths and physics, Further details we are making progress on increasing participate in team-based challenges A copy of the full report can be found our female leadership, but we need to and gain awareness of the university on our website www.
build more opportunities for women and Weir.
Targeting 50% female intake on our global graduate programme.
As regards the bonus gap, only our Primary Engineer Weir Group leadership roles are eligible for is supporting Primary Engineer participation in our LTIP programmes 20172020 with funding towards 1.
This represents the consolidated data for our four UK companies which covers our entire UK workforce.
The Weir Group PLC 62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability Review Ethics Committed to business integrity FTSE4Good Our current Code of Conduct is available We have been a member of FTSE4Good to download, in 13 languages, from for seven years, an equity index series our website.
that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised We provide targeted mandatory corporate responsibility standards.
The e-learning training in respect of the Company is proud to have been able Code of Conduct to employees who are Introduction to consistently meet the stringent deemed to have a potentially higher risk environmental, social and governance of exposure to bribery and corruption as a criteria set by FTSE4Good and we consequence of their geographic location remain committed to continuously and or decision-making responsibilities.
To date, 4,700 employees have completed Transparency International the anti-bribery and corruption compliance We are a member of Transparency training.
All new employees who are International UKs Business Integrity deemed to fall into the higher risk Forum, the UKs leading anti-corruption category must undertake the training as forum for businesses in all sectors.
After completion This membership enables us to support of the training, all participants are asked to Transparency Internationals global confirm that they have read, understood At Weir, we are proud to be a business movement of seeking a world free from and will comply with the Code of Conduct.
which strives to achieve the highest corruption.
We have signed up to a set ethical standards and sound business of principles and remain committed to The Code of Conduct is reinforced principles.
This is firmly reflected in fight against corruption and ensure that through various means of communication our corporate values and in our Code we are honest and accountable in the with our employees, such as Town Hall of Conduct.
We understand our role business that we do and that we strive meetings, conferences, training courses in the communities we work in, and torespect fundamental human rights and our integration process in respect of beyond, and the influence we can andfreedoms.
We have an established have to drive change.
training programme in place and the Weir Code of Conduct legal team continues to provide face-toWe also recognise the responsibilities Our Code of Conduct sets out the Weir face training to employees of various that we share with our suppliers and values in a clear and concise manner.
In 2017, we remain committed to establishing It promotes compliance with applicable the team conducted training in Trio USA, open and transparent relationships laws, rules and regulations and provides Trio China, Weir Minerals Europe, Weir with them.
details on how we expect our people Minerals Africa, Weir Gabbioneta and to conduct themselves on a day-to-day Weir Dubai.
We are committed to business basis, both internally and externally.
integrity and high ethical standards.
TheCode of Conduct provides a clear Any employee found in breach of We operate under a Code of Conduct framework for decision-making in line the Code of Conduct may be liable which promotes honest and ethical with our values and behaviours.
It applies to disciplinary action, up to and behaviour and our aim is to ensure to all Weir employees, agents and including termination of employment that our customers, suppliers, suppliers.
Various measures are taken to or cancellation of contract.
We also investors, employees, and the ensure that we only enter into business ensure that we have a right to communities where we operate relationships with third parties who are terminate any agency agreement in have the confidence to trust us.
committed to applying similar standards.
the event that any agent is found to We not only stress the importance of be in breach of its ethical obligations.
complying with the Code of Conduct butalso encourage our employees to Information on the Code of Conduct and promptly report any concerns or apparent its application in the Companys supply breaches that they may become aware chain can be found in the Suppliers and ofwithout fear of retribution.
Employees third parties section below.
can also choose to report concerns anonymously through our Ethics Hotline.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 63 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Conflicts of interest We have a number of measures in Weir is a member of the UK governmentOur Conflicts of Interest Policy places place to protect human rights including sponsored Prompt Payment Code PPC, particular emphasis on outlining the Code of Conduct, Weir Supply which sets standards designed to support what may constitute a conflict and Chain Policy, Weir SHE Standards and on-time payment to small and medium the correct process for disclosing any a programme of supplier audits and sized enterprises SMEs as well as wider perceived conflict to management.
Our Human Rights Policy has payment procedures.
Best practice is The policy provides clear guidance also been updated to ensure it reflects administered by the Chartered Institute to all of our employees to assist them recent legal developments in this area.
of Credit Management and compliance with understanding the mandatory In addition, a mandatory e-learning with the principles of the PPC is closely requirements for the identification, training programme has been developed monitored and enforced by the PPC reporting and management of actual and is, in the first instance, aimed at Compliance Board.
or potential conflicts of interest.
employees who are located in identified high-risk jurisdictions.
The e-learning In addition, the Group is committed to Anti-bribery and corruption programme aims to increase awareness working only with third parties, including As part of our commitment to continually and compliance with the Modern Slavery customers, sub-contractors, suppliers monitoring and improving anti-bribery Act and Weirs responsibilities.
and joint venture and strategic alliance and corruption practices throughout our partners, whose business ethics and global operations, we have reviewed General Data Protection Regulation behaviours are consistent with our own our anti-bribery policy and expect to GDPR Code of Conduct.
implement the update of this policy With GDPR being applicable from in 2018.
In addition, our internal audit May 2018, we have been reviewing and Our Code of Conduct is issued to all department regularly undertake antiupdating existing policies and procedures of our key suppliers.
Assessments are bribery and corruption reviews.
They and, where applicable, implementing new undertaken with regard to compliance maintain a cyclical, risk-based plan with practices to ensure compliance with the with Group standards and Group policies four Code of Conduct reviews specific new legislation.
as part of the vetting process for new to anti-bribery and corruption undertaken suppliers.
In addition, key suppliers are during 2017 in addition to our standard Suppliers and third parties audited regularly to ensure ongoing internal audit programme of both full We source raw materials, components compliance.
We are also implementing and limited scope reviews.
No indicators and services across the globe.
Our a mandatory training programme for of any bribery or corruption were found suppliers play a critical role in our our employees to improve their in 2017. business and our relationships with them understanding and ability to identify are based on achieving best performance, signs of Modern Slavery within supply Gifts and hospitality product, delivery, service and total cost chains to promote fair and honest A review of our Gifts and Hospitality in an ethical and sustainable manner.
Wherever possible, Policy was undertaken in 2017 and the Embracing a closer relationship with we work with our suppliers to support focus in 2018 will be on training and our key suppliers is fundamental to our them to address weaknesses identified.
raising continued awareness of the Value Chain Excellence initiative.
Conflict Minerals Policy We recognise that our responsibilities We continue to monitor guidance and Modern Slavery Act extend to our supply chain.
We have legislation in relation to conflict minerals We understand our role in eradicating a Supply Chain Policy which sets out and in particular the responsible sourcing slavery of any kind.
Following a review the minimum standards we expect our of tungsten, tantalum, tin and gold the of our existing policies and practices suppliers to abide by with respect to: 3TG minerals.
Along with internal and in light of the introduction of the briefings and updates, we have prepared Modern Slavery Act in the UK, we business ethics: a Conflict Minerals Policy in order to published our first annual Modern how they treat their workforce: ensure compliance as necessary.
We Slavery Statement in March 2017 and legal and regulatory compliance: continue to work with our customers have subsequently developed a training health and safety: and to provide the supply chain information programme for specific employees on environmental standards.
A copy of our statement can be found on our website at www.
This statement details the steps we are taking to ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not take place in any of our supply chains or in any part of our business.
The Weir Group PLC 64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability Review Our Communities Building relationships with our local communities In addition to approaching community Charitable giving relations in an open and transparent In 2017, the total amount of charitable manner, we seek to support charitable donations made by Group companies organisations through donations and was 533,603 2016: 456,000.
do not make political donations.
Our charitable donations include cash and We recognise that as an organisation non-cash items such as services, Introduction with a global reach, our influence is not materials, employee time and use insignificant, particularly in developing of corporate facilities.
Our charitable and philanthropic work focuses on the key priorities of In 2017 the Group continued to support improving the health and education of Newlands Junior College, a vocational our employees and the local community.
school that provides career opportunities We recognise that contributing to these to young people who have become important areas can have an enduring disengaged from the traditional education positive effect on the local area.
The College provides vocational training and helps young people to In addition to supporting charitable develop and reach their potential The organisations, Weir contributes to local Group donated 100,000 to Newlands communities by being a source of Junior College in 2017.
Weir is a global business which employment, education and training: operates in over 70 countries.
We set through the payment of taxes: and, in The Group continues to support The clear expectations for how each of our many instances, the contribution to local Arkwright Scholarships Trust following businesses should interact and engage supply chains.
This can make a substantial initial engagement in 2012.
Partnering with people and other organisations.
positive contribution to the communities with organisations in industry and Wherever we operate inthe world, in which we operate.
professional engineering institutions, weaim to: theprogramme identifies and nurtures The Group supports the health of its high-potential students in UK schools, enhance the local community employees, their families and communities encouraging them to pursue engineering byrunning our operations safely, through various programmes and or technical design at university or ethically and responsibly: initiatives, which are often run in through a higher-level apprenticeship.
respect the communities we partnership with local service providers.
In2017, the two scholars who were operate in: and recruited in 2016 undertook a five-day invest in the communities for Weir is a 147-year-old engineering summer placement at our facility in Venlo, thelong-term mutual benefit of company, and our commitment to the Netherlands.
We were delighted to thecommunity and Weir.
training is as strong in the 21st century welcome another two scholars onto the as it was in the 19th.
We are dedicated programme at an awards ceremony in We strive to build close relationships to developing engineering excellence and Edinburgh in October2017.
in our communities by keeping local we were the first company in Scotland people informed about projects which to set up an apprentice school.
Weir The Group continued to support Primary might affect them.
If issues arise, we is a founding member of the Institute Engineer in 2017.
Primary Engineer listen and do our best to help to find a of Primary and Secondary Engineers, is a not-for-profit organisation which solution.
Our Ethics Hotline is available an institution which seeks to promote for any individual to use if they wish science, technology, engineering and to raise concerns about ethical and Charitable donations mathematics subjects to school children compliance-related conduct involving of all ages in the UK.
1 3 Weir provides experience and training to develop the next generation of engineers.
Although our focus is on engineering, we also provide work placements and internships across all sectors.
Our 2 placements give young people from around the world the opportunity to experience working for a global business.
1 Community 29% 2 Education 56% 3 Health 15% Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 65 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 We support the communities that we operate in through the payment of taxes, employment and philanthropic efforts.
aims to encourage young people to prototypes, through to showcasing Canadas Old Brewery Mission OBM.
consider careers in science, technology, thefinal models, this comprehensive The OBM is a local charitable organisation engineering and mathematics STEM competition gives competing students that helps Montreals homeless men and by offering primary and secondary real insight into the engineering design women by providing hot meals, mental schools a way to deliver practical process.
Weir Minerals are very proud health programmes, and social housing, mathematics and science to design to be a part of this reputable academic as well as finding permanent solutions and make activities.
Moving forward, competition and would like to thank every to re-integrate these men and women the Group will support Primary Engineer university that has taken part over the last back into society.
It was a very humbling with the Scottish Engineering Leaders 30 years the competition wouldnt be experience for those that participated Awards and continues to support the where it is today without their ongoing and they all left the mission with a Institute of Primary Engineers and support and participation.
greater sense of gratitude for their own Institute of Secondary Engineers.
In the month leading up Weir Marine Engineering to the supper experience, the group held Employee activities gives a helping hand to the a number of fundraising activities and We are very proud of the charitable work Montreal homeless with the help of their colleagues, they that our people undertake.
Our businesses In 2017 a group of 15 Weir Marine managed to raise over 2,000 CAD for operate their own policies for supporting Engineering employees took part in the OBM and surpassed their primary these, whether by matching donations, The Supper Experience at Montreal, goal of 1,500 CAD.
providing support or equipment or by allowing employees to participate in charitable activities during working hours.
During 2017, our employees undertookmany charitable projects.
Asmall selection of these projects ishighlightedbelow.
Weir Minerals Peru tree planting In August 2017, Weir Minerals Peru held its second volunteer initiative, Hands of Solidarity Tree Planting Campaign 2017.
The objective was to highlight theimportance of environmental care andpreservation by planting trees and shrubs, while improving the appearance of the park adjacent to the Weir Minerals facility in Lima.
More than 100 employees volunteered and participated with great enthusiasm and team spirit.
Three groups were organised: Air, Water and Land.
The Air group participated in planting 90 trees and shrubs in the park.
The Water group planted more than 300 shrubs to create a hedge, and the Earth 2 group sowed morethan 250 m of grass 2 seed.
In total, 3,000m of green space was landscaped.
The Warman Design andBuildCompetition The Warman Design and Build competition, established by Engineers Australia and sponsored by Weir Minerals, has been providing first and second year mechanical engineering university students in the Asia-Pacific region the platform to apply their knowledge in a practical application for the past 30 years.
From brainstorming of ideas and building The Weir Group PLC 66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Sustainability Review Environment Creating opportunities to improve the environmental performance of our operationsand those of our customers.
2017 performance highlights Environmental protection Operational control No environmental incidents, penalties or The Weir SHE Management Standards set fines were reported at sites under the our expectations and provide a framework operational control of the Group during for environmental risk management, the year ended 31 December 2017. incorporating key elements such as regulatory compliance, risk assessment, Operational resilience Introduction self-audit, and employee engagement.
As a business with global reach we canbe exposed to a wide range of Our continued commitment to robust extreme weather events in different environmental protection is well reflected geographic locations.
in the performance of our facilities.
In 2017 Hurricane Harvey landed in the We are pleased to report a 2.5% increase US, the most powerful hurricane to hit in overall compliance with environmental the state of Texas in more than 50 years, standards across our businesses during and one of the countrys costliest natural 2017, compared to that assessed in 2016. disasters with damage estimated at $125billion 90 billion.
We are committed to doing business responsibly and sustainably.
How we Creating a more sustainable future operate is just as important as how we deliver financial success.
Our role in the circular economy Circularity has clear environmental and We are proud to play a role in helping social benefits, reducing pressure on Webelieve that acting in an our partners and customers move natural finite resources by rethinking and environmentally sustainable way towards a more circular economy.
redesigning beyond the traditional linear protects and creates long-term value, economy of Take, make, and dispose.
not just for our shareholders, but for A circular economy seeks to design allour stakeholders, and supports out waste and pollution, keep resources During 2017, Weir Minerals Europe the long-term future of our business.
in use for as long as possible, extract secured the perfect opportunity to support maximum value whilst in use, then regional ambitions for greater circularity In a competitive world with finite recover and regenerate at the end of through a new waste recovery facility in resources, managing the environmental service life.
The facility is being performance of our operations makes built by ACCN Ash Cleaning Company good business sense.
Netherlands, a joint venture between Boskalis Environmental and Inashco.
We actively invest in research and development through our central research and development hub as well as through its network of academic research partners in some of the worlds leading universities.
This enables us to develop and exploitemerging technologies to create new products for our end markets and provide competitive advantages to ourcustomers through leading edge technology, with improved operational efficiency and environmental management, reduced energy consumption, emissions, water useand waste production.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Seven sites within our Oil & Gas division Over 15,100 tonnes of scrap metal were During 2017, total GHG emissions for were affected to varying degrees.
reused within our foundry operations our seven foundries decreased by 3%.
during 2017, comprising 42% of all metal Carbon intensity of the metals poured Fortunately, our employees were poured in the foundries 2016: 34%.
improved marginally with the use of unharmed and our sites only suffered This was a notable increase on 2016 lower carbon fuels.
Thanks to asset figures and a great outcome from resilience and a robust response from the efficiency-focused initiatives, such With the Weir Minerals Europe WME division, eventual business interruption as the Foundry Best Practice Forum.
total solutions approach and its excellent was minimised and the financial impact cross-team collaboration, we secured an was contained to 545k $750k.
CDP climate change initiative order for a range of equipment, including We submit annual CDP reports to Warman Slurry Pumps, submersible We continue to enable our customers to shareour risk management approach Screw Flow Pumps, Cavex Cyclones, protect their own operations and business toclimate change and our greenhouse a Linatex Dense Medium Separator, interests through our technical support gas GHG emissionsperformance.
Trio Coarse and Fine Material Washers and innovative products.
In 2017, we achieved a score of C: For example, the total mine dewatering Awareness for changes implemented Once built, our equipment will enable solutions provided by Weir Minerals, to business strategy and the reductions the advanced washing installation to drawing on extensive engineering and in GHG emissions achieved.
recycle up to 500,000 tonnes of bottom application expertise.
ash, a by-product from the incineration of household waste in nearby waste-to- 2017 CDP score It is important, particularly where water energy plants, into valuable raw materials, is in short supply that we continue to including metals, sand and gravels.
develop technology to ensure that the water drawn out by dewatering systems This follows technical advice and specialist C becomes a resource for mining or even equipment provided by WME for the HVC for other uses by communities surrounding WASH facility in the same region, the the mine sites.
Rather than itgoing to worlds first large-scale fully integrated Greenhouse gas emissions waste, it is increasingly important to washing plant for incinerator bottom ash.
As an energy and carbon intensive manage and reuse the water effectively, The facility diverts bottom ash from business, operating seven foundries improving the resilience of mine site landfill, provides recycled raw materials worldwide, the Group recognises the processes and activities in increasingly for road construction and concrete importance of measuring and minimising harsh environments.
products, and also separates valuable the greenhouse gas GHG emissions metals for reuse.
from operations over which it has control.
Resource efficiency Our foundries and manufacturing With expertise in innovative equipment The Groups total annual GHG emissions  seek to improve and industry-leading knowledge of waste in tCO e for the year ended 31December 2 resource efficiency and to reduce costs: recovery and recycling, WME is proud 2017 were 133,737 tCO e 2016: 136,167 2 delivering real results for our Value Chain of the critical role it plays in solutions for tCO e. This comprises a 2% decrease 2 Excellence initiative.
in total absolute GHG emissions for the Group when compared with 2016 figures.
Total annual GHG emissions Global annual GHG emissions GHG emissions intensity tCO2e tCO2e per m revenue Baseline: Baseline: 2017 2016 2013 2017 2016 2013 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities 33,300 37,170 53,316 14.1 20.1 21.9 Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat 100,437 98,997 107,581 42.6 53.7 44.3 Total 133,737 136,167 160,897 56.7 73.8 66.2 Annual GHG emissions from foundries Annual GHG emissions Proportion of global annual emissions GHG emissions intensity tCO e % tCO e per tonne of metal poured 2 2 Baseline: Baseline: Baseline: 2017 2016 2013 2017 2016 2013 2017 2016 2013 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities 10,799 13,536 16,738 8.1 9.9 10.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat 52,432 51,501 48,705 39.2 37.8 30.3 1.5 1.5 1.4 Total 63,231 65,037 65,443 47.3 47.7 40.7 1.8 1.9 1.9 Scope 1 emissions: fuel combustion and operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions: purchased electricity and heat.
We report on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do not have responsibility for emission sources that are not included in our consolidated statement.
We have referred to the GHG Protocol: Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and used emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 and other region-specific emissions factors where available.
