Strategic Report: Being a responsible business Being a responsible business We are continuously looking for ways to improve the impact we have as a business As we continue to grow we must ensure This year Admiral celebrates its 25th Birthday that we do our utmost to continue to be a and we arent resting on our laurels, we are responsible business.
At its core insurance continuously looking for ways to improve the serves a real social purpose, protecting people impact we have as a business, whether that from the adverse impact of potentially life is the formation of the Ministry of Giving to changing events.
That is why we continue facilitate giving back to the local community, to base our business model around building the employee assistance programme to sustainable operations for the long-term.
aid our employees through difficult times In addition to providing protection for our or the Admiral Green month to encourage customers we also aim to contribute positively people to think more about their impact on to the wider communities in which we operate the environment.
and minimize our impacts on the environment.
David Stevens, CBE Chief Executive Officer Our approach We take a materiality approach to our corporate social responsibility reporting, where we identify the areas that have the most impact on our stakeholders.
This allows us to report effectively on the topics that matter most.
Our business is centred on four significant stakeholders: our customers, our people, our communities, and our environment.
It is these four stakeholders who drive the core focus of our corporate social Customers responsibility strategy.
If you are interested in finding out more about our impact as a business then our Corporate Social Responsibility Report People Communities can be found on our website.
"Environment 38 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our Customers Our Communities Our Environment ""We put our customers at the We also encourage our staff This year we held our first centre of everything we do to get their hands dirty and Admiral Green Month, reaching help local causes out to staff to make Admiral a greener place to work."
Simply put, without our customers we We play a positive role in our communities Our Environmental Policy is aligned wouldn't have a business, so we put our through charitable giving and sponsorship with our policy of sustainable growth as customers at the centre of everything of local community partnerships.
As an outlined in the Group business model.
employer, we promote payroll giving and We are committed to: provide matched funding for eligible staff We are so passionate about making initiatives.
In 2017 Admiral Group donated Raising and maintaining employee the customer experience a great 140,000 to local and national charities.
awareness of, and ensuring that one that Cristina Nestares, our CEO all of our people are actively of UK Insurance, produces a monthly Donations to good causes engaged in, activities to reduce our commentary on all things 'customer'.
140,000 environmental impact This looks at fantastic customer stories, 2016: 110,000 changes to processes that have helped Measuring and monitoring key improve the customer experience and aspects of our environmental This year we have established the Admiral includes great customer comments.
performance and regularly reviewing Ministry of Giving in the UK with the aim This is shared across the whole Group progress to reduce the amount of of complementing the way that our staff to inspire and motivate.
already give back to the community.
Over This year we held our first Admiral a two year period the Ministry will give During the year we have restructured Green Month.
This month was all about significant donations to a small number of our customer quality departments reaching out to staff to make Admiral local charities across South Wales, chosen to form a new customer assurance a greener place to work, and minimise by our staff, totalling 400,000. team that delivers not only effective the impact we have on the environment.
complaints handling but also includes Our involvement in our communities Highlights of the month included a a prevention team who deal with doesnt just consist of monetary talk from our partners Size of Wales, auditing, monitoring and training donations, we also encourage our staff who seek to protect the rainforest our customer facing staff to improve to get their hands dirty and help local and 1,500 employees signing our customer experience.
This year we saw a team from UK environmental commitment.
customer services helping a DIY SOS big Our customers share a lot of GHG gas emissions build, a team from UK claims volunteering personal data with us and we have a at an animal shelter and countless 3,642 CO2e responsibility to keep this safe.
do this by training all our staff on our 2016: 3,764 CO2e Data Handling Process and Data Policy, and ensure that every member of staff receives training on cyber security.
"% % % 95 84 86 of customers would of staff say they feel of staff agree that we renew following good about the ways are working to reduce a claim we contribute to the our environmental community impact Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Strategic Report: Being a responsible business Being a responsible business continued Our People "" I feel like a proud father when I think about all the amazing things that our staff do for each other, for customers and for our local community."
"They are an inspiration to me and I know they inspire each other and people in their communities. """
Ceri Assiratti, Head of People Services Safety Communication We pride ourselves on the relaxed, fun Communication is at the forefront of what and most importantly safe atmosphere at we do and we strive for open and honest Admiral and we have a number of initiatives communication at all levels of the business.
in place to ensure all our staff feel safe This focus has a range of scales from annual coming to work.
Recently we introduced Staff General Meetings where the senior % a Company-wide Employee Assistance managers address all staff to talk about the 94 Programme EAP to provide proactive companys performance and business plan, of staff think Admiral assistance to all UK employees on a range to friendly forums where small numbers of issues from eldercare to face-to-face of individuals from different departments is a friendly place counselling.
In addition, we have an extensive will get together to discuss a range of to work whistle blowing policy to prevent fraud, topics.
In addition there are several digital theft or ethically questionable practices.
communications channels, ranging from a This is explained fully to staff via the monthly Group-wide online chats to an 'Ask company intranet.
David' website where anyone in the company can submit a question for CEO David Stevens.
Going the extra mile We encourage our staff to use their initiative and go the extra mile for the customer, below is one of the many notable examples from 2017: One of our policyholders was involved in an accident and required an urgent settlement to allow her to get back and forth to chemotherapy treatment.
The customer didnt have a hire car ancillary, however, we thought outside the box and hired the customer a car for a week to allow her time to purchase a new car.
On the day of the claim, the customer was too ill to get her belongings out of the car and a family member was going to help her.
We kept the policy active and didnt instruct salvage until the car was emptied.
This took the pressure off the customer and allowed her time to remove her belongings in a time frame that suited her.
The claim was reported to us at 10:40am and was settled and paid by 12:30pm less than two hours.
40 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The fun we had last year All teams in Admiral have regular away days to build team spirit and inspire and encourage people to enjoy coming to work.
All departments have a budget per head for fun money, which can be put towards afternoons out.
Examples of afternoons out taken by teams in the last 12 months include: circus skills at NoFit State Circus, pizza making, completing a muddy assault course, duck herding and many more.
We fully support the aims of the Modern Equality Rewards Slavery Act and seek to ensure slavery and We believe that all employees have the right We try to inspire staff to go above and human trafficking does not feature in our to be treated equally, with dignity, integrity beyond in their everyday roles, and rewards business or supply chain, more information and respect.
This year we have updated and recognition are a key part of that.
about our commitment to preventing our Equal Opportunities Policy with the One way we recognise our employees modern slavery can be found in our Modern support of The Advisory, Conciliation and achievements is with different prestigious Slavery Statement on our corporate website.
Arbitration Service ACAS to create a more internal awards throughout the year.
comprehensive policy based on Diversity We also encourage everyday recognition, Gender pay gap and Inclusion.
A new Diversity and Inclusion through departmental schemes such as We are confident men and women are training programme was also rolled out for all the hi-five scheme.
Our customers share a paid equally for performing the same staff to reflect this new revised policy.
lot of personal data with us and we have a role, but we acknowledge that there is responsibility to keep this safe.
We do this People Services executives make our Equal a difference in proportion of men and by training all our staff on our Data Handling Opportunities and Discrimination Policy clear women at differing levels of the Group.
We Process and Data Policy, and ensure that to all members of staff during induction, encourage women to advance professionally every member of staff receives training on and it is also available in our Big Book, which and offer opportunities to do this from cyber security.
outlines company policy for all staff.
funding support for training to mentorship programmes.
We endeavour to make it easier Since 2005 employees at Admiral have been Diversity for both men and women to reconcile their awarded shares in the Groups two Share We are very proud of our diversity at work lives with their family lives.
The first is the All Employee Approved Admiral and anti-discrimination is Share Incentive Plan SIP.
In the SIP every Further information on our gender pay gap something we take very seriously.
We member of staff receives the same number can be found in our Gender Pay Gap Report provide a supportive working environment of shares regardless of seniority the Group on our website www.
co. uk for all of our employees.
All of our People awards up to 3,600 worth of shares to each Services executives receive training in staff member every year.
diversity and equal opportunities: this Median Gender pay gap 2017 The second scheme that the Group runs is includes our confidential advice and support 5.1% the Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS.
Recently we have set up a diversity The DFSS was also set up in 2005 when the working group who focus on promoting Group floated to complement the SIP and to diversity across genders, ethnicities and enable the Board of directors to reward staff disabilities.
Promotions and opportunities with further shares in the Group.
are made on a merit basis and are open to everyone in the organisation with the right DFSS shares are awarded to managers and skills regardless of age, disability, gender, senior roles within the UK and overseas from racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs or the CFO to Senior Customer Representatives sexual orientation.
The amount awarded depends upon the employees position and also upon the number of shares available to the scheme.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41
