Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report KEEPING PEOPLE SAFE The Groups approach Stay Safe performance Keeping people safe is a cornerstone of the business.
The Groups When launching its revised Stay Safe strategy in 2015, the Group underlying philosophy that all those affected by our business recognised that cultural change takes time and its expectations should return home safe and well at the end of every day were that it would take a minimum of two years to make a remains unchanged.
As a result of the concerted efforts of everybody in the Group to focus on doing Travis Perkins recognises that good safety and good business the right thing, it is pleasing to report a significant reduction in the leadership behaviours are indistinguishable from each other.
number and frequency of lost timeaccidents.
Through the well established Stay Safe brand, it continues to challenge its thinking and approach in order to deliver continuous 2017 saw 408 lost time accidents compared to 469 in 2016, improvement to the Groups safety performance.
correlating to an overall decrease in Group LTI frequency rate of 18% from 9.17 in 2016 to 7.57.
The Groups Severity Rate remains flat at 0.13, the same as 2016.
Near miss reporting continues to Stay Safe governance go from strength-to-strength, increasing by 100% on 2016 to over 44,000 reports.
Throughout 2017 Stay Safe performance was reviewed at Travis Perkins plc Board Meetings, by the Executive Committee Underlying the headline figures, the performance of the Groups and also as part of regular Divisional leadership meetings.
operational divisions and businesses improved, with all except Plumbing & Heating showing reductions in the number and the The Travis Perkins plc Stay Safe Committee continued to monitor frequency rate of lost time incidents.
Frequency rates improved performance, by reviewing the risk profile of the business and as follows: General Merchanting 14%, Contract Merchanting 12%, progress against 2017 objectives relating to: Supply Chain 33%, Wickes 17% and Tile Giant 28%.
Plumbing & Continued implementation of Divisional Stay Safe strategy, Heating saw its frequency rate increase by 8%, reflecting work to aligned to the Group Stay Safe Vision improve its reporting culture.
Further fide-risking of the Groups operations Consensus from the Divisions, Executive and Board is that the Stay Safe strategy and plan remains sound.
It targets the Workplace transport and driver behaviour principal causes of accidents, a revised risk assessment process, Safety training delivery and effectiveness measures for learning from accidents through application of the Just Culture all colleagues including occupational drivers, front line model, as well as continuing to tackle the low frequency, high management and senior management.
impact events related to traffic management.
Progress against these objectives forms part of the Remuneration The most significant challenge is the Groups ability to engage Committees overall assessment of executive performance.
colleagues, particularly against a backdrop of wider organisational change and transformation.
Accordingly it is the Groups aim for In addition to the Groups internal governance process, an 2018 to stay on course and not be tempted to try a new approach independent external audit of safety strategy, planning and before fully embedding the changes made to date.
internal assurance processes was commissioned towards the end of 2017.
A technical review of the Groups Safety Management The Group continues to lead the transport arena, maintaining System by its Primary Authority was also completed to determine accreditation as part of the Fleet Operators Recognition the adequacy of the Groups policy and processes in meeting Scheme FoRS for the seventh consecutive year.
It continues to statutory requirements and in effectively managing its risks.
champion the Construction Logistics and Cycle Safety CLOCS programme which brings together developers, construction companies, operators, vehicle manufacturers and regulatory bodies to ensure a road safety culture is embedded across the constructionindustry.
44 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Group Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Group Injury Severity Rate 12 0 0.25.
00 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 In 2017, Travis Perkins and DHL the Groups primary supply Innovation & collaboration chain delivery partner conducted a driver fatigue trial using The Groups businesses continue to take the Stay Safe sleep data collected via wearable technology.
Working with philosophy and translate it into specific actions that are tailored to research partners Sleep and Fatigue Research SaFR, the their operations and the safety issues that they face.
Group has collated some good data.
Its challenge now is to understand if and how, through complex analysis, it can predict During 2017 the Group has undertaken a number of projects in and influence specific driver behaviours and what additional the health and safety arena.
These include: internal systems and controls may be appropriate.
All divisions have implemented the new Safety Management Following the implementation of new national industry System SMS, the Groups one stop shop for all policy and standards for the practical assessment of Fork Lift Truck FLT process relating to health and safety.
operators, the Group took this opportunity to work with its Complementing the launch of a new SMS has been the roll FLT training provider, Mentor Training, and adopted an industry out of the Groups 3 lines of defence assurance programme, leading enhanced practical assessment process exceeding the seeing robust first line self assessment and review by managers new standards.
and regional leaders, second line independent assessment of Further projects are planned to build on the work undertaken in compliance and performance by the Stay Safe function and 2017.
These include: third line external review via external audit and the Groups PrimaryAuthority.
2018 will be the third year for the Groups traffic management and workplace transport risk profiling activity, seeking to General Merchanting has piloted Backtrack, wearable continuously improve driver and pedestrian safety in branches.
technology to help improve manual handling techniques in branch as well as to help rehabilitate those with existing Improvements from safety by design will also continue as part health conditions or injuries.
Benefits have included increased of the Groups ongoing investment programme in new branches engagement with colleagues regarding manual handling and refurbishment.
behaviour and a 73% reduction in unsafe lifting techniques.
Building on the Backtrack technology pilot, 2018 will see To help drivers keep themselves and customers safe at the further testing of wearable manual handling technology.
point of delivery, during 2017 the Group delivered internally The Group will continue to develop its broader health and created training accredited by the Joint Approvals Unit for wellbeing programme, continuing to evolve its My Worklife Periodic Training targeting safe loading and delivery and a new wellbeing benefits offering, and a focus on stress management, dynamic risk assessment approach.
developing personal resilience and helping colleagues cope withchange.
The Contract Merchanting division will be taking part in a programme to understand the demand from colleagues for wellbeing as well as developing a clear wellbeingstrategy.
