A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Ascential is passionate about the work we do and the difference we make to the communities we serve and live in.
Making a real difference to the world around us Case study As a Patron of The Princes Trust, Ascential sponsors The Trusts Million Makers Awards for London and the South East.
Strong commitment to our Our fund raising efforts have been recognised with the Above and Beyond Award from The Princes Trust for the customer communities past three years.
Just four weeks before we opened Bett Latin America in Mexico City, a 7.1 magnitude earthquake the biggest in Fund raising 30 years hit Mexico City.
Lives were lost: hundreds of buildings were damaged: and more were at risk of collapse.
2015 90,000 Electricity and phone lines were only intermittent.
2016 170,000 Working with our local partners, we wanted to balance 2017 300,000 doing the right thing the best thing for the community and the future of the education sector in Mexico against Ascential also sponsors The Educational Achiever of the Year what was possible in the aftermath.
The government, who Award and to help promote its aims, has given an exhibition were crucial to our event, were under pressure as several stand to The Princes Trust during the BETT UK show at schools had collapsed so they were hard to reach.
Working in harness with our partners and the government we had to be extremely sensitive to the national mourning The 2017 winner of the London and South East Region Award period, infrastructure safety, staff morale and market was Jaidah Thomas and she will be furthering her learning appetite there is no rule book in these situations.
With during three months paid work with Cannes Lions from May inputs from many across the different audiences but to July 2018, including visiting the Festival in the South of most loudly our local partners we agreed together that France.
The overall winner for the Million Makers award will we should not be leaving Mexico in a time of need and that be presented by HRH Prince Charles at the Celebrate Success we should run the event for the right reason.
Bett Latin Awards at the London Palladium.
America should have a NEW Vision: it will be a platform that brings together the community, offering support, We also support various local charities across the business resilience and reconstruction.
The 2016 event welcomed around 2,000 people.
At the A better start for young people point we made the decision to continue with the 2017 Ascential people have given their time and experience to event we had 620 attendees registered.
In just 10 days, the provide a helping hand to young people starting on their team changed the vision of the event to one of helping career paths.
Through mentoring and work placements rebuild the education sector and on 18 October 2017, we ranging from three weeks to 18 months at top brands, opened the doors for 3,483 people to Bett Latin America.
exhibition space in our buildings and being sponsored at our shows, we have made a positive difference.
We had a donation area in the Expo, collecting school materials and equipment that we then gave to the most affected schools.
We changed elements in our content to Lending a hand to those less able to help themselves include charities speaking about security and infrastructure A core strength of Ascential people is their commitment at schools.
We also sponsored the transformation of a and passion for the communities we live in and serve.
shipping container in to a pop-up school which we are Many volunteer their time to help people less able to donating to one of the regions which lost several schools.
2017 projects included gardening and volunteering days to cook and entertain elderly and Bett Latin America was very proud to give back to our homeless people in Central London.
audience community, improving their immediate situation with a pop-up school and helping to build a future for the sector.
30 30 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Case study Retail Week addressing gender imbalance in boardrooms and inspiring future leaders Be Inspired began life with a documentary and panel The impact of Be Inspired throughout the sector is evident session at Retail Week Live in March 2016 with the aim of in its reach.
This year, 238 retail brands and 1,300 people addressing gender imbalance in retail boardrooms, and engaged with our live events, whilst 636 users generated inspiring future female leaders.
It has since grown into the 2.3K tweets with a potential impression of 22.52m.
most wide-reaching campaign Retail Week has ever launched, touching the lives of thousands of Calibre of content aspiring women.
Central to the campaigns success is emotive content that strikes a chord with women at all stages of their career.
It is a Industry backing brand-wide programme including digital and print content, Be Inspired brings together retail leaders with women an annual mentoring scheme with five ambassadors seeking to fulfil their career ambitions, using stories of those coaching five competition winners, a newly launched who have advanced their retail careers to inspire the next eLearning platform, free monthly workshops and a generation.
65 ambassadors including CEOs from Ann conference.
The sell-out conference was our stand-out Summers, Ikea, Dixons, M&S and Tesco are backing the success of 2017 with an over 80% increase in delegate campaign.
Ambassadors notably include both men and volume from 2016, and yielding a Net Promoter Score of women, as men are needed as agents of change to help 56.52.
Speakers ranged from well-known retailers such as address gender diversity.
The calibre of ambassadors M&S style director Belinda Earl and AO.
com founder John reflects the level of support the industry has for what Retail Roberts, to BBC broadcaster Emma Barnett and chairman of Week is trying to achieve.
The Pool and architect of the This Girl Can campaign Tanya Joseph.
Growth and reach 2017 Be Inspired grew 186% owing to high-profile In November we also launched the Be Inspired community partnerships including Accenture, LOreal and Google, and a platform, which will allow our UK-wide community to sell-out conference.
connect, transforming our reach and providing a vital source of free learning and development.
It has also generated a new revenue stream of Retail Partners which helps retailers demonstrate their 2018 and beyond commitment to gender diversity and provide learning The impact and growth of Be Inspired continues.
It has and development for women within their organisations.
become a powerful brand in its own right in less than two There are now 13 retail partners, up from seven in 2016 years.
We believe Be Inspired is the first programme for with 100% retention year-on-year.
women in retail that has shifted the gender diversity debate from merely talking about the problem, to something that is practical, engaging, and will genuinely help shape the careers of thousands.
Improving gender diversity working policy that applies to all of our employees and our The Ascential plc Board leads the way on gender diversity, Ascential Anywhere technology enables employees to work comprising 57% women, the highest in the FTSE 350.
Our maternity policy is to pay maternity than 50% of our managers are female and we are launching a pay beyond the statutory minimum and we have a shared women in Leadership programme early in 2018 to increase parental leave policy to enable parents to choose how to this percentage to be broadly equal to the proportion of share the care of their child during the first year after birth female employees across the Group.
We have a flexible or adoption.
31 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Behaving ethically Case Study Our suppliers, partners and other third parties involved in the provision of goods or services are important to us.
Cannes Lions helping accelerate the They underpin our ability to serve our customers and while delivering our valued and trusted products, it is important to career progression of high-potential us that we and our suppliers do business responsibly, ethically senior creative women and lawfully.
See It Be It is a tailored, Cannes Lions initiative, aiming to Third Party Code of Conduct accelerate the career progression of high-potential senior We have implemented a Third Party Code of Conduct which creative women to change the ratio of female leaders in agency creative departments.
outlines our ethical approach to doing business and explains the standards we strive to ensure that all our suppliers should Launched in 2014, the programme is a response to abide by, and we also expect our suppliers suppliers to adhere industry gender imbalance.
Fewer women than men are to it.
The main principles of this Code are: joining creative ranks and even less will climb the ladder.
Worldwide, its estimated that only 30% of agency No Forced, Involuntary or Child Labour: creatives are female and just 12% reach Creative Director There is no forced, involuntary or debt bonded labour in any level, up from 3% in 2004. form including slavery or trafficking of persons.
There are no workers under the age of 15, or where it is higher, the See It Be It helps to address this issue by developing mandatory school leaving age in the local country.
The use high-potential creative women and bringing them to the of legitimate workplace apprenticeship programmes, which attention of the industry.
By raising profiles, expanding comply with all laws and regulations, is supported.
contacts, and building confidence participants are accelerated down the leadership path.
Freedom of Association: Workers, without distinction, have the right to associate This continues to grow, with events in Brazil, Spain and freely, join or not join labour unions, seek representation Pakistan pending, interest to replicate the model at Dubai and join workers councils as well as the right of collective Lynx and a queue of senior industry figures male and bargaining in accordance with local laws.
female offering their support for the programme.
The See It Be It global network is expanding all the time: Diversity and equality: There is equality of opportunity and treatment regardless of 1,000 applications from women globally.
physical attributes or condition including pregnancy, gender, Bringing 52 women to the Festival over four years.
religion or absence of such beliefs, political opinion, nationality, 70% of these women have been promoted since sexual orientation, age or ethnic background.
Equal pay for the programme.
work of equal value is supported.
Discrimination or intimidation 180 mentors and mentees matched.
towards and between employees is opposed, including all forms 100% positive Net Promoter Score.
or threats of physical and psychological abuse.
Seven successful events held globally on zero additional spend.
Business Integrity: 2,000 registered to attend local events.
There is no tolerance of any form of corruption, bribery, fraud, Ambassador of the programme Madonna Badger is a extortion or embezzlement and business is conducted in a diversity advocate who speaks at events globally.
manner that avoids conflicts of interest.
Jury Fair Competition: 390 jury members from 50 countries.
Fair business, advertising and competition is supported.
43% of jurors were female in 2017, a record for the Festival.
The number of women on the juries has Intellectual Property, Privacy and Data Security: doubled in the last five years, from 21% in 2012.
There is respect for and protection of intellectual property rights, data and confidential information to safeguard it against Speakers and prohibit loss and unauthorised use, disclosure, alteration 688 speakers from 29 countries 35% female: or access.
Our intellectual property and confidential 65% male gender split.
information is handled and data processed on our behalf only for the purposes for which it was made available, received or Sessions included discussions from Indian transgender pop collected in accordance with the reasonable directions band 6-Pack, Sir Ian McKellen urging brands to change the provided by us.
perception of the LGBT community, Rev.
Jesse Jackson and Dame Helen Mirren talking about diversity of race and age.
Business Continuity: Any disruptions of business are prepared for including but not limited to natural disasters, terrorism or cyber attacks.
Risks are frequently assessed and appropriate controls put in place and regularly tested.
32 32 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Quality, Health, Safety and Environment: There were no reported breaches of the Bribery Act All required quality, health, safety and environment related during 2017. permits, licences and registrations are obtained, maintained and kept up-to-date and their operational and reporting We also require our suppliers to adopt a zero tolerance requirements are followed.
Proper provision is made for the approach to bribery and corruption through our Third Party health, safety and welfare of employees, visitors, contractors, Code of Conduct.
the community and the environment.
Health, safety and environmental risks are regularly assessed and appropriate Whistleblowing policy controls are put in place bearing in mind the prevailing We have a formal whistleblowing policy which encourages all knowledge of the industry and of any specific hazards staff to report suspected wrongdoing, in the knowledge that their concerns will be taken seriously and investigated The full Third Party Code of Conduct is available on our appropriately, and that their confidentiality will be respected.
com Wrongdoing includes failure to comply with legal obligations or regulations, including bribery and corruption.
The policy Modern Slavery also aims to reassure staff that they should be able to raise Ascential recognises that slavery, forced labour and human genuine concerns without fear of reprisals, even if they turn trafficking Modern Slavery is a global issue.
One that out to be mistaken.
We provide details of a confidential Ascential understands affects innocent lives.
Ascential has a helpline operated by an independent third party, as well as zero tolerance approach to Modern Slavery of any kind and contact details for the Independent Chairman of the Audit has taken steps to eliminate it from its supply chain.
Through Committee within the policy.
The policy is embedded in the this work, we have found support from customers, suppliers employee handbook and available on the Companys intranet.
and Ascential employees to this zero tolerance approach.
The Ascential community has no tolerance for Modern Lighter footsteps Slavery and has pledged to raise awareness and take steps As a leading information business, Ascential creates a lot of to source suppliers responsibly.
value for a relatively small, direct environmental impact.
Nonetheless, we recognise that we need to minimise our In January 2016 we established a steering group to map direct environmental impact where we can.
our supply chain and assess areas of risk.
Our procurement team has evaluated our supply base and categorised it to Increasing energy efficiency understand where there may be risk within it using guidance Ascential works with its landlords to ensure installation of issued by the Walk Free Foundation.
The steering committee energy efficient low temperature hot water, water efficient specifically focused their initial efforts on identifying countries low-flush toilets, low energy lighting and low power where bonded labour is more prevalent, or sectors that may technology across all its offices.
typically be associated with unfair labour practices.
From this exercise we established which suppliers are deemed to be Waste recycling high and medium risk.
During 2017, all high risk suppliers were We promote recycling, sustainably produced materials and contacted and required to adopt our Third Party Code of paper efficiency at all our shows with our venue hosts and Conduct and to complete a questionnaire designed to identify amongst all our exhibitors.
any areas of non-compliance with that code, as well as confirm that our supply chain is slavery and human trafficking free.
Reducing print We reserve the right to terminate the business supplier With a continuing customer shift towards digital consumption relationship without consequence or liability if a supplier fails of content, as well as constant work on paper innovations to fulfil the minimum standards outlined in our Code.
We and run efficiency, print requirements for the business have intend to roll-out this process to those suppliers classified as further declined.
The sale of the Heritage Brands during the medium risk during 2018.
From January 2017, our Code of year further reduced the business paper requirements.
Conduct has been embedded into standard terms and Greenhouse gas emissions conditions and our supplier set up process includes the Full details of our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions requirement that all new major suppliers sign up to our are set out in the Directors Report on page 67.
Code of Conduct before we do business with them.
Business travel Our full Modern Slavery Statement, which has been approved As a global business, there is an ongoing need for our by the Board of Ascential plc, is available on our website employees to travel around the Group to meet with Ascential.
com aboutus colleagues and customers.
We encourage all employees to use video conferencing and webinars as much as possible and the Anti-corruption business aims to reduce the need to fly wherever possible.
We have a formal anti-corruption policy which is communicated to all employees that prohibits offering, promising or giving a bribe: requesting, agreeing to receive, or accepting a bribe: and bribing a foreign public official to obtain or retain business or a business-related advantage.
The policy includes details of how employees can report any suspected violations of the policy confidentially to the Ethics Helpline and assurances that concerns raised in good faith will not be criticised or penalised in any way.
The Board of Ascential plc has appointed the Audit Committee to review the implementation of this policy and the Audit Committee periodically monitors and audits compliance.
