A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 OUR PEOPLE Ascential brings together talented people and brilliant brands.
We work hard to attract and retain the best people in the industry to work on our portfolio of leading products and aim to be a destination employer in every one of our key operating territories and markets.
Valuing the diversity our people bring Whilst we are very happy with the gender mix of our Board Our business success is driven by difference and we value there is more work to be done.
When we look at our gender what everyone brings.
We welcome all employees without pay gap, Ascentials UK mean differential is 15.3%, as at April unfair or unlawful discrimination and aim to inspire everyone 2017, the most recent gender pay gap reporting point.
Our to do their best work and build their careers with us.
mean differential is better than the UK national average of 17.4% but there is clearly still work to be done.
For us, the gap Our peoples opinions matter exists because whilst 57% of our total 1,736 employees are Peoples opinions matter and we hold regular updates to both women 2016: 62% out of 1,557 only 52% 233 out of 449 inform them on business progress and answer any questions of our managers are female 2016: 57%, 239 out of 417. they may have.
So to address the issue we need to recruit, encourage, We conduct and act upon annual employee engagement support and promote more women into our senior leadership surveys which, along with face-to-face feedback, help us group.
We will be launching a significant new Women in understand what people think, and what they want to achieve Leadership programme early in 2018 to super-charge our in their careers with us.
As we develop a One Ascential culture across all brands Share ownership and geographies, we are progressively aligning key people One of our business beliefs is that when the Company processes globally.
For the first time, this year we ran a prospers, we want everyone who has contributed to prosper.
single unified engagement survey globally.
Our aggregated engagement score was 70 out of 100 with scores for When we floated the Company on the London Stock Manager Quality, Pride, Motivation and Loyalty indicators all Exchange in February 2016, everyone employed by the above 80.
We have a clear plan to drive further improvement business at that time was gifted 500 shares subject only to across all engagement areas in 2018. their continued employment in 2019.
Later in the year, we launched the UK and International Sharesave and US Stock Each area of the business also regularly hosts face-to-face Purchase saving plans for employees wishing to invest in all-staff meetings known as Town Halls, webinars and team Ascential plc shares.
These plans enable people in any one briefings to share news and progress against priorities.
of our offices around the world who wish to enrol to save a set sum each month and in future years buy shares at a At the 2017 Company conference, our CEO and CFO hosted discounted purchase price.
So far 46% of all eligible employees an open, live Q&A session, taking questions from the floor.
decided to participate, saving on average 178 per month.
Responses were recorded and posted to the intranet for people unable to attend.
The post-event survey recorded this Benefits as one of the most popular segments and it was repeated in As part of an attractive overall employment package, people January 2018.
Midway through the year, when we announced are offered a range of benefits, which they have the our half-year 2017 results, the CEO and CFO again hosted a opportunity to amend during the year.
We seek to offer webinar for staff, as well as meeting external analysts, solutions that speak to our different generations, so benefits investors and members of the press.
are constantly reviewed and introduced, extended or removed depending on demand and feedback.
A leading approach to gender diversity The Company continues to take part in the HamptonOur goal is to have all employees in any given country operate Alexander review, which sees British business drive to improve on consistent terms and conditions no matter what brand they further the number of women in senior leadership positions work for.
This year we harmonised our holiday and paid time and on the boards of FTSE 350 companies.
The review has a off policies in the US to ensure employees from our various stated aim that a third of all FTSE 100 leadership roles are to acquisitions there to date operate on a consistent set of be occupied by women by the end of 2020, up from 25% generous terms relative to the market.
Once again, Ascential was highlighted in the November Employee engagement and rewards 2017 review as leading the way with 57% women on our plc Ascential is a fast-paced, international business.
We are a Board, the highest in the entire FTSE 350. responsible destination employer and are determined to attract and retain the best in our industry by offering our people great opportunities to develop and grow their careers with us.
We offer regular recognition and rewards linked to performance, and we invest heavily in development.
28 28 A As sc ce en nti tia al p l pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 201 017 7 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Ascential Excellence Awards Some of the most hotly contested awards each year are the Our values and leadership beliefs Ascential Excellence Awards, which are open to all employees.
Judged by senior leaders of the business and external industry experts, they are a fun and effective way for the achievements of individuals and teams to be recognised and Forward thinking celebrated at a gala dinner during the all-Company conference each January.
We think big and see the bigger picture Elite to help our customers translate insight This generous reward programme is open to every highinto advantage performing employee across the Group.
Sales league winners, content creators and business support individuals are Leadership beliefs recognised with rewards, including trips to Ascential offices and events in other countries, tickets to exclusive venues, Focus we prioritise and keep dinners and sporting days out.
The highlight of the Elite things simple programme is during the annual Ascential conference when Facts we use data and insight to winners of the Holidays of a Lifetime including for the top inform our work content creators and highest sales achievers in each business Empathy we can be relied upon for area are announced.
Elite enables a clear line of sight from personal performance to personal reward.
fairness and consideration Embedding industry leading standards Ascential runs a number of formal cross-brand Professional Communities in key areas such as Sales, Content, and Marketing.
Challenging The Ascential Sales Academy is led by internal and external sales experts and offers many sales performance programmes We are thought-provoking and persuasive and leadership alumni programmes.
always searching for a better way to get Content First programme to ensure we set ourselves up for things done future success, inspire world-class content and embed a content excellence culture, Ascential offers a Content First Leadership beliefs programme.
Run by two of Ascentials most respected and Creativity we are smart, pro-active successful content leaders with an outstanding track record in driving exceptional content, the in-house Content First innovators programme aims to further embolden our content talent Transparency we tell it as it is across the whole business to deliver the content our Openness we insist on honesty, customers need, when they need it and in a simple to find and integrity and openness digest format.
This year we also developed a bespoke Content Leaders programme where content leaders from around the world were brought together to collaborate with peers to drive content innovation within their own teams and brands.
Armed with robust data around customer insight and market knowledge, these leaders will continue to raise the standard of Transformative Ascentials content to be the best in each of the industries we serve.
We are visionary and confident All-Ascential conference making changes happen We hold our all-Company conference in January each year and this enables more than 1,200 individuals to network, Leadership beliefs share learnings and collaborate.
Our annual conference and All-in we have a clear focus on outcome Gala Awards night has become an important part of our journey to a more informed and connected Ascential.
The No silos we are one team event is a large investment by the Company, but we believe is key to continuing to share, learn and connect with colleagues and celebrate the great work of individuals and teams across the business.
Journey ahead People is a core capability at which we must excel.
While we have made good progress towards putting in place the structure, learning and support to enable everyone to reach their goals and develop their careers with us, we also recognise that there is always more to do on the journey ahead.
