JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Corporate responsibility contact with the Group in its diverse Group shares best practice and lessons Introduction activities.
The Board considered and learnt following any health and safety The Board remains committed to high re-approved the Groups existing incidents, including near misses, to standards of corporate governance, health safety and environment policy in mitigate the risk of recurrence.
and to ensuring consistent application January 2018 as a declaration of our The Groups principal operating across the Group of its values of intent and commitment.
We continue companies maintain internationally honesty, integrity and fairness which, to strive towards our ultimate aim of recognised occupational health and in the Companys view, are the key having no accidents or injuries and we safety management systems accredited elements for building a sustainable have a proactive safety culture across to OHSAS 18001 and management and profitable business.
Corporate the Group which promotes compliance systems which are accredited to the responsibility remains central to the and ensures continuous improvement.
international quality standard ISO delivery of our business strategy.
This We have a strong focus on employee 19001. report will explain how we applied training, regulatory compliance and the principles of good governance The Group has adopted the Reporting accident reduction, all of which are throughout the year in key areas, and of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous monitored and reported across the outlines the processes and controls we Occurrences Regulations 2013 Group.
Accountability remains with local use to manage the Groups approach RIDDOR in the reporting of reportable management who are best-placed to to health and safety, environmental incidents.
A reportable incident under ensure that their businesses comply matters, our employees, business ethics RIDDOR is a work-related injury which with local laws and regulations and and social responsibilities.
results in a persons incapacitation for specific needs on a day-to-day basis.
The number of This is overseen by Nick Henry, the Our Board of Directors sets the strategic reportable incidents across the Group in Chief Executive Officer, who has overall and financial objectives for the Group 2017 was 5 2016: 5. responsibility for health and safety.
The and in doing so, requires and seeks review of health and safety performance to ensure that the Group maintains The Group also records lost time is high on the agenda at each Board high ethical standards of behaviour accidents LTAs to monitor performance and business board meetings, and throughout its businesses.
An LTA is an incident which remains a top priority for the Group.
causes a worker to be incapacitated For the purposes of sections 414CA The Group Health and Safety for three or more consecutive days, not and CB of the Companies Act 2006, this Committee GHSC, chaired by Nick including the day of incident.
In 2017, report shall constitute the Groups nonHenry, meets on a quarterly basis to the Group incurred 5 LTAs 2016: 6. financial information statement.
discuss all health and safety issues The Group monitors its overall RIDDOR including incidents, mitigating actions Health and safety reportable frequency rate, defined as the and training requirements.
The GHSC number of RIDDOR reportable incidents The Group recognises its responsibilities ensures that recordable safety incidents per one hundred thousand hours of in relation to the health, safety and are reported to the Board and that each work.
In 2017, the Groups RIDDOR welfare of its employees, contractors Group operating company is maintaining reportable frequency rate was 0.1 and visitors to the Groups premises, high standards of health and safety in 2016: 0.1. as well as all those who come into its business.
Through the GHSC, the 22 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ship transfer services in Brazil which house training to employees throughout Environmental matters commenced in January 2017. the Group on a wide variety of personal The Group recognises its responsibility development and compliance-related The Groups carbon intensity ratio to protect the environment for the topics, much of which is tailored to each calculated against the Groups revenue benefit of all and is committed to business to give the employees targeted, remained flat at 0.02% 2016: 0.02%.
operating its businesses to ensure that bespoke training which will advance their Our Tankships division operates a Ship the environmental impact of its activities, development.
Energy Efficiency Management Plan to its consumption of raw materials and its regulate shipping energy efficiency and The Group believes that effective production of waste is minimised.
The to control its marine GHG emissions.
learning and development will help to Group is committed to working within One objective under the Groups attract and retain high quality people, the appropriate regulatory frameworks health, safety and environment policy support them in reaching their potential to minimise the impacts of its operations is to ensure that the impact of our and build the capabilities necessary on the environment.
activities and our production of waste is to succeed, which in turn rewards Nearly all of our principal operating minimised, as such waste management the Group by securing the dedication companies are ISO 14001 compliant.
and recycling of materials is encouraged and motivation of those employees.
This internationally recognised across the Group and in an effort to Keeping our people inspired remains environmental management system reduce our carbon emissions from one of our highest priorities and so enables a systematic approach to travelling to and from meetings, the use we focus on creating an environment handling environmental issues.
of video conferencing is widely used where performance is rewarded, people throughout the Group.
are respected for their contributions, Energy consumption was measured diversity and inclusion is encouraged across the Group by recording data on Employee related matters and where integrity is upheld in all the combustion of fuel and the use of aspects of our work.
The Group electricity at its facilities.
The Groups The Chief Executive Officer is remains committed to providing equal total greenhouse gas emissions GHG responsible for employee matters and he opportunities free from discrimination, are set out below.
is assisted by the Group Head of Human and to developing and retaining talent Resources.
The Group is committed Emissions total in thousands of to maximise business growth and to complying with all applicable laws metric tons performance.
governing employment practices and 2017 2016 to the prevention of discrimination The Company also recognises the need on the basis of any unlawful criteria.
to provide flexible working practices CO2 equivalent from 2.3 3.0 Employment arrangements are intended to support the needs of employees to electricity consumption in to be fair, equitable and consistent with maintain a successful work-life balance.
facilities the skills and abilities of the employees In support of this the Company operates CO2 from combustion of 2.4 2.9 and the needs of the business.
Under this fuel at facilities and road policy, the Company states that it will, vehicles The Group is committed to developing its where possible, try and accommodate employees and ensuring that investment CO2 from combustion of 84.0 83.9 an employees needs.
During 2017, in learning and development is in line fuel in vessels 49 requests for flexible working were with the business strategy and goals.
Total emissions CO2 88.6 89.8 made and 100% were accepted by the We recognise that the success of our Company.
business depends on our talented Emissions from the combustion of workforce.
Employees throughout the Developing and maintaining employee bunkers which fuel the tankers in the Group are encouraged to participate in engagement with the Company is Tankships division amounted to 95% of training and development programmes important.
The Group communicates the Groups total emissions 2016: 93%.
and to obtain professional qualifications with its employees on matters of The benefit of sea transportation is that relevant to their roles.
In order to develop concern to them as employees, one 4,000 metric ton vessel can carry this further, the Group has broadened its and on the financial and economic 150 times the volume of fuel carried by management development and graduate factors affecting the performance of a single road tanker, which significantly recruitment programmes, which focus the Company.
This is done principally reduces congestion and emissions to on recruiting talented graduates and through management briefings and air.
Emissions from fuel combustion in developing skills and experience to newsletters, the Companys website, vessels was similar to 2016 despite one produce potential future managers.
The the Groups intranet resource, and fewer vessel in the Tankships division.
Company also has a dedicated learning by the distribution of preliminary and This was due to the growth in ship-toand development team who deliver ininterim announcements and press 23 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED releases.
Copies of the Annual Report diverse workforce allows the Group to their training, career development and Accounts are also made available meet better the differing requirements and promotion needs are met.
If an to the operating businesses and this of our global customer base.
Our employee were to become disabled communication process enables strategy is to identify current and during the course of their employment, employees to gain an understanding of or future potential successors to the Group would provide support, the Groups objectives and performance senior management roles throughout wherever practicable, whether through and how they have contributed to those the Group, and gender diversity is re-training or re-deployment, so that results.
Where decisions are being made encouraged by the Board.
The Groups they continue to be employed, wherever which are likely to affect employees diversity policy is reviewed annually and practicable, in the same job, or if this interests, such employees or their approved by the Board and is available were not practicable, every effort would representatives are consulted so that on the Companys website.
be made to find suitable alternative their views can be taken into account.
The objectives of the Groups diversity policy are to ensure that the Group We operate in a competitive Respect for human rights benefits from a diverse workforce and marketplace and the Board recognises has a working environment where all James Fisher is committed to the importance of rewarding employees employees are encouraged to realise supporting and respecting human appropriately for the value they bring to their full potential and where there is an rights in the workplace and in the the business.
It aims to offer rewards open atmosphere of trust, honesty and communities in which it operates that attract and retain key talent.
The policy applies to all Group across its international business.
We The Group also encourages its employees and to all staff, contractors, have implemented work practices and employees to share in its successes consultants and any other individual policies throughout the Group which through share ownership.
As at working for, at, or on behalf of the are designed to ensure that respect 31 December 2017, 284 employees Group.
One diversity policy initiative is for human rights is integrated into the were participants in the James Fisher to provide training and mentoring for systems and culture of our businesses.
Sharesave Scheme which gives them women at all stages of their career to We do not tolerate the use of child or the opportunity to purchase shares at support their development as leaders.
forced labour within our business and the end of a three or five year saving In the last two years, 63 women passed take all steps possible to ensure that our plan 2016: 293. through this leadership programme.
suppliers and customers also uphold internationally recognised human rights.
Gender diversity Equal opportunities and The Group has a formal slavery and diversity 2016 human trafficking statement which is 2017 Male Female Male Female available on the Groups website and The Group values the diverse which outlines steps taken by the Group backgrounds of all its people and Main Board 6 1 6 1 to ensure that there is transparency in strives to create a culture of honesty, Directors the Group and throughout our supply openness and accountability.
It is Group Senior 61 11 47 9 chains.
As part of this policy statement, policy to treat all job applicants and Managers the Group encourages any concerns employees fairly.
The Group has made relating to modern slavery to be raised Employees 2,081 564 2,152 560 the commitment that no employee using the procedure set out in the or potential employee shall receive whistleblowing policy.
There is an more or less favourable treatment or The Group will report on gender pay in on-going process of risk assessment consideration on the grounds of race, accordance with the requirements of with the effectiveness of this statement colour, ethnic origin, nationality, national the Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap and the Groups other policies, and origin, religion or belief, gender, age, Information Regulations 2017 by 4 April procedures being regularly monitored disability, sexual orientation, marital status 2018.
The Board has been considering and reviewed by the Audit Committee or any other similarly protected status.
the preliminary results of the Group to ensure that they align with our Group We aim to ensure that people from any analysis and whether any action might strategy.
During 2017, no whistleblowing background or of any gender identity be required.
reports were brought to the attention of have equal access to employment, All of our employees are treated with the Audit Committee.
training and career progression respect and dignity.
We strive to select any kind is not tolerated.
In addition to individuals on merit and do not consider complying with legislative requirements, that targets or quotas are appropriate.
the Group strives to ensure that disabled The Board recognises that having a employees are treated fairly and that 24 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 with third parties to ensure that all our their operational areas.
During 2017, Business ethics, anti-bribery business dealings are appropriate and the Group was involved in the provision and corruption matters within our ethical framework.
and installation of two manual boreholes As a Group we aim to act responsibly which will provide fresh drinking water and ethically in all of our business Customers to two rural communities based in the dealings.
Through our ethics policy Mpohor district of the western region Our customers are extremely important we aim to instill the highest standards of Ghana.
The Group has also set up to us.
The Group aims to provide of business behaviour across the an educational bursary in South Africa superior customer service through value Group and we focus on embedding for prospective new mariners in a bid added solutions combined with high a culture of ethical compliance so to help promising female students quality products.
First class customer that all of our people understand the complete the necessary studies for a service and innovation are critical to our standards of ethical business practice career in the maritime industry.
that are expected of them.
As well as the year our employees have given protecting the reputation of the Group We appreciate that every customer their time and money to a wide range and safeguarding the investment of has different needs and expectations of charitable giving and fund raising our shareholders, the business ethics and we have developed long-lasting activities.
policy aims to protect the interests of relationships with customers and Charitable causes supported in 2017 every employee by ensuring legal and suppliers over many years to help included: Macmillan: Make a Wish regulatory compliance in all jurisdictions customers find the solutions they need.
Foundation: Meningitis Research where the Group operates, as well as We have followed a customer-led Charity: Ty Gobaith Hope House promoting responsible behaviour across strategy with regards to expansion into childrens hospice: RNLI: NeST the Group.
international markets, and we are proud Nephrotic Syndrome Trust : the to be a trusted partner of many major The Group has an established antiAlzheimers Society: Breast Cancer corporations, government agencies bribery and corruption policy and has Now: CLAN Cancer Support.
and other customers around the introduced a compliance programme The Sir John Fisher Foundation SJFF is world.
We understand that a continued which has the support of the Board a charitable trust, which was established commitment to our existing and future and senior management within the in 1979 by Sir John and Lady Fisher, customers is fundamental to our Group.
The programme includes and supports causes throughout success and so we strive to work hard communication of the statement the UK, with special regard to those to understand our customers needs and policy, training, risk assessment, based in and working for the benefit of and to continue delivering customer monitoring and review processes.
people living in Barrow-in-Furness and satisfaction.
Employees assessed to be at risk are the surrounding area.
The Trustees of required to complete the training and Suppliers SJFF hold a significant shareholding in to self-certify that they understand and the Company and support charitable agree to be bound by its provisions.
By Our businesses have developed their causes in relation to maritime, medical the end of 2017, over 1,000 employees own long-term relationships with and disability, education, music, arts and had undertaken this training.
suppliers based upon best practice, community projects.
In 2017 SJFF made legal requirements and Group policies The Group does not permit bribery, nor grants or commitments to charitable and procedures.
Group companies illegal or corrupt business practices causes of 2.0m 2016: 2.3m.
promote human rights, social and our whistleblowing procedure In accordance with the requirements responsibility, trade compliance and allows employees to raise any under sections 414CA and CB of the anti-corruption within their own supplier malpractice concerns they may have Companies Act 2006, information in base, and key suppliers are vetted to in an appropriate forum without fear relation to the following matters can be ensure that they adhere to all relevant of recourse.
On-going compliance is found on the pages specified below: laws, our policies and codes of conduct monitored by local compliance officers and, where appropriate, operate within who are required to report to their local Matters: Page number: internationally recognised quality, health boards and to the Group Compliance and safety and management systems.
Officer on at least a biannual basis.
The Environmental matters 23 compliance officers are responsible Employees 23-24 Our community matters for ensuring that risk assessments, Social matters 25 training and awareness are carried out Whilst the Group has no formal where appropriate and are kept up to policy on supporting the community, Respect for human rights 24 date.
They are also required to monitor, it continues to encourage its businesses Anti-corruption and anti-bribery 25 record and report agency arrangements to support local communities within 25 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T
