46 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Corporate responsibility RECOGNISING OUR RESPONSIBILITY We acknowledge our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, pension scheme members and the wider community to conduct our operations in a safe, responsible and sustainable manner.
We recognise that the responsible and sustainable development of our business is important for our long term success.
We take a focused approach towards corporate responsibility to create value for Meggitt and our stakeholders.
Our approach helps us to manage our businesses more efficiently, which in turn helps us to mitigate risks, reduce costs and support the communities in which we operate.
Principal areas of responsibility that we have identified which are of particular relevance to our business include our people, the environment, anti-corruption matters and supporting the communities in which we operate.
Our values and commitments in these areas are reviewed regularly to take into consideration the changing expectations of society.
Our commitments in these areas are set out in our Corporate Responsibility Policy and are summarised below.
POLICY CORE FOCUS We are committed to: Our four key areas include: Upholding sound corporate 2017 highlights governance principles: Supporting the Ten Principles outlined in the United Nations Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour, the People Environment environment and anti-corruption: Commitment to create a more Absolute decrease in our GHG Upholding our employees human inclusive and diverse organisation emissions rights: Gender pay gap data for the UK 2% reduction in GHG emissions Encouraging dialogue with published in line with legislation relative to revenue employees: Board approval of a revised Health New performance targets set for & Safety Policy environmental metrics in Supporting our local communities: Continued promotion of our safety addition to GHG emissions Minimising the environmental culture through behaviour based Environmental auditing program impact of products and processes safety training across all of our expanded to include internal and maintaining  and assist teams to help sites accredited environmental us review compliance more management systems: frequently Conducting business relationships in an ethical and responsible See page 48 for more information See page 52 for more information manner: Acting as a responsible supplier and encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same: Complying with the Modern Ethics Social Slavery Act 2015: and Second year of reporting on our Continued support of initiatives commitments under the Modern focused on promoting science, Improving our financial, social and Slavery Act technology, engineering and environmental performance.
Commitment to reduce the mathematics education number of commercial Continued support of the local intermediaries in our supply chain communities where our sites are to mitigate against potential risks based of corruption and bribery See page 54 for more information See page 55 for more information Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 47 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We recognise the significant contribution that our world leading technology plays in enabling our customers to achieve the extraordinary.
In 2018, we will build on our commitments to all of our stakeholders, as we look to become a truly world-class business with world-class performance to match.
Tony Wood CEO ACTION GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE For our stakeholders this means: Ultimately, the Board is responsible for statutory requirements we will also publish our Complying with relevant national implementation and performance of our gender pay gap data and we will use this along laws and regulations: Corporate Responsibility Policy.
In 2017, with other internal measures to monitor our Providing a supportive, rewarding the day-to-day responsibilities of the progress on improving diversity.
and safe working environment: Board and the Chief Executive in relation to the Corporate Responsibility Policy During 2017, we assessed our policies, due Delivering comprehensive training were devolved: the Group Operations diligence processes and risks relating to the for employees: Director had functional responsibility non-financial matters covered under the for health, safety and the environment: new non-financial reporting regulations.
Our Developing communication and the Executive Director, Commercial disclosures in this Corporate responsibility collaboration tools: & Corporate Affairs had functional report, Principal risks and uncertainties Maintaining modern, safe and responsibility for trade compliance, report and the Strategic report as a whole efficient operational practices: ethics and business conduct, and charity constitute the Group non-financial reporting and community activity: and the newly statement as referred to in section 414CA of Contributing to the social and appointed Head of HR led initiatives the Companies Act 2006. economic enrichment of local focused on diversity and employee communities, focusing particularly engagement.
Divisional presidents Throughout 2017, we have continued to work on activities related to education: and site directors are responsible for with our suppliers on implementing ethical locally implementing Group policies and practices and our second Modern Slavery Having effective risk identification procedures.
Group support is provided Act statement will be made available on our and mitigation across all areas of to ensure our businesses fulfil the website in Q1 2018.
We have taken steps the business: requirements that are outlined in our to reduce the number of intermediaries in Conducting independent audits Corporate Responsbility Policy which is our supply chain.
We have also considered in compliance areas: available on our website.
the impact of our payment practices on suppliers and will disclose our data in 2018 as Adopting robust internal and required, to ensure we are compliant with the Activity in 2017 external reporting and controls new UK legislation that aims to increase the As part of our commitment to ensure and ensuring financial probity: and transparency of large companies payment the health, safety and well-being of our practices.
We have also published our tax employees the Board approved a revised Supporting Business in the strategy policy on our website and reviewed Health & Safety Policy in 2017, which Community, the British businessour tax working practices impacted by the is available on our website.
The Board community outreach charity, Criminal Finances Act 2017. also set out its commitments towards where members work together to creating a more inclusive and diverse tackle a range of issues that are Finally, we have taken steps in 2017 to prepare organisation.
One of the ways we are essential to building a fairer for the updated EU data protection laws aiming to achieve this is through creating society and a more sustainable coming into effect in May 2018, which largely a High Performance Culture which, future.
affects our employee data as a business to amongst other things helps managers business Group.
and employees create an inclusive culture that promotes diversity for more information on our High Performance Culture see page 21.
To meet our UK 48 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Corporate responsibility continued PEOPLE Health and safety We acknowledge our duty of care to our employees, and We believe that a safe and healthy workplace our responsibility to promote their health and safety in an is a fundamental right of all of our employees as well as a business imperative.
As a Group, inclusive environment free from discrimination.
We also we strive to ensure our employees can lead believe people should succeed by their talent, skill, safe, healthy and productive lives.
We do this knowledge and application.
Highlighted below are steps by actively promoting our Health & Safety policy and programme to help individuals we take to support our employees.
safeguard themselves, their colleagues and visitors.
We continue to ensure that health and safety measures are integrated into daily layered accountability meetings including standardising and improving how we report incidents and the actions we take to Headcount by region Data showing headcount by close out near miss and unsafe conditions Number of employees & contractors division, region and length of identified by employees.
We also implement industry leading health and safety practices service as at 31 December by issuing new Meggitt Health and Safety 2017 is outlined in the tables Procedures applicable to all sites on topics that are relevant.
Throughout the year, we use various forms of communication channels to keep safety at the top of the minds of our employees each day, and this is our way of consistently communicating our core health and safety value SAFETY FIRST.
Health and safety communication activities include: our Weekly Safety Talks delivered UK 2,674 24 % at our daily operational meetings with all Rest of Europe 1,241 11 % employees under the Meggitt Production USA 6,211 55 % System MPS : regular Safety Alerts Rest of World 1,100 10 % issued to all sites to share incidents and Group 11,226 100 % lessons learnt: internal health and safety bulletins: HSE Sharepoint site where we share best practices and guidance with all HSE professionals and technicians: and our new MC2 intranet site, which we look Headcount by division Headcount by length to continuously improve to help employees Number of employees & contractors of service years become more proactive in our accident Number of employees & contractors prevention efforts and to promote and support our safety initiatives.
During 2017, we continued to promote our safety culture by conducting behaviour based safety training across all of our sites.
The aim of the training is to focus each employee on their own behaviour, and to ensure employees feel responsible and accountable for identifying and mitigating risks in the workplace before an injury happens.
To measure the effectiveness of our training, over the last couple of years we Aircraft Braking Systems 1,164 10 % Less than 5 5,138 46 % have measured leading indicators to focus Control Systems 1,886 17 % Between 5 and 10 2,238 20 % employees on mitigating behaviours and Polymers & Composites 3,075 27 % Between 10 and 15 1,458 13 % conditions to reduce workplace injuries.
Sensing Systems 3,008 27 % Between 15 and 20 923 8 % This is in addition to our monitoring of the Equipment Group 1,546 14 % Between 20 and 25 454 4 % standard recordable and lost time incident Cross-Group functions 547 5 % Over 25 1,015 9 % rates, number of days lost due to workplace Group 11,226 100 % Group 11,226 100 % injury or illness and other lagging indicators typical in our industry to measure safety performance performance targets for 2017 are highlighted on page 49.
In 2017, we also commenced tracking Total Recordable Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 49 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Incident Rates TRIR at all of our sites.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE During 2017, 40% of our manufacturing facilities were reviewed by our comprehensive auditing programme for Reportable accidents their compliance with applicable health and 1 and incidents safety regulatory requirements as well as compliance against industry best practice standards, as required by our Meggitt % Health and Safety Procedures.
Our audit is a rolling-programme and so more sites will be -4 audited in 2018.
2017 22 To enhance our programme in 2017, we introduced new internal assess and assist 2016 23 teams consisting of health, safety and environmental professionals.
The new Reportable accident teams review sites for compliance with 2 and incident rate applicable laws and regulations in addition to compliance with more stringent Meggitt internal policies and procedures.
They also help to share best practices across the % Group.
The development of these internal assessment teams has enabled us to review -1 compliance on a more frequent basis.
This supplements our internal as well as our 2017 198 external auditing programme which utilises 2016 200 third party consultants.
Being proactive in health and safety at our Total recordable incident rate sites is recognised through our Meggitt 3 TRIR Safety Star award programme.
In 2017, this included the Polymers & Composites sites that were acquired in 2015 which were given targets to achieve at least Gold Safety Star status 90% achieved these targets.
1.2 Overall, in 2017, 65% of our sites achieved our Platinum Safety Star - this is the highest 2017 1.2 level of achievement.
2016 1.5 Our persistent focus in this area has meant we have seen significant improvements in reduced days lost due to workplace injury.
Our improvements reflect good progress in our journey to health and safety excellence and we are targeting to achieve a TRIR of 0.6 by 2019 which is best in class health and safety performance.
1 Reportable accidents and incidents are those directly reportable to a regulatory authority.
2 Accident incident rates are the number of reportable accidents incidents per 100,000 employees.
3 US sites only measured in 2016.
50 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Corporate responsibility continued ii Recognition that we are an Human rights, diversity and equal international business and there will opportunities MALE FEMALE be varied challenges to building a truly Our policy on human rights is contained HEADCOUNT inclusive business across different within our Corporate Responsibility Policy, geographies.
We will work with each of where we confirm the Boards support for Board of directors our divisions and functions to develop the Ten Principles outlined in the United inclusion and diversity strategies that Nations Global Compact.
recognise their specific requirements % and challenges.
Local plans will be The Board is also committed to promoting integrated into our overall Talent 20 diversity and equal opportunities in our Management framework and reviewed organisation.
As a Group, we support equal regularly by the Executive Committee employment opportunities and oppose all to ensure continual progress.
forms of unlawful or unfair discrimination.
We give full and fair consideration to all job iii Understanding of employees applications and provide opportunities for all perceptions.
Our 2017 employee Male Female employees in training, career development engagement survey captured and promotion and continue wherever responses on a range of issues possible to continue to employ staff who Executive team including gender.
We will use this data become disabled.
We recognise however that to formulate local action plans and to our policies are only as successful as their see if there are themes which we need implementation and therefore we require all to address.
We will continue to collect Meggitt employees to comply with our Ethics % feedback from employees to monitor and Business Conduct Policy, our Corporate 7 perceptions on issues such as diversity Responsibility Policy and Code of Conduct, and to help us focus our efforts in this which reinforces our values, to treat all area.
colleagues fairly and with respect and to act with integrity in all of our business dealings.
iv Awareness that all of our employees have requirements that can change Our approach to diversity and inclusion was Male Female because of circumstances.
We reviewed by the Board during 2017.
The recognise that we have an important following actions and commitments have role as a responsible employer in been identified to help us improve diversity Senior executives creating a culture that supports our and inclusion across Meggitt: employees in the various stages of their working lives.
As part of this process i The creation of a High Performance % we are reviewing our policies in areas Culture HPC across Meggitt.
We such as recruitment, flexible working 11 recognise that developing the right and maternity paternity leave to culture is important and will ultimately ensure they align with our aspirations help us to deliver sustainable high to create a truly diverse and inclusive performance.
Ultimately, HPC creates organisation across all of the countries a set of concepts bound together by a that we operate in.
common language to help managers Male Female and employees share and work The number of women employed at all towards the same strategic vision.
levels of the workforce is set out in table Participation in HPC training to date Total headcount opposite.
Further details on diversity are has been encouraging with positive outlined in our Nominations Committee feedback from across the organisation report see page 69. see pages 21 and 51.
% 29 Male Female Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 51 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Employee consultation HPC training at CSS Miami The Group regards employee communication as a vital business function and we respect all employee relations regulations.
Its so unusual for my whole team to come together and spend two Our employees receive regular communication about business full days just focusing on building a developments.
This takes a variety of forms, better and more effective working including: presentations from the Chief environment: its invaluable, we all Executive via audio-visual media: top-down learn so much about ourselves and strategy dissemination from the Chief Executive: publications such as the Meggitt each other.
Review: and a variety of  newsletters.
Ray Bennett CSS Senior VP & Our results presentations are also General Manager Americas.
disseminated across the Group to enhance our employees understanding of the financial and economic factors affecting its performance.
Locally at site level, employee consultation is carried out at facilities by operations directors and other line managers via daily meetings on factory floors, all-employee Town Hall meetings, team briefings and works councils.
As we appreciate that communication is two-way, we carried out an employee engagement survey in 2017.
The feedback will be used to help shape policies and the development of our Group.
Employees are also encouraged to become shareholders to improve active participation in, and commitment to, the Groups success.
This policy has been pursued for all UK employees through theUK Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
52 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Corporate responsibility continued ENVIRONMENT We are committed to achieving and maintaining a culture that places a high priority on environmental performance and being proper stewards in the communities and locations in which we operate to minimise environmental impacts of our operations.
As a manufacturing business, we are Water consumption increased slightly due of inefficient heated press platens with committed to ensuring that all of our sites primarily to an increase in production, the electromagnetic heated platens at our operate in full compliance with all applicable installation of a new sprinkler system and Polymers & Composites and Xiamen environmental laws and regulations and this a water main break at our MPC Rockmart facilities, where initial trials have shown is reinforced through our Environmental facility which is our largest water consumer.
that the electromagnetic platens Policy and Corporate Responsibility Policy.
Excluding Rockmart, most of our other reduce electrical use by 40% to 50%.
In We also require our manufacturing sites to facilities reduced their water consumption addition, the UK Ansty Park super site will maintain an environmental management in 2017 through water conservation consolidate several UK businesses into one system certified to the ISO 14001 measures including installation of water new building that is being designed with international standard.
modern energy efficiency technology in mind.
Our commitment in this area is demonstrated Waste generated in 2017 increased due by our compliance record which shows to construction, demolition and site clean no fines for breaches of environmental up activities which resulted in significant regulations after numerous inspections by amounts of non-hazardous waste being environmental authorities during 2017.
This generated, most of which had to be achievement is due in part to our persistent landfilled as there were no recycling options monitoring of sites against internal targets.
Despite this, our sites continued 2017, our auditing programme assessed 40% to seek viable recycling options for standard of our sites for compliance with applicable waste generated.
One example of this is a regulatory requirements as well as compliance recycling and repurposing project at our against industry best practice.
UK Coventry facility for carbon cloth waste where material scraps are milled and then In 2017, our environmental auditing reconstituted into other non-aerospace programme was further expanded and and non-military carbon tube fittings and additional support was introduced provided gaskets.
Another example is our US MPC via our assess and assist teams consisting San Diego facility which now recycles a of health, safety and environmental waste stream that is used for fuel.
they have diverted approximately 11.4 metric tonnes per annum from going to We have set new performance targets for landfill.
Our US MSS Orange County facility environmental metrics other than GHG also completed a project in late 2017 which emissions in 2017 and we will monitor and eliminated a waste stream that generated ENVIRONMENTAL report our performance against these going approximately 143,000 litres per year of PERFORMANCE forward.
GHG reduction 1 relative to revenue Saving energy Performance In 2017, many of our sites implemented Table 1 on page 53, shows our performance energy savings projects including upgrading against key internally set environmental facilities to energy efficient lighting, metrics.
Table 2 shows our GHG emissions % installing energy efficient compressors data that we are required to report in and occupancy and machine sensors accordance with legislation.
Table 3 shows -2 and timers, upgrading building and our progress on achieving internally set GHG reduction ducting insulation and installing energy targets.
2 management systems which together from 2015 baseline continue to contribute to reduce our GHG During 2017, we achieved a 2% reduction emissions by approximately 1,500 tonnes in GHG emissions relative to revenue, per annum across the Group.
and a 7% reduction towards our 10 % year target to achieve a 25% reduction In 2018 and beyond, we are looking to by 2025.
Divestments, consolidations -7 implement more energy savings projects and footprint reduction activity of our that will have a positive impact on the businesses as well as numerous energy 1 Based on year-on-year comparative data as energy use of our operations.
One such reported in line with DEFRA guidance.
savings projects implemented at our sites project involves the planned replacement 2 Performance against internal 10-year target.
in 2017 contributed to our positive GHG performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 53 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION REACH 1 Environmental metrics Table 1 As our manufacturing sites use chemicals, 2017 Change 2016 we continue to monitor developments Utilities under the EU Registration, Evaluation, Electricity gWh 201 213 Authorisation of CHemicals REACH MWh per m 103 -4% 107 regulations.
We do this through the Natural gas gWh 186 189 Groups REACH Steering Committee which MWh per m 96 1% 95 consists of representatives from each 2 strategic business unit.
REACH regulates Greenhouse gas emissions CO e tonnes 129,663 135,035 2 the production, use and communication of Tonnes per m 66.7 -2% 67.8 chemical substances throughout the supply Waste tonnes 12,056 11,224 chain and the potential impact on human Tonnes per m 6.20 10% 5.63 health and the environment.
The REACH Water cubic metres 711,905 705,279 Steering Committee meets at least quarterly Cubic metres per m 365 3% 354 to review regulatory developments and restrictions placed on chemical substances 3 Greenhouse gas emissions GHG data Table 2 and how these may potentially impact our operations and products.
In 2017, we 2017 2016 implemented a monthly REACH newsletter Tonnes of Tonnes of that is distributed to all functional leaders CO e CO e 2 2 at each of our business units to ensure that 4 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 34,552 35,195 critical information regarding restrictions Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 95,111 99,840 placed on materials used in our operations is communicated across the Group.
129,663 135,035 Intensity measurement: We are also actively engaged in the US Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes per m revenue 66.7 67.8 Aerospace Industry Association Chemical Subcommittee and in the Aerospace and Internal targets Table 3 Defence Industries Association of Europe Target ASD that review and provide input improvement on proposed chemical restrictions and over Baseline Performance period performance Achieved as prohibitions.
In 2017, we also joined the year financial years period at 31.12.2017 International Aerospace Environmental Group IAEG as a full member, and joined GHG Emissions 2015 To 31 December 2025 -25% -7% the Chemical Reporting Working Group.
Water consumption 2016 To 31 December 2021 -10% 3% Our involvement in these industry trade Waste to landfill 2016 To 31 December 2021 -10% -3% group committees allows us to interact Waste recycled 2016 To 31 December 2021 10% -1% with several of our customers and suppliers on issues impacting the aerospace and 1 Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant exchange rates.
Greenhouse gas defence industries as well as issues emissions GHG are calculated using conversion factors published in the 2015 Guidelines to DEFRA impacting our specific operating units.
It DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions from overseas electricity are in CO 2 also provides us a voice in how our industry only not CO e. 2 will respond to ever changing and complex 2 Global GHG emissions were calculated using conversion factors published in the Guidelines to DEFRA global environmental regulations.
DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Emissions factors from overseas electricity are in CO only not CO e. 2 2 Obsolescence 3 GHG emissions data for the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Through our Obsolescence Review Board we Regulation 2013 the Regulations.
The sites reporting GHG data are the same as those consolidated in continually assess substances used in our the Groups financial statements.
operations and contained in our products 4 Does not include GHG emissions generated from Meggitt-owned and operated vehicles or refrigerant to identify alternatives that are safer to use, gases as these emissions are not material to the Groups emissions.
and have less impact on the environment.
We recognise that global environmental regulations will continue to have an impact on the availability of certain substances that are commonly used in our industry, and we have taken steps to manage this risk through chemical hazard assessments conducted at all of our business units.
We have performed extensive reliability and qualification testing on potential safer alternatives to prioritise substances scheduled for restriction.
For example, we have identified and qualified a non-chromate based primer which is currently being used in a number of our aircraft braking system components and have identified safer alternatives to chlorinated solvents previously used in some of our operations.
We continue to work closely with our customers and suppliers to minimise the use of toxic substances in our manufacturing processes and in our products.
54 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Corporate responsibility continued ETHICS Ethics, business conduct and trade compliance We recognise that conducting business relationships in an ethical and responsible manner and acting as a responsible supplier is critical for our success especially given the highly competitive nature of our industry.
Through industry associations like the Throughout 2017, we continued to promote Aerospace, Defence, Security and Space our ethics programme through our antiorganisation ADS and the International bribery, code of conduct and personal Ethics programme feedback Forum on Business Ethical Conduct integrity barometer training sessions.
We IFBEC, we have taken a leadership also took steps to reduce the number of our position with others in our industry when it commercial intermediaries to try to mitigate comes to conducting business ethically and potential risks of corruption and bribery in compliance with laws and regulations.
taking place within our business.
We run an Ethics Programme for all of As part of our commitment to acting as our employees to ensure we are doing a responsible supplier, we commit to business ethically and we are compliant abstaining from practices such as slavery, with international anti-corruptions laws.
human trafficking, forced labour and Our programme is built on the foundation child labour.
We also commit to take all of honesty, integrity and respect for others.
reasonable measures to ensure that our These principles are reaffirmed through suppliers and other entities acting on our Drives policy and programme our Group policies including our Ethics and behalf do not engage in practices that Business Conduct Policy, Code of Conduct violate applicable laws and regulations and Anti-Corruption Policy.
Through regular relating to slavery, human trafficking, forced training in these policy areas, all employees labour and child labour.
Our statement are reminded of how to conduct business made in compliance with the UK Modern in an ethical and responsible manner and Slavery Act is available on our website.
examples are given on how to apply the principles and provisions laid out in our In 2017, we met reporting requirements policies.
Every employee also receives a in relation to tax working practices and printed Ethics Guide on joining the Group payment practices.
which is also available on our website.
Our compliance with other relevant laws Each Meggitt business site has a designated and employee training is monitored Influences the training of our Ethics Coordinator who is available to assist through our internal audit programme employees employees who have questions or concerns and the findings are reported to the Audit and we operate an Ethics Line which Committee and Board on a regular basis.
enables employees to raise questions or concerns confidentially or anonymously, 24 In addition to our ethics programme, we hours a day, 7 days a week from anywhere have a long established Trade Compliance in the world.
Employees are entitled to a function, who apply detailed processes thorough investigation and receive feedback and practices to ensure we are compliant whether the issues are substantiated or not.
with import and export regulations and with relevant economic sanctions.
We continueto incorporate new regulatory requirements, especially those associated Impacts interaction with our with the US Export Controls Reform ECR and to expand implementation of our global Ethics Coordinator available customers and suppliers trade management software solutions to implement our import compliance programme.
hours 24 a day, 7 days a week Annual Report and Accounts 2017 MEGGITT PLC 55 S Str TRa Ate TEg GI Ic C R re Ep PO Or Rt T GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SOCIAL Local communities and charitable donations We encourage our sites to contribute to the communities in which our employees live and work and to enhance the wellbeing of people living in our communities.
This is reinforced through our charitable giving policy.
The policy also encourages facilities to undertake activities and fundraising to benefit the health and welfare of military personnel and to support education initiatives, scholarships and competitions in science, technology, engineering and mathematics subjects.
Although our Policy allows a broad range of charitable activity, our priority is to support MABS, Akron Tomorrows generation charities or community organisations which focus onscience, technology, engineering During 2017, MCS North Hollywood and mathematics education initiatives.
The charitable activities at our Examples of our on-going support in this became the second of our sites to Akron site during 2017 demonstrate area include: support the FIRST Robotics the breadth of activities that our Competition programme.
sites get involved with in supporting Links with the University of Sheffield and sponsorship of the annual prize the local communities where their for the best Science and Engineering FIRST For Inspiration and business operates.
Foundation Year student in the Recognition of Science and Automated Controls and Systems Technology was founded in 1989 to During 2017, the MABS Women in Engineering department.
inspire young peoples interest and Leadership Group supported The Arkwright Scholarship which participation in science and different charitable organisations supports future engineers by technology.
It is now universally that had connections with facilitating work experience, mentoring recognised as the leading, not-foremployees based on site.
This was and providing technical guidance profit STEM engagement on projects and advice on university through organising various events selection and applications.
Our involvement in encouraging Supporting programmes like FIRST The business also sponsored the students to take up engineering as helps us to ensure there is a a career through IETs Engineering All-American Soap Box Derby Horizon Bursaries, which offers pipeline of talented young Educational Program.
The aim of support to students who have faced engineers.
In return, students are the programme is to encourage obstacles or challenges and require encouraged to pursue education amongst other things youth financial support as well as work and careers in STEM-related fields.
education and leadership They are also inspired to become development, mentoring, innovation Sponsorship of the Schools Aerospace leaders and innovators, and helped and entrepreneurship.
Challenge, which offers shortlisted to develop their 21st century 16 to 18 year olds the chance to work-life skills.
experience what the aerospace world Employees from the MABS site also has to offer in a five day Summer engaged in the United Way Day of School at Cranfield University.
Employees joined in an 8 hour away day at Summit County Strategic report Within our Groups defined policy, each This 2017 Strategic report on pages 3 to 55 Meggitt business is ultimately responsible Education Initiative a local for agreeing and administering its own is hereby signed on behalf of the Board.
organisation supporting families in budget for charitable donations and poverty.
This gave the employees a sponsorships to ensure they have a positive chance to understand and support impact onthe local community or they support sectors in which their businesses local issues in the community.
Yearly reports reveal the exceptional generosity of many employees Tony Wood who give time and money to awide range of Chief Executive national and local initiatives.
