O U R P E O P L E S T N E I L Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY meet regulatory and best practice Our policies Being a responsible developments, and provides greater Our key policies relating to our clients business is integral to insight into our responsibilities.
Our GRI include: G4 Report and Environmental Policy the way we work.
This ll Treating customers fairly TCF.
TCF is Statement is available from our website a core FCA principle, which promotes responsibility is wider at www.
fair treatment of clients from product than our clients or our inception through to marketing and postsales support.
commits us to dealing with clients CLIENTS honestly, openly and competently, not Our three primary stakeholder groups Jupiter can only succeed by offering just as part of regulatory compliance are our clients, people and shareholders.
products that our clients want and but as a fundamental guiding principle.
In addition, our regulators, business that meet their investment needs by Our TCF Committee, chaired by our partners, the state and other authorities, selling and marketing these products Chief Executive Maarten Slendebroek, and wider society all have an interest in responsibly and by offering high levels of ensures that our services meet our TCF how we work.
Ensuring we meet client obligations and our policy.
needs comes from a combination of our ll Conflicts of interest.
We take all The way we attract, develop and retain culture and our governance.
These are appropriate steps to identify, prevent our people is discussed under Talent closely linked.
Our policies, principles, or manage conflicts of interest that and Culture in the Performance Review.
codes of conduct and our corporate arise or may arise in the course of Relations with shareholders are covered values all inform our culture and align providing investment services to clients, throughout the Strategic Report as well our interests with those of existing and whether between us and a client as in the Governance section.
The potential clients and our staff.
or between one client and another.
remainder of this section therefore Where circumstances are considered provides more details about how we As part of this, we look to exercise good to exist that may give rise to a conflict protect the interests of our clients, stewardship on behalf of our clients and of interest, details will be provided as well as our interactions with to behave ethically.
We believe that our to clients as well as the mitigating regulators, business partners, society biggest sustainability impact comes from procedures.
No such circumstances and the state and authorities.
looking after our clients needs and our are currently considered to exist engagement with the companies we We have utilised the Global Reporting which require disclosure to clients.
Initiative GRI to structure our disclosure We have several methods for ensuring of corporate responsibility information.
we successfully implement our policies.
Disclosing our corporate responsibility These include: performance in this way helps us to ll training programmes, covering areas such as antibribery and corruption, money laundering and market abuse, which employees are required to complete during the year: ll our employee handbook, which assists with contractual terms, expected conduct and our policies: THE STATE AND ll our intranet, through which we make REGULATORS AUTHORITIES our key policies available to our people: ll internal audits, which review our compliance with our legal and regulatory obligations, as well as our own policies and procedures: ll supervisory controls, including a JUPITER TCF sponsor in every clientfacing department: and ll our governance framework, including our Board, management and reporting committees with their own terms of reference, which provide us with a robust structure within which we implement our governance and policies.
BUSINESS SOCIETY PARTNERS 32 C R U O O U R S H A R E H O L D E R S STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Compliance department monitors ll the importance of providing companies Implementing the recommendations of our success with implementing our with the flexibility to create pay the FSB Task Force on Climate-related policies, principles and codes of conduct.
structures suited to their business Financial Disclosures We review the majority of our policies models: and Our Chief Executive Officer CEO and annually and circulate the updated Chief Financial Officer CFO signed ll the need to preserve the UKs versions to all staff.
Statements of Support for the successful unitary board model.
recommendations of the FSB Task Force Conduct risk The FRC began a review of the UK on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures, The Group defines conduct risks as risks Corporate Governance Code in late and we will be implementing the which result in customer detriment, 2017 and launched a consultation on recommendations over the next few negative impact to market stability or proposed amendments in December years.
Our initial disclosure is below.
The aim is to ensure the UK best Governance risk is not considered a separate risk practice regime retains its leading ll The CEO, together with the executive category.
Risks in the strategic, investment elements, while adapting to the changing Directors, are responsible for the and operational risk categories may economic and social climate.
Jupiter management of the Groups dayto result in conduct risk impacts.
intends to respond to this consultation.
day business and for ensuring the implementation of strategy, and, as Our approach to stewardship The Chief Investment Officer also chairs such, have specific responsibility for Effective stewardship is fundamental our Sustainability Review Committee, climate changerelated issues.
to achieving the best riskadjusted which comprises portfolio managers and returns for our clients.
We do not view sustainability and governance specialists.
ll The Board has established a governance themes in isolation but seek The Committee: committee structure to assist in the to understand how they affect longterm discharge of its responsibilities across performance.
Our investment teams and ll oversees the approval of companies our investment activities, including for investment in ethically screened, specialist governance and sustainability climate change responsibilities.
analysts therefore work together, to socially responsible or environmental Our Sustainability Review Committee, solutions funds: and integrate stewardship into our investment chaired by the Chief Investment Officer, approach, and all our fund managers reviews our engagement activity ll reviews our engagement with are involved in voting decisions and our with companies on climaterelated companies on social and governance dialogue with companies.
issues and monitors these risks and environmental issues and monitors opportunities across Jupiters funds.
these risks and opportunities across Jupiter has a formal Stewardship our funds.
Committee, which develops and Strategy delivers a coordinated approach to our ll The key aspects of climate change that We link this analysis of major social and engagement with companies.
The Chief have influenced the business strategy environmental issues to our key holdings.
Investment Officer chairs the Committee, are climate change opportunities risks Our sustainability specialists and which comprises fund managers, associated with the assets we manage.
investment teams collaborate on the Head of Governance, corporate These include increasing climate sustainability research, to improve our governance and sustainability analysts change regulation, changes in physical investment outcomes.
and representatives from across the climate parameters, changing consumer business.
The Committee looks at trends During the year, the UNbacked demands, and opportunities to develop in our engagement with companies, the Principles for Responsible Investment business solutions to global challenges.
issues arising and how we can enhance PRI released its Transparency Report We work to try and understand these our processes and information gathering.
for 2017, in which it assessed Jupiters levels of risk and opportunities across It also approves our submissions to wider approach to the PRIs six our underlying investments where consultations, for example, on changes responsible investment principles.
Jupiter we estimate these to be material.
to the Financial Reporting Councils FRC once again scored strongly across We focus on our investments in the UK Stewardship Code the Code.
Jupiter several modules assessed by the PRI.
energy, industrials, utilities and auto is a signatory to the Code.
In particular, we were rated A for sectors in particular.
We seek to Strategy & Governance as well as A for engage with company management In 2017, we continued to engage both Listed Equity Incorporation and where appropriate.
with companies and policy makers.
ll Jupiter is not a significant producer of Most notably, Jupiter responded to GHG emissions, and we consider our the UK Governments consultation direct climaterelated risk to be limited.
on corporate governance reform in However, the risks associated with February 2017.
The response was rising energy prices and the necessity informed by governance themes that to reduce emissions have influenced our fund managers have encountered our business strategy, as evidenced over many years.
These included: by the decision to move to a new BREEAM Excellent rated building in ll the core principle that executive pay December 2015 and our commitment must be linked to performance: to purchase 100% of our electricity from renewable sources under the RE100 initiative.
33 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Risk management As part of our approach to stewardship Significant new regulations also arise ll We collate our corporate global and responsible investment, we review from European directives.
These include environmental data and produce key themes that could affect the long MiFID II, which is discussed in more detail quarterly reports on our direct term value of companies.
In 2017, for in the Operating Model and Infrastructure environmental impact, allowing the example, we considered the financial risk section of the performance review.
identification of climate change risks to our investments from a potential ban Other notable upcoming regulation and opportunities related to our direct on diesel passenger vehicles in European includes the General Data Protection operations consumption and waste.
cities and growing labour issues in the Regulation, which comes into force in Asian textiles sector.
We continue to prepare ll At an asset level, as mentioned above, effectively for these changes, supported our Sustainability Review Committee More information on stewardship by our investment in our systems reviews our engagement activity with Visit www.
com to view monthly and processes.
companies on climaterelated issues records and download our latest Voting and monitors these risks and and Engagement Report.
Our sustainability specialists and Further information on our approach investment teams conduct research to corporate governance, corporate BUSINESS PARTNERS in partnership.
responsibility and voting can be found Our key business partners include our ll We monitor climate change risks and in the Jupiter Asset Management distribution partners in the UK and opportunities in our investments by Corporate Governance and Voting overseas markets.
They encompass hosting or attending meetings with Policy and The UK Stewardship Code: funds of funds, platforms, global financial management teams and non Jupiters Approach, both of which are institutions, advisers, wealth managers executives to question and challenge available on our website.
Our interactions with companies about the issues we think our distribution partners are described may affect their longterm value.
in the Business Model section and in the Distribution Partners, Channels, Clients Metrics and targets and Geographies section of the Please see Our environmental REGULATORS Performance Review.
performance below for our emissions Jupiters primary regulator is the FCA metrics and RE100 target.
It oversees all aspects of Services provided by key partners help our work, from how we run our fund to optimise our business model and Our stewardship performance management operations to how we ensure we serve our clients in the best We monitor the companies we invest in communicate to our clients, both directly way possible.
For product distribution, by hosting or attending regular meetings and through our distribution partners.
we use thirdparty platforms, wealth with their executive management.
These managers and financial advisers to While we also come under the jurisdiction meetings allow us to question and access clients.
This intermediated of other regulators overseas, the high challenge companies on the issues we approach, which is a feature of all the standard of UK regulation means the think may affect their longterm value.
markets we operate in, is significantly FCA sets the benchmark for what we do.
more efficient than engaging directly with We also separately engage with When we face overseas regulations that clients.
It allows us to target marketing company chairmen and nonexecutive are more onerous than in the UK, we and brand building and develop directors.
The content of these meetings comply with the higher standard.
relationships with distribution partners, varies but can include strategy, board while maintaining a simplified service Ongoing regulatory change is a feature effectiveness, remuneration, shareholder model.
Online services enable advisers of our markets.
One change being driven rights, culture, values, succession planning and individuals to invest in selected funds by the FCA is the Senior Managers and and sustainability.
This gives us a different from different providers, and to access Certification Regime SMCR.
This aims to perspective on a companys performance consolidated reporting and analytics protect consumers and market integrity, and prospects and helps us to drive tools.
We are building relationships with by making individuals working in financial longterm investment performance, by the biggest platforms and making our services more accountable for their engaging before problems arise, rather funds available through them.
We are than holding companies to account after working towards SMCR compliance, the event.
During the year, we engaged To support an efficient and scalable in line with the anticipated FCA deadline.
with 160 companies to primarily discuss operating platform, thirdparty The FCA also published the final findings stewardship matters, in addition to the administration services are provided by of its asset management market study 1,000 meetings held with company a range of global financial institutions in June 2017.
This outlines reforms to management around the financial calendar.
including JP Morgan, HSBC, RBS, and make competition work better, including Northern Trust.
Fund administration Voting at company general meetings is greater fee transparency and a focus services for our unit trust range are also an important part of exercising our on creating value for clients.
Our provided by DST Systems and the stewardship responsibilities.
In 2017, we decision to move to single pricing for SICAV funds are administered by JP voted at 371 meetings in the UK and 930 unit trusts, which we announced in Morgan Luxembourg.
We voted against management February 2017, anticipated these changes appropriate oversight and control of or abstained on at least one resolution and simplifies our client proposition.
our partners activities, and also act as at 12% of UK meetings and 31% of the delegated management company overseas meetings.
34 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our CEO, Maarten Slendebroek, said: Key performance Restated Change indicator 2017 2016 % We believe our decision to target 100% Direct emissions 152.4 141.9 renewable electricity through RE100 scope 1 tCO e tCO e 7% 2 2 highlights the alignment between our SOCIETY Indirect emissions corporate strategy and our investment Our corporate values set out our aim of scope 2 : 474.7 573.4 activities.
As longterm active investors, making a positive contribution to society, locationbased tCO e tCO e 17% 2 2 we believe that climate change and as managers of other peoples money.
energy transition carry risks and Indirect emissions We also have an impact on society scope 2 : 0.0 0.5 opportunities that warrant our attention.
through our environmental performance, marketbased tCO e tCO e 100% This initiative demonstrates Jupiters 2 2 our approach to protecting human rights commitment to environmentally Other relevant and preventing modern slavery, and responsible corporate behaviour.
indirect emissions 841.5 356.1 through our charitable activities.
scope 3 tCO e tCO e 136% 2 2 Human rights and modern slavery The environment We recognise the importance of With enhanced data accuracy due to In 2011, we began working with Carbon upholding human rights in our business improved conditioning of the building and Credentials to measure our carbon operations, both in how we treat understanding of the metering structure, footprint.
Since then, we have gathered individuals and how we encourage 2016 emissions have been restated.
data on a variety of emissions sources.
individuals within the Group to interact The table below presents the operational with each other.
This is at the heart of Our emissions intensity measure is tCO e 2 boundary for our reported GHG our corporate values.
per full time employee equivalent FTE.
emissions in 2017: Using direct emissions scope 1 and We protect the rights of our employees locationbased scope 2 emissions, our Fugitive through our employment policies and emissions from emissions intensity in 2017 was 1.28 tCO e 2 Direct refrigeration and practices, which prohibit discrimination per employee FTE 2016: 1.51 tCO e per 2 emissions Building gas air conditioning Owned and encourage diversity.
At Jupiter, we employee FTE.
Using direct emissions scope 1 combustion equipment vehicles believe diversity and inclusion are simple scope 1 and marketbased scope 2 Indirect Building concepts to have the right people, emissions electricity emissions, our 2017 emissions intensity scope 2 consumption regardless of background, in the right was 0.31 tCO e per employee FTE 2016: 2 Other role.
Our Equal Opportunities Policy 0.30 tCO e per employee FTE.
2 relevant requires all employees and job applicants indirect to be treated fairly and equally.
All our Our locationbased scope 2 emissions emissions Business Waste Water scope 3 travel disposal consumption procedures and policies are biasfree have decreased by 17% compared to and we have a zerotolerance policy to 2016 due to more efficient working bullying and harassment.
Our managers Our environmental performance practices being implemented in 2017, are supported in embedding an inclusive The table below breaks down our resulting in reduced electricity consumption.
culture within their teams and we are GHG emissions by scope.
We use the Our scope 3 emissions are almost dedicated to engendering a culture operational control approach to entirely made up of emissions from air of openness so that any issues consolidating GHG emissions.
Our travel which increased by 138% in 2017 or concerns can be discussed.
chosen GHG methodology Defras as we expanded our international Environmental Reporting Guidelines We protect the rights of our other presence.
defines this as operations where we, stakeholders through our insistence or one of our subsidiaries, have full In 2017 Jupiter joined The Climate on high standards of ethical behaviour.
authority to introduce and implement Groups RE100 initiative, committing to This is embedded in our culture through our operating policies.
We believe this source 100% of the energy consumption our policies, principles, codes of conduct approach incorporates all of our entities in its leased offices from renewable and our corporate values.
Our TCF, with sustainability impacts that are sources by the end of 2017.
We achieved antibribery and corruption and conflicts actually or potentially material.
This of interest policies are particularly means that, using the marketbased important in upholding high standards At the end of 2017, Jupiter had physical approach to Scope 2 emissions of ethical behaviour.
We have reporting, our electricity emissions in 2017 therefore applied a materiality threshold We expect our suppliers to uphold human were nil tCO2e.
Our office in Hong Kong, of 5% for the purposes of reporting GHG rights both in their own organisations where renewable tariffs are not data, in line with practice among similar and, in turn, in those of their suppliers.
available, purchased internationally sized firms in our sector.
As a result, In particular, we will not tolerate modern recognised IRECS, using Chinese wind locations with eight or more staff are slavery or human trafficking.
power to offset the electrical KW h defined as material and included in the usage.
Jupiters London headquarters in disclosure.
For the first time in 2017, we Further details can be found on our the Zig Zag Building already uses 100% are therefore including emissions from website at: www.
our offices in Hong Kong and Frankfurt.
35 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Community The Criminal Finances Act 2017 took As well as our impact on wider society effect on 30 September 2017 and which comes through the individuals we introduced Corporate Criminal Offences, employ, suppliers we use, the taxes we which criminalise the failure of an THE STATE AND AUTHORITIES pay and those we collect on behalf organisation to prevent the facilitation The state and authorities set the legal of individuals, we also aim to make of UK and foreign tax evasion by its and taxation frameworks we must a positive contribution to society as associated persons, as defined by the operate within.
managers of other peoples money and Act.
We have adopted appropriate by helping investors to meet their procedures to support our policy We comply with all applicable laws, longterm investment objectives.
In towards the prevention of the facilitation including those relating to financial crime, addition, we make a difference to the of tax evasion.
We do not tolerate in the countries within which we operate.
communities we operate within through tax evasion, nor do we tolerate the charitable giving directed by our Financial crime facilitation of tax evasion by any employees and through the support and person s acting on the Groups behalf.
We are committed to combatting engagement of a corporate partner financial crime, including money Taxation charity.
laundering, terrorist financing, bribery We seek to manage our tax affairs and corruption, tax evasion and fraud.
In 2017 Jupiter directly contributed in a straightforward manner, paying We therefore have numerous policies 153,000 to charitable causes.
In line what we owe at the right time in order and procedures to reduce the extent to with Jupiters culture, this giving is to comply with our tax obligations which it is possible that Jupiters products primarily driven by supporting double worldwide.
Our corporate structure could be used in connection with matched giving for individuals who and operating model ensure that our financial crime.
participate in the Give As You Earn tax affairs are easy to explain and scheme operated by the Charities transparent to the tax authorities.
The topics covered by those policies and Aid Foundation.
This allows individual procedures include: Our approach is governed by a Board employees to align charitable giving with ll Financial crime prevention training approved tax strategy, which we have the causes they feel a personal shared with HM Revenue & Customs.
As a corporate, we ll Transaction monitoring We ensure this strategy, and the further directly supported a number of ll Suspicious activity reporting procedures and controls which underpin other fundraising events and charitable ll Antimoney laundering, sanctions and our approach, are appropriate, causes in 2017, including wearing Politically Exposed Persons monitored and fully implemented.
Christmas jumpers to support Save ll Customer, distributor and enhanced The Children, a sponsored abseil event More information on our tax strategy due diligence for CASCAID, the Asset Management can be found on our website: initiative that raises funds for Cancer ll Compliance monitoring and internal www.
Research UK, fundraising for SANDS audit during baby loss awareness week ll Employee vetting and collecting supply donations for ll Antibribery and corruption Grenfell Tower victims and local foodbanks through the Trussell Trusts ll Tax evasion Harvest Appeal.
CHARLOTTE JONES ll Data protection and security cyber Chief Financial Officer crime Our partner charity is selected based 26 February 2018 ll Whistleblowing on nominations from employees, who look for an organisation which aligns These measures are designed to ensure with our corporate values.
Our current we comply with applicable UK law, partner charity is Teach First.
It focuses including the Money Laundering on reducing inequality in education, Regulations 2017, Bribery Act 2010 and primarily by training and supporting Criminal Finances Act 2017 see below.
new teachers, to help them develop as leaders in schools.
In 2017 employees Our senior managers are required to and Jupiter supported Teach First by actively engage in managing financial raising 90,234 for the charity through crime risks.
The Groups Audit and Risk various events including staff quiz nights, Committee meets at least four times a dress downs and charity run and cycling year and considers matters related to events.
In addition, Jupiter employers financial crime matter.
These matters are have also dedicated their time to also considered by the Risk Committee working with close to sixty pupils from and other operational forums.
two Teach First partner schools, teaching guest lessons, coaching new teachers and mentoring Teach First Directors.
36 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE 38 Chairmans introduction 40 The Governance framework 42 Board of Directors 50 Nomination Committee report 52 Audit and Risk Committee report 59 Remuneration report 92 Directors report 96 Directors Responsibility and Compliance statements 37
