Corporate responsibility review Building stronger communities We build stronger communities by delivering products that enable our customers to move ahead in their lives with confidence, and by investing in the real economy to drive the cycle of growth.
Alongside the benefits we provide through our core business activities, 2017 we also play a wider role in fostering performance sustainable development through our corporate responsibility programmes highlights around the world.
This corporate responsibility review 25 million total community provides an overview of our community investment investment, environmental, diversity and inclusion, talent development and 500,000 raised through performance management activities and Prudential RideLondon from progress in 2017, which have helped to charity partners and employees improve the lives of customers and 96,493 hours volunteered strengthened communities throughout the by employees across the markets in which we operate.
More detailed Prudential Group information is available online at www.
co. uk  412,375 donated by employees and in our 2017 Environmental, social and through payroll giving across governance report.
the Group Environmental, social and governance ESG a changing landscape The ESG landscape is evolving rapidly.
We recognise these changes and position Managing a sustainable business means ourselves to adapt to them proactively, managing a wide range of ESG issues.
to ensure that we remain a sustainable Every one of these areas is integral to our business and demonstrate that performance and sustainability and we sustainability as transparently as possible.
We recognise We will report in detail on our material, that the ESG landscape is changing and nonfinancial ESG issues in our 2017 position ourselves to adapt to this ESG Report.
We have chosen to include a summary Managing our material ESG issues of our material ESG issues and how we In 2016, we undertook a Groupwide manage these for the first time here in our review to identify the ESG issues that are Annual Report and commit to continuing most material for Prudential.
We to develop these disclosures for our determined the relevance and significance investors in future Annual Reports.
This of each ESG issue, based on the risks and reflects our belief in the importance of ESG opportunities to Prudential and our considerations to our longterm success.
stakeholders, and prioritised these issues Our approach to ESG according to the greatest impact to the Our relationships with our customers are sustainability of our business.
Our material long term, so it is vital that our strategy ESG issues fall into the following areas: and its execution ensure that we are a business integrity, customers, sustainable business.
Our success in environment, responsible investment, delivering for our customers and suppliers, technology, people and shareholders depends on effective communities.
These remain the most engagement with our stakeholders.
Our business model is set out on pages 12 to 13.
64 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Adding more to life: Prudential Scholarship programme, Zambia Prudentials scholarship programme in Zambia is run in partnership with the international charity, Camfed, and was endorsed by the Ministry of Education.
The programme focuses on educating young girls and people with disabilities in rural Zambia.
Sara is the sixth born in a family of eight children.
Having completed primary school and achieved impressive results in her primary leaving examination, she was awarded a place at secondary school, but her parents did not have the money to pay the fees and it looked as if she would have to turn down her place.
Fortunately, Sara was awarded a scholarship.
Prudentials support is enabling Sara to take her final school leaving examination, giving her the potential to go on and pursue her dream of becoming a medical professional.
She says: I encourage Camfed donors to continue supporting other vulnerable children in the same way they have done for me.
When I complete my Grade 12, I wish to work in the health sector as a medical personnel by studying for Medicine at the University of Zambia, if possible becoming a surgeon.
Business integrity to serve our customers for the long term, the restriction of investment At Prudential, responsible and ethical which involves proactively listening to their opportunities.
However, we maintain the behaviour is a business imperative and is needs and developing our products and ability to exclude entities from our internal integrated throughout our operations and solutions to improve financial access and insurance mandates, where their practices, locations.
We believe that the way in which deliver consistent, longterm sustained policies or procedures conflict with our we conduct ourselves on a daily basis is key performance.
Group values, or where we see a need to to building trust, maintaining our explicitly recognise international Environment reputation and positive relationships with consensus.
To date, owing to the Managing the climaterelated risks facing our stakeholders and ultimately in decentralised nature of our Group, our our business is crucial to creating longterm achieving longterm business success.
We asset management and ownership value for our customers, shareholders and have embedded a robust framework businesses have managed ESG risks in our the communities of which we are a part.
As throughout our operations to ensure that investment portfolios, distinctly.
In an occupier of approximately 400 we are able to effectively manage existing recognition of the importance of ESG in properties worldwide, we recognise the and emerging risks in this area, including delivering longterm sustainable returns importance of our own internal maintaining our financial strength, fighting across our investment portfolio, we created environmental targets and decarbonisation financial crime, undertaking responsible our Group Responsible Investment goals in reducing our direct footprint.
As a tax practices and upholding the highest Framework during 2017.
The framework life insurer, asset owner and manager, we standards for professional conduct.
sets minimum requirements and provides also recognise the positive role we can play guidance that enables our Business Units to Customers in financing the transition to a lowcarbon explain, in a manner that is consistent with Serving our customers well is core to our economy and in managing associated risks.
our Group Values and Code of Conduct, strategy and to creating longterm how they incorporate ESG considerations Responsible investment sustainable value.
We provide fair and into their investment processes and Responsible investment for us is the transparent products that meet our stewardship commitments as asset integration of ESG considerations into our customers needs, often providing owners.
Further information on our Group investment processes and our stewardship solutions to the biggest financial challenges Responsible Investment Framework will be activities.
Our general approach is one of of their lives.
Prudential serves a global found in our 2017 ESG Report.
inclusion through engagement with customer base with a broad range of investee companies and active ownership needs.
The financial challenges facing our practices rather than exclusion customers continue to change and we want www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 65 Corporate responsibility review continued Suppliers customers.
They also bring new concerns, Communities As a global financial services organisation, in particular cyber risks, which pose threats We recognise that we have a role to play we source goods and services from to our business operations and the in the broader sustainable development thousands of outsourced and thirdparty customer data that we hold and protect.
agenda, for example in building financial suppliers across the world.
We recognise Cyber risk remains a prominent concern literacy and improving financial inclusion.
the need to source these goods and and focus area for regulators and Our community investment strategy is services in a way that maximises value and corporates globally, and could have a closely aligned with our business objectives minimises our supply risk, and we do this significant impact on business continuity, and with our stakeholders concerns and in an ethically and socially responsible our customer relationships and our brand interests, and is aimed at protecting and manner.
Given the number of our reputation.
We closely monitor and encouraging more sustainable and resilient outsourced and thirdparty supply respond to developments in this area, communities.
To achieve this, our relationships, we also have a responsibility to ensure that we can maximise the programme is focused around four to make it as simple as possible for our benefits of new emerging technology principal areas: social inclusion, financial suppliers to do business with us.
We while minimising the risks.
education and life skills, disaster manage this through our responsible preparedness, and employee engagement.
We believe in Further information on our material ESG At Prudential we encourage an inclusive respecting human rights and acting issues, including 2017 progress and working environment where we continually responsibly and with integrity.
We have performance can be found in our develop our talent, reward great always believed this commitment extends forthcoming 2017 ESG Report.
For more performance and value our differences in beyond our organisation and into our information on the principal risks facing our order to deliver outstanding service and supply chain.
For information around business and general risk governance and products for our customers, shareholders modern slavery and how we are identifying risk management policies and procedures and communities.
This is achieved through and managing our risks in relation to and how these are managed, refer to the our continued focus on diversity and slavery, human trafficking, child and forced report on the Risks facing our business and inclusion, talent development, performance labour, please read our forthcoming 2017 how these are managed on pages 48 to 63. and reward and health and safety.
Further information on the diversity of our Technology Board, our policy in respect of this, how this Emerging technologies enable us to is implemented and the associated results provide financial protection to previously in 2017 can be found in our Governance unreachable communities and deliver statement on page 101. better, more efficient outcomes for our ESG policy framework Group Governance Manual Groupwide ESG standards are established through the Group Governance Manual.
The Manual sets out the policies and procedures by which the Group operates within our framework of internal governance, taking into account relevant statutory and regulatory matters.
Groupwide policies relating to the Groups material ESG issues include: Material ESG issues Our Group-wide policies Business Code of Business Conduct Policy, setting out the standards that are required across the Group, by all employees integrity and any individuals and organisations acting on our behalf.
This includes our core values prudence, security, integrity and initiative and that we pursue opportunities to grow our business in line with these values, and our commitments to our customers, investors and economies, our people and communities.
Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy, outlining the value we place on our reputation for ethical behaviour and for financial probity and reliability, our prohibition of corruption and the payment or receipt of bribes for any purpose and how we limit our exposure to this.
Anti Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing Policy, setting out our prohibition of money laundering and terrorist financing, and how we combat and limit our exposure to this.
Sanctions Policy, outlining our commitment to complying with sanctions laws and regulation and how we comply with this through screening, prohibited business activity, restricting business activities and investigation.
Security Policy, outlining how we ensure a level of security commensurate with our regulatory and legal obligations, while meeting the demands of our competitive, commercial organisation.
This includes our principles to enhance commercial opportunity, while minimising corporate risks utilising financial crime and fraud investigations and Speak out whistleblowing processes.
Tax Risk Policy, covering our processes to identify, measure, control and report on taxrelated risks, including technical judgement, operational, regulatory and reputational tax risk.
66 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Material ESG issues Our Group-wide policies Customers Customer Commitments Policy, covering our five key commitments to our customers and how we assess, manage and report on these: 1 Treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: 2 Provide and promote a range of products and services that meet customer needs, are easy to understand and that deliver real value: 3 Maintain the confidentiality of our customer information except where the law requires disclosure : 4 Provide and promote high standards of customer service and monitor these standards rigorously: and 5 Ensure that our complaints processes provide an effective and fair means of arbitration between the Groups businesses and customers.
Environment Environment Policy, covering how we manage the impact of our businesses on the environment, including our environmental commitments and how we measure, monitor, review and report on our environmental performance.
Responsible Owing to the distinct investment risks faced by our asset management and ownership businesses, with each investment investing in different markets and asset classes, each business manages ESGrelated matters through the pursuit of businessspecific responsible investment policies.
This is overlain by our Groupwide Responsible Investment Framework, aligned to our Groupwide Code of Conduct and underpinned by our Group Responsible Investment Standards.
Further information on our Group Responsible Investment Framework will be found in our 2017 ESG Report.
Suppliers Outsourcing and Third Party Supply Policy, outlining our commitment to ensuring we have a robust, well managed outsourcing and thirdparty supplier network.
It covers how we manage and oversee these arrangements, through: due diligence selection criteria, contractual requirements, the ongoing monitoring of such relationships and reporting and escalation.
Additionally, our policy considers the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act, and the principles of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Technology Risk Security Policy we are in the process of updating our data protection policies to prepare for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
This policy ensures the protection of information, information systems and technical infrastructure from unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction, in order to provide confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information.
People Diversity and Inclusion Policy, setting out how we foster an inclusive workforce and ensure all our employees are treated fairly and feel valued, and together have the diversity in skill sets and backgrounds that enriches the organisation.
Our policy considers a range of diversity aspects of our employees, including gender, age, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation and background.
Further information on the diversity of our Board, our policy in respect of this, how this is implemented and the associated results in 2017 can be found in our Governance statement on page 101.
Employee Relations Policy, outlining the way we engage our employees and motivate them to achieve success for the Group: promoting positive relationships with employees, representative organisations and trade unions, and maintaining a positive reputation for the treatment of employees.
Performance and Learning Policy, setting out the importance of our people and framing how we invest in their development to deliver against our strategy and the future success of the organisation.
This includes our Performance Management Framework.
Remuneration Policy, outlining our effective approach to appropriately rewarding our employees in a way which: aligns incentives to business objectives and enables the recruitment, retention and incentivisation of highcalibre employees in line with our risk appetite and Group Reward Principles.
Talent Policy, demonstrating how we attract and select the best people for roles that will ensure high performance in the short term and improve the longerterm succession and talent pipeline.
It sets out our fair and effective approach to pursuing this.
Health and Safety Policy, covering our employees, business partners, customers and others that may be affected by our operations.
This details our health and safety core principles, our commitments and the measuring and reporting on our health and safety performance.
Communities Community Investment Policy, outlining our commitment and approach to being an active and supporting member of the community.
The policy includes the development of our community investment strategy and sets out investments that are not permitted, relevant records and reporting.
In addition to our Groupwide policies, our business units have underlying businessspecific policy frameworks, reflective of their individual risks and operating environments.
For the purposes of this report, we focus primarily on the Group policy framework.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 67 Corporate responsibility review continued The Group Governance Manual is used as why a middleincome family falls below the need in a number of ways.
In Singapore, a platform for mandating specific ways of poverty line following a significant life Vietnam and Hong Kong, we have working across the Group.
Each Business event, and through some of our products launched artificial intelligencedriven Unit chief executive attests annually to that situation can be averted.
Prudential Vietnams PruBot, compliance with applicable requirements to broaden our offering to help meet the available on its corporate website and set out in the Groupwide ESG policies, distinct needs of our customers.
Facebook page, provides customers with including matters that must be reported to 24 7 support by answering queries related The value of insurance in helping the Group.
Specific procedures are followed to its products and services, as well as customers move away from poverty is for the reporting of noncompliance.
helping them schedule appointments with being increasingly recognised.
The China Business units present such instances in financial consultants.
AskPRU allows Insurance Regulatory Commission, for their annual certification, which in turn is Prudential Singapores financial consultants example, has set a penetration target for reported to the Group Audit Committee.
to instantly retrieve information specific to insurance of 5 per cent by 2020, from a their customers life insurance plans.
current rate of only 2 per cent.
We are Due diligence on working with the Chinese authorities to Prudential Vietnam has also launched ESG-related policies help them reach that target and deliver Matchbook, a mobile app allowing A key component of the Group all the benefits to both customers and customers to choose their financial Governance Manual is the Group Risk communities that our industrys consultants based on several criteria, Framework, which requires all Business products bring.
including preferred personality traits and Units to establish processes for identifying, type of consultation services they require, evaluating and managing risks, including Our 15 million life insurance customers in and to make appointments.
those relating to ESG issues.
This includes Asia give us access to fast, comprehensive conducting due diligence on related policy feedback on what they want, how their Prudential Malaysia has launched requirements.
Compliance guidance is also needs are evolving and how we can best PRUDream Planner, a firstofits kind provided by the policy owners to clarify adapt our products and capabilities to needsbased mobile app that allows its Business Unit scope and minimum improve our service and operational financial consultants to provide tailored evidencing standards required to efficiency.
solutions to customers, enabling them to demonstrate compliance.
collect pertinent information on customers Customers are increasingly looking for financial profiles, assess their needs and The Group Audit Committee reviewed the product features that reflect changes in financial priorities in relation to their life results of the yearend certificate of their own lives.
One of these is a more goals, and navigate our wide selection of compliance with Group Governance personalised approach, and one example insurance solutions to provide tailored Manual requirements.
While a number of of how we are addressing this demand is recommendations.
improvements to ensure the policies are myDNA, a DNAbased, personalised fully embedded were discussed, no precision health programme, which we are Prudential Singapores groundbreaking significant areas of noncompliance in making accessible to more customers PRU Fintegrate Partnership identifies relation to the policies relevant to ESG across the region.
Following its successful fintech startups from around the world to issues were noted.
launch in Hong Kong in 2016, myDNA codevelop digital solutions for customers.
can now be accessed by customers in The scope of these solutions covers the For further information on our Group Singapore, Malaysia and Vietnam, with its entire value chain from helping business standards and policies pursued in launch in these markets last year.
customers understand how to bridge their relation to our material ESG issues, refer to protection gaps and to plan for their the Business standards pages of our Last year, Prudential Hong Kong also financial future, to simplifying purchase website at: www.
co. uk introduced myDNA Pro, which offers and claims processes and improving responsibility standards users a simple DNA test and lifestyle service levels.
assessment to evaluate the overall risk of Serving our customers developing three common and potentially Another example of how we develop our Improving the lives of customers is at the lifethreatening conditions type 2 products in response to the needs of heart of what we do.
Across our markets in diabetes, hypertension and high customers in different markets is Prudential Asia, the US, the UK and Europe and Africa, cholesterol.
It includes a dedicated mobile Indonesias launch last year of PRUprime the needs of customers are often very app which offers guidance from a personal healthcare, a hospitalisation product that is different and this is reflected in the products health coach, plus a 16week programme comprehensive, offers growing benefits we offer, but wherever we operate we aim to help customers establish good diet, and is available to customers in both to remove uncertainty from lifes big events nutrition and exercise regimes, and reduce conventional and sharia versions.
The plan and help customers build their lives with their risks of developing these three provides an additional 10 per cent of the confidence.
Whether that means starting debilitating conditions.
annual benefit limit if no claims are made a family, saving for a childs education or within a year, up to a maximum of planning for old age, our products are Through both myDNA and myDNA Pro, 50 per cent of the initial annual limit.
It also shaped around that core purpose.
we are enabling our customers to make offers cashless admission, where a letter of better lifestyle decisions and ultimately guarantee is issued by Prudential Indonesia Asia lead healthier lives, bringing benefits to to the hospital so the customer does not In Asia, the demand for savings and families and communities.
have to pay upfront, at a wide network of protection products continues to grow Customers are also increasingly expecting partner hospitals in Indonesia, Singapore as people seek greater financial security an ondemand digital experience in all and Malaysia.
Lack of insurance areas of their lives, and we are meeting that protection is one of the primary reasons 68 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults US their clients and integrate a more holistic The proven investment capability and Jackson provides retirement income approach to financial and life planning in riskmanaged solution offered by our strategies aimed at the approximately their practices.
PruFund range of investment fund options 75 million baby boomers in the US.
Our also continues to meet customer needs, Jackson has been simplifying the language pursuit of excellence in product innovation especially for those investors who are used around financial products to make and our distinctive distribution capabilities moving towards the latter stages of saving them clearer and more transparent for have helped us forge a solid reputation for before needing to secure an income for consumers, and change the conversation meeting the needs of customers, through their retirement.
In offering unparalleled to focus on planning for the lifetime income a diverse range of variable, fixed and diversification, financial strength and consumers need to live well throughout fixedindex annuity products.
As part of smoothed investment returns across ISA, their lives.
To promote this simple language a carefully designed plan, our variable bond, pension income and drawdown approach, Jackson has launched a new annuities help retirees avoid running out products, the assets under management in website, The Financial Freedom Studio of money and provide a reliable cushion PruFund reached 36 billion in 2017. www.
We support our which now serves as the companys central The service we provide to customers and industryleading product development and content hub.
The site is an evolution and financial advisers goes handinhand with distribution teams with awardwinning expansion of the financial education the retirement solutions we offer.
resource for consumers, the Center for important part of this service is the ongoing In 2017, Jackson launched two new Financial Insight.
support for intermediary advisers provided feebased variable annuity products: by our regional sales units, business UK and Europe Perspective Advisory II PAII, the next development team and technical helpline, Growing customer demand for evolution of Perspective Advisory, and which handled 17,000 adviser enquiries comprehensive financial solutions was at Private Wealth Shield PWS, designed to in 2017. the heart of our announcement in August serve clients within the trust market.
A number of technology improvements 2017 that we were combining our asset As with previous feebased launches, PAII were delivered in 2017, each designed to manager, M&G, and Prudential UK & and PWS are intended to meet increased help reduce the time advisers spend on Europe to form M&G Prudential, a leading market demand for products compatible administration.
These included the savings and investments business.
The with feebased accounts and platforms as a introduction of paperless offshore bond combined business manages 351 billion of result of the US Department of Labor DOL claims and an electronic signature facility assets for more than six million customers, fiduciary rules, released in April 2016.
We for the Prudential Retirement Account.
both in the UK and internationally, and will believe commissions and fees can coexist leverage its scale, financial strength and A further customer milestone was reached in the annuity space, and our growing suite complementary product and distribution in 2017 when our digital customer of products is a step towards making this a capabilities to enhance the development of engagement strategy reached one million reality for our distribution partners.
customer logins through the MyPru PAII has more than 130 investment options, service, a customer portal giving access The new entity combines M&Gs active providing access to worldclass money to update contact details, view annual investment expertise with Prudential UK & managers and the flexibility to build a statements and check valuations and Europes capabilities in volatilityadjusted portfolio that meets consumers investing payment information online.
savings and liabilitydriven investment to needs.
Furthermore, this product has no provide more choice for customers across External recognition at the 2017 Financial surrender charges and a lowcost both brands through retail, institutional and Adviser Service Awards saw us retain the subaccount structure.
A robust suite of direct channels.
The unified business is coveted Five Star ratings in the Life and optional living and death benefits is also also better positioned to develop and fund Pensions and Investments categories for available for an additional charge, designed joint product propositions and to build new the seventh consecutive year.
We once to provide the opportunity to grow digital service and distribution to meet again achieved success at one of the most retirement assets and obtain guaranteed fastchanging customer needs.
soughtafter awards in our industry, income for life.
receiving top awards at the Investment Life With core strengths in withprofits and PWS will be sold through companies in the & Pensions MoneyFacts Awards in 2017 for retirement solutions, M&G Prudential is trust space, following a distribution process Best Investment Bond Provider and Best well positioned to continue to meet the that differs from Jacksons other products.
growing needs of customers taking on the The company has developed a Trust Team responsibility for managing their own to form relationships with professionals in savings, following reform of the UKs the private wealth and trust industry who pension and retirement income system in are interested in using annuities in trusts to 2015.
The Prudential Retirement Account, manage taxes and control income for which allows customers to save flexibly for multiple generations.
their retirement and access their retirement income, has proven extremely popular In 2017, we also introduced Retire on since launching at the end of 2016, Purpose, a new platform with a focus on accumulating assets under management thoughtful life planning as a crucial first of 7.2 billion in its first year.
step towards creating a comprehensive financial plan.
The presentation and its accompanying materials are designed to help advisers build richer relationships with www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 69 Corporate responsibility review continued In investment management, Investing for positive change California and Texas meet their ambitious M&G Prudential is a longterm investor that As an asset manager and asset owner, we green energy targets and reduce the risk of takes seriously its responsibilities as a have the ability to affect positive change, future power shortfalls, with investments steward of clients assets.
Our fund indirectly through the direction of our in wind and solar generation.
We have also managers believe that if a company is run capital and our customers capital.
We made a recent investment in new storage well it is more likely to be successful in the allocate our customers capital into projects batteries, which enable consistent power long run.
Regular meetings with company that fuel economic growth and improve the delivery from renewable sources.
directors allow us to identify whether a quality of peoples lives, including through The value we provide through investments companys strategy is aligned with our investments in affordable homes, transport in the real economy and through our interests as longterm shareholders and the programmes that cut commuting times, products is complemented by investments interest of our customers.
Active voting is broadband networks that connect people in communities in each of the markets in an integral part of our investment and power stations using clean energy.
We provide support to approach, both adding value and These investments translate into strong, charitable organisations through both protecting our interests as shareholders reliable returns for our customers and funding and the experience and expertise and those of our customers.
We provide tangible benefits for the communities we of our employees.
transparency on our voting record by serve.
The longterm nature of the publishing it quarterly on our website at promises we make to our customers and Supporting local communities www.
com aboutus responsible clients makes longterm investments in Our investments in communities are investment equities votinghistory infrastructure an ideal way of ensuring we designed to support the communities can afford to meet those promises in full.
in which we operate and deepen In 2017, we launched myM&G, a new engagement with colleagues.
As such, online investing service.
Over 90 per cent In 2017, Eastspring Investments our community investment programme of our direct customers will benefit from announced a significant step forward in our is linked to our strategy and is focused lower fund charges if they move their old infrastructure investment capabilities.
IFC, around four principal areas: paperbased account to the online service, part of the World Bank, chose Eastspring which is free to join and carries no platform as its first Asian partner in a programme Social inclusion: or service fee.
A customer with 100,000 that mobilises funds from institutional Education and life skills: invested across M&G equity funds which investors into projects in emerging Disaster preparedness: and offer R class shares, for example, should markets.
This US$500 million partnership Employee engagement.
save at least 5,000 in fees over 10 years by will help us scale up our skills in the region.
We establish longterm relationships with switching their account to myM&G.
Worldwide, 1.2 billion people still have no our charity partners to ensure that the access to electricity and 660 million lack a At M&G, we actively involve our projects we support are sustainable, and clean source of drinking water.
This customers in the development of services we work closely with them to ensure that programme will help at least some of those such as myM&G, as well as new products our programmes continuously improve.
In people get these basic amenities, while at and investor communications.
This is addition, we believe it is important to make the same time helping our customers meet achieved through engagement with end a contribution to delivering the United their own vital savings needs.
investors, including our Client Council, our Nations Sustainable Development Goals own panel of around 400 direct customers.
Our investment teams in Asia, Europe and and we are supportive of those priorities.
During 2017, our principal research focus the US are all working hard to invest with a has been to engage with private investors, positive purpose.
Developed economies Education and life skills including those in our Client Council, may not face the same basic threats to Cha-Ching the first global financial to understand the role that socially survival that are found in emerging education programme responsible investing plays in driving their markets, but traffic congestion, electricity Developed by Prudential, ChaChing is the investment decisions and how they would brownouts and rural broadband black worlds only global financial education like to receive more information about spots can constrain economic growth and platform aimed at primary schoolaged responsible investment.
Now in its seventh year, the is innovating in this important field.
Our programme has expanded from its origins In Africa, we are continually looking for new Greenfield Fund will enable our clients in Asia to each of the four continents where new ways to meet our customers needs, to participate in infrastructure projects at an the Group does business.
In all of the and in 2017 we rolled out a new never earlier stage than was previously possible, markets where it has been launched it has lapse feature in Ghana.
This addresses one which will translate into stronger returns been very well received, with positive of the main concerns our customers in and more essential projects receiving the feedback from parents, teachers, children Ghana have about insurance that funding they need.
The UK government and political stakeholders.
unforeseen circumstances might lead them in 2017 recognised our skills in this to miss premium payments on their In Asia, the programme reaches over area by appointing M&G Prudential to insurance policies and result in them losing 34 million households a day through a manage a portion of its 400 million their benefits.
This new feature ensures multidistribution platform including Digital Infrastructure Investment Fund, that, beyond the first policy year, the policy Cartoon Network, and through a school aimed at kickstarting better broadband will never lapse or become inactive.
The contact programme that has reached more connections across the country.
feature is due to be rolled out in Kenya, than 300,000 children since inception.
In the US too we are investing in important The standardised ChaChing curriculum infrastructure.
PPMA, our American asset developed in partnership with Junior manager, is helping states such as Achievement has been well received and 70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Adding more to life: Jackson National Life Insurance with Junior Achievement, US Jackson volunteers worked with Junior Achievement Middle Tennessee JA to teach workreadiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy skills through handson programmes in schools, and led a programme at the Nashville Rescue Mission, a shelter for families experiencing homelessness.
Through this partnership, JA was able to reach students outside the traditional classroom and provide experiences to help young people break the cycles of financial and personal hardship.
Jackson volunteers joined nearly 700 students at a STEM science, technology, engineering and mathematics Summit, which combined handson activities in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics with a career panel from employees in many fields of the local economy.
Colleagues also provided support at the JA Finance Park, an experiential budgeting simulation facility to help students build a foundation for smart financial decisions.
First Read developing childrens skills Prudence Foundation has funded and supported the First Read programme since 2013, partnering with Save the Children to focus on investing in early childhood care and development in Cambodia and the Philippines.
First Read is a programme that helps parents to develop their childrens numeracy and literacy skills by providing books in the local language or dialect, and encouraging them to read, sing and count together.
It also helps parents understand the importance of healthy and nutritious food for childrens development.
rolled out to more than 90,000 students in In the UK, working with Young Enterprise, Indonesia, the Philippines and Malaysia.
In we have developed an online educational Since First Reads inception, over 270,000 addition, ChaChing increased its presence resource for primary school students in children and adults have benefited directly during the year on digital platforms, England and Wales that has enabled the and over 540,000 community members including a new smartphone app called the ChaChing programme to be brought into indirectly.
In 2018, the partnership will ChaChing Challenge, which helps further the classroom.
The Quality Marked continue, with Save the Children focusing engagement with children.
teaching resource is linked to the Personal on quality implementation and building a Finance Education Groups Financial strong evidence base to demonstrate First In the US, the Jackson Charitable Education Framework and has guidance Reads impact.
Foundation has introduced ChaChing for teachers on how most effectively to nationally in a partnership with Discovery Fostering careers in IT and coding integrate activities into their teaching as Education and Junior Achievement USA.
Through four programmes, Jacksons IT well as activities for homelearning.
Since The Jackson Charitable Foundation has employees are devoting considerable launch in late 2016, the resource has been integrated ChaChing videos and lessons personal time and skills toward increasing downloaded over 20,000 times in more into Junior Achievements third grade IT exposure to diverse youth in Middle than 650 schools across the UK.
classroom programme, which is funded by Tennessee.
In 2014, Nashville IT associates the Foundation for six years and is In other markets, the online educational adopted a small coding club at Woodland expected to reach approximately resource has also been utilised to support Middle School in Williamson County.
The 2.7 million students over that time, in the rollout of the ChaChing programme programme has gained momentum 15,000 classrooms annually throughout the across our African markets as part of a through Jackson and other local country.
The partnership with Discovery financial literacy campaign delivered jointly businesses volunteers.
So much so, that Education is aimed toward supporting by Junior Achievement Africa and Prudential after seeing the impact of volunteer efforts educators and includes free classroom Africa employees.
ChaChing was launched alone, the school system invested in paid activities and teacher guides to use in Poland in 2015 and the first 10 films were training for teachers to further support and ChaChing in their classrooms and will translated into Polish and aired on several professionalise the efforts.
reach more than 1 million students across childrens television channels.
with materials for children and teachers was created to share in local schools.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 71 Corporate responsibility review continued Female colleagues encourage provided scholarships to 700 young people partnerships, Safe Steps currently reaches careers in finance on the continent and expect to reach over more than 200 million people a day in Asia.
Since 2014, Jackson has supported Rock 1,000 more in the near future.
These Safe Schools programme the Street, Wall Street RTSWS, a charity programmes have focused on allowing Prudence Foundation supports the Safe that increases financial literacy and interest vulnerable children in these countries to Schools programme, partnering with Plan in finance careers for highschool girls.
access quality education through the International and Save the Children in What began in 2014 with a field trip to the provision of scholarship awards, as well as Cambodia, Indonesia, the Philippines, Jackson Sales Desk has grown over time, ensuring that those marginalised by society Thailand and Vietnam.
The programme with Jackson now sponsoring two RTSWS receive education, skills and support.
focuses on capacitybuilding for students, classes at Ravenwood and Centennial High Disaster readiness and relief teachers and local community members on Schools.
Sponsorship of a class is much Helping to make Asia more prepared disaster preparedness, placing schools at more than the financial contribution, also and safer the heart of building a culture of disaster entailing five female sales professionals As a life insurance and asset management preparedness within communities.
The teaching a sixweek curriculum, hosting company, our core business is to help programme trains students and their students for a field trip, pairing students protect and reduce the vulnerability of teachers in key disaster management skills with female finance professional mentors individuals and their families in the face and supports the organisation of disaster and creating job shadow experiences with of unfortunate events.
Asia Pacific is the simulations and evacuation drills for their mentors.
worlds most disasterprone region students and their communities.
Since Supporting young people with so Prudence Foundation is working with 2013, more than 82,000 students and employability and financial skills humanitarian and private sector 33,000 teachers have participated.
M&G Prudential is a partner member of organisations and governments to help Volunteering to build disaster-resilient the KickStart Money primary financial communities better prepare for disasters homes education programme.
The programme and also, when required, provide Prudence Foundation continues to provide aims to reach 20,000 primary school immediate emergency response and support to major emergency relief efforts children and focuses on saving, budgeting, longerterm recovery support.
During 2017, Prudence careers, borrowing and consumer and Aligned with aiming to protect Foundation completed its longterm public finance.
communities and make them less commitment to support the Typhoon Through three secondary school vulnerable in emergency situations, Haiyan Yolanda disaster recovery efforts partnerships in Paddington, Reading and Prudence Foundation launched its third in the Philippines.
In March, around 70 Stirling, Prudential UK has also been Safe Steps programme in September 2017. volunteers spent one week helping to directly involved in building the knowledge Safe Steps First Aid is in partnership with complete the building of 126 homes with and skills of young people.
These the International Federation of Red Cross partner Habitat for Humanity and the local partnerships have supported over 3,700 and Red Crescent Societies IFRC and government.
In total, almost 400 regional young people since 2013, with 360 National Geographic.
It builds on the volunteers have donated their time and employees giving their time and sharing success of its previous two Safe Steps skills to help Bantayan Island since 2014. their knowledge and skills.
The M&G programmes, which focus on natural business is a supporter of The Lord Mayor disasters and road safety.
Safe Steps First Emergency fund relief of Londons Appeal Charity, which aims to Aid provides essential, easytounderstand Prudential has also been a Grouplevel work towards a City that is healthy, skilled, first aid information to millions of people supporter of Save the Children since 2010 inclusive and fair.
and is one of the Childrens Emergency Funds major supporters.
This allows us Prudentials partnership with MyBnk, Safe Steps is a firstofitskind, in terms of to act swiftly when disasters occur in any which delivers financial literacy reach and breadth of partnerships, of our markets and provides an instant, programmes in secondary schools in panAsian public service initiative to effective fundraising mechanism for London, helped develop money skills for enhance awareness through the employees when needed.
In 2017 the 5,000 young people in secondary schools dissemination of educational survival tips emergency fund was used 81 times and in deprived areas of the capital.
for natural disasters, road safety and first reached over a million people in aid.
It is a multiplatform programme 40 countries caught up in emergencies.
Secondary school scholarships including onair video messages and across Africa informative website and educational This included help for casualties of heavy In our new markets in Africa we have collateral that can be shared among monsoon rains in India, Bangladesh and committed to provide support for communities.
Core to the programme is a Nepal, a mudslide in Sierra Leone, an academically able but financially series of 60second educational videos earthquake in Mexico and hurricanes in disadvantaged high school students, that advise individuals and households on the US.
and to help build capacity for training in what to do should a natural disaster strike, actuarial sciences at local universities.
Social inclusion how to be safe on the roads and what to do Prudential has worked with a number Commitment to social inclusion in the if they encounter a first aid emergency.
of charities operating in Ghana, Kenya, UK through Prudential RideLondon The programme has been well received Uganda and Zambia by funding In the past five years Prudential and partnerships continue to be formed educational programmes and projects RideLondon has raised over 50 million for across Asia, helping to spread the since 2014.
Education and gender equality charity and become one of the UKs largest messages, including freetoair channels, are key priorities and we have already fundraising events.
In 2017, more than 846 radio stations and cinema.
Through these 72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Adding more to life: PruGoals programme, UK Prudentials PruGoals programme provides inspiration and support for disadvantaged young people, helping them build confidence and employability and encouraging personal motivation.
The programme provides aspirational challenges and workshops leading up to the Prudential RideLondonSurrey 46 mile cycle ride, and participants are provided with bikes, training and equipment, as well as coaching and mentoring.
Around 260 students completed the PruGoals programme in 2017 as part of Prudentials partnership with Teach First and Greenhouse Sports, and 82 per cent said that taking part in PruGoals had changed their mindset in a positive way.
Jessica, aged 16, said: I have developed motivation skills and learnt that I can complete anything if I put my mind to it, and Fatima added: Ive realised as part of this programme that a strong mindset is important.
If I want to accomplish something, I can.
charities benefited from riders fundraising, twotoone match on all employee 13month apprenticeship.
Prudential has donations made to approved charities.
secured ongoing employment with sponsored the event since inception in This programme ensures that causes Prudential, while others choose to work 2013 and, as part of our renewal of the important to employees are given elsewhere or move on to higher education.
sponsorship in 2016, we decided to refocus charitable consideration and that Jacksons In 2017, the UK business was recognised support to concentrate on charity and support is received by responsible as a Top 100 Employer for 20172018 community engagement.
The PruGoals organisations where funding will create by RateMyApprenticeship.
programme helps young people to achieve a significant impact.
The clear benefits to both the young their goals regardless of social or economic people and to the business mean Enhancing later life background by providing aspirational Prudential is committed to continuing the Building on previous Age UK programmes, challenges culminating in taking on the apprenticeship programme but with an Prudential is funding the Later Life Links Prudential RideLondonSurrey 46.
In 2017 increased focus on social inclusion.
Twenty programme with the charity, providing this programme supported 300 two apprentices joined Prudential in 2017 longterm companionship, advice and disadvantaged young people to take part in on the apprenticeship programme, which practical help to older people.
Launched in the Prudential RideLondonSurrey 46. targets GCSE and Alevel school leavers, six UK communities in February 2017, the Following the success of the 2016 Fixing and in 2018 12 trainees will join the programme has supported over 9,000 Dad documentary, in 2017 Prudential traineeship programme, which is aimed at older people in its first year.
Last year also supported the Fixing Challenge.
The new recruiting young people aged 16 to 24 not saw the launch of a new partnership with challenge followed four people hoping to in employment, education or training.
First Time improve their type2 diabetes, weight for Everything events run in 11 RVS M&G has run its Apprentice programme issues or weightrelated health concerns.
centres, providing around 1,200 elderly for the last six years and, as part of As with Fixing Dad, the culmination of the people in 2017 with a chance to try Investment20 20, offers the scheme to Fixing Challenge shows the four individuals something for the first time for free, encourage school leavers to establish a taking on the challenge of Prudential such as tai chi, yoga and drawing, aiming to career in the financial services industry.
RideLondonSurrey 100 and having their tackle loneliness and social isolation with The programme is designed to help people journey filmed as part of a new the support of RVS volunteers.
without degrees start their careers, straight documentary.
after sixth form or college, providing an Apprenticeships in the UK opportunity to receive onthejob training Employee fundraising Youth unemployment is a huge social and earn a competitive salary.
A total of 65 Jackson employees are actively engaged in challenge and M&G Prudential is helping apprentices have been hired by the our commitment to communities by taking to shape future job prospects for young business since 2012 across all Business part in programmes such as the Jackson people.
Units, including fund management teams.
National Community Fund Advisory Over the past five years Prudential UK has One of the benefits of this programme is Committee and the employeenominated recruited over 200 young people to our that the positions are permanent and matching programme.
Based at our training and development is undertaken National Community Fund supports London, Reading or Stirling offices, from the outset.
charities that help strengthen families and apprentices gain important paid work and increase economic opportunities through life skills as well as achieving recognised biannual grants in communities where vocational and professional qualifications.
Jacksons largest offices are located.
In 2017, 40 apprentices completed a Jacksons matching programme offers a www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 73 Corporate responsibility review continued Support for disadvantaged partners use this money to seedfund Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did not communities charitable projects for Prudential make any such donations or incur any such M&G supports disadvantaged volunteers.
Each year, employees across expenditure in 2017. communities near its offices and during the Group are involved in the voting Valuing our people 2017 more than 190 charities received process to decide on the most innovative We strive to foster an environment in which support either by donation or as a result of projects, which receive extra funding employees can derive meaning and employee volunteering.
Grants typically towards their charitable objectives.
empowerment from their work and feel focused on education, medical research, Volunteering across the Group that they are making an active contribution social and welfare programmes and As well as volunteering efforts on behalf to the organisation.
In addition to the core children and youth projects.
In 2017, M&G of the Chairmans Challenge, employees principle of providing interesting work and continued its support of the City Giving around the Group volunteered on a huge challenging opportunities to engage our initiative led by the Lord Mayor of Londons range of other charitable projects, from people we drive employee engagement Appeal, and an onsite event showcased providing relief following disasters to through an array of initiatives across our the services provided by charities that had mentoring schoolchildren, supporting the businesses.
These include colleague received support from M&G.
The Lord elderly and skillssharing.
We recognise appreciation programmes, wellbeing Mayor of the City of London attended that employee volunteering brings benefit programmes, employee engagement M&Gs event as part of his initiative to not only to the charities but also to the surveys, networking opportunities with promote the varied charitable activities development of our people, and we peers and senior leaders across functions, undertaken by City businesses.
actively encourage colleagues to employee focus groups, and volunteering M&G continues to sponsor the RHS participate in our programmes.
The success of our engagement Chelsea Flower Show and is refocusing efforts has again been recognised the sponsorship to increase charitable Charitable donations externally by winning prestigious awards.
activity through support of RHS campaigns We calculate our community investment For example, in 2017 M&G Investments such as Greening Grey Britain, which spend using the internationally recognised was ranked number one Asset Manager in aims to transform urban grey spaces London Benchmarking Group LBG both the HITC Best Places to Work and the into community green spaces.
This includes cash donations to RateMyPlacement Top 100 employers registered charitable organisations, as well surveys.
Our businesses, including Group Employee engagement as a cash equivalent for inkind Head Office, have processes, and where Successful volunteering programme contributions.
appropriate a policy, in place for engaging Chairmans Challenge with employees.
In addition, our businesses In 2017, the Group spent 25 million Many of our employees play an active role in the UK have a longstanding relationship supporting community activities.
The direct in their communities through volunteering, with the union Unite.
We encourage cash donations to charitable organisations charitable donations and fundraising.
In the volunteering through which our employees amounted to 19.2 million, of which UK, the US and Asia we offer our can support our communities and acquire approximately 4.9 million came from our employees the opportunity to support new skills.
See page 76 for further detail.
The remaining charities through payroll giving.
14.3 million was contributed to charitable Diversity and inclusion Chairmans Challenge is our flagship organisations by Jackson National Life Prudential believes that diversity of international volunteering programme, Insurance Company and Prudential experience and background is vital to bringing together people from across the Corporation Asia.
success, both today and in the future.
Group to help in their communities.
The cash contribution to charitable The Board has made D&I one of the Colleagues from across the Group give organisations from our UK and EU operations strategic objectives for Prudential.
Tim their time and skills to support our global is broken down as follows: education Rolfe, Group HR Director, is the executive charity partners, including Plan 2,971,000: social, welfare and environment responsible for sponsoring D&I activities International, Help Age International and 1,861,000 and cultural 62,000. across the Group, with Nic Nicandrou, Junior Achievement.
Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation The balance includes inkind donations The programme continues to appeal to Asia, acting as the Board member as set out on the Group website at colleagues, with the number of volunteers accountable for D&I work.
co. uk responsibility signing up increasing yearonyear.
From and plans support an inclusive culture performance communityinvestment its launch in 2006, when 2,603 employees sensitive to the needs of all employees.
and prepared in accordance with LBG signed up, volunteer numbers have We protect all our employees against guidelines.
This included 9,460 employees increased by 227 per cent.
Last year 8,500 discrimination and provide opportunities who dedicated 96,493 hours of volunteer colleagues around the world took part, for our people regardless of their age, service in their communities.
Furthermore, volunteering over 35,000 hours to support caring responsibilities, disability status, 412,375 was donated across the Group 30 projects.
ethnicity, gender, religion, sexual by our employees through our payroll orientation or professional and educational Each volunteering project focuses on one giving scheme.
We make appropriate or more of our CR priorities and allows us to disability adjustments as required and support both large, well established Political donations provide training and career development charities and innovative, smallerscale It is the Groups policy neither to make opportunities for all.
We give full and activities with volunteers as well as donations to political parties nor to incur fair consideration and encouragement financial support.
Prudential donates 150 political expenditure, within the meaning to all applicants with suitable aptitude to our charity partners for every employee of those expressions as defined in the UK and abilities.
who registers for the programme.
Charity Political Parties, Elections and 74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults We aim to foster a working environment For example, 268 senior managers and We are committed to supporting women where individuals are empowered and executives from our businesses in Asia, who aim to return to work after an differences recognised.
We aspire that the US and the UK participated in extended career break.
As an example of over time our senior management, unconscious bias workshops in 2017. this commitment, in 2017 Eastspring including our Board, better represents the We sponsored Dive In, the D&I festival in Malaysia launched the Career Comeback experiences and backgrounds of our insurance and the financial sector, which for Women programme.
In the US, Jackson customers and stakeholders.
We recognise took place in 17 countries in the Americas, sponsored a 10stop national speaking tour that diversity contributes to effectiveness Asia, Africa, the Middle East and Europe, focusing on womens empowerment.
As and is essential for successfully delivering and we published the first Groupwide D&I part of our diversity agenda more broadly, the strategy of an international Group.
We newsletter for all employees.
at M&G Prudential, 57 employees qualified are committed to recruiting and developing as mental health first aiders this year and We are committed to developing a robust the best available talent and appointing the M&G Real Estate was awarded the National and diverse talent pipeline and increasing most appropriate candidate for each role Equality Standard.
In Africa the Prudential representation of women in senior while at the same time ensuring Actuarial Support System supports the top positions in the Group and on the Board.
appropriate diversity of experience, 10 graduates in Ghana and the top three in We were among the first cohort of skillsets and professional background.
Kenya, helping them with exam fees.
companies to sign the HM Treasury Further information on the diversity of our Group Head Office GHO also rolled out Women in Finance Charter in 2016.
In Board, our policy in respect of this, how this the PruThrive programme for colleagues, 2017, we monitored progress against our is implemented and the associated results covering physical health, mental wellness target of 30 per cent of women in senior in 2017 can be found in our Governance and inclusivity.
We will statement on page 101. continue to focus effort toward achieving In addition to the established Prudential We have a strategic, longterm approach to our aim to have 27 per cent women in Womens Network and M&G Pride for D&I and the Board monitors progress senior management by the end of 2019.
LGBT employees and allies, several new regularly.
We invest in targeted activity affinity group networks launched, focusing Please see Basis of Reporting at across 10 priority areas, ranging from on mental health, disability and cultural www.
co. uk media Files unconscious bias training to mentoring and awareness.
Across all businesses and at P Prudentialv2 contentpdf basisof support for various affinity groups.
In GHO, more than 20 initiatives supported reporting2017 for the definition of addition our commitment to D&I is schools and students, often from senior managers.
supported, across our businesses, by underprivileged backgrounds.
initiatives such as reviews of pay, Gender diversity: senior management performance management consistency, providing training to staff, engaging with Male Female recruitment firms and awareness campaigns to diversify the pool of potential 75% 2017 2017 25% candidates.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 75 Adding more to life: Prudential Charity Trustee programme, UK Colleagues have been taking part in the Prudential Charity Trustee programme to develop valuable skills to become trustees on charity boards.
A series of training workshops outlined what was involved in becoming a trustee and the skills and time required.
Working with our charity partner, Getting on Board, colleagues were then given help to find the right role.
Melissa Kantor, from Prudential plcs Group Talent team, is now a trustee for SEED Madagascar, which is working to alleviate poverty and maintain the island nations unique environment.
Since joining SEEDs board in May, I have learned much about functions outside my main areas of expertise and I hope to continue to be challenged outside my comfort zone, said Melissa.
I am thrilled to be able to assist SEED by leveraging my corporate experience, largely around HR, relationships and governance.
Tony Jones, Chair of Trustees at SEED Madagascar, said: We have been fortunate recently in appointing two enthusiastic trustees with very relevant skills for us.
Coming from major institutions which encourage staff to get involved in the third sector, we have enhanced our capacity to manage change more effectively and also to ensure our own staff and volunteers are properly motivated and rewarded.
Corporate responsibility review continued Prudential headcount as at 31 December 2017 total population 2 3 Headcount Total Male Female Undisclosed Unspecified Chairman & Independent Nonexecutive Directors 9 8 1 Executive Directors 6 5 1 Group Executive Committee GEC Includes Executive Directors 11 10 1 Senior managers Excludes the Chairman, all directors and GEC members 92 69 23 1 Whole company full time equivalent Includes the Chairman, all directors, GEC members and senior managers 24,711 11,777 12,864 23 47 Notes 1 Excludes Prudential Corporation Asia joint ventures 2 In many of our businesses, we provide our employees with the option to not disclose their gender.
For these employees, gender is recorded as undisclosed.
3 No specification or information is captured on gender for an immaterial number of our employees.
These employees are recorded as unspecified.
We believe in supporting human rights programmes are managed by our Business development needs of employees with all and acting responsibly and with integrity.
Units, while Group Human Resources levels of experience.
M&G Prudential Our policies are guided by the principles of focuses on tailored programmes for senior supports talent development through a the UNs Universal Declaration of Human leaders across the organisation, succession range of development programmes to Rights and the International Labour planning for senior roles and development increase personal and organisational Organisations core labour standards.
of our leadership talent pipeline.
We invest capability alongside bespoke development These are also incorporated into our Group in succession planning for our leaders and support for key individuals.
GHO provides Code of Business Conduct, which sets out critical specialists, and segment our talent innovative programmes designed in the Group values and expected standards to identify short, medium and longterm partnership with top academic institutions of behaviour for all employees, and in our successors.
We support them with the and industry experts focused on early Group Outsourcing and Third Party Supply appropriate development and career career development, leadership Policy.
Our Business Units implement planning to ensure that we maintain a development, and opportunities to policies and practices at a local level that relevant balance of internal progression develop a strategic and innovation mindset aim to ensure compliance with statutory and external hires.
Individually tailored through varied career experiences and and regulatory requirements in the local development offerings are provided for our projects.
labour market and the prevention of most senior executives so they are well Employee engagement slavery, human trafficking, child and forced prepared to deliver the longterm We want to foster an environment in which labour.
As a global business, focused on ambitions of the Group.
In 2017, 120 senior employees can derive meaning and our customers, it is important that our highpotential individuals participated in empowerment from their work and feel employment models reflect the markets our established and well respected that they are making an active contribution in which we operate.
In certain markets, Groupwide leadership development to the organisation.
We drive employee this means hiring local agents to sell our programmes Impact and Agility and the engagement through an array of initiatives, products, or partnering with joint ventures Next Generation emerging talent including colleague appreciation to offer the breadth of products and programme.
These programmes were programmes, wellbeing programmes, services that meet our customers needs.
developed in partnership with world networking opportunities with peers and We are clear slavery, human trafficking, leading academic institutions and senior leaders across functions, employee child labour or any other abuse of human codelivered with business school thought focus groups, and volunteering activities rights has no place in our organisation or leaders.
with charitable causes such as supply chain.
This supply chain includes Within our businesses there are many Prudential UKs partnerships with our joint ventures and the agents we use examples of our continuing commitment to numerous schools.
Each of our businesses to distribute our products.
In 2015 we launched a manage their own activities including information around how we manage Groupwide LongTerm Workforce employee engagement surveys, regular slavery, human trafficking, child and forced Planning Initiative, which has progressed employee openforums with senior labour risks, refer to our forthcoming in 2016 and 2017.
For example, in 2017 management, and away days to discuss Modern Slavery Statement.
Prudential Corporation Asia deployed business performance and internal strategic workforce planning to predict the Talent development management.
The success of our capabilities required to ensure our People development is essential to deliver engagement efforts has again been continued success utilising a succession our strategy.
The quality of leadership recognised externally by winning driven talent strategy to build the next across the Group is fundamental to the prestigious awards.
For example, in 2017 generation of leaders with the capabilities future growth and success of the business M&G Investments was ranked number one we require.
In the US, Jackson offers and we therefore review our talent Asset Manager in both the HITC Best customised onpremises programmes, as annually, and offer a range of programmes Places to work and the RateMyPlacement well as access to an online university, to that enable our people to continue to grow Top 100 employers surveys.
meet the personal and professional and develop.
The majority of our 76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Our businesses, including GHO, have term success of the business, and actively provided at Group Executive Committee processes, and where appropriate a policy, encourages share ownership and level by the Groups ESG sponsor, Jonathan in place for engaging with employees.
Of all eligible employees, Oliver, Group Director of Communications, Reporting to Group HR is required on 59 per cent participate in the Groups UK who has responsibility for our corporate jurisdiction specific or sector specific Sharesave and 25 per cent in the share responsibility strategy and activities more trends and developments in certain areas.
The Board approves the Groups For any significant issues that are likely to annual ESG Report, which is also reviewed Protecting the environment impact either positively or negatively on by the Group Audit Committee and Group and managing the risks from our reputation as an employer at both Disclosure Committee.
We are in the climate change business and Group level immediate process of refreshing our enterprisewide We take a longterm and holistic approach reporting to Group HR is required.
In assessment of climaterelated risks, while to managing the risks and opportunities addition, our businesses in the UK have also establishing the internal capabilities posed by climate change and our impact on a longstanding relationship with the needed to make enhanced climaterelated the environment and strive to play our part union Unite.
financial disclosures in future reporting in reducing both our direct and indirect periods, considering the geographical and We encourage volunteering through impacts where possible.
Our longterm asset class breadth of our investment which our employees can support our approach includes investing in the activities.
communities and acquire new skills.
lowcarbon economy, measuring and See page 74 for further detail.
improving the environmental performance Managing our direct of our global operations and reducing the environmental impact Performance and reward impact of our investments on the Managing the climaterelated risks facing Our reward arrangements are designed to environment.
our business is crucial to creating longterm attract, motivate and retain highcalibre value for our customers, shareholders and people.
Each individual contributes to the Managing our climate-related risks the communities of which we are part.
success of the Group and is rewarded and opportunities As an occupier of approximately 400 accordingly.
As a life insurer, asset owner and manager, properties worldwide, we recognise the we are longterm stewards of our We recognise and reward high importance of our own internal customers assets and we recognise the performance and are committed to a fair environmental targets and decarbonisation challenge that climate change presents.
and transparent system of reward.
We goals in reducing our direct footprint.
In We also recognise our responsibility to have recently reported our 2017 UK 2017, we decreased our absolute customers, society and the environment gender pay gap figures data along with greenhouse gas GHG emissions scope 1 to effectively integrate associated information about how we are working and 2 from our occupied estate and considerations into investment decisions to increase the number of women in companyowned vehicles by 5 per cent and fiduciary and stewardship duties and leadership, investment management and to 70,723 tCO e 2016: 74,315 tCO e. 2 2 help finance the transition to a more senior operational roles.
This was driven by consolidation of our sustainable economy.
Active consideration property portfolio and continued Remuneration is linked to the delivery of of ESG factors is integral to our stewardship investment in energy efficiency initiatives business goals and expected behaviours responsibilities.
For example, in 2017 through our mechanical and electrical life and we ensure that rewards for our people M&G Prudential joined Climate Action cycle replacement programmes to ensure are consistent with our values and do not 100, an initiative bringing together more that we occupy efficient buildings.
than 250 global institutional investors to normalised against net lettable floor area, To enable this, employees are not only engage with the worlds largest corporate our GHG emissions efficiency metric regularly assessed on what they have 2 greenhouse gas emitters to improve improved by 2 per cent to 148 kgCO e m 2 achieved, but also on how they have climaterelated financial disclosure and 2 in 2017 2016: 151 kgCO e m. 2 done so.
curb emissions, and in October M&G Prudential launched the ESG Global There are recognition initiatives running High Yield Bond Fund, which fully across our businesses, such as the Jackson integrates ESG factors into its investment High Five Recognition Program, which process.
In February 2018 Eastspring allows individuals to recognise when their Prudential Group became the third Prudential signatory to colleagues go above and beyond, and for Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions the United Nations Principles for Prudential Stars awards at GHO, in which tCO e 2 Responsible Investment, joining PPMSA individuals can nominate their colleagues and M&G.
Further information on the 37,536 to recognise examples of exceptional indirect environmental impact of our asset contributions, specifically in the areas of 14,893 15,035 management activities is available in our delivering synergy, adding value, fostering 74,315 71,104 70,723 forthcoming ESG Report.
innovation, demonstrating stakeholder focus and maintaining risk awareness.
We In 2017 the Financial Stability Board FSB also believe in the importance of giving published the recommendations of its employees the opportunity to benefit from Task Force on ClimateRelated Financial the Groups success through share Disclosures TCFD.
We welcomed the 2015 2016 2017 ownership, and operate share plans for release of these recommendations, which Investment Estate employees in the UK and Asia.
This provide additional guidance in this area.
Occupied Estate includes PruSharePlus, which enables Currently, our oversight in this area is employees in Asia to share in the longer www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 77 Corporate responsibility review continued We improved our CDP Climate Change M&G Real Estate, part of M&G Prudential, Prudential plc greenhouse gas disclosure and were awarded a has an approach to responsible property emissions statement Leadership ranking of A 2016: B and in investment that enables it to manage and We have compiled our global GHG ClimateWise, the insurance sector climate respond to the growing range of emissions in accordance with the initiative managed by the Cambridge environmental and social issues that can Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Institute for Sustainability Leadership, we impact property values.
It continues to Directors Reports Regulations 2013. improved our score, achieving 71 per cent decarbonise its property estate through GHG emissions are broken down into three 2016: 60 per cent.
Our performance in continued LED lighting rollout and its first scopes: we have included full reporting for ClimateWise against six core principles is UK solar photovoltaic installation, covering Scope 1 and 2, and select Scope 3 2 independently audited by PwC.
an area of 3,800 m, equivalent to 15 tennis reporting as best practice.
It is anticipated the system will We continue to develop our energy and Scope 1 emissions are our direct emissions generate enough electricity annually to environmental management strategies, from the combustion of fuel, fugitive power the equivalent of 68 average UK 14 per cent of our global electricity emissions and company owned vehicles.
households and save 165 tonnes of carbon consumption is now renewably sourced.
Scope 2 emissions cover our indirect dioxide.
M&G Real Estates progress can In the UK, we successfully transitioned our emissions from the purchase of electricity, be found in its annual Responsible Property environmental management system to heating and cooling.
We have reported our Investment report at www.
co. uk ISO 14001:2015 and renewed our focus on Scope 2 emissions using both the location institutions realestate responsible waste and recycling by collecting our waste and marketbased methods in line with the investing coffee grounds for energy recovery by GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
We are also rolling Further detail on our environmental Scope 3 footprint includes UK booked out advanced energy analytics software performance throughout 2017 is available business travel, global water consumption across our largest UK properties following online and will be published in our 2017 and waste generated from our investment a successful trial.
In the US, we continue to ESG Report later in 2018, including properties with operational control, UK demonstrate superior energy efficiency performance against our global and US occupied properties.
We continue with an Energy Star score of 93 for our new environmental targets framework.
to work with our Business Units to review corporate office in Lansing, placing it in the the extent of our Scope 3 reporting and top 10 per cent of all similar facilities increase coverage where practicable.
In Asia we have developed an Please refer to our Basis of Reporting and environmental management framework to supplementary reporting online for further review current site performance and detail on our methodology, reported identify opportunities for energy and water consumption and drivers of variation.
efficiency improvements for our most significant buildings.
78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk Adding more to life: Jackson, a star performer In 2017, Jackson were awarded a U. S. Environmental Protection Agency EPA Energy Star for a second building on our Lansing campus, demonstrating superior energy efficiency.
Commercial buildings that earn EPAs Energy Star certification use an average of 35 per cent less energy than typical buildings.
Our new building, 8 Corporate Way, received an Energy Star score of 93 placing it in the top 10 per cent of all similar facilities nationwide.
To earn the Energy Star certification, Jackson created a fiveyear energy plan that included the installation of new mechanical and electrical building controls to enhance monitoring and control of all systems, improving comfort and efficiency along with the advanced lighting controls to with occupancy sensors and daylight harvesting to maximise the use of natural light.
Jackson received honourable mention for best commercial project in Michigan State at the 2017 Governors Energy Excellence Awards.
As one of the largest companies in the Greater Lansing area, Jacksons commitment to energy efficiency and environmental conservation sets a positive example for other local companies and organisations and helps bring awareness to this important topic.
01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults Emissions source tCO e 2017 2016 % Change 2 1 Scope 1 Occupied 10,498 10,233 3% 1 Investments 7,703 7,814 1% Scope 2 Locationbased Occupied 59,227 62,413 5% 1 Investments 18,751 21,398 12% 2 Scope 2 Marketbased supplier and residual mix Occupied 60,225 64,082 6% 2 Investments 7,332 7,079 4% 1 Scope 3 Group 15,313 11,580 32% Scope 1 and Scope 2 Occupied 70,723 74,315 5% Investments 15,035 14,893 1% Total Scope 1 and 2 Group 85,758 89,208 -4% Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Group 101,071 100,788 0% Carbon intensity 2017 2016 % Change 2 kg CO e per m Scope 1 and 2 only Group 31 34 -9% 2 kg CO e per employee Scope 1 and 2 only Group 3.4 3.8 -12% 2 2 kg CO e per m Scope 1, 2 and 3 Group 36 38 -5% 2 Note that when reporting Group totals, the marketbased emission are used.
Data notes Reporting Period: 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 Baseline year: 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2016 Independent Assurance: Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance over selected environmental metrics in accordance with the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Boards ISAE3000 Revised international standard.
Consolidation boundary approach: Operational Control Consistency with financial statements: The reporting period does not correspond with the Directors Report period 01 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 as it was brought forward by three months to improve the availability of invoice data and reduce reliance on estimated data.
Prudential owns assets, which are held on its balance sheet in the financial statements, over which it does not have operational control.
These are excluded from the data below.
Assets not included on the balance sheet but held under an operating lease and where we have operational control are included.
Emission factor: Scope 1 and 3 reporting uses the UK DEFRA 2017 GHG Conversion Factors.
Scope 2 calculations use the IEA GHG 2017 Conversion Factors for location based reporting.
Marketbased reporting uses supplier emission factors for our UK REGObacked supply Investment and REDISS factors where available.
Accounting methodology: The Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Materiality threshold: Five per cent Notes 1 2016 figure restated as accurate data became available from suppliers.
2 This figure has not been assured as not reported in 2016. www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 79 Corporate responsibility review continued Accountability and governance Code of Business Conduct for corporate responsibility Consideration of environmental, social and The Board community matters is integrated in our The Board regularly reviews the Groups Code of Business Conduct.
Our code is corporate responsibility performance and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
scrutinises and approves the Group Refer to page 76 for more information.
corporate responsibility report and Risk assessment strategy on an annual basis.
For more information on the risks facing Local governance our business see our Report on the risks We believe that CR is best managed on the facing our business and how these are ground by our people running the managed on page 48.
In M&G Prudential and on how we manage our material ESG issues Jackson there are governance committees and associated risks are provided in the in place with senior management Managing our material ESG issues section representation that agree strategy and of the Corporate responsibility review on spend.
In Asia, the Prudence Foundation page 64. has been established as a unified charitable Supply chain management platform to align and maximise the impact It is our policy to work in partnership with of community efforts across the region.
third parties whose values and standards The Prudence Foundation is governed by a are aligned with our Group Code of statutory Board of Directors, under which a Business Conduct, aligned with the Board of Trustees operates as a decision methods and practices of the Chartered making forum, directing the management Institute of Purchasing and Supply, an of the programmes in collaboration with industryrecognised body.
our local markets, and ensuring that we maximise the value of our spend to local Further information on our supply chain communities.
management and performance will be provided in our forthcoming 2017 ESG The boards of each of our Material Report.
Subsidiaries consider updates on corporate responsibility activities and spend in their communities on an annual basis.
Strategic report approval by the Board of Directors The strategic report set out on pages 9 to 80 is approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mike Wells Group Chief Executive 14 March 2018 80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
co. uk 01 Groupoverview 02 Strategicreport 03 Governance 04  05 Financialstatements 07  06  EEV basisresults 03 Governance Page Chairmans introduction 82 Board of Directors 83 How we operate 88 Further information on Directors 98 Risk management and internal control 99 Committee reports 101 Statutory and regulatory disclosures 120 Additional information 121 Index to principal Directors report disclosures 122 www.
co. uk Annual Report 2017 Prudential plc 81
