STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 47 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY We recognise that climate change and the scarcity of natural resources will pose an increasingly significant challenge to society over time.
We believe that JLT has a social responsibility to minimise our environmental impact as far as possible.
We therefore seek to take commercially sustainable measures to manage our environmental impact, including how we manage our property portfolio.
For example, our preference is always to use energy-efficient lighting technologies where we can, and to take measures to use water efficiently.
JLT's total GHG emissions for 2017 were 20,244 tCO e. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 2 The largest proportion of JLT's GHG emissions can be In line with Mandatory Carbon Reporting MCR requirements accounted for by air travel which comprises 62% of the total within the Companies Act 2006, this report outlines emissions, equating to 12,566 CO e. 2 JLT's Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions covering the 2017 financial year.
In order to demonstrate JLT's emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor relating to its business activities, JLT has The scope of JLT's reporting encompasses its operational calculated its intensity ratio on the basis of the number boundary and includes emissions associated with all of of JLT employees, as this is considered to relate to Company JLT's offices worldwide.
JLT has reported on the mandatory growth and GHG emissions.
The intensity ratio for 2017 scopes 1 and 2, and for the optional scope 3 has opted to is 1.82 tCO e employee.
2 include global business travel given that air travel in particular is acknowledged as a large contributor to greenhouse gas emissions and non-purchased electricity where available.
JLTS GHG EMISSIONS BY SCOPE AND INTENSITY RATIO Scope Source Details Sub Total Tonnes CO e Total Tonnes CO e 2017 2016 Base Year Intensity Ratio 2 2 Purchased Natural gas purchased 182.79 Fuels directly by JLT Refrigerant leaks and top Scope 1 Fugitive emissions ups for equipment under 359.29 1,625.59 2,074.60 2,368.55 0.15 direct responsibility of JLT Transport owned Transport 1,083.51 or controlled by JLT Purchased Electricity Electricity purchased 2,506.44 2,506.44 2,591.59 3,842.87 0.22 Location Based directly by JLT Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Electricity purchased 1,775.89 1,775.89 2,319.34 3,842.87 0.16 Market Based directly by JLT Flights taken by Air Travel JLT employees for 12,565.59 business purposes Rail Travel by JLT Rail Travel UK Only employees for 189.68 business purposes Scope 3 16,112.18 14,782.14 11,908.57 1.45 Electricity used by Non-Purchased Electricity JLT but purchased 3,264.96 by the landlord Waste generated by JLT Waste Data UK only 91.95 employees TOTAL LOCATION BASED 20,244.21 20,244.21 19,448.33 18,119.99 1.82 TOTAL MARKET BASED 19,513.66 19,513.66 19,176.08 18,119.99 1.76 Intensity Ratio Location Based 1.82 1.82 1.74 2.18 What is tCO e?
2 It is standard practice to report GHG emissions in tonnes of CO equivalents tCO e. This is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming potential of the GHG in relation 2 2 to the global warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
The seven main greenhouse gases that are converted into tCO e are Carbon dioxide CO, Methane CH, Hydrofluorocarbons 2 2 4 HFCs, Nitrous oxide N O, Perfluorocarbons PFCs, Sulphur hexafluoride SF and Nitrogen trifluoride NF.
2 6 3 48 STRATEGIC REPORT JLTs GHG Emissions by Scope Carbon Intensity Ratio tCO2e employee Scope 1 8% Scope 2 1.82 1.78 1.74 12% 1.62 Scope 3 80% 2014 2015 2016 2017 METHODOLOGY YEAR-ON-YEAR REVIEW The methodology employed to calculate the GHG emissions is The total emissions associated with JLTs operations have in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Reporting and increased.
The intensity ratio of emissions per employee has Accounting Standard revised edition.
Data has been collated increased by 0.08 tCO e employee.
The number of employees 2 from JLT's global offices for electricity, fuels, refrigerants and has decreased slightly.
There has been a wider data set transport directly purchased or controlled by JLT, in line with the included this year, for instance more countries able to report on mandatory scopes 1 and 2. non-purchased electricity and the inclusion of waste data.
With regard to the optional scope 3, JLT has included within The wider data set, alongside an increase in air travel emissions, its report emissions relating to air travel by its employees for has meant that the scope 3 emissions have increased whereas business use, as this is recognised as a significant contributor both scopes 1 and 2 have decreased.
JLT has also reported on non-purchased JLT's focus on reducing its environmental impact extends electricity usage i. e. used by JLT but purchased by the beyond reporting on its emissions.
For JLT's London head landlord for countries that have this data available and for office there is now an environmental management system in the UK only, rail travel and waste data.
The relevant UK or place, which is committed to reducing the impact of its activities international emissions factors have been applied.
and promoting good environmental practice.
There were some limitations to the reporting due to gaps in data, and where necessary every reasonable effort has been RECYCLING made to fill these and estimate data as accurately as possible.
We actively promote recycling and encourage the removal of For air travel, some countries were excluded as this data is not general waste bins and the provision of sorting bins and facilities available for this reporting period.
JLT will be working with its in our offices.
This initiative has been particularly successful in global offices to further improve data availability for the 2018 our London headquarters and in our Mumbai operations, which reporting period.
between them represent more than 35% of our JLT colleagues.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 49 In London, the Corporation of Londons Clean City Awards scheme has awarded our London headquarters, The St Botolph Building, a Gold rating for its zero to landfill approach to waste management.
TRAVEL PAPER CONSUMPTION In 2017, JLT introduced a new global Travel & Entertainment We recognise both a cost benefit and an environmental benefit Policy.
This policy establishes, as a minimum, standardisation in limiting our consumption of paper, and seek to manage our of JLTs approach to travel, consolidation of travel data and consumption of paper with the environment in mind.
To that end improvement in traveller tracking.
The policy builds on our we uphold the following principles: commitment to reduce all travel, particularly for internal staff to use print suppliers whose sustainability programme meetings, national or international, and we continue to extend employs the replanting of crop.
our teleconferencing facilities in JLT offices globally.
to set laser printer defaults to two-sided printing.
Adopted in JLT Group IT policy, this requirement is reducing paper Where there is an identified need to travel, we are actively consumption and waste: and promoting the benefits of combining trips and taking advantage of multi-sector air tickets, thus reducing our carbon footprint.
to circulate documents e. g. meeting agenda and papers in a format that avoids the need for printing.
The Group We also continue to monitor our air travel usage as part of our employs cloud-based software systems to distribute board statutory GHG reporting responsibilities.
and committee papers electronically, saving on paper as well as reducing overheads associated with distribution.
We are fully aware of our corporate responsibility with regards to the regulations associated with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 which our hotel selection procedure recognises.
50 STRATEGIC REPORT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our colleagues across the world are active and enthusiastic contributors to community life.
They take real pride in exercising their personal responsibility to make a positive contribution to the environment and to the communities in which they live and work.
We believe community engagement makes a positive difference to our team spirit and ultimately to the quality of the work our teams can deliver for clients.
JLT supports and encourages colleagues' initiatives this can include time off work to take part in volunteering activities and matched-funding to support charitable fund-raising.
Our focus on inclusion is global, and tailored to meet the needs CHARITY of our individual businesses and geographies, as well as the To maximise the impact we can have, we focus on 3 strategic needs of the businesses they serve.
partners aligned to our own areas of business: sharing the social benefits of knowledge Specialty, wellbeing Employee Having established our Diversity Committee in 2015, we defined Benefits and resilience Reinsurance.
JLTs Diversity agenda on the basis of three pillars - Networking, Sponsorship and Involvement, each of which has inclusion at Our current partners on these strategic themes are: Udaan its core.
In 2017 JLT supported many initiatives, both internally Foundation knowledge, Alzheimer's Society wellbeing and and in public events in the London Market and other insurance RedR resilience.
We manage the majority of our charitable hubs, to help to drive a more diverse and inclusive business and giving business-by-business, with a central fund to provide to play our part in solving these challenges in our industry.
greater support to our strategic partners.
Across 2018, our efforts will be focused around building Charitable Donations inclusion, in particular, ensuring that we continue to reinforce 731.5 the need for inclusive working practices, and an awareness of 649.1 innate biases, through all of the employee life cycle.
604.8 Following a review of our career management processes, strategic impact has been defined with greater precision.
As a result, the in-scope population in determining the make-up of JLT's senior management has reduced in number.
A restatement of the figures previously reported for 2016 '000 on this basis results in 76% of the senior management 2015 2016 2017 population being male and 24% being female.
The 2017 position is as follows: We regularly engage clients in joint fundraising activities All Employees Senior Management and see this as an important part of client relationship building.
Perhaps the most longstanding example is JLTs annual golf 77.5% day in aid of Sydneys Westmead Hospital, which to date has raised more than AUD 1.8 million for the Childrens Cystic 51.0% 49.0% Fibrosis clinic.
We actively manage the risk that charitable payments may 22.5% be misused as inducements, with training and monitoring in place as part of our bribery and corruption controls framework.
DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Female Male Male Female At JLT we strive to provide an inclusive working environment TOTAL: 10,453 employees TOTAL: 1,085 employees that encourages everyone to fulfil their potential.
We believe an inclusive culture encourages diversity, which in turn leads to better business decisions and better solutions for clients, drawing on a wide range of experience.
We aim to recruit the most talented and ambitious people, irrespective of differences in education, religion, nationality, race, gender, age, physical ability, social background or sexual orientation.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 51 Networking focus to mental health in the workplace including expanding the In 2017, Women@JLT launched in Australia.
The inaugural use of accessible resources for employees, and establishing event was held in Sydney and focused on the challenges stress management workshops for managers to recognise the faced by women in their careers.
In the UK, JLT continued its early signs of mental health issues.
membership of the City Womens Network.
Additionally, JLT colleagues across the UK participated in the Independent LABOUR STANDARDS Women In Insurance iWIN network and the Gender Inclusion As a specialist professional services firm, our exposure to the Network for Insurance.
Collaboration with others in the risk of low labour standards is not significant.
We are opposed insurance industry included the second joint leadership event to forced labour or child labour.
Our Employee Handbooks with Hiscox in London on career challenges.
JLT also hosted its specify clear standards for acceptable working practices.
second private dinner for the London Insurance Supper Club, We apply due diligence in our procurement policy and processes a network of senior women within our sector, on the subject of to ensure that we work with appropriate sub-contractors.
In addition, our Employee Benefits business frequently helps Sponsorship clients to improve their own capabilities in the area of employee Our sponsorship of Lloyds 'Dive In' festival Diversity and wellbeing through helping to minimise risks and deliver Inclusion in Insurance continued for a third year.
A breakfast healthcare and rehabilitation support services, contributing to event for millennials was hosted in JLTs offices in Sydney, enhanced labour standards in the markets we serve.
Australia, while in Singapore JLT co-sponsored the Dive In.
JLT was a silver sponsor of the 'Dive In' festival in EMEA and HUMAN RIGHTS & MODERN SLAVERY hosted a follow up event later in the year in London on the use As an employer in both the developing and developed worlds of language at work.
and with clients who have diverse businesses in some of the In Hong Kong, JLT is sponsoring a project in conjunction most remote and poor, as well as the most affluent, corners of with the Hong Kong Council on Social Services on the the world, we recognise and support the need to work together empowerment of women.
to ensure that principles of respect, fairness and integrity remain at the heart of how we run our business.
Involvement JLT supports the Chartered Insurance Institutes involvement in We respect and uphold the human rights and principles set out the HeForShe campaign which aims to achieve gender parity.
in detail in: This support was re-confirmed with senior leaders publicly The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights: and making their HeForShe pledges.
We recognise that making The International Labour Organisations Declaration on diversity part of our DNA demands an inclusive environment.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Our training and development in this area continues to be enhanced with inclusive leadership being a critical part of all We have a zero tolerance for modern slavery and human our leadership and management development programmes.
trafficking in our organisation and in our supply chain.
It is also integrated into our Performance Management training.
Our supply chains include providers of professional services, We are making the way we recruit more deliberately inclusive, IT services and equipment, office facilities services, recruitment and enhancing our ability to track and manage our performance and training, advertising and marketing, and business on a range of relevant metrics.
As a service based insurance broking and employee benefits HEALTH & WELLBEING business we believe the risk of modern slavery and or human As a major global provider of Employee Benefits services to trafficking in or business and supply chain is low.
our clients' employees, we have a natural insight into the health We have a Code of Ethical Conduct.
This sets the standards we and welfare responsibilities of employers, especially through the expect from both our own people and those of our partners.
occupational rehabilitation services we deliver on behalf of our clients in various territories.
We are committed to improving our supply chain vetting and due diligence.
In the UK we carry out an annual risk assessment We offer a range of standard and discretionary health benefits with our supply partners to ensure that compliance to our to our employees in most territories, alongside support for standards remain in place.
In 2016 we increased our scrutiny of our UK supply chain in The Wellbeing theme in our internal CR programme includes respect of the specific abuse of human rights that is human a range of activities with third parties, for example the Mindset trafficking, in recognition of both the spirit and letter of the UKs charity in Hong Kong and Singapore, working with Jardine Modern Slavery Act.
Globally, across 2018, we will be bringing greater 52 STRATEGIC REPORT In 2017, we made further progress in improving our supply chain vetting and due diligence for our operations outside of the UK.
This is an ongoing process.
In addition, in 2018 we will be launching a training and awareness programme to appropriate members of staff to ensure a high level of understanding of the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking within the business.
In accordance with the Act, we publish on our website an annual statement detailing our commitments and the progress we are making towards assuring that our supply chain conforms to the principles we uphold.
SOCIAL BUSINESS & PRO BONO WORK We are increasingly looking for opportunities to apply our professional expertise to support the communities in which we operate.
Our Local Community Insurance Services LCIS team in JLT Australia, for example, delivers low cost access to insurance services for small not-for-profit organisations and clubs who might otherwise face insurmountable obstacles to hosting events or accepting volunteers.
At the same time, we are sometimes able to offer our specialist expertise on a pro bono basis for good causes, which we are pleased to do whenever our expert advisers have the capacity.
An example of this is where the fund managers at The Future Generation Investment Company and the Future Generation Global Investment Fund waive all management and performance fees, enabling 1% of assets to be donated to young Australians affected by mental illness every year.
As their risk partner, we're honoured to provide broking services on a pro bono basis, supporting their innovative venture and the millions of dollars they raise.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 53 MAKING A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION Our colleagues across the world are active and enthusiastic contributors to community life.
They take real pride in exercising their personal responsibility to make a positive contribution to the communities in which they live and work.
REDR UK ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY On 1 March 2017, JLT in London hosted an annual drinks event JLT Specialty is proud to be partnering with the Alzheimers Society for patrons of RedR, the disaster relief experts and our 'resilience' in 2017 and 2018 with a campaign to raise 150,000 to assist them charity partner.
The event was led by the Princess Royal, HRH with their vital work in combating dementia.
Through the hard work Princess Anne, who is President of the charity, and was attended of all concerned they were able to present a cheque to the charity by 120 patrons and friends of the charity, including many of our for the sum of 80,000 at the end of 2017. contacts in the Construction and Energy sectors.
UDAAN SCHOOL THE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL AT WESTMEAD JLT partners with the Udaan India Foundation which is close to JLT Australia's annual golf day in aid of The Children's Hospital at its office in Mumbai, a not-for-profit organisation working with Westmead, Sydney, is one of our longest standing charity partnerships.
children from low-income communities in the field of education.
Over 14 years it has raised more than AUD 1.8 million.
These funds The primary aim is to ensure that every school child is gaining a have annually sponsored a young paediatric doctor, the JLT Medical strong and holistic educational foundation to become a responsible, Fellow, to undergo Specialist training in Cystic Fibrosis.
Two of these compassionate and confident citizen of tomorrow.
doctors are now world-leading researchers in Cystic Fibrosis.
MINDSET CHALLENGE, HONG KONG BRAZIL The annual 'Walk Up Jardine House' is one of Jardine Matheson In 2017, JLT Brazil colleagues dedicated time to bring a smile to Groups most notable philanthropic initiatives in Hong Kong and more than 800 children in deprived areas of So Paulo and Rio fide has been taking place since 1985.
In March 2017, five of JLT Hong Janeiro, on Easter, Childrens day, and Christmas, also developing Kong's colleagues ran up 49 floors, covering 947 steps in just over a warm clothing campaign.
Our colleagues donated more than five minutes contributing to the HK$40 million raised for charity.
400 toys to help Santa deliver Christmas gifts to the children.
54 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE RESPONSIBILITY As a financial services group with operations across the world, JLTs governance capability is highly developed.
We hold each other to high standards of integrity our culture is committed to transparency and fairness to the client, and the rigorous pursuit of their best interests.
This section highlights topics of particular relevance to Corporate Responsibility benchmarks.
For a fuller account, refer to the Risk Management section on pages 41 to 45 and the Corporate Governance Report on pages 57 to 66.
RISK MANAGEMENT BRIBERY & CORRUPTION As a global company, JLT faces a range of risks, each of We are committed to actively contributing towards the international which has the potential to negatively impact the delivery of our efforts to eradicate all forms of financial crime.
Limiting our strategic business objectives, outcomes for clients and our exposure to financial crime is an integral part of JLT's activities and reputation.
These risks can also provide opportunities in the helps us maintain our reputation.
As a global business listed on right circumstances.
Taking risk in a disciplined and considered the London Stock Exchange, JLT is subject to the UK Bribery Act way is essential to our growth and continued success.
It allows 2010 which requires us to have adequate procedures to prevent us to maximise the positive impact that our business can have bribery and corrupt action by those working for JLT or on its behalf.
on society and communities, and minimise the downside risk.
Anti-bribery and corruption is also a key feature of global regulatory JLTs risk management arrangements enable us to: regimes that JLT complies with.
JLTs policies and procedures are based around external good practice and use leading understand the risks we face: worldwide corruption data such as that provided by Transparency manage risk in an intelligent, conscious, disciplined, agile International.
We actively guard against bribery and corruption by: and balanced way: Maintaining Anti Bribery & Corruption ABC policies enhance performance and maximise opportunities: and we have an overarching ABC policy which is underpinned by operate with rigour to: a number of specific policies including Gifts & Entertainment, - protect our key stakeholders, our reputation and Third Party Payments & Approvals and Conflicts of Interest our results from events that could have been policies.
These provide clarity to staff on our commitment, reasonably foreseen: legal and regulatory obligations both corporate and personal - provide our clients and other key stakeholders with and the requirements we have as a Group to minimise the risk confidence that we are a sustainable and resilient of bribery and corruption, including reporting any actual or business that is able to service their needs when they suspected instances of bribery and corruption.
These policies need us: and are maintained and set out within our Employee Handbook and are accessible on our company intranet: - comply with applicable regulations, laws and corporate governance obligations.
Training our set goal is to train every employee from director to broker to support functions globally so not only The Group operates a '3 lines of defence' governance model.
can they recognise and prevent the use of JLT in the The first line the business is responsible for the identification and furtherance of bribery and corruption, but they can anticipate management of all the risks inherent in its operations: the second where to look.
Training includes global e-learning modules in line Group Risk & Compliance provides policy, advice, guidance eight languages, and is supplemented by face to face training and challenge to the business: and the third line Group Internal and briefings for higher risk jurisdictions: Audit independently assesses and reports on the effectiveness Vigilance all staff are reminded of their legal obligations in of governance, risk management and internal controls.
relation to reporting suspicious activity or transactions and JLT The Group operates an enterprise-wide risk management provides communication channels to enable employees to framework, which is based around recognised standards and discuss and report any suspicion of bribery and corruption.
good practice including the Institute of Risk Management and JLT also has a whistleblowing policy as described on page 55: ISO 31000, and which is tailored to align with JLT's role as a Investigation JLT will investigate any instance of alleged re insurance broker and employee benefits solutions provider.
bribery and corruption as well as assisting the police and The framework is periodically reviewed to ensure that it remains other appropriate authorities in any resultant investigation appropriate, and in keeping with the nature and scale of the and prosecution: and Company and the environment within which we trade.
Financial Crime Team this JLT team supports the active For more detail on the principal risks we track and the reduction of bribery and corruption risk by managing and governance structure we apply to maintain rigorous risk providing oversight of the Group's ABC policies, and providing management, see pages 41 to 45. tools, training and specialist expertise including investigation.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 55 WHISTLEBLOWING JLT has a global whistleblowing policy and 24 hour hotline provided by a specialist external firm.
This provides an alternative channel for those colleagues who might feel unable to report wrongdoing, or suspicions of wrongdoing, through their normal line management channels.
The hotline allows employees across the world to report issues or concerns online or by phone in a range of languages and with complete confidence and without fear of dismissal or retaliation.
The whistleblowing policy is actively communicated during the year and managers are required to ensure that their teams understand the purpose of the policy, how concerns can be raised, and the protections afforded to employees.
Any reports of incidents, events or concerns made under this policy are investigated and resolved confidentially.
JLTs policy and systems conform with the differing regulatory requirements of all the countries in which we operate, and gives colleagues the option of anonymity or complete confidentiality wherever this is permitted by law.
The Group's whistleblowing arrangements are monitored and reviewed by the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
TAX TRANSPARENCY The Groups updated tax principles, which comply with section 16 2, schedule 19 of the Finance Act 2016, are published on the Groups website jlt.
We believe these principles are based on good corporate practice in the area of tax management and tax transparency, balancing the interests of our stakeholders.
We will continue to revise and strengthen these principles as necessary, in response to the needs and expectations of our stakeholders.
The Strategic Report is signed for and on behalf of the Board.
Dominic Burke Group Chief Executive 28 February 2018 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This section includes a review of our corporate governance processes and summaries of the work of the Board and its Committees.
57 Corporate Governance Report 67 Audit & Risk Committee Report 75 Nominations Committee Report 78 Directors' Remuneration Report 91 Directors' Report
