CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In the 25 years that have passed since OUR CUSTOMERS TBC Banks inception, we have faithfully Retail customers served our customers and businesses, We serve more than 2 million retail customers, which is around 75% of the total adult population of Georgia.
supporting the wider Georgian We do our best to provide superior customer service through our community, creating a positive work wide distribution network, with special focus on digital channels, as more and more of our clients are shifting to online solutions.
Our environment for our colleagues, and advanced internet and mobile banking applications have received many different digital awards from Global Finance, recognising our preserving the environment.
We are excellence in Georgia, CEE, and globally.
Our mobile banking privileged to be the leading bank in application enjoys ratings of 4.9 stars in the Google Play store and 4.8 stars in the Apple App Store.
Georgia, but this carries the added We continuously innovate to offer our customers new products responsibility of making a sustainable tailored to their needs, which are delivered with high-quality service.
We actively listen to our customers and use their feedback to positive impact for all our stakeholders.
As a result, we have the highest customer 1 satisfaction scores in the Georgian banking industry and hold a We are committed to having a leading position among other major retail companies.
collaborative approach with all our We have introduced several innovative products to make our customers stakeholders and contributing to building lives more comfortable, including the first Georgian-speaking chatbot, a mobile wallet, a voice biometric recognition system in our call centre, a prosperous and independent country.
our Ertguli loyalty programme, as well as student and school banking cards.
More information on our customer value proposition can be found in the retail banking section on pages 30-33. Business customers We believe that one of our main responsibilities is to help businesses grow and develop.
Increasing the number of successful businesses in our country makes it stronger, increases its economic potential and fosters an attractive investment environment.
TBC Bank was a start-up 25 years ago, and we understand the importance of having a steady partner through different development stages.
Early-stage businesses need financial assistance as well, but it is common for established banks to refrain from financing them because of the risks associated with start-ups.
In 2017, we launched our first project oriented at start-ups, called Startuperi, which aims to mentor start-ups on their strategy, assist them to become thriving businesses and provide financing for further development.
The word startuperi in Georgian means WE SERVE MORE THAN start-up nation, reflecting our belief that our countrys prosperity is related to the number of flourishing businesses in Georgia.
The project has partnerships with several leading companies, offering the participating start-ups tailored services for their needs.
This year we co-organised a special annual conference called Spotlight 2.0m for the start-ups, where the speakers were founders of successful retail customers, which firms sharing their stories of failures and successes.
The project has been a huge success since its launch.
Start-ups received individual is around 75% of the total adult consultations with leading professionals about topics such as population of Georgia marketing, human resources, management, finance and taxes.
In total, up to 13,000 start-ups were involved, and we disbursed 168 loans totalling GEL 21.0 million in financing for their businesses.
1 Based on surveys conducted by independent research companies: IPM and ACT 74 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Furthermore, we have provided more than GEL 160.4 million for micro, OUR PEOPLE small and medium enterprises MSMEs in rural areas, supporting agriculture, manufacturing, tourism and other economic activities in those regions.
We also continue to support MSMEs through our Promoting equal opportunity business support programme, which we launched in 2013.
The We are an equal-opportunity employer and do not discriminate programme offers free training courses, individual consultations, based on race, ethnicity, religion, gender, age or disability.
We aim networking events, conferences and masterclasses.
During the past to create a corporate culture that welcomes and benefits year, around 4,400 companies have attended the training courses and from diversity.
workshops, and 116 MSMEs have received individual consultations.
Participation in the business support programme is free of charge.
We promote gender equality and support women in the workforce.
We are proud that women comprised 67% of our total workforce Another remarkable idea put into action in 2017 was making basic at the end of 2017.
To better support women employees, we offer information about various industries easily accessible for them six months of maternity leave at full pay and other businesses.
We collaborated with Georgias Revenue Service to childcare benefits.
analyse available public data and create a business map that is accessible to any person free of charge, allowing them to Years with TBC Bank, 2017 benchmark against actual average industry metrics like revenues, costs, number of employees and payroll.
This tool will enable 0-1 years 29% companies to measure their place and performance against their 1-5 years 37% competitors.
5-10 years 22% 10 years 12% This year, we held our annual business awards ceremony for the second time.
After the successful ceremony last year, this year the number We give fair consideration to job applications from candidates who of participants increased up to 700.
The awards ceremony promotes may have disabilities.
We also support and retain employees who entrepreneurship in Georgia and presents thriving business examples become disabled during their employment at TBC Bank and aim to to a wider audience, encouraging innovative businesses to set up.
The adjust our workplace in order to make it more comfortable for event was covered by traditional and social media channels, reaching disabled people.
For the 2017 business awards, we introduced a new Business of the Year category.
To select a winner for the new category, we paid special attention to a companys corporate Board of directors responsibility strategy and assessed their activities, along with 2017 2016 other criteria.
Male 100% Male 100% Female 0% Female 0% Georgias mountainous regions are an area that is less developed, but has high potential to grow economically and attract a significant Top management number of tourists to the country due to their unique nature and 2017 2016 beauty.
Georgian ski resorts are becoming increasingly popular but Male 88% Male 88% need support to transform them into high-class destinations with Female 12% Female 12% proper infrastructure, thereby improving their reputations among tourists.
We have been supporting Georgian mountain resorts since Middle management 2016.
The primary focus of our partnership is developing 2017 2016 infrastructure and innovative payment systems at Georgian Male 66% Male 65% mountain resorts, which will improve their efficiency and facilitate Female 34% Female 35% increased demand for skiing treks, positively reflecting on the Georgian economy and promoting local businesses.
All employees 2017 2016 Priorities for 2018 Male 33% Male 35% In 2018, we will carry on innovating and developing new offerings for Female 67% Female 65% our customers, as well as continue focusing on increasing customer satisfaction levels.
2 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia We will also increase lending volumes in rural areas to encourage economic activities and help to lower the unemployment rate in those regions.
We firmly believe that each employee is part of our success and we are committed to attracting and retaining top talent by providing competitive remuneration and attractive benefits: fostering fair, honest and collaborative working relationships: and supporting professional development.
As of the end of 2017, we employed more than 7,000 people who all share the same values and are dedicated to achieving our vision of becoming the best 2 digital financial services company in the region.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Performance assessment We provide our colleagues with attractive insurance and pension The Bank runs a transparent and fair assessment system to benefits, six months of maternity and paternity leave at full pay, and evaluate the performance and skills of all employees.
Actively paid annual and sick leave.
We also offer corporate mobile numbers engaging employees in their goal setting, monitoring performance with free internal calls and special discounted fees for other calls.
progress and providing constructive feedback are the key In the case of both marriage and childbirth, we provide our team components of our performance assessment system.
members and their families with monetary awards, as well as compensation in the case of serious illness or death.
We also We use the  MBO system for most of support large families and provide a special, one-time gift of GEL our back-office staff, under which specific objectives, aligned to the 10,000 to all TBC Bank employees upon the birth of their fourth organisational goals, are defined and agreed at the beginning of the child or more.
After setting goals, employees have a clear understanding of their roles, responsibilities and contribution to the Talent attraction and development Groups overall strategy.
The process includes ongoing tracking and As we believe that our people are one of our key competitive semi-annual feedback on employee achievements.
The scoring advantages, we seek to recruit, retain and develop highly qualified system is the same for all employees within the MBO system and and engaged individuals.
ensures fairness throughout the organisation.
We actively participate in numerous job fairs organised by top For front-office staff, we have a target-based system developed by universities and leading HR consultancies to help us in selecting the external consultants.
Under our target-based system, employee best candidates with the highest growth potential.
performance is linked to quantitative and qualitative KPIs that are closely aligned to the Groups strategic objectives.
Compared with Since 2012, we have run a special internship programme for college the MBO system, the target-based systems progress is measured students in their third or fourth year of study.
We partner with top monthly, quarterly or annually.
Georgian universities and give the best students an opportunity to become part of our team.
During our one-year internship We also run a 360-degree feedback system for our middle programme, students can rotate through different departments of managers, which allows them to receive a well-rounded and the bank.
After they complete their internships, we offer permanent balanced view of their skills and behaviours, assisting them to build jobs to the most successful trainees.
We pride ourselves on being on current strengths and develop new skills.
named the best supporter of education in 2017 by Free University of Tbilisi, the leading university in Georgia.
To further enhance our  system for middle management, in 2017, we introduced a new system that we Supporting the development of our people and helping them to developed together with Mercer, a leading international HR realise their potential is one of our top priorities.
For this purpose, consulting company.
The new system utilises a more standardised we offer various in-house training sessions and courses, in addition approach and helps to better align the managers tactical goals with to sponsoring various international certification programmes, the Groups overarching strategy, and assists them in developing including CFA, ACCA and FRM, for all our employees.
provide financial support to our brightest people to pursue graduate education at leading universities worldwide.
In 2017, 19 managers Financial rewards and non-monetary benefits received TBC scholarships.
To attract and retain the best talent, we offer a competitive remuneration and market-leading benefits package.
Our employee Since 2011, the Bank has run TBC Academy, an in-house educational remuneration package consists of monthly salaries and an attractive centre available to all employees that offers numerous courses in bonus scheme, which vary by position and are linked to banking and related fields.
The Banks top and middle management performance.
To promote a longer-term view and align middle teach the courses.
For new employees, we provide introductory managers interests with those of shareholders, we offer a deferred training in order to share with them our corporate values and share bonus scheme, whereby 15-20% of the annual bonus is paid in culture, and to give them a brief overview of the Group.
In 2017, TBC PLC shares with a three-year vesting period as follows: 10% is several new classes were added, including regulations, ethics and awarded on the first anniversary of the award, a further 10% on the financial fraud management, as well as soft skills like leadership second anniversary and the remaining 80% on the third anniversary.
In addition, we regularly organise various The company awarded around 136,000 shares as annual bonuses in job-related training for our employees.
We also use a distance 2018 based on 2017 performance.
The directors remuneration learning system for many training programmes, allowing employees system is described in detail in the remuneration report on pages more flexibility in completing the courses.
2017, we started a session of masterclasses for personal development, which were delivered by leading professionals who shared their knowledge and experience with our employees.
In total, six masterclasses were held, and more than 1,800 employees attended.
76 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Employee motivation and engagement As we care about our employees appearance and comfort, this year We constantly work on improving our peoples motivation and we decided to upgrade our corporate apparel.
To take into engagement levels by exploring their interests and doing our best to consideration our employees ideas and wishes, we conducted a surprise and celebrate with them.
survey that more than 2,500 employees participated in.
Based on the survey results, we created 10 different designs of scarves and ties in To support internal communications, we have established several partnership with leading Georgian designers.
These accessories clubs based on employee interests that unite photographers, were distributed to front-office employees as gifts and are also football lovers, TBC talents and employees with other interests.
available for sale at our corporate online brand shop.
Our brand Clubs bring together employees from different departments and shop is subsidised by TBC Bank and features other products as well, give them an opportunity to get to know each other, share their ideas including branded stationery, clothing, accessories and gift items.
One such employee gathering is an internal We continuously add new collections to our brand shop that are championship of the intellectual game What?
in designed exclusively for TBC Bank.
We offer our employees various promotions and discounts through To promote a healthy work - life balance, we organise weekend field our internal network, including free tickets to exhibitions, the trips, team-building events and retreats for our employees, as well cinema, opera and ballet, and rugby games.
We also host book fairs, as numerous internal championships, including bowling, football, where our employees can buy books with special discounts.
In basketball and sand rugby.
We also participate in external running addition, we provide back-to-school packages to the youngest competitions and various sporting events.
As part of our efforts to members of our TBC family.
promote a healthy lifestyle, we offer our employees medical check-ups and free consultations.
In 2017, nearly 2,000 employees Regular communication with employees is an integral part of our benefited from these benefits.
In addition, our team members can corporate culture.
We strive to provide our employees with the latest receive special discounts and offers at various sport centres.
Most of information and developments about the Group.
Since 2012, we have our employees also donate up to 2% of their salary to the TBC Fund, conducted an annually employee satisfaction and engagement survey to which supports our team members and their relatives with severe get feedback from our staff and take actions accordingly.
These surveys diseases and helps to finance their medical treatment costs.
TBC are conducted in partnership with leading international universities and Fund was established in 2009 and has since helped around research firms.
Our most recent survey, conducted in December 2017, 1 1,000 people.
generated an employee engagement index as high as 91% and employee net promoter score of 55.
For middle management, we organise annual overseas workshops.
As national rugby team supporters, we try to combine these workshops with important rugby matches.
Last year, we supported our national team in an autumn test match with Scotland.
In 2017, we took our middle managers to Wales to support the Georgian national rugby team in a challenging game versus Wales as part of Autumn Internationals 2017.
This type of event both creates strong team spirit and is in line with our strategy of becoming the ambassadors for rugby in Georgia.
1 91% of all employees feel involved and committed to TBC Bank TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Ethics and conduct To ensure employee protection and improve working conditions, we We aspire to conduct business in a way that promotes high ethical have a whistleblowing policy in place that is available to all standards, values and respects human rights, and encourages our employees and aims to identify and respond to potential violations employees to act with integrity and responsibility towards each other that may jeopardise employee work effectiveness.
The policy and our customers, partners and community.
encourages all employees to report on any suspected violations in an open manner without fear of retaliation.
In addition, TBC Bank For this purpose, we have implemented a set of internal policies and provides channels for anonymous whistleblowing for anyone who procedures and closely monitor their execution: believes that a violation of internal standards or legal requirements Code of Ethics has taken place but is uncomfortable using the normal reporting Code of Conduct lines.
Our guidelines seek to ensure that complaints are recorded Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the Facilitation of and that employees are safe from any potential retaliation.
Tax Evasion Policy which was approved in January 2018 to replace the former Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy The Compliance Department regularly conducts employee training Whistleblowing Policy sessions in order to raise awareness and highlight the importance of anti-corruption and anti-bribery issues.
Periodic audits are also These policies can be found on our IR website at www.
conducted by the Internal Audit Department to identify any violations com.
No such material instances were identified during 2017.
In terms of whistleblowing, 45 whistleblowing The Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct regulate employee rights reports were received according the Groups internal policy, which and responsibilities, and set appropriate relationship norms and were escalated and resolved, as appropriate.
TBC Banks employees are expected to act honestly and fairly at all times and to comply with both the spirit and intent of all Priorities for 2018 laws.
All employees are responsible for ensuring that the working To maintain and enhance our position as one of the most desired environment is free of any form of harassment, discrimination employers in the country, we continuously work in partnership with including gender, age, physical disability or religious affiliations or the leading HR consulting companies to further improve our human inappropriate behaviour.
In dealing with customers, the TBC Bank is resources systems and remain abreast of new market trends.
dedicated to offering top-quality products and services, as well as to Our 2018 initiatives include: providing straightforward information.
In regard to suppliers, the introducing a job classification system, which means assessing Group engages only in arm-length transactions.
and grading head office staff positions.
The job classification system will make it easier to compare different positions Compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct is throughout the Bank and will facilitate transparent and closely monitored by the HR Department, Compliance Department consistent people management and career development and Information Security Department on regular basis.
Periodic processes: and audits are also conducted by the Internal Audit Department in order implementing a self-service platform through our internal to identify any breach or misconduct in relation to compliance with network and mobile application, which will allow each employee these policies.
No material breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics to control their job-related information, such as updating and Code of Conduct were identified during 2017. personal information, applying for annual leave or registering for health insurance.
Employee self-service systems will help us to Our Anti-Bribery, Anti-Corruption and Prevention of the Facilitation save time, make processes easier and more efficient, and give of Tax Evasion Policy complies with all relevant local and our employees more autonomy to manage their  laws and regulations, and applies to all employees of related issues.
The policy provides comprehensive guidance on the types of behaviour that may give rise to violations of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws and or Criminal Finance Bill requirements, and reinforces a culture of honesty and openness among employees.
78 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance OUR COMMUNITY Rugby We take care of our community and support those areas that are TBC Bank is a title sponsor of the Georgian Rugby Union and pivotal for our country and its future: the young generation, sports supports numerous tournaments throughout the year.
These are the directions that we believe require the long-term partnership with the Rugby Union and, in addition to the most attention to develop and foster success.
sponsorship, we use our social media channels to promote the sport of rugby and increase the number of national team fans.
Young generation As the leading Georgian bank, we are convinced that it is our social Georgian rugby had a remarkable year in 2017: it is the first time that the responsibility to set examples and encourage the young generation country hosted the World Rugby Under-20 Championship.
In 2017, we continued to sponsor numerous campaigns leading teams from all over the world visited Georgia in June to play in encouraging young people to undertake challenging endeavours.
the Championship, which is the second most important event in rugby, following the Rugby World Cup.
For the second year in a row, we hosted the Da Vinci scientific festival, which aims to popularise STEM fields among young people.
Our partnership with Rugby Union entered a new phase in November, The winning team received a one-year scholarship from TBC Status.
when we branded the autumn international rugby test-series as the TBC We also supported last years winners to participate in the Intel Rugby Series, attracting more fans to the matches.
This is another International Science and Engineering Fair.
Our talented participants example of our successful cooperation with sports.
took third place out of 800 teams.
Besides the local festival, TBC Bank sponsored the participation of Georgian teams in the Culture international scientific Olympiads, such as First Global, Intel TBC Bank remains an avid supporter of Georgian culture, including International Science and Engineering Fair, etc.
the visual arts, literature and ballet.
During the past 25 years, we have organised numerous exhibitions, supported young artists and To encourage innovative business ideas and entrepreneurship, TBC financed the restoration of artwork.
Banks Startuperi programme, in partnership with Estonian firm Garage 48, organised a three-day training course for Georgian In 2017, we restored two masterpieces by prominent Georgian students in small towns.
Students received training from leading painter Niko Pirosmani, Tamar King and Rustaveli, providing an marketers, software developers, project managers and, on the last opportunity for Georgian society to view these unique paintings for day, had to work on an idea and create a prototype of their product.
TBC Bank also organised special educational tours for The winning teams participated in a hackathon organised in Tbilisi.
schoolchildren to introduce them to Pirosmanis life and work.
More than 100 people with a start-up mindset took part in the hackathon, creating business prototypes for gamification Another significant exhibition during the year was presenting the and entertainment.
works of Petre Otskheli, one of the founders of Georgian modernism.
For the 110th anniversary of Otskhelis birth, we After renovating Tbilisis renowned Mziuri Park and opening the financed the conservation and restoration of 30 paintings.
The non-profit Mziuri Cafe last year, we continued to support the cafe.
exhibition drew special attention from a wider audience and received We also initiated Sunday meetings for primary schoolchildren, excellent reviews.
where invited experts would discuss a variety of intriguing topics and develop childrens curiosity and fantasy.
In 2003, TBC Bank established Saba, the main literary award in Georgia.
Since then, it remains the countrys most prestigious Statusdonates.
Saba popularised not only known Georgian In the beginning of 2017, TBC Banks private banking brand, TBC writers, it also helped to uncover new talent and introduce them to a Status, launched statusdonates.
ge, an innovative donation platform wider audience.
In 2017, Saba introduced a mobile audiobook featuring different stories of people in need, organisations or application that provides free audiobooks to blind users.
Short movies are made on each story and uploaded to the platform, where people can view and choose which project they want to support.
The platform is innovative, since it mainly focuses on supporting success and it gives donors an opportunity to select a particular case that they want to support.
Different stories are submitted to appear on the platform, but a specially designated committee reviews cases and selects the most appropriate ones.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Another milestone project that began in 2016 is the translation ENVIRONMENT platform supported by Microsoft, GeoLab, Leavingstone, PH International and TBC Bank.
For the project, more than 500 million As the largest banking group in the country, we fully understand the Georgian sentences from the database of the Georgian e-book importance of doing business with minimal impact on the application, Saba, were analysed, translated and contributed to the environment.
We are strongly committed to preserving the platform.
Translated sentences were loaded into Microsofts environment by operating our business in a sustainable and ethical machine-learning platform.
As a result, the Microsoft text API will manner, and to take action to reduce our negative impact from both support the Georgian language and will accurately translate direct and indirect activities.
Microsoft has already started to integrate Georgian language translation capability into its products, such as the Bing search engine, Microsoft Office, Skype, etc.
This is Lending responsibly an important advancement for the Georgian language in the We lend responsibly and do not finance projects that have an adverse information age.
For this purpose, the Bank has adopted an Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy to ensure Another initiative that we have curated since 2013 is Artarea, the compliance with local environmental legislation and applicable first online TV Channel dedicated to art and culture.
It outlines our liabilities in terms of impact on offers its viewers various culturally themed lectures, both the environment and communities.
recommendations, entertainment programmes and live concerts, which are quite popular among all generations.
One of the most Compliance with the Banks Environmental and Social Risk Management successful projects is Tbilisuri Ezo Tbilisian Yard, which gathers an Policy is closely monitored by the Social and Environmental Risk audience in a random yard of Old Tbilisi and organises a classical Manager.
In terms of lending activities, credit officers undertake periodic music concert by the National Symphony Orchestra.
monitoring visits to their clients to ensure that all environmental and social norms are adhered to.
Periodic audits are also conducted by Internal Audit Department in order to identify any breaches.
No such Priorities for 2018 material breaches of the Banks Environmental and Social Risk While TBC Bank continues growing and developing as a financial Management Policy were identified during 2017. institution, we reaffirm adherence to our chosen directions: the young generation, culture and sports.
We are convinced that We are also committed to promoting eco-friendly projects.
This year we these are the key areas where we can have a positive impact on attracted around US$70 million in the form of debt finance from the community and dedicate our efforts to building a international financial institutions to foster investments in areas related prosperous country.
to energy efficiency, renewable energy and pollution reduction.
In 2018, we will increase the number of projects that we support, in line with our strategy: actively promote them: and ensure that they Waste management and energy conservation remain transparent, to allow more people to benefit from our Since 2016, TBC Bank has implemented a waste management endeavours.
As the number one bank in Georgia, we will set a programme that has been approved by Georgias Ministry of leading example and encourage other businesses to engage in Environment and Natural Resources Protection and has ensured that corporate responsibility activities.
we closely monitor and effectively manage our non-hazardous and hazardous waste.
The non-hazardous waste mainly arises from printing paper, which we shred and exchange with a recycling company in return for books that we donate to orphanages, vulnerable families and libraries in remote villages in Georgias mountainous regions.
This year we introduced several changes to reduce the usage of paper in line with the Banks Environmental and Social Risk Management Policy.
In June 2017, we transformed several client authorisation procedures paperless and saved around 1.7 million sheets of paper.
We also simplified our banking product agreements and reduced the number of pages per agreement.
Moreover, our customers can apply for and receive pre-approved fast consumer loans via remote channels, meaning that no additional paperwork is needed for disbursing a loan.
In 2017 we disbursed around 23,000 such loans.
For hazardous office waste, such as printer cartridges, we collaborate with a company that specialises in supplying new cartridges and recycling used ones.
80 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Since 2016, we have used only energy-efficient LED lighting in our Calculation methodology premises, which has helped us to reduce the consumption of The EECG report considers all emission sources required under the electricity by around 9% this year.
In addition, we operate an Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports energy-efficient heating and cooling system in our offices.
Regulations 2013 Scope 1 and 2 and the emission sources under Scope 3 that are applicable to our business.
In preparing the emissions data, the World Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Greenhouse gas emissions Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard As one of the largest financial institutions in Georgia and a revised edition, emissions factors from the UK governments premium-listed company trading on the LSE, TBC Bank has a Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 commitment to calculate and report upon its greenhouse gas GHG and national Provider, Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change emissions from the usage of fuel and electricity for its direct IPCC emission factors for electricity tCO MWhe were used.
To this end, we commissioned the Energy Efficiency required data was collected and the report developed to address the Centre Georgia EECG to prepare a report on GHG emissions from scope of TBC Banks main banking activities, which includes all activities for which TBC Bank is responsible.
This report allowed us offices and or retail branches where TBC Bank has operational to obtain a more complete picture of our direct impact in 2017 and control, as follows: 2016, by calculating GHG emissions from TBC Banks business activities in tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent, based on the 2 Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes scopes set out in the GHG protocol Scopes 1, 2 and 3. emissions from combustion of natural gas, diesel and or petrol Total CO e emissions data Total CO e emissions data in equipment at owned and controlled sites.
It also includes 2 2 for the FY 2017 for the FY 2016 combustion of, among others, petrol, diesel fuel and natural gas in owned transportation devices.
Tonnes Tonnes Scope 1 2,409 1,804 Scope 2 purchased electricity for own use, i. e. lighting, office Scope 2 1,375 1,147 appliances, cooling, etc includes emissions from used electricity at owned and controlled sites.
To calculate the emissions, the Scope 3 366 268 conversion factor for Non-OECD Europe and Eurasia average Total emissions 4,150 3,219 conversion from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2017 and national IPCC emission Total emission per full factors for electricity tCO MWhe have been used.
time employee 0.60 0.52 2 Scope 1 1,538 CO e emissions in tonnes from combustion of fuel NG from 2 Scope 3 includes emissions from air business travels short haul, owned operation and facilities of TBC Bank in 2017 compared to 1,209 CO e 2 medium haul, long haul and international haul.
in 2016 763 CO e emissions in tonnes from owned vehicles of TBC Bank in 2017 2 compared to 533 CO e in 2016 2 108 CO e emissions in tonnes from owned generators of TBC Bank in 2017 2 compared to 63 CO e 2 Whilst we remain committed to reducing our GHG emissions, the increase in our CO emissions between 2016 and 2017 is, in part, 2 attributable to TBC Banks increased scale of operations following the completion of TBC Banks acquisition of Bank Republic in 2017, and partially the result of a change in methodology, which incorporated an assessment of 100% of TBC Banks operations in 2017.
TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
