Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 107 How the committee spent its time The committee monitored compliance Mondi Limited social and ethics committee by Mondi Limited with the activities Composition listed in Regulation 43 5 made under the South African Companies Act 2008, Meeting Members Committee attendance based on applicable legislation, other throughout member two meetings the year since in the year legal requirements or prevailing codes of best practice relating to its operations in Stephen Harris, February 2012, 2 chairman chairman since South Africa.
October 2015 In order to minimise duplication David February 2012 1 1 between its obligations and that of the Hathorn DLC audit committee and the DLC Peter May 2017 1 Mondi demonstrates a high level 2 Oswald sustainable development committee, the of compliance with statutory committee considers reports from these Fred October 2015 2 requirements and significant Phaswana two committees as they relate to the commitment to, and delivery of, the environment, labour, human rights, product The composition of the committee is in accordance community-focused programmes with the requirements of section 72 8 of the South responsibility, risk management, whistle undertaken during the period African Companies Act 2008 and its associated blowing, fraud and business integrity and under review.
monitors compliance by Mondi Limited on Stephen Harris 1 David Hathorn stepped down from the overlapping matters.
Chairman of the Mondi Limited social and committee on 11 May 2017.
David attended all ethics committee meetings up to the date of his departure The committees remit is set out in terms 2 Peter Oswald was appointed to the committee of reference adopted by the Boards.
Peter attended all meetings The committees performance against following his appointment these terms of reference is kept under review and the committee is satisfied that Other regular attendees it has acted in accordance with its terms of e Non-executive directors who are not reference during the year.
members of the committee e Executive management who present onrelevant topics Other matters addressed by the committee included: Corporate citizenship Labour and employment matters Environment, health and public safety e Community development and corporate social e Compliance by Mondi Limited with South African e Mondi Limiteds environmental performance, investment initiatives.
Initiatives included coaching labour legislation which incorporates the decent including Effluent Load COD, Malodorous Gas TRS, and mentoring over 30 contractors to date through work requirements prescribed by the International Specific Contact Water and Waste to Landfill.
Mondi Zimeles forestry contractor development Labour Organization ILO.
The committee noted e Mondi Limiteds performance relating to CO2e programme: a focus on small scale land owners in specifically the various areas of employer employee emissions, carbon-based energy consumption, agricultural enterprises with over 130 local students interface and the progress made in addressing use of renewable resources for primary energy and trained in partnership with Buhle Farmers Academy: focus areas arising from the last employee survey.
and the provision of business funding to nine local e Training and development activities.
The committee agri-businesses focused on vegetable production, noted the approximately 1,427 training Anti-corruption chicken farming and seedling nurseries.
initiatives embarked on during 2017, 81% of e The requirements of the King IV Code of Good employees received training during the year Employment Equity and Practice with regard to the principles relating to under consideration.
ethical leadership, and Mondi Limiteds activities Broad BasedBlack Economic e Various initiatives and procedures pursued to relating to the eradication of corruption, including Empowerment BBBEE achieve Mondi Limiteds transformation and with reference to the UN Global Compact and the diversity management objectives, including e Progress made against the employment equity OECD Recommendations.
targets set for the period 2013 to 2017. e Monitoring of Mondi Limiteds BBBEE status.
Consumer relations The Forestry Sector Code, which Mondi Limited e Mondi Limiteds customer relations initiatives as well would be measured against, had only been finalised towards the end of the year, with the as the levels of certification of its products used for food packaging.
result that Mondi Limited was, during the review period, measured against the previous Generic Codes.
In November 2017 Mondi Limited had an independent assessment performed against the newly approved Forestry Sector Code which confirmed its status as a level 4 contributor.
This status will apply until March 2018 when a new assessment will be performed to coincide with the financial year.
