Mondi Group 42 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance Solutions that create value for our Growing UN SDGs customers We encourage sustainable, responsibly responsibly manufactured products and closer collaboration with our customers and partners.
53 Built on our past achievements and designed for our future success, Relationships with our Growing Responsibly model UN SDGs communities is the framework through which We aim to enhance our social value to communities we respondto our sustainability through effective stakeholder engagement and meaningful challenges and opportunities.
social investments, using global frameworks that enable us to address local priorities.
52 Supplier conduct As one of the Groups strategic value and responsible drivers, it shapes our long-term response UN SDGs procurement to sustainability issues and enables us to demonstrate, monitor and improve our Were taking steps to encourage greater transparency and sustainability performance in everything we promote fair working conditions do, across the entire value chain.
by developing a responsible, inclusive and sustainable Growing Responsibly applies to all our supply chain.
Its designed to clearly articulate the business value of our 53 sustainability efforts to the ecosystems we rely on, to our business and to our stakeholders, including employees and Biodiversity and contractors, customers, communities, UN SDGs ecosystems suppliers and others.
We promote ecosystem The model covers 10 action areas which stewardship to sustain services that our businesses reflect those aspects of sustainability that and communities rely are most relevant for Mondi and for our on through sharing best stakeholders.
Within these action areas, we practices and continued, long-term collaboration with have made 16 public commitments which our stakeholders.
we aim to achieve by 2020, alongwith a carbon emissions reduction commitment 53 which runs to 2030.
In addition to driving our response to sustainability issues most relevant to our Constrained resources and business, these commitments demonstrate environmental our positive contribution towards achieving UN SDGs impacts the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and other global initiatives.
We have Our focus on operational excellence drives efficiency highlighted the strongest links between improvements to ensure our key action areas and the SDGs on responsible use of water, this page.
reduction of waste and emissions, the cascading use Online Sustainable development report 2017 of wood and development www.
51 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 43 Employee and contractor safety UN SDGs Our goal is zero harm to employees and contractors, and a safe and healthy workplace.
45 A skilled and 1 committed workforce UN SDGs Were developing a culture 2 10 that aims to inspire, engage and develop all our people to reach their full potential, while ensuring our business can continue to grow and succeed.
46 9 3 Fairness and diversity in the workplace UN SDGs Our The diversity of our workforce 10 action isone of our greatest strengths.
We promote fair working conditions for a better, areas more diverse workplace.
8 4 47 Sustainable fibre UN SDGs Were promoting positive change to support credible certification systems that will meet increasing demand for sustainable fibre.
7 5 We also manage our own forests sustainably.
6 48 Climate change UN SDGs We consider climate change in our business decisions throughsound investments T hrough this model, were to improve energy efficiency able to demonstrate, monitor and responsible procurement ofwood and fibre.
Our and improve our sustainability sustainably managed forests also play an important role performance as well as in storing carbon.
our contribution towards 50 achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
Stephen Harris Chairman of the DLC sustainable development committee Online Sustainable development report 2017 www.
com sd17 Mondi Group 44 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance External recognition Growing responsibly: Our consistent efforts in sustainability performance have received recognition by a number of external corporate our progress in 2017 ratings and rankings.
Some of these are included below.
Our Growing Responsibly model continues to shape our long-term response to sustainability issues.
With a firm focus on sustainability governance, the e Advanced reporter since 2008 e 2016 member of UN Global models 10 action areas enable us to demonstrate, Compact 100 monitor and improve our sustainability performance.
The CEO Water Mandate WE SUPPORT e Joined 2015 Sustainability governance These include some of our longer-term sustainability commitments and inform Responsible governance is fundamental the setting of targets and commitments to building a resilient and successful for each new period.
The policies have organisation, one in which sustainability helped us to standardise our performance, is embedded at all levels.
Our Boards e Member since 2008 improve according to best practice and and committees provide the leadership identify gaps, operate more efficiently and necessary to implement the principles of responsibly, and engage our employees to good corporate governance across the understand our principles.
Group, ensuring all decisions and actions are based on integrity, accountability, We apply due diligence processes to our e A List for Water fairness and transparency.
We aim to practices and performance to ensure work openly and transparently with our e Leadership for Climate and alignment with our policies.
These include: stakeholders across the value chain, Forests disclosures monthly and annual monitoring of our responding to their needs to create an operations sustainability performance inclusive and fair business.
Robust policies, and regular reporting to the sustainable standards and management systems development committee: active and help us meet our commitments and voluntary use of external assurance and guide our businesses to address risks verification of our external sustainability e Ranked sixth FTSE100 in 2017 and opportunities.
reporting: internal audits to monitor operations adherence to our standards: Our Sustainable Development Governance training and communication on current Policy supports our overall approach and future regulatory requirements and and is further supported by the following material sustainability issues: and the use of policies, which apply to all our owned and externally certified standards at operational managed operations: e Member since 2012 and Group level.
e Safety and Occupational Health We updated and restructured our e Labour and Human Rights sustainable development policies in 2016 e Sustainable Forestry with the support of the DLC sustainable e Energy and Climate Change development committee, relevant e Indices World 120 Mondi teams and external experts.
e Environment e Indices Europe 120 Policy developments were informed by e Supply Chain and current best practice and aligned with our e Indices UK 20 Responsible Procurement Growing Responsibly model.
In 2017, we e Product Stewardship undertook another review to ensure that e Communities our policies met the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. www.
com sustainability e GOLD recognition level  The Boards approved a new version of the e Top 1% of all suppliers Groups diversity policy in 2017.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 45 Risk-based approach Our risk-based approach is central to how we manage safety and health.
Every operation has and continues to identify their top risks and develops management plans to engineer them out of the business.
Where the latter is not feasible or possible, robust controls and procedures are introduced to reduce the risks.
In 2017, the second phase of work commenced to identify and address the next set of top risks in each operation.
Our new Task Risk Management Methodology provides a practical, easy to understand approach to conducting pre-task risk assessments.
We also finalised and rolled out a new Permit to Work methodology.
Measuring progress: lead, current and lag indicators In addition to conventional safety metrics such as TRCR which measure past safety performance lag indicators, we use current and lead indicators.
Current indicators measure the degree to which safety has been institutionalised and how well our management systems have been executed, for example management We were deeply saddened to have had risk-focused audits.
Lead indicators 1 Employee and two fatalities in 2017, and one employee concentrate on issues that are key to contractor safety missing presumed deceased in our successful safety performance, such as Syktyvkar Russia operation during action tracking, critical safety training and Commitments preparation for river bank cleaning activities.
the revision of risk assessments using our e Avoid work-related employee In February, a contractor lost his life in our new Task Risk Management Methodology.
and contractor fatalities South African forestry operations following Performance against current and lead a timber vehicle incident and, in August, indicators form part of our senior managers e Prevent life-altering employee an employee lost his life in our Tire Box bonus scheme, with targets assigned and contractor injuries operation Turkey during electrical fault to each indicator as part of the annual e Reduce TRCR by 5% compared finding activities at a bundle-strapping performance and development review to 2015 baseline, including machine.
We also regret that we had three PDR process.
new acquisitions life-altering injuries during the year: an Health and wellbeing employee lost four fingers at our Ascania To ensure the safety and health of operation Germany when coming We promote awareness of diseases such our employees and contractors, and into contact with rotating equipment: a as HIV AIDS, diabetes and tuberculosis to complement our rigorous safety contractor lost sight in one eye after an by encouraging testing, counselling and procedures and controls at Mondi, angle grinder disc broke during the annual treatment.
In 2017, 3,530 employees and our focus this year has been on shut at our Syktyvkar mill: and another contractors 2016: 3,273 participated in introducing a 24-hour safety mindset contractor had a partial finger amputation at the HIV AIDS voluntary programme in across the Group.
Only when safety our Frantschach mill Austria when coming our South African operations, with 3,307 becomes an unconscious behaviour into contact with rotating parts of a vacuum opting for testing 2016: 2,047.
The higher 24 hours a day will we be able to dust extraction unit during housekeeping participation and testing in 2017 was due to ensure our people get to work safely, activities.
We had 217 recordable cases Mondis support of efforts to increase HIV and home safely, every day.
AIDS testing in South Africa.
In addition, This equates to a TRCR of 0.60, a 21% we offer health and wellbeing facilities and reduction compared to our 2015 baseline wellness programmes at many locations, of 0.76 adjusted to include acquisitions.
for example our wellness centre at Investigations into all the above incidents Syktyvkar and the tt Czech Republic were conducted to identify the causes Mondi for Life initiative, which promotes and contributing factors in order to prevent sports, health and recreation.
similar incidents from happening again.
Mondi Group 46 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance Progress on these and other locally important actions is tracked in a dedicated database and reported at site level.
We also conducted internal surveys and three pulse check surveys in our larger mills to track the progress on our actions.
In 2017 we started with integration surveys in our newly acquired operations.
Working with an external partner, we ran seven such surveys to receive feedback from our new employees on the integration process and to identify opportunities to strengthen their engagement.
In January 2018, we launched our next global employee survey and we will report on the results in our 2018 report.
Transparency, assessment and feedback Annual PDRs are mandatory for all office employees and line managers, including shift leaders.
We use 360 feedback to allow managers to understand how employees perceive their behaviour and to identify areas for improvement.
Senior leaders and line managers with at least three direct reports receive 360 feedback every three years.
New leaders receive 360 feedback around six to eight months from being appointed.
In 2017, Employee engagement 2 A skilled and we expanded this opportunity to include Mondi has formal and informal processes committed workforce a wider group of employees across the to communicate with and engage business, with a total of 358 employees employees across the Group.
In addition to Commitment having received 360 feedback during electronic communication and publications, the year.
e Engage with our people to create regular local briefing sessions by managers a better workplace focus on safety, operational objectives Training and development and performance, financial performance Personal development and training With around 26,300 employees across and the Groups values and culture.
enhance the skills of our people and 31 countries, our culture aims to We also conduct regular PDRs at a local enable them to be personally accountable inspire, engage and develop all our level.
Our Group-wide employee survey is for upholding our principles and policies.
people to reach their full potential and designed to consult employees on specific Our induction process includes training ensure our business continues to grow issues and track our progress.
related to our business, products and and succeed.
Employee engagement Our last Group-wide employee survey, strategic value drivers, as well as our is integral.
By hearing, respecting and conducted in November 2015, was approach to sustainable development.
responding to what our people say, completed by 90% of employees.
Training is designed to empower we inspire them to deliver our Group Detailed outcomes were reported in 2016 employees and support diversity, strategy.
We use both formal and and resulting actions have included: particularly gender diversity for example informal processes to communicate success management training with a focus and engage with employees together e a best practice sharing workshop on career strategies for higher management with regular PDRs conducted at a involving managing directors: positions and career development training local level.
e a new Leadership Programme for Middle for young female employees.
Employees in Management translated into different sales and marketing roles and those in languages for our operations: positions that have, or may have, contact e an updated internal communications with competitors also complete competition handbook with simplified language: compliance training.
e internal collaboration workshops: and e a Q&A guide to leadership communication that aims to provide all employees with the opportunity to have their questions answered by senior leaders.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 47 In 2017, we devoted around 829,900 hours of employee and contractor time to training and development 2016: 790,000 hours.
Roughly 37% of this training was dedicated to safety and health issues 2016: 38%.
This figure does not include informal and on-the-job training, where much of our employee learning takes place.
The Mondi Academy The Mondi Academy is our global training facility, providing core business-related training programmes to leaders, line managers and other employees.
It offers high-quality training, networking and knowledge-sharing opportunities with a focus on general management, strategy, and sales and marketing.
Along with other Group-wide training networks and local academies in Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Slovakia and South Africa which adhere to Group quality standards, it plays a key role in employee development.
In 2017, 148 seminars and training modules were delivered to 1,180 participants at The Mondi Academy in Austria, along with participants in Mondi academies in Russia totalling 2,400: Slovakia 3,633: Czech Republic 298: Poland 336: and South Diversity and inclusion 3 Fairness and diversity Africa 452.
Our policy is to treat everyone including in the workplace all our employees and contractors, whether Sustainable development training part-time, full-time or temporary fairly Commitment In 2017, we created a new sustainable and with respect, irrespective of origin, e Promote fair working conditions development training module.
nationality, disability, sexual orientation or in the workplace Initially targeted at our leadership and gender.
Opportunities for employment, management teams, it is structured around engagement, promotion, training and any the 10 Growing Responsibly action areas.
A diverse workforce inspires other benefit are based on skills and ability.
It covers increasingly important global innovation and creativity and enables We monitor gender diversity across the issues such as business and human rights, us to meet the needs of a wide range business and both gender and regional including our response to the UK Modern of stakeholders.
Our objective is to diversity among our senior management.
The training will be used engage, involve and inspire everyone We undertake a range of activities to as part of our induction and leadership who is part of the Mondi Group increase the representation of women and development programme going forward.
as we strive to create an inclusive all races at all levels.
Where possible and We also plan to roll out a modified version environment where differences appropriate, we provide cultural training and in 2018 for different employee groups with a are valued and embraced.
We have local coaches for employees posted to new focus on how sustainability issues relate to a zero tolerance policy towards countries to promote cultural diversity.
specific functions and roles within Mondi.
discrimination and harassment, In 2017, we updated our diversity promote fair working conditions and policy to reflect our increasing focus on uphold high standards of employment diversity, taking into account evolving and human rights.
Although labour regulatory requirements and stakeholder and collective bargaining practices expectations.
The updated policy was differ from country to country, informed by the Hampton-Alexander basic rights and fair employment 2 Review, which recommends that boards, 1 standards including fair wages apply as well as executive committees and their throughout the business.
They are direct reports combined, should be 33% managed locally, guided by Group women by 2020. policies and standards.
1 Ensuring that wages paid for a standard working week shall at least meet legal or industry minimum standards and shall always be sufficient to meet the basic needs of our employees and to provide some discretionary income Mondi Group 48 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance We consider applications for employment Activities in 2017 include a project to in a fair and balanced way, seeking to cater identify our human rights risks and better for individual requirements, disabilities integration of sustainability criteria relating and needs.
Group policy ensures training, to labour and human rights in our Supplier career development and promotion is Relationship Management SRM system, consistent and fair, including for people fibre procurement due diligence and audit with disabilities as far as is possible.
In the processes, purchasing policies, Code of event of an employee suffering a lifeConduct for Suppliers, and audit protocols.
altering or life-threatening injury at work, We report annually on our compliance we facilitate appropriate medical treatment with the 10 principles of the United Nations 3 and rehabilitation.
Every effort is made Global Compact UNGC.
to support their continued employment To continue to build awareness, our with Mondi.
new training module on sustainable At the end of 2017, we had two female development places special emphasis directors representing 25% of the on human rights and our response to the composition of the Boards and one director UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015.
During 2017, we also reported targeted training and awareness raising to the Hampton-Alexander Review that campaign on the risks of modern slavery in as at 30 June 2017 we had approximately global supply chains was designed in 2017 27% female representation across our for roll-out to employees via our intranet executive committee and its direct reports.
platform and other channels in 2018.
While the number of women on our UK Modern Slavery Act executive committee has increased during the course of 2017, there is still further We support the Modern Slavery Act and its work required if we are to make progress requirement for commercial organisations towards 33%.
One of our South African to prepare an annual slavery and human based Board members came from a trafficking statement.
We published our historically disadvantaged community and first statement in June 2017, outlining the 57% of our management team in South steps we have taken, and plan to take, to Africa were previously disadvantaged ensure that slavery and human trafficking individuals PDI 2016: 47%.
are not present in our business activities or supply chain.
We updated our sustainability Gender diversity 2017 Male % Female % policies in 2016, including the addition Directors 6 75 2 25 of a new supply chain and responsible 286 92 24 8 procurement policy, and the expansion Senior leaders and update of our labour and human rights 20,188 78 5,701 22 Employees policy to address the increasing importance As at 31 December 2017 of human rights issues in business supply chains.
In 2017, we undertook another Governance 96 review to ensure our policies met the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
The next update of our policies Human rights is scheduled for 2018 along with an update The UN Guiding Principles on Business of Operating Standards, including those and Human Rights provides an related to supply chain and procurement, effective framework for business.
Were and labour and human rights.
strengthening our monitoring and reporting of potential human rights issues in our 4 Sustainable fibre operations and supply chain.
The Groups Labour and Human Rights Policy states Commitments that we do not tolerate forced or child e Maintain 100% FSC certification labour, human trafficking, modern slavery of our owned and leased forestry or any other violation of human rights operations and promote sustainable in our own operations or in our supply forest management chain.
With legislation increasingly holding businesses to account, the DLC sustainable 2 An independent review body which builds on the e Procure a minimum of 70% of our work of the Davies Review to increase the number development committee is responsible wood from FSCor PEFCcertified of women on FTSE boards and includes a focus for ensuring that the Group upholds those sources with the balance meeting our to improve womens representation in senior leadership positions principles and responds appropriately.
company minimum wood standard 3 A UN policy initiative that aligns businesses with that complies with FSCs requirements 10 universally accepted principles in the areas for Controlled Wood of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 49 Wood fibre is one of our primary Our approach to responsible fibre raw materials and we work hard to procurement works hand in hand with our provide the best assurance for our commitment to maintaining biodiversity stakeholders that the fibre we use and ecosystem services in our forestry comes from responsible sources.
We focus on maintaining an We combine forest certification with effective network of High Conservation risk assessment processes as part Value HCV areas and priority ecosystems, of our Due Diligence Management and on imitating natural dynamics for key System DDMS.
Our long-term aim is types of ecosystems where possible.
to increase the proportion of our fibre Our approach is defined in our Ecosystem from credibly certified sources and to Management Plans EMPs, which form the support efforts to increase its longbasis for developing forest management term availability in the supply chain.
We have set aside about 25% of all our owned and leased land for conservation purposes.
Our conservation We maintain FSC certification of all our network includes HCV areas, corridors South African forests as well as FSCand and patches of natural ecosystems, and PEFCcertification of our Russian forests.
4 habitats of rare and endangered species.
In high-risk countries, we source wood only from FSC-certified forests or Controlled In 2017, we signed an agreement with Wood sources.
We do not source wood WWF Russia and local NGO, Silver or products from sources that involve Taiga Foundation, which summarises any of the following: violation of national and supports the results of 10 years of and international legislation: violation of collaboration in developing an inventory traditional and human rights: destruction of Intact Forest Landscapes in the Komi of high conservation values, conversion of Republic and adjacent territories.
It is the forest lands to plantations or non-forest use: first landscape-level agreement to depict introduction of genetically modified trees: or core areas beyond boundaries or forest violation of any of the International Labour management units, and for an unlimited Organization ILO Core Conventions.
None of our sourcing contributes to illegal logging or deforestation and we dont Applying Controlled Wood use tropical species or those listed by as a minimum standard the Convention on International Trade in We continue to advocate the importance of Endangered Species CITES.
Controlled Wood as a minimum standard In 2017, 71% of our total procured wood in the wood and fibre supply chain.
was certified to FSC or PEFC 2016: 67%, Controlled Wood is integral to our ongoing with 93% of our externally procured pulp commitment to increase the proportion from FSCor PEFC-certified sources of certified fibre used.
requirement for procuring fibre-based products that are not certified and, with All our mills, with the exception of Pine Bluff most of the worlds forests still uncertified, US, are certified to FSC and or PEFC Controlled Wood from acceptable sources CoC standards.
is an important tool for managing the We will extend and update our DDMS supply-demand dynamics of available in 2018 so that it not only addresses the responsible fibre.
requirements of the European Union Timber Regulation EUTR but also the US Lacey Act and the Australian Illegal Logging Prohibition Act.
Our revised DDMS will also include all our paper converting operations.
4 We define high-risk countries using various filters, including: Global Forest Registry, Corruption Perception Index, and other relevant indices wherenecessary, as part of Mondis Due Diligence Management System tonnes per tonne of saleable production Mondi Group 50 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance Energy use and generation In 2017, total energy use by our mills was 151.6 million GJ 2016: 153.1.
93.1 million GJ was consumed for pulp and paper core processes in the form of heat and electricity at our operations 2016: 93.2, 8.4 million GJ of heat and electricity was sold to the local grids 2016: 10.0, with total energy sales including green fuel amounting to 10.1 million GJ 2016: 11.6, and we purchased 5.2 million GJ electricity from external sources 2016: 6.3.
The electricity self-sufficiency of our mills stood at 96% in 2017 2016: 98% mainly due to the reduction of energy sales.
The contribution of biomass-based renewable energy sources to the total fuel consumption of our mills increased from 59% in 2014 to 65% in 2017.
6 GHG emissions Pulp and paper mills 7 8 Scope 1 emissions of our mills totalled 3.8 million tonnes CO e 2016: 4.1.
2 This equated to 0.61 tonnes CO e per 2 tonne of saleable production 2016: 0.65.
9 We increased our mills Scope 2 emissions from 0.67 million tonnes CO e in 2016 to 2 0.69 in 2017, equating to 0.11 tonnes per energy generation and energy selftonne of saleable production 2016: 0.11.
5 Climate change sufficiency across our operations.
This, All our mills use market-based factors for in turn, reduces our dependency on reporting Scope 2 emissions.
Our reported Commitment external power suppliers and associated CO e figures do not include any carbon 2 e Reduce specific CO e emissions 2 risks.
Other opportunities and benefits off-setting.
from our pulp and paper mills by 15% of reducing our carbon intensity and by 2030 against a 2014 baseline In 2017 our specific GHG emissions increasing our use of biomass-based from production and energy sales were renewable energy include financial savings 0.72 tonnes CO e per tonne of saleable Our approach to climate change 2 and additional revenue from the sale of production, achieving our target of 15% addresses both the risks and the green electricity to local communities and 10 reduction against a 2014 baseline.
opportunities in transitioning to municipalities in the areas where our pulp We have adopted a new science-based a low carbon economy.
Key focus and paper mills operate.
Eight of our pulp target to reduce our production related areas include energy optimisation and paper mills are located in the EU and GHG emission intensity to 0.25 tonnes of programmes, increasing the use of are covered by the EU Emissions Trading CO per tonne of saleable production by renewable biomass-based fuels, and 2 Scheme EU ETS.
2050 against a 2014 baseline of 0.59. increasing electricity self-sufficiency.
We are currently reviewing the recommendations of the Task Force on Risks and opportunities Climate-related Financial Disclosures and Climate change can adversely impact our will respond to the recommendations operations and disrupt our supply chain as part of our annual carbon disclosure GHG emissions from our pulp 5 through increased frequency and intensity to CDP and in our annual Sustainable and paper mills of water shortages, floods, storms and Development and Integrated Reports.
Scope 1 million tonnes Specic Total CO e 2 rising sea levels, as well as forest fires, This includes evaluating the scenario Scope 2 million tonnes pests and diseases that impact on our analysis requirements for quantifying the 6.0 1.0 forest assets and fibre sourcing.
The price financial impacts and benefits of climate- 1.00 0.78 5.0 1.13 0.67 4.48 0.69 0.9 of carbon and uncertainties over future related risks and opportunities.
4.31 4.07 4.0 3.91 3.78 carbon regulation and taxation, as well 3.0 0.8 as energy availability and affordability, 2.0 0.7 can also affect our industry.
We believe 1.0 that a strategic climate approach delivers wider business benefits.
By prioritising 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 investments in technology and equipment, 1 2014 and 2015 restated due to adjusted production volumes 2 Progress against 2030 commitment is calculated excluding we increase energy efficiency, renewable Raubling mill from 2014 based on 0.844 2014 and 0.717 2017 million tonnes 0.81 1 0.83 1 0.83 0.76 2 0.72 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 51 Converting operations The Scope 1 emissions of our converting operations totalled 0.15 million tonnes CO e in 2017 2016: 0.14.
Their Scope 2 2 emissions totalled 0.27 million tonnes CO e 2 2016: 0.25.
Our converting operations contributed 28% of the Groups total Scope 2 emissions 2016: 27%.
Energy-related investments To achieve our climate goals, we make targeted energy-related investments across our pulp and paper mills, mainly through recovery boilers that utilise the biomass residues of our pulp making process.
Scope 3 emissions Our indirect emissions Scope 3 arise from transportation of products and raw materials, employee commuting, business travel, fuel, and raw materials production.
In 2017, our Scope 3 emissions were estimated to amount to 3.01 million tonnes CO e 2016: 2.98.
2 Water reduction and recycling 6 Constrained resources Given the critical importance of water to our and environmental business, to local communities and to other impacts stakeholders, we strive to manage our water use wisely and efficiently especially Commitments in water stressed regions.
Weve committed e Reduce specific contact water to reducing the specific contact water consumption from our pulp and consumption of our pulp and paper mills paper mills by 5% compared to a by 5% by 2020, against a 2015 baseline.
10 2015 baseline In 2017, we achieved a reduction of 3.3% against the 2015 baseline, with specific e Reduce specific waste to landfill by 3 contact water consumption at 32.8 m per 7.5% compared to a 2015 baseline tonne of saleable production 2016: 33.0.
5 CDP previously the Carbon Disclosure Project e Reduce specific NOx emissions from is a not-for-profit charity that runs the global our pulp and paper mills by 7.5% Drought conditions in South Africa disclosure system for investors, companies, cities, compared to a 2015 baseline remain a concern and we continue to states and regions to manage their environmental impacts, www.
net look for opportunities to improve water e Reduce specific effluent load to the 6 We report our GHG emissions according to the security in the areas where we operate.
environment measure COD by 5% Greenhouse Gas Protocol, published by the World We have focused on reducing our Business Council for Sustainable Development compared to a 2015 baseline WBCSD and the World Resources Institute, and water consumption in our South African have reported our Scope 1 and 2 GHG data in operations, in particular in our Richards Bay Using resources wisely and managing compliance with ISO 14064:1-2006.
In 2017, we achieved a 27% reduction has provided reasonable assurance on our environmental impacts has been Scope 1 and 2 GHG data in accordance with in specific contact water consumption a long-term driver of Mondis ISO 14064:3-2006.
See their full statement at against a 2015 baseline at our Richards Bay www.
Overall, our South African mills reduced 7 Scope 1 emissions: Total GHG emissions from is natural resource-intensive.
their specific contact water consumption by sources owned or controlled by Mondi and its The efficient use of these resources subsidiaries.
This includes CO2e from fossil fuels 16% in 2017 against a 2015 baseline.
makes good business sense and processes, Group leased owned vehicles, waste and waste water treatment, from make-up and delivers environmental and chemicals, and from other GHG gases social benefits.
8 Includes energy sales-related Scope 1 9 Scope 2 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources that are related to generation of purchased energy outside the Group boundaries 10 Excludes Raubling mill Germany performance from 2014 baseline Mondi Group 52 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance The WWF-Mondi Water Weve reduced TRS emissions significantly Stewardship Partnership since 2004, mainly by investing in new boilers and by burning off-gases containing In 2017, the WWF-Mondi Wetlands these substances.
In 2017, we emitted 56 Programme was renamed the WWF-Mondi tonnes of TRS 2016: 52, a 21% decrease Water Stewardship Partnership, reflecting compared with 2015 71 and 8% increase its broadening focus on catchment-based against 2016 due to instabilities at our water stewardship.
We conducted water recovery boilers at our Dyns mill Sweden stewardship assessments for our Richards and our Richards Bay mill.
In 2017, our SO 2 Bay mill and plantations in South Africa emissions were 1,447 tonnes 2016: 1,985. against the international Alliance for Water We set a new commitment in 2015 to Stewardship Standard http: a4ws.
reduce our specific NOx emissions by 7.5% This sets out to provide a globallyby 2020 against a 2015 baseline.
In 2017, applicable framework for major water our specific NOx emissions amounted to users to understand their water use and 1.8 kg per tonne of saleable production impacts.
We are now using the outcomes 2016: 1.9, a reduction of 13% against to investigate meaningful, cost-effective 2015 levels.
We emitted 921 tonnes of improvements to our management system 9 Relationships particulates fine dust emissions in 2017 to meet the core requirements and to 2016: 963, a 4% reduction compared with communities advance some of the requirements of with 2016. the standard.
Commitment Effluent and waste water quality Managing waste e Enhance social value to our Water that has been used in production Weve committed to reducing the specific communities through effective is treated in waste water treatment plants total waste we send to landfill by 7.5% by stakeholder engagement before it is released back into the natural 2020, against a 2015 baseline.
In 2017, and meaningful social investments environment.
We have reduced our we sent 30.8 kg of waste to landfill per specific COD after waste water treatment tonne of saleable production 2016: 33.1.
We play an important role in the to 6.9 kg per tonne of saleable production This 7% reduction against 2016 and 18% communities where we operate from 2016: 7.0, a 8.7% reduction against 2015. reduction against the 2015 baseline was creating employment and business This represents an excellent performance mainly achieved through further progress opportunities to paying taxes and investing against our commitment to reduce specific at our wiecie mill in converting waste to in local infrastructure.
Our Socio-economic COD by 5% compared to a 2015 baseline.
energy instead of landfilling and through Assessment Toolbox SEAT process It was mainly achieved through the start lower ash generation due to reduced coal supports our pulp and paper mills and up of the new waste water treatment consumption at our Richards Bay mill.
forestry operations to ensure open plant at our wiecie mill and the ongoing and transparent dialogue with our modernisation of the waste water treatment Air emissions local communities.
plant at our Syktyvkar mill in 2017.
We aim to reduce emissions to air from our SEAT assessments feed into Community production processes.
Reducing emissions Engagement Plans that help to focus all of malodourous gases monitored as community engagement, initiatives and total reduced sulphur TRS compounds investments towards the right priorities for from kraft pulp mills is a particular focus local communities and our business.
as they can create an odour nuisance for local communities.
We base our community investment decisions on the principles of sustainable development, considering the needs of the community, our business objectives and the potential effectiveness of projects.
Our investments in 2017 totalled 9.6 million and contributed to outcomes including: building healthier communities and improving their future prospects: securing our supply chain: strengthening our local relationships: engaging our employees: and strengthening the Mondi brand.
We are developing our Impact Pathway methodology to assess the holistic outcomes, impacts and value created by investments.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 53 Code of business ethics Mondis code of business ethics sets Regular training is provided to all relevant Speakout, our confidential hotline operated clear standards that ensure we conduct employees and compliance with the policy by an independent third party, is the business to a high ethical standard, build is monitored by the audit committee.
primary tool through which employees and trust with stakeholders, and comply with other stakeholders can raise concerns.
The directors believe that the Group has all applicable laws and regulation across During 2017, we received 120 Speakout robust compliance procedures in place the Group.
It is based on a number of messages 2016: 335 relating to 74 cases in relation to the code and are not aware voluntary codes and guidelines and 2016: 76 cases.
These covered a number of any material non-compliance with comprises five principles under the of topics: in particular the reporting of the code.
following headings: legal compliance: HR-related concerns, potential business honesty and integrity: human rights: We have rigorous internal processes to irregularities and perceived fraudulent stakeholders: and sustainability.
facilitate the reporting, investigation and activities.
The number of messages resolution of any issues.
decreased in 2017 due to multiple Detailed application of the code is messages for some cases in 2016. documented in Mondis policies and procedures, in particular the business integrity policy, which addresses Mondis zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
There is a clearly defined process for reporting violations, with the Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit being notified in all instances.
7 Biodiversity and 8 Supplier conduct 10 Solutions that ecosystems and responsible create value procurement for our customers Commitment Commitment Commitment e Promote ecosystem stewardship e Encourage supply chain transparency e Encourage sustainable, responsibly in the landscapes where we and promote fair working conditions produced products operate through continued together with our key suppliers multi-stakeholder collaboration We promote ecosystem stewardship Were taking steps to encourage We encourage sustainable, to sustain services that our greater transparency and promote fair responsibly manufactured products businesses and communities rely working conditions by developing a and closer collaboration with our on by sharing best practices and responsible, inclusive and sustainable customers and partners.
continued, long-term collaboration supply chain.
Online sustainable Online sustainable Online sustainable development report 2017 development report 2017 development report 2017 Mondi Group 54 Integrated report and financial statements 2017 Sustainability performance Working together Given the scale and nature of the challenges we face, its only by working together that we will achieve the impact, innovation and scale necessary to bring about change.
This motivates us to collaborate with others, building our shared understanding of sustainability issues both the challenges and the opportunities and developing the best solutions, together.
Customers Suppliers Investors With more and more people wanting We engage with our suppliers to There is wide and growing recognition to make responsible purchasing develop practical, risk-based solutions among the investment community choices, consumer interest in the to the social and environmental of the links between sustainable sustainability criteria of products challenges we all face across the operations and long-term financial and services is greater than ever.
value chain, to promote fair working success.
Weve seen increasing interest This is driving demand for increased conditions, and to deliver innovative, in our sustainability performance by transparency across the whole value sustainable products and solutions.
investors and ESG analysts in recent chain as well as opportunities to years.
We are part of the FTSE4Good e Regular assessments of key fibre collaborate with our customers to Index Series and the JSEs Socially and non-fibre suppliers deliver innovative, sustainable paper and Responsible Investment SRI Index.
e Engaging with credible certification packaging solutions.
We regularly share our sustainability systems to encourage sustainable performance and take feedback from e Regular customer satisfaction surveys forestry practices and secure investors and analysts to inform our e Close collaboration with customers long-term wood fibre supplies reporting and management practices.
on product innovation e Monitoring and managing risks and e Annual reports e Participation in a wide opportunities in the supply chain e Questionnaires range of benchmarking and e Supplier collaborations and transparency initiatives e Independent disclosure platforms partnerships to develop strategic, for investors such as CDP e Customer events and exhibitions long-term relationships and improve performance e Ad hoc questions and requests e Disclosure of our sustainability performance to our customers e Telephone calls and meetings via EcoVadis, Sedex and e Roadshows other platforms e Events including results presentations and capital markets days Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2017 55 Communities Employees Global partnerships and initiatives Ongoing, transparent dialogue with Open and honest dialogue is crucial.
our communities helps us to address Alongside day-to-day management We believe in global partnerships that challenges, understand and manage contact, we engage in discussions help bring about change, sustainability our risks, generate opportunities and and feedback about our values and scale.
We work closely with others improve our business performance.
and culture as expressed in the to maximise the shared value we To understand where our impacts lie Mondi Way.
Informal channels of create, contributing to multi-stakeholder and what our stakeholders expect, communication and formal surveys collaborations that seek sustainable we use several different approaches, give our employees a voice to help us solutions along the entire value chain.
notably our formal SEAT process.
understand their concerns and improve Our collaborations and memberships We also carry out impact assessments our performance.
There are a number of include, among others: of our voluntary community investments performance-related pay schemes that e Global Partnership with WWF and programmes to determine the reward employees for the pursuit and e The United Nations Global Compact effectiveness, value and success of achievement of business objectives, and UNGC our interventions.
the majority of our employees participate.
e World Business Council for e SEAT process e Group-wide employee survey Sustainable Development WBCSD s e Community Engagement e Regular local briefing sessions Forest Solutions Group Plans CEPs by managers e The Cambridge Institute for e Open days and visits to our sites e Electronic communications Sustainability Leadership CISL and publications e Partnerships with communities e Confederation of European Paper and other stakeholders in e Divisional and local intranets Industries CEPI development initiatives e Local management and e Social impact assessments performance reviews to measure the value we create e Internal conferences and on the ground leadership forums
