BAE Systems 24 Annual Report 2017 How our business works Our people Recruiting and retaining the best people from the widest possible talent pool is a key priority for BAE Systems.
this has resulted in a jointly developed We value our employees and the contribution Gender diversity Transgender Policy being established in 2017. they make, and we are committed to creating Male Female an inclusive culture where everyone can fulfil Identifying and recruiting talent 1 Board 7 4 their potential.
This is essential if we are to We need to recruit a diverse range of 64% 36% attract and retain talented people, and drive professionals to help solve our customers 2,3 creativity, innovation and our ability to solve Senior managers 300 50 challenges, including engineers, designers, our customers complex challenges.
86% 14% software developers and project managers.
4,5 Total employees 60,000 16,000 Our approach Welook to draw people from awide range 79% 21% ofbackgrounds andcultures.
Our human resources strategy prioritises employee welfare and development, We have been focusing our recruitment empowerment and knowledge transfer.
4,5 onthenext generation to replace the skills Age diversity OurGroup Human Resources Director andexperience we are losing as our reportsdirectly to ourChief Executive and workforceretires, to mitigate Science, 24 years and 60 years chairs the HR Council to ensure that our younger and older Technology, Engineering and Mathematics strategy supports the Integrated Business 5,000 5059 8,000 STEM skills shortages, and to accelerate years Planand People Policy.
The Groups strategy 2534 diversity within our leadership.
For example, years 23,000 isdependent on its ability to recruit and we have partnered with Cranfield University 1 5,000 retainpeople with appropriate talent and toprovide the UKs first-ever Masters-level skills, and we have identified this as a post-graduate engineering apprenticeship principalrisk see page 71. scheme, with 76 BAE Systems engineers starting the programme in January 2018.
Our People Policy sets out our people management expectations, including Training and development withregard to diversity and inclusion, We want every employee to reach their full trainingand development, reward and potential and feel rewarded for what they do.
We support this through our comprehensive 3549 years career frameworks, development programmes Diversity and inclusion 25,000 and the breadth of our operations.
Continual We are committed to creating an inclusive improvement of competence and skills transfer environment with a diverse workforce, which helps us to continue to develop world-leading reflects the communities in which we work.
technologies that give our customers a Our Chief Executive leads the Enterprise criticaladvantage.
Diversity and Inclusion Council which has Our focus on professional development threekey priorities: throughout our employees careers supports build a culture of inclusion and inclusive their personal and professional growth, and leadership globally: ensures that we have the skills to meet our customers current and future requirements.
drive a heightened awareness and educationof diversity and inclusion acrossthe organisation: and foster diversity and inclusion throughout theorganisation.
Supporting STEM Our businesses are tasked with developing workshops in Oman strategies and programmes that support In 2017, our UK and Omani engineering thesepriorities and we are implementing graduates ran STEM workshops at schools in measures to track progress.
Adam and Nizwa, close to the Adam air base, home to Typhoon aircraft in Oman.
The students We are determined to bridge the historical 1.
At 31 December 2017, the Board participated in hands-on exercises introducing comprised seven male 70% and three female 30% gender gap in our industry by encouraging directors.
them to engineering, and listened to our more women to join the Company and 2.
Senior managers are defined as employees excluding graduates experiences of their time abroad promoting development so that we ultimately executive directors who have responsibility for planning, andwith BAE Systems in Oman.
directingor controlling the activities ofthe Group or a increase the number of women in senior strategically significant part of the Group and or who Engineering and technological disciplines are executive positions.
core to the future plans for Omans national 3.
We have employee-led networks supporting economy.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments and Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Allies BAE Systems in Oman continue to have the full rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 65. called OutLink in the UK and US.
In the UK, backing of the Omani Ministry of Education.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 25 Reward We provide our employees with competitive reward packages which include a range of benefits, and we recognise individual and team successes.
The UK government has introduced gender pay gap reporting regulations for companies with more than 250 employees.
For 2017, the average gender pay gap for our UK workforce Recruiting the next generation was 11.2%, which is lower than the current UK national average of 18.1%.
We have a Our apprenticeship programme is one of the biggest and most progressive in the UK, and is rated gender pay gap because we employ around outstanding by the Office for Standards in Education Ofsted.
In 2017, we recruited 576 apprentices four times more men than women and a andtrainees, 190 graduates and 79 interns.
By the end of 2017, we had approximately 2,000 apprentices and500graduates in training across our UK business, approximately 6% of the workforce.
greater proportion ofour senior leadership team is male.
This trend is not unusual for Our 2017 apprentice intake figures provided our best ever diversity and inclusion statistics, with27% female companies like ours which employ large and 5% black, Asian and minority ethnic.
From a social mobility perspective, in 2016, 18% of our apprentices numbers of people with qualifications in were recruited from the top 20 most deprived wards in England.
With the number of women who study and work in these fields significantly less than the number of men, Social and community matters Community investment funding is not paid werecruit from a much smaller pool of tothird-party fundraisers or directly to It is important to us and our employees femaletalent.
We continue to work hard individuals.
As part of our due diligence thatwe give back to the communities toincrease the number of females we procedures, prior to a charitable sponsorship wherewe have a presence and can make employto improve our gender balance or charitable donation being committed, the apositive difference.
charity is vetted through a recognised external Globally, during 2017, we contributed Engagement organisation to ensure that the funding will 5 morethan 11m to local, national and Effective engagement enables our beused for charitable purposes.
international charities and not-for-profit employeesto contribute to improving To avoid the risk of conflicts of interest, any organisations through our Community businessperformance and helps us to gauge community investment activity is tested against Investment programme.
our success in creating an environment in the principle that it does not place, or does which everyone can fulfil their potential.
Community investment management not appear to place, actual or potential Our Community Investment Policy requires us We encourage employees to become customers, suppliers or government officials to develop and maintain a Global Community shareholders in BAE Systems and, in some under any obligations.
Investment Strategy which outlines how we markets, offer share schemes to support this.
The Global Community Investment Committee support our primary focus areas, where a reports to the Executive Committee on all We keep employees informed about what measurable impact to the community can community investment activities, including ishappening across the business, including bedemonstrated.
Company results, major business decisions Our primary focus areas are: andother matters which affect them, using The impact of the work we do avariety of media, including our intranet and Customer supporting active service We have strong ties with armed forces charities e-mail, through podcasts, newsletters and personnel, veterans and their families: and organisations that assist serving personnel, leadership blogs, and also through team briefs veterans and their families.
In the UK, we Education inspiring young people to and team meetings where we seek to listen areproud to be a founder donor 5m over consider STEM subjects and careers: and toemployees views and opinions.
Employees five years to the Defence and National have the opportunity to share their views Local community working to support Rehabilitation Centre due to open in 2018. through our employee surveys.
thecommunities in which we operate.
Volunteering is important to us and our We seek to maintain constructive relationships An outcome of our Community Investment employees, so we enable and encourage with our trade unions in the UK and Australia, Policy is that each market develops its own ittobe identified as a personal and our labour unions in the US.
We have programme in support of the Global developmentgoal.
structures in place to work with trade union Community Investment Strategy and which In the US, during the 2017 Military Appreciation representatives in our local markets, where isrelevant to their lines of business, charitable Month integrated campaign, Remember.
employee donations to selected organisations were double-matched by the Company up to $5,000 per employee for atotal of nearly $180,000 133,000.
