s u c o f r e m o t s u C H i g h p e r f o r m a n c t e n e m r e w o p m R e E s t l e s s i n Strategic Report Ethics Report Driven by values FOCUSED ON INTEGRITY for all internal audits include a review of the implementation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics.
In addition to regular internal audits, the Companys Head of Business Ethics undertakes an annual programme of Compliance Verification Reviews which includes visits to operating companies to assess their compliance with the Companys anti-bribery and corruption ABC policies and the Code of Business Ethics: recommendations are made to management following the reviews and their completion is Our monitored by the Boards Audit and Risk Committee.
values Embedding our values 2017 saw the deployment of training modules focused on the following areas of compliance: A suite of 13 refresher anti-bribery and corruption modules for delivery by local managers during quarterly team meetings.
A bespoke anti-bribery and corruption training course was developed and deployed for use by sales teams engaging with third parties which underlines that such third parties must at all times adopt our explicit standards of ethical behaviour expected Culture, ethics and leadership when working on our behalf.
At Spectris, we believe that maintaining a strong and consistent Conflicts of interest engagement in China, Taiwan and Korea to corporate culture supports long-term performance and is clarify our understanding and expectations regarding what a particularly important in the context of the Groups operating conflict of interest is, and the requisite need for transparency and model and entrepreneurial nature.
This roll-out will continue into 2018 for the The Board acknowledges its role in shaping, monitoring and rest of the world.
overseeing culture, as well as ensuring alignment between our In addition, the roll-out of our Value of Integrity online training values, strategy and business model.
Culture and ethics were a module continued across operating companies to deliver our key regular discussion focus for the Board, its Committees and the ethics and integrity values to every employee throughout the Executive Committee throughout the year.
At the date of publishing, 92% of employees across the discussions focused on a range of topics including managing Group had completed the online module.
compliance risk in China, particularly conflicts of interest, our whistleblowing policy and process, and the evolution of the ethics In October 2017, Mark Serfz joined Spectris as General Counsel programme and its future strategy.
Mark formerly served as director of risk at Rolls-Royce plc and before that as chief counsel compliance and In 2017, there has also been a focus on reinforcing ethical regulation at BAE Systems plc, playing a major role in resolving leadership responsibility at operating company level, with a series of criminal investigations by the US and UK authorities into alleged engagement sessions focused on the role of leaders in embedding bribery and corruption and in effecting necessary changes in ethical culture within our organisation.
Mark, in conjunction with the In addition, in order to further drive operating company leadership other members of the Executive team, will continue to drive our responsibility for ethical leadership and outcomes, changes were focus on ethical leadership, strong governance and compliance and made to our variable compensation structures to align incentive pragmatic risk mitigation.
In order to further drive leadership responsibility in these areas, finance, legal and HR functions will Culture of openness and support work closely together to further align values and incentives across We actively encourage a culture of openness, engagement and the Group.
Senior managers bonuses across the Group are now communication by integrating messaging on ethics and integrity subject to a malus where there is evidence of insufficient into our business meetings at all levels, so employees feel they can commitment to ethical leadership.
discuss any issues that arise in the course of their work and raise As part of their leadership commitment, all senior managers any concerns with their managers.
including the Executive team, operating company Presidents and Importantly, we make a commitment to protect the careers and Finance Directors, as well as other Sales and General Managers reputations of employees who report wrongdoing, as long as they have certified that they have fostered an open ethical culture during do so in good faith and in the best interests of the Spectris Group.
the year, including having dealt with or reported any suspected violation of our Code of Business Ethics.
To facilitate openness, three tools are available to our employees: The Company undertakes due diligence on the third-party sales Our Decisions Guide mobile app is available for all employees to advisers and distributors that it engages and the proposing help them tackle challenging decision-making situations and operating company is required to mitigate or remove any red flags provides contact details for all our Ethics Officers so employees that are raised during the due diligence process.
Terms of reference can raise concerns or seek guidance 24 7.
46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 n o v a t i o y t n i r g e t n i e t u l o s b A Our independent hotline spectrishotline.
com gives our Even though we are pleased that employees in Asia feel able to colleagues, business partners and other third parties the ability report ethical and compliance concerns, further work will be done to report concerns anonymously if they wish.
in 2018 to better understand the small number of reports the Group receives in the rest of the world and the steps we need to A voluntary disclosure programme was launched for a threetake to deal with any imbalance.
month period in 2017 in China, Taiwan and South Korea to encourage employees who have not, in line with our policies, Addressing ongoing challenges previously disclosed a potential or actual conflict to come One area of focus in 2017 was a review of compliance resourcing, forward and report.
capability and capacity across the Group to ensure we have Reports received from all sources, including our voluntary appropriate resources in place to support our business, disclosure programme, are fully investigated and the results are strengthening our second line of defence.
Additional Compliance communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee every six months.
Officers were recruited in 2017 to provide independent scrutiny and During 2017, 24 ethics and compliance reports were received via a oversight of operations in Korea, Brazil and Mexico, and to provide number of sources and the charts below show the number of subject matter expertise and advisory support to the operating reports received from each region and the methods used to report companies in relation to anti-bribery, fraud and anti-trust risks.
Each allegation was investigated and resolved and additional guidance, training and monitoring made available or 2018 and beyond disciplinary action taken, in some circumstances including A review of our ethics and compliance programme was conducted employment termination, as appropriate.
in 2017 and the following areas of focus will be prioritised: Absolute Integrity Award 2017 Refresh Group-wide ABC policies and processes.
We are very proud to have received seven nominations from Refresh anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment for across the Group in 2017.
These are individuals who have the Group.
displayed outstanding commitment to our value of Absolute Increase oversight and monitoring activity.
The 2017 winner is Jason Chen, a sales manager Further review of resourcing requirements.
based in Taiwan with Particle Measuring Systems, who was chosen by our judging panel as representing a shining example of Absolute Integrity and ethical leadership in everyday work.
1 Number of whistleblowing reports received each year Percentage of reports received where wrongdoing established 22 No 4 52 In progress Yes 22 2015 2016 2017 Unsubstantiated 1.
2017 figures only include reports with an element of business integrity.
2015 and 2016 figures include a number of other general concerns, such as workplace and general employment issues.
Source of cases reported in 2017 Origin of 2017 reports by region Europe 1 23 Asia The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2018.
Mark Serfz Company Secretary Spectris plc 47 Routine audit Whistleblower Financial review Internal report Management request Customer notice 18 39 24 1 14 1 5 2 1
