Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 87 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Ian Tyler Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Diversity and inclusion The Committee held a very useful discussion Members In July, we welcomed Charles Woodburn to on the particular challenges that the Saudi Ian Tyler Chairman the Board in the position of Chief Executive.
Arabian business faces in terms of local Charles has now taken on the role of recruitment and retention, and gender diversity Revathi Advaithi Chairman of the Companys Diversity and in particular.
One of the issues that sits Inclusion Council, and he will be engaging alongside our consideration of diversity and Harriet Green withthe Committee on the Councils priorities inclusion is the development of talent across Chris Grigg and the progress that is being made to drive all backgrounds and it is promising to see that business performance.
developments in the educational opportunities for women are being translated into changes In my report last year I explained that, to the demographic of our employees.
during2016, the Committee sought to gain an understanding from management on the At the end of 2017, the Committee had Dear Shareholders, Companys objectives and plans with regard reviewed the diversity and inclusion approach It is my pleasure to once again be reporting to diversity and inclusion.
At the conclusion for each line of business which has given the toyou on the business of the Corporate ofour programme of work in 2016, it was Committee a better understanding of the Responsibility Committee during 2017. clear to me that, whilst taking a top-level view actions that are taking place at management Through this report I aim to give you an had been helpful to set the scene, it did not board level to embed a culture of diversity and insight into the programme of work that provide us with a rich enough view of what inclusion.
During 2018, the Committee will wehave undertaken, our areas of focus the challenges were at business unit level.
continue to keep this high on its agenda as we during 2017 and how we aim to develop Each business has its distinct challenges, and consider the accountability measures that are these into 2018. the Committee was keen to understand what required to ensure that we have the necessary these were and how the management boards commitment and engagement to deliver The corporate responsibility landscape were addressing them.
We therefore invited further improvement.
continues to evolve and, as such, the each line of business to meet with the Committee monitors developments to Responsible trading Committee to discuss how they were building ensurethat our agenda remains relevant, The Committee has continued to review the diversity and inclusion strategy into their whilst keeping a keen eye on the matters theissue of responsible trading.
From the discussions we held with the thathave been our principal focus for some theyear we reviewed the anti-bribery and line leaders, we gained a more informed view time.
During 2017, we increased the intensity anti-corruption policies, which included the of the progress being made, but we also gained of our review of diversity and inclusion across Lobbying, Adviser, and Gifts and Hospitality an appreciation of why this is an evolving issue the different areas of the business.
These policies set out the expectations and one that we as a Committee need to looked at responsible trading, the way in that we have of our employees.
continue to focus on in 2018. which the Company interacts with our suppliers and how the Company engages with employees.
I will provide detail on each of these areas through this report and begin with a discussion of our health and safety agenda, which remains a key priority.
Focus on diversity and inclusion Safety The Corporate Responsibility Committee continued to focus on diversity and inclusion Safety continues to be a key priority for the throughout 2017 and this has remained a key agenda item at each of the quarterly Committee and we remain focused on making meetings.
Our goal is to build a culture of inclusion and inclusive leadership globally, progress towards achieving world-class andtheCommittee has played a key role in driving and supporting the development of performance wherever possible.
During the market plans and strategies to foster diversity and inclusion throughout the organisation.
year, we carried out a deep-dive review of the safety performance of the US business to The Corporate Responsibility Committee hasreinforced accountability for diversity and understand the factors driving these specific inclusion through the promotion of: safety performance metrics.
In 2017, there demographic data analysis to identify targeted diversity and inclusion actions: wasa 3% reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate and a 28% reduction in the total numeric goals and milestones to increase the representation of minority groups and number of major injuries recorded.
To ensure accelerate diversity: that wedo not lose focus on this important recruitment processes that support increasing pipelines and mitigate unconscious bias: area, the Board continues to prioritise safety inthe business through the inclusion of a inclusive leadership training programmes: specific safety objective that is designed to employee resource groups and local councils: and berealistic, but stretching, and which forms partof our executive annual incentive scheme a focus on early careers and next-generation recruitment to address retirement risk and see page 101.
Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics skills shortages.
BAE Systems 88 Annual Report 2017 Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued Focus on employee Employee engagement The Committee also reviewed the different The Committee has considered how the ways in which the Company assesses and engagement Company engages with employees to gain makes judgements on the types of products It is important for the members of the anunderstanding of their views and opinions.
and services that aredeveloped and sold Board to be able to understand the views There are challenges to engaging effectively andthe customers that we will do business and opinions of employees.
The Company with a large number of employees across a with.
We considered some of the key export engages with employees in a number of number of countries.
To meet this challenge markets where we operate and held in-depth different ways to gain feedback on what new engagement surveys have been developed, discussions with themanagement team on ishappening across the business and to and we reviewed the way in which the Agile our approach to existing and new business build a dialogue on key issues.
This survey is being used to gain a quick response opportunities, andhow we engage with includes meeting with employees and from employees on specific topics.
In particular, the theuse of employee engagement surveys.
business has the ability to tailor the questions Committee reviewed and carefully considered The opportunity to have face-to-face asked to suit their specific engagement needs the manner in which the Company operates engagement with employees is regularly which gives a new agility to the process.
The inthese markets, looking at government included in the agenda for site visits Committee was also interested to understand relationships and the controls we have in undertaken by the Board.
These how management responds to these surveys.
placeaimed at ensuring that we operate discussions are one of the ways in which It was encouraging to see that both the legally and in accordance with our responsible the Board can gauge the success of the quantitative results and the qualitative business policies.
engagement and to listen directly to the comments were considered in detail by the For all of these areas we aimed to understand views of employees.
management teams as part of their how management assesses risk, from both engagement process.
The Committee will During 2017, the Corporate Responsibility anoperational and reputational perspective.
continue to review the employee engagement Committee reviewed the output of the Insupport of this we also looked at the agenda during 2018. employee engagement surveys and, in Product Trading Policy which looks to ensure 2018, we will look closely at the ways Next year that the required standards of integrity are met.
inwhich the Board will develop the As in previous years, the agenda for 2018 We are continuing to focus on responsible frameworks for how it engages with trading as part of our 2018 agenda.
willbe developed to ensure that we maintain employees across the business.
a focus on our rolling agenda of safety, ethics, Responsible procurement diversity and inclusion, and responsible The Committee undertook a deep dive into business conduct.
In addition to this, we look the way in which the Company engages with to include deep dives on other areas to suppliers.
In 2016, the Company embarked broaden our understanding of the challenges ona major programme of change within and opportunities across the business in itsprocurement function.
The Committee relation to corporate responsibility.
therefore met with the Chief Procurement Officer to discuss the changes made to the global Procurement Policy, the structure and Ian Tyler role of the Procurement Council and the Chairman of the Corporate Supplier Principles, launched in January 2017.
 The Committee was interested in understanding two aspects of procurement in particular.
The first was how the Company can be confident that its suppliers, and their supply chains in turn, are meeting similar responsible business standards to those that we set for ourselves.
The Supplier Principles detail what the Company expects and these have been benchmarked against global best practice.
The second aspect was how we as acustomer engage with our supply chain andthe relationships we build with this crucial element of our business.
The Committee will revisit this topic in 2018 toreview the progress that has been made.
Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 89 The Corporate Responsibility Committees year February October Schedule for 2018 Committee Committee Committee London, UK London, UK February Carried out the annual review of the Received a presentation on diversity and Review of performance metrics ProductTrading Policy.
This policy inclusion in the International Operating for 2017. governsBAE Systems business behaviour Group.
Discussion of the progress that has Product trading.
toensure that the Companys product been made in BAE Systems Australia and Diversity and inclusion deep dive.
trading reflects the Companys standards Saudi Arabia and the different challenges ofintegrity.
forthese areas of the business.
June Consideration of the Companys Presentation from Group Procurement Anti-bribery and corruption approachto diversity and inclusion and onthe policies and guidance relating to overseas governance.
theway in which this is managed across responsible procurement.
Consideration Workplace safety deep dive.
ofthe structure of the function and the waythat it supports the global approach Environment update.
Received a presentation from the Group toresponsible business.
Human Resources Director on employee Stakeholder and employee engagement tools and discussed the engagement.
December September Review of performance against the Committee 2016safety performance objectives.
Arecommendation on the performance London, UK Workplace safety.
rating was made to the Remuneration Undertook the annual review of the Diversity and inclusion deep dive.
Giftsand Hospitality, Facilitation Paymentsand Advisers Policies.
December Received a presentation on diversity and Anti-bribery and anti-corruption June inclusion in Platforms & Services UK.
andrelated policies review Committee Discussion of the approach taken by the ofLobbying, Adviser, and Gifts Washington DC, US business to attract and retain diverse talent andHospitality policies.
and the way in which this supported the Received a presentation on diversity Consideration of forward-looking leadership pipeline.
Consideration of how andinclusion in BAE Systems, Inc. objectives.
targets could be used to drive improvements.
Discussion on the objectives of the business, Diversity and inclusion deep dive.
Consideration of the structure and focus the strategy to achieve this and the way in Stakeholder and employee ofthe corporate responsibility objectives which performance was assessed.
Review of the safety performance of Review of the corporate responsibility BAE Systems, Inc. to consider the key auditreview programme for 2018. areasof risk and the safety culture within the business.
Discussed the programme of work that wasbeing undertaken to update the Codeof Conduct.
Corporate Responsibility Committee timeline February June October December Committee Committee Committee Committee
