BAE Systems 60 Annual Report 2017 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is a key enabler for our business, supporting sustainable long-term performance by  risks that can impact reputation andshareholder value.
How we 66 manage risk The Board delegates the detailed oversight Our Operational Framework see page 76 Corporate responsibility in action of corporate responsibility matters to the sets out the way we do business.
We set Launch of the revised Corporate Responsibility Committee, Group-wide policies, which are enacted whichis chaired by a non-executive atalocal level by our businesses, and help Codeof Conduct director see page 87.
The Corporate business leadership to make informed We regularly review and update our Responsibility Committee meets as decisions about the business opportunities CodeofConduct to ensure that it reflects partofthe Boards annual schedule of we pursue.
best practice, emerging issues and new meetings see page 80, and agrees the The Operational Framework is reviewed regulations.
This was done in 2017 and Groups responsible business priorities andapproved by the Board each year.
therevised Code ofConduct was launched relating to our employees, trust and Thetwice-yearly Operational Assurance in January 2018.
As part of the revision integrity, health and safety, and Statement OAS process is used to process, the Code of Conduct was resourceefficiency.
monitorcompliance with the Operational externally benchmarked with two The Chief Executive is responsible for Framework.
The Internal Audit Director organisations, the Institute of Business ensuring we meet our own standards owns the OAS Policy, and is responsible Ethics and the Corporate Executive Board.
andthe expectations of our stakeholders.
forthe consolidation and reporting of the Further review was conducted by internal He is supported by the Managing Director OAS submissions from the businesses to consultation and collaboration across Operational Governance with guidance theGroup Audit Review Board, the Audit theGroup, including trade union andoversight from the Board via the Committee and the Corporate Responsibility representatives.
The final version was Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Internal Audit Director approved by the Board in December.
Theperformance review process is used reports functionally to the Audit Committee toflow down corporate responsibility and, for day-to-day operations, to the Chief objectives through the Company.
The Corporate Responsibility andAudit Committees hold a joint meeting For information on how our business each year to review the OAS and assurance modelis underpinned by our commitment matters as both committees are concerned to corporate responsibility, see page 23. with both financial and non-financial risk.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 61 Our principal 68 risks 1 During 2017, we rolled out face-to-face Our corporate responsibility programmes Total ethics enquiries ethicstraining that covered realistic, issuefocus on: 2017 based scenarios.
This training, delivered by 1,280 developing an inclusive, diverse workplace line managers to their teams across the Group, 2016 1,121 to drive innovation and performance, and was designed to stimulate conversations 2015 1,148 engaging with the communities in which around difficult issues faced by employees in 2014 weoperate see page24 : 1,037 their workplace.
Certain employees received 2013 1,043 additional training according to their role, supporting our employees in making the Anonymity rate such as anti-corruption training.
right decisions see below : Employees can speak up via our network continuously improving employee wellbeing ofover 160 Ethics Officers or by contacting and standards of safety for employees and 24 % 2016 21% our 24-hour Ethics Helpline by phone, e-mail those we work with see page 63 : and or an external website to ask for support or managing the environmental impacts of report concerns, anonymously if preferred.
ourfacilities and products see page 64.
1 We collect data on ethics enquiries and 2017 ethics enquiries by type Trust and integrity dismissals for reasons relating to unethical We aim to be a recognised leader in business 1 behaviour see opposite.
This helps us to earn and maintain 1 were1,280 ethics enquiries, an increase 2 217 stakeholder trust and sustain business of14% on 2016.
This positive trend reflects 3 146 success.
our efforts toencourage people to speak up 4 122 and wewillcontinue to communicate to our We consider it fundamental to maintain a 5 115 employees the methods ofmaking contact.
culture focused on embedding responsible Our 2017 anonymity rateof24% compares business behaviours.
All employees are favourably with international benchmarks.
1 Guidance and advice expected to act in accordance with the 2 Employee relations and conduct requirements of the Companys policies, In 2017, 53% of the ethics enquiries received including the Code of Conduct, at all times.
3 Management practices wererequests for guidance and advice, As well as being the right thing to do, this 4 Accounting charges practices whichwe believe reflects our employees reduces the risk of compliance failure and 5 Other coming to us before a situation has worsened supports us in attracting and retaining and requires investigation.
Our principal risks employees to contact us as early as possible include risks relating to laws and regulations, when a potential incident can still be and our people see pages 70 and 71, Dismissals for reasons relating prevented by timely advice.
tounethicalbehaviour All ethics enquiries reported which required We work to build a culture where our people investigation were reviewed and reported 2017 219 are empowered to make the right decisions either to the Ethics Review Committee or, 2016 227 and know where to go to seek help or inBAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics Review 2013 265 guidance.
Our Code of Conduct sets out Oversight Committee.
2012 clearexpectations on ethical conduct and 292 weoffer training and support to help people 2011 298 understand the right thing to do.
For further information, seeour Corporate responsibility summary baesystems.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 65.
BAE Systems 62 Annual Report 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Our principal Operational 68 76 risks framework Suppliers Suppliers are regularly reviewed throughout Anti-bribery and anti-corruption We work with suppliers and their supply their contractual relationships against such We have well-established anti-bribery and chains to provide fully compliant, costnon-financial risks.
In 2017, we published our anti-corruption policies aimed at ensuring effective equipment, goods, services and response to the UK Modern Slavery Act and adherence to the associated legal and solutions.
Our supplier relationships areoften astatement in response to the California regulatory requirements.
Our commitment long term due to the length of ourproduct Transparency in Supply Chain Act on our tocomply with all applicable laws and lifecycles, so we aim to work with suppliers website, baesystems.
regulations, including those addressing who share our values and who embrace anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and our Working with others standards of ethical behaviour consistent commitment never to offer, give or receive We continue to work with peers across withour own.
bribes or inducements is also clearly set out thedefence industry to improve ethical intheCode of Conduct.
Our policy is to identify and select suppliers standards.
During 2017, we continued to who meet our standards, and support them participate in the International Forum on The policies referred to above include the by managing risks throughout the lifecycle Business Ethical Conducts Council and following: ofany commercial arrangement.
We manage worked with the Institute of Business Ethics Advisers Policy which governs the risk with our suppliers in accordance with our toset up a UK Defence Practitioners Group.
appointment, management and payment Procurement Policy, our Lifecycle Management This group met several times in 2017 to share ofthird parties who are engaged to assist Framework and our Supplier Principles.
Our experiences and best practice on ethical with our sales and marketing activities: business leaders and the Global Procurement issuesof particular concern to the industry Gifts and Hospitality Policy which Council oversee compliance with the policies andto receive expert briefings.
governs the reasonableness and and principles.
Our procurement teams proportionality of offering or receipt assesssuppliers against anti-bribery 2018 priorities ofgiftsor hospitality: andanti-corruption criteria.
We will roll out the revised Code of Conflict of Interest Policy designed After selection, wecontinue to engage with Conduct to all employees.
Managers will toensure that personal conflicts of interest our suppliers for ongoing assurance at all distribute the Code of Conduct to their do not impair employees judgement and stages of a project.
Our key supplier and direct reports alongside face-to-face, damage the Companys integrity and procurement policies arecompliant with scenario-based training.
This forms part interests: and national and international laws.
In 2017, ofour continuing efforts to build a culture Facilitation Payments Policy designed wereconfirmed our commitment to the of responsible behaviour and ethical toensure that the Company and its enhancedUK Government Prompt Payment decision-making.
employees seek to eliminate the practice Code and were one of the inaugural offacilitation payments.
signatories to the Australian Small Business Supplier Payment Code.
Other policies, including our Export Control Policy, Lobbying Policy and Offset Policy, Human rights include measures to address bribery and We are committed to respecting human corruption risks.
This applies equally to our employees, our suppliers and business partners, all of An outcome of these policies is our extensive whom are expected to adopt the same or due diligence procedures implemented to address the issues mentioned above.
In similarly high standards of ethical behaviour.
particular, the Advisers Policy requires that We are committed to conducting business intermediaries who are engaged to assist with responsibly and to maintaining and improving our sales and marketing activities are approved systems and processes to reduce the risk of via procedures which include appropriate slavery or human trafficking in our business internal and external due diligence and orsupply chain.
Sales and marketing advisers Our Code of Conduct and other global with whom the Company has an ongoing policiesand processes mandated under the relationship go through this process every Operational Framework, together with our twoyears.
supporting principles and guidance on For the principal risks relating to compliance responsible trading and suppliers, support with anti-bribery and anti-corruption ourcommitment to human rights.
This results, regulations and how the risk is mitigated, for example, in due diligence being carried out seethe laws and regulations risk description during the supplier evaluation stage against on page 70. non-financial risks, including human rights, working hours, harassment and unlawful discrimination, anti-whistleblowing, slavery, human trafficking and child labour.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 63 Due to the varied risk profiles and work Health and safety Recordable Accident Rate 2 environments within the Group, we operate Our collective focus on employee wellbeing per100,000 employees KPI safety management systems within each and thehealth and safety of employees and BONUS 2017 business, many of which are externally 564 thosewho work on, or visit, our sites is a 1 accredited to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
2016 contributory factor to the success of our 580 These systems identify and control risk, organisation.
Our safety culture and our andareused to assure that processes and employees demand high standards for all 2,3 procedures are protecting our people and aspects of health and safety.
This is supported Major injuries recorded others who may be affected by our both by our mandated Health and Safety BONUS 2017 operations.
Teams of safety specialists assist 28 Policy and the principles contained within management in ensuring safety management ourCode of Conduct for employees.
2016 39 systems are effective and that operational Employee wellbeing control of risk is maintained.
Health and BONUS We promote wellbeing through a wide variety safetyspecialists provide expert advice and of programmes, ranging from exercise and 5% of the UK executive directors bonuses arebased on the tools to put our safety policies into practice.
achievement of safety KPIs see page 101. fitness promotion to occupational health Some employees may be exposed to checks.
We know that good mental and long-term health risks from hazardous physical health contributes to better decisionsubstances and other physical hazards.
making, greater productivity and higher levels Weaim to reduce exposure levels to of employee satisfaction.
We run campaigns hazardous substances and to seek alternatives, to encourage employees to take responsibility where possible.
We provide ouremployees for their health problems, such as heart with health surveillance tounderstand and disease, diabetes and cancer.
Our Employee reduce the impact of workplace health risks.
Assistance Programme is a confidential service available to employees and includes support We use the Recordable Accident Rate as and advice on personal matters.
akeyperformance indicator to measure workplace injuries.
This metric, along with Safety thenumber of major injuries, is used to Our business is highly complex and our determine an element of executive bonus employees are exposed to many risks.
In 2017, there was a 3% range from slips, trips and falls in an office reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate, environment, confined space working and a28% reduction in the total number of machinery hazards within manufacturing to majorinjuries recorded and no fatalities as fire and explosion risks associated with the wecontinued to focus on reducing risk and manufacture and storage of munitions.
Many embedding safety culture to drive improvement.
of our employees operate heavy equipment, work at height or do physically demanding work in high-risk environments.
2018 priorities We will continue to drive towards a In order to ensure consistency, all businesses world-class level of safety performance: are required to comply with our Health and focus on the management and reduction Safety Policy, which outlines andprescribes of safety risk: and drive a strong safety the responsibilities and arrangements in place culture through communication, awareness for ensuring safety.
It is the responsibility of and visible leadership.
We will target a 10% individual business leaders to ensure that their reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
organisations comply with the policy.
We aim to mitigate or manage safety risks by finding new ways to enhance safety standards, increase awareness and continually drive astrong safety culture.
Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance onpage65.
The definition of a major injury was updated in 2017 tomore closely align with the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2014.
BAE Systems 64 Annual Report 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Resource efficiency Resource efficiency is an important measure of business effectiveness for us and is embedded within our Environmental Policy.
As a major manufacturer, our operations have an impact on the environment from the energy and resources we use to the products we manufacture and the waste we generate.
Weare committed to minimising the risk ofenvironmental impact of our operations and products, reducing our environmental footprint and, in turn, decreasing our operational costs.
In line with the Environmental Policy, our businesses and operational sites devise their own ways of addressing their environmental priorities, giventhe diverse geographic and sectoral spread of our business.
Corporate responsibility in action Alongside the policy, the revised Code ofConduct supports our commitment To date, we have over 8,000  management every Growth of our electricsystems in service on buses from employeeis to contribute to the efficient London to California.
Each year, these useof resources and compliance with hybrid-electric busestransport over one billion passengers, environmental practices and policies.
whilst saving 17 million gallons of fuel and transport systems eliminating 170,000 tonnes of CO from 2 An outcome of our Environmental Policy is entering the atmosphere.
thatongoing environmental performance isreported to our senior management team Using BAE Systems hybrid and electric through Quarterly Business Reviews and systems, transit bus agencies around the adherence to our Environmental Policy is world are taking initiatives to clean up monitored by the environmental teams in theircities and provide sustainable, quieter ourbusinesses via theOperational Assurance options for public transportation.
alignment with these initiatives, we have introduced a next-generation hybrid, our Our businesses set annual environmental and Series-ER, which extends the electric driving resource efficiency targets.
Whilst the priorities range, and have brought to market a new and targets differ locally, our businesses are energy storage system and direct drive motor tackling resource efficiency challenges that to compete in our European markets.
We are areglobal in nature, chiefly materials resilience, prepared to respond to market demand for energy and climate change, and waste, zero-emissions with our Series-EV technology, emissions and discharges.
including a full-battery electric solution and Materials resilience our hydrogen fuel cell technology solution.
Where applicable, we adapt our materials We have taken our proven, green bus management and use according to regulations technology to the water with the as they are implemented.
We have an introduction of three hybrid and electric overallaim to reduce the hazardous materials solutions: HybriGen provides hybrid power used atour sites during the manufacture of for boat accessories and cleaner, quieter our products.
vessel propulsion: HybriGen Zero addresses the inland towboat market with hybrid power, saving fuel, space and maintenance costs: and Hybrid Assist uses a parallel hybrid configuration to drive a vessel on electric power at low speeds with a boost of power for high speeds when required.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 65 We use our engineering expertise to improve Energy and climate change over2014 to 2016.
Of these sites, 18 are resource efficiency and make our products We are improving energy efficiency and certified to ISO 14001 and the other two more sustainable.
We work to reduce fide-carbonising our energy supply to reduce haveanenvironmental management system environmental impacts at every stage of greenhouse gas emissions.
In line with these environmental theirlifecycle from concept, design and ourbusiness, with large-scale projects and management systems, the top 20 sites are manufacture through to use and disposal.
fluctuations in orders, makes it challenging to actively aiming to reduce the emissions set a Group-wide emissions reduction target.
Energy targets are set at business level and 2018 priorities Waste, emissions and discharges contribute to an overall energy reduction We will continue to drive improvements Targets to reduce waste, emissions and target for the Group.
inthe management of materials and discharges are set by each business reflecting resources across all businesses.
We collect data on greenhouse gas emissions.
the scale and maturity of their facilities and The Groups total greenhouse gas emissions thenature of their activities.
The efficient useof resources and a decrease in waste have decreased by 8% in the 12months to produced reduces our environmental 31October 2017. footprintand provides cost-saving benefits Our largest 20 sites accounted for 83% of forthe organisation.
ourgreenhouse gas emissions on average Deloitte LLP assurance Greenhouse gas emissions data from 1 November 2016 Deloitte LLP has provided limited assurance onthe following to31October 2017 tonnes CO e 2 performance indicators at Grouplevel: Combustion of fuel within BAESystems Methodology 1 facilities and vehicles Scope 1 Diversity total employees split The greenhouse gas emissions data is reported in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting bygender and age: 2017 Standard Operational Control approach, and emission factors 525,032 for fuels and electricity are published at www.
uk government Ethics employee and third-party 2016 579,880 collections .
enquiries to Ethics Officers and The CO e associated with carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous 2 the Ethics Helpline, anddismissals oxide is reported.
Greenhouse gas emissions associated with Electricity and steam purchased hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride for reasons relating to unethical forBAESystems use Scope 2 are estimated to be immaterial to total emissions and are, behaviour: 1 therefore, not reported.
location-based The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities is its Safety Recordable Accident legal departments Global Property Database.
2017 528,411 Rate, the number of major Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated from 2016 571,859 injuriesrecorded and the number energyconsumption records reported via the Groups global environmental database.
Where actual usage data is not of fatalities: available for facilities and residences within the Global Property Business travel in non-BAESystems Database, an estimated consumption is used based on the type Environment greenhouse gas 1 of building.
vehicles Scope 3 emissions total, and Scope 1, 2 Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel include air travel data for the majority of the global business and rail data and 3 : and 2017 147,125 for business units operating in the UK and US.
These data are 2016 146,511 taken from travel suppliers procurement records.
Community total value of Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme properties Community Investment notoccupied by the Group are not included.
Total greenhouse gas emissions orfacility is acquired during a reporting year, it will be included inour reporting in the next full reporting year after the change.
2017 1,200,568 The Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions associated withthe Greenhouse GasProtocol market-based method have been 2016 1,298,250 calculated as 592,745 tonnes CO e. Supplier-specific emission 2 More online factorshave been sought for our most significant operating regions, but were either deemed of insufficient quality to use To see Deloitte LLPs Total greenhouse gas emissions atpresent or were unavailable.
Therefore, in line with the unqualified assurance 2 peremployee Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidance, this figure has been statement visit calculated using residual-mix emission factors where available baesystems.
com forour UK and US operations.
Inour other significant operating 2017 16  regions, residual-mix emission factors are either unavailable or 2016 the resulting absolute emissions at Group level are within the 17 To see our Basis of margin of error and, therefore, the latter has been used.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance opposite.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments.
