Strategic Report Sustainability Report Committed to SUSTAINABLE GROWTH We are committed to managing our business according to the Our approach highest ethical standards.
Our core values support this by guiding Our strategic objective is to deliver sustainable profitable our decision-making and shaping our culture.
Further information growth for our shareholders by enhancing the productivity can be found in the Ethics Report on pages 46 to 47. of our customers.
Our products are designed to help our customers to reduce waste and save time, money and resources, contributing Accountability to a lower carbon world, and driving our own economic success Eoghan OLionaird, Business Group Director for Materials Analysis and future growth.
and Test and Measurement, has overall executive responsibility for Sustainable growth means building a well-governed and profitable sustainability matters.
business which delivers shareholder value and provides customers The operating company Presidents are responsible for taking with the products and services they need.
To achieve this, we need actions within their operations in support of the Companys to understand our impact on the environment, our people, sustainability aims.
Developments, including risks and opportunities, customers and suppliers, and the communities in which we work, are reviewed annually by the Board within the context of the overall embedding sustainability in our strategy, management systems and Group strategy.
We focus on the issues most important to our stakeholders and our business and this report outlines how our relationships and interactions support our sustainability objectives.
employment, trading and operations and includes much of the Management systems and certification anti-slavery legislation recently introduced.
At Spectris, we use Our global policies are applicable across all our sites and this standard to assess leading suppliers in high-risk areas against are supplemented by local policies to reflect different legal criteria such as workers rights, workplace conditions including frameworks and requirements.
We encourage our businesses child labour, forced labour, working hours, freedom of to gain certification to international standards and these are association, compensation and discrimination and health, explained below.
Certification involves independent processes safety and the environment.
to verify data to demonstrate conformance and that a company is fulfilling policy commitments and making ISO 9001 continual improvement.
This standard addresses various aspects of quality management and provides guidance and tools for companies to ensure that Certification standards their products and services consistently meet customer ISO 14001 requirements, and that quality is consistently improved.
This international standard ISO sets out criteria for the Recently updated, the new version of the standard requires formulation and maintenance of an environmental management that key quality management principles are embedded in the system.
Certification to ISO 14001 requires an organisation to organisation.
All key Spectris global manufacturing operations effectively manage its environmental impacts through are certified to ISO 9001, with all key manufacturing operations commitments to pollution prevention, legal compliance and certified to the new standard, or working towards certification continual improvement.
Approximately 60% of Spectris key by October 2018. manufacturing operations by turnover are certified to ISO 14001.
FTSE4Good OHSAS 18001 We have been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series This standard is intended to help an organisation control since it was founded in 2001.
FTSE4Good is an equity index occupational health and safety risks.
It is currently UK-specific but series designed to measure the performance of companies will shortly become an ISO.
Several Spectris offices have obtained demonstrating strong environmental, social and governance certification to OHSAS 18001. practices and facilitates investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
SA 8000 SA 8000 Social Accountability is the most widely-recognised global standard for managing human rights in the workplace.
It encourages an organisation to achieve best practice in ethical 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The energy consumption table records large increases in Environmental impact consumption in two areas: electricity and oil.
These increases We have world-leading expertise in providing solutions for reflect the acquisition of Millbrook in September 2016, 2017 customers involved in renewable energy generation.
For example, being the first sustainability reporting year for this business.
wind turbines have to be able to withstand extreme conditions such However, if Millbrook is excluded, the underlying Group figure as gale-force winds and lightning strikes.
Our measurement demonstrates a reduction in consumption of 3%, despite an technology is used in the research and development of new increase in revenue of 9%.
materials, helping to identify mechanical stress on wind turbine The increase in Scope 1 emissions shown in the table is a result of components at an early stage in order to extend their life span and improve safety.
We also provide systems to monitor turbine the Millbrook acquisition and additional business-related vehicle miles.
Scope 3 emissions increased primarily as a result of increased performance remotely, ensuring that they are set up correctly for optimum performance and that preventive maintenance can be air travel, which related mainly to Project Uplift.
However, if the impact of the acquisition of Millbrook is excluded, the underlying scheduled where required.
This minimises wear and tear, prevents damage and optimises efficiency, saving both time and money.
trend is down, with the Group's total emissions decreasing by 3% against a revenue increase of 9%.
For the Group as a whole, Compared to manufacturers in other sectors, the impact of our the result of this decrease brings emissions per m of revenue operations on the environment is relatively low.
However, we take down by 4% and if Millbrook is again excluded, this decrease seriously our responsibility to minimise our impact and recognise extends to 11%.
the opportunities and risks to the business of climate-related issues.
Energy reduction initiatives at key operational sites in Europe have Energy efficiency has been identified as a key performance indicator been identified through the implementation of Article 8 of the EU and further details can be found on page 19.
No environmental Energy Efficiency Directive, which was enacted in the UK by the risks have currently been assessed as being material to the business.
mandatory energy assessment scheme, the Energy Savings A number of our operations have achieved ISO 14001 certification Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
Independent third-party energy for environmental management.
reduction opportunity audits have taken place and identified areas As well as helping our customers to reduce their impact on the for improvement.
Our operating companies will use these audits environment, this is also the focus for our own efforts and we as the basis for energy reduction programmes.
ESOS Phase 2 has monitor the use of key sources of energy electricity, gas, oil and now been launched and we are considering how to make the best steam in our efforts to reduce consumption and save costs.
The use of the regulations to continue the reduction programmes following table summarises our performance.
Performance summary Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA has independently Indicator 2017 2016 Change verified the data associated with energy consumption, greenhouse gas GHG emissions, company vehicle and air miles and the Energy consumption accident incidence rate.
The LRQA Assurance Statement confirming absolute MWh 100,041 90,132 11% terms of engagement, approach, opinion and observations can be Energy efficiency MWh found on page 42. per m revenue 67.2 68.3 2% We are confident that the systems we have in place for measuring Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 81,604 75,144 9% and monitoring energy use underline our commitment to 2 environmental accountability and enable us to provide Total carbon emissions independently verified public disclosure of our emissions on an tonnes CO e per 2 annual basis.
We therefore ceased to participate in the Carbon m revenue 54.79 56.97 4% Disclosure Project in 2016.
Energy consumption In support of the Groups commitment to reduce GHG emissions, Unit of measurement MWh 2017 2016 Change focus is being placed on recognising and capturing all GHG emissions.
As part of Project Uplift activity during 2017, the Group Electricity 71,406 64,110 11% implemented new global freight contracts with Geodis and UPS Gas 10,591 11,618 9% across over 60 sites.
For the first time, this will allow the Group to Oil 3,165 217 100% monitor and capture GHG emissions relating to freight forwarding.
Steam 14,168 14,187 0.13% Following the launch of these contracts, the Group has begun to Other fuels 711 N A monitor related GHG emissions data.
Approximately three months of data has been collated to date and is currently being reviewed to Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO e 2 agree an acceptable emissions conversion methodology.
Freight Unit of measurement tonnes CO equivalent 2017 2016 2 forwarding emissions data captured under these contracts will be Scope 1 14,112 10,714 used to inform future analysis of the Group's Scope 3 emissions.
Scope 2 35,947 35,291 The Group will also look at the potential for the collation and provision of enhanced data that arises due to Project Uplift activity.
Scope 3 31,545 29,139 Total gross emissions 81,604 75,144 Total carbon emissions per m revenue 54.79 56.97 Spectris plc 41 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued LRQA Independent Assurance Statement Summary Relating to Spectris plcs Annual Report and Accounts for the calendar year 2017 This is the summary version of the LRQA Assurance Statement.
The full version of the LRQA Assurance Statement confirming terms of engagement, approach, opinion and observations is available on the Spectris website at http: www.
Terms of engagement Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA was commissioned by Spectris plc Spectris to provide independent assurance on the data disclosed in the Sustainability Report section of the Annual Report and Accounts for the calendar year 2017 the report against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance using LRQAs verification procedure.
LRQAs verification procedure is based on current best practice, is in accordance with ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 and uses the principles of AA1000AS 2008 inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data.
Our assurance engagement covered Spectris global operations and specifically verified conformance with the following requirements: Spectris sustainability reporting methodologies for the selected datasets: energy consumption electricity, gas, oil, steam and other fuels greenhouse gas GHG emissions scope 1, 2 and 3 including emissions from energy consumption, company vehicle travel, company air travel and refrigerant gas loss accident incident rate.
2017 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and 2017 IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion for 2 converting source energy data into carbon emissions tonnes CO e using the greenhouse gas conversion factors.
2 Our assurance engagement excluded the data and information accessed through links which take the reader out of the Report and also revenue performance data in energy consumption, which was taken directly from the audited financial accounts.
LRQAs responsibility is only to Spectris.
LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote.
Spectris responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the report is derived.
Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of, Spectris.
LRQAs opinion Based on LRQAs approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that Spectris has not, in all material respects: Met the requirements above.
Disclosed accurate and reliable performance data and information as no errors or omissions were detected.
The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier.
Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement.
Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data reviewed rather than physically checking source data at sites.
Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
Signed Steve Fletcher LRQA Lead Verifier 16 February 2018 On behalf of Lloyds Register Quality Assurance 1 Trinity Park, Bickenhill Lane, Birmingham, B37 7ES, UK LRQA reference: LRQ4007346 Lloyds Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited LRQA, and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as Lloyds Register.
Lloyds Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyds Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract.
The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version.
Lloyds Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages.
This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers.
It may only be reproduced in its entirety.
Copyright Lloyds Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2018.
A member of the Lloyds Register Group.
42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment in any form.
Social impact Disabled people are recruited, trained and promoted on the basis of Spectris is a specialised and technical business, and we rely aptitude and ability.
If employees become disabled, every effort is on the skills and expertise of our people, many of whom are made to retain them and, when necessary, re-train them for highly-qualified engineers and technicians.
We have built our appropriate posts.
Our full employment policy is published at success on a combination of operational excellence and intelligent www.
innovation, and we know that such innovation requires a way of working which is open, positive and respectful, and supports the We comply with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 and our anti-slavery training has been extended to all employees worldwide.
development of new ideas, and the taking of reasonable and measured risks.
You can read more about the key role our people The Board has renewed its commitment to diversity and inclusion play in our strategy and our business model on pages 6 to 9. during the year through the adoption of a new policy.
During 2018, the Group will continue to focus on talent management and Diversity, equality and inclusion succession planning.
Further information about the Board diversity We recruit, develop and promote our people based on their talent, policy and its implementation can be found in the Corporate commitment and achievement: everyone is treated equally and Governance Statement on page 54. fairly whatever their race, colour, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age or background.
Our people are key to the Training, development and compensation success of our business.
We work hard to build a creative working environment for our people with scope for individual responsibility and personal Our business is diverse, with operations at more than 190 locations achievement.
Our training programmes help our employees to throughout the world, with over 8,700 employees in over 30 develop both personally and professionally and reach their full different countries and cultures.
As such, we need a workforce potential.
We carry out annual performance reviews to determine based on a diverse group of talent able to provide solutions to a each individuals training needs and assess their performance wide range of customers around the world and which reflects the against the previous years targets.
Employees at our operating cultures and perspectives of our local markets.
We are aware that companies and Spectris plc all have access to the Spectris Talent our current employee base is not fully representative of the and Learning Management system.
The system is also being used geographies we operate in and that the gender balance does not by a number of operating companies for objective setting and reflect the population as a whole, as the table below demonstrates.
Employees by gender and role as at 31 December 2017 Malvern Panalytical, one of our UK businesses, has received the Male Female Total Investors in People accreditation for their training, appraisal, Directors 7 2 9 employee development and skills programmes.
1 Senior management 127 29 156 We encourage our employees to maintain a healthy balance Other employees 5,410 3,199 8,609 between their working and personal lives, and offer flexible Total 5,544 3,230 8,774 part-time and job-share opportunities to employees with family % of total 63 37 100 commitments, wherever possible.
Excludes contractors We seek to attract and retain the best talent and our compensation and benefits schemes are in line with other leading companies in 1.
Presidents or Managing Directors and their immediate reports who are our sector, with rewards dependent on the achievement of Directors or Vice-Presidents.
In the UK, our two largest operating companies, Malvern Panalytical We conduct employee satisfaction surveys within our operating and Millbrook, have processes in place to collect and publish data companies as part of an evaluation and measurement process, under the new Gender Pay Gap Reporting regulation.
Millbrook has which also includes monitoring the rate of voluntary staff turnover published its gender pay information and Malvern Panalytical will in our key regions.
This is compared against local data for our publish its data ahead of the April 2018 deadline.
This legislation industry sector in order that our management teams can identify applies to employers with 250 or more employees who ordinarily any unusual patterns and take the appropriate steps to improve work in Great Britain and whose contracts of employment are employee retention.
Voluntary turnover rates are higher in Asia governed by UK legislation, and details the difference in mean and than in other regions as finding and retaining staff is a challenge for median pay between men and women at the company.
As well as all companies due to the increasing opportunities in this region.
We meeting the new disclosure requirements, the information will help monitor the situation closely and make every effort to retain our us to focus on the underlying causes of any gender pay gap and employees in this highly-competitive environment.
take action to ensure equality and fairness in the workplace.
A challenge facing engineering companies is how to encourage more young people to pursue careers in manufacturing and engineering.
Our businesses participate in various initiatives including student internships, apprenticeships, industrial placements, school careers days and other events designed to raise awareness amongst school children of the opportunities to work in manufacturing and engineering.
Spectris plc 43 Strategic Report Sustainability Report continued Staff turnover % of staff leaving the Company voluntarily 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Europe 5.1 5.0 5.0 3.1 3.2 Americas 9.4 8.1 7.7 5.8 6.1 Asia 11.2 10.1 10.8 12.2 12.2 Total 7.6 7.2 7.1 5.9 6.0 Employee engagement Women in engineering scholarship Employee communication is largely undertaken at a local level by Omega Engineering is sponsoring a scholarship for a senior individual operating company management teams.
As the Group's student member of the Society of Women Engineers 'SWE' strategy evolves it is likely that there will be further focus placed in the USA in the name of Omegas founder, Betty Ruth upon co-ordinated communications at a Group level.
SWE's mission is to encourage women to achieve their full potential in careers as engineers and leaders, expand Health and safety the image of the engineering profession as a positive force As a responsible employer, we take the health and safety of our in improving the quality of life, and demonstrate the value employees seriously.
We are proud to have an excellent record of of diversity.
The scholarship programme is one of SWEs safety in our workplaces, but we remain vigilant and track our most visible and successful initiatives, inspiring young women accident incidence rate as a key performance indicator.
Local health to enter and complete undergraduate and graduate and safety managers and officers carry out regular audits and engineering programmes.
employee training and suggest improvements in working practices, Scholarship recipients are chosen in late spring, awarded in the where appropriate, in order to create a safer workplace.
Potential summer, and then publicly announced.
Eligible areas of study product-related health and safety issues are considered as part of include: aeronautical aerospace engineering, automotive the product design process and continuous improvement engineering, chemical engineering, electrical engineering, programmes focused on health and safety aim to reduce accidents engineering technology, industrial engineering, mechanical and injuries at our sites to as low a level as reasonably practical.
Geographical In 2017, we measured the total number of work-related accidents location of potential recipients is also a selection consideration or ill health resulting in time lost in excess of one day.
In previous to encourage an internship at one of Omegas US facilities years, the unit of measure was time lost in excess of three days.
an ideal opportunity to connect with students while providing The number of reportable accidents has increased year-on-year them with an invaluable hands-on experience.
A study by the Commission on the Advancement of Women and Minorities in Science, Engineering, and Technology Accident incidence rate indicates lack of financial resources and low self-confidence Number of reportable accidents per 1,000 employees contribute to the weak retention of women in engineering programmes.
Through a scholarship, supporters can make a difference for a woman beginning or continuing her engineering studies.
Recognition, an integral component of every scholarship awarded, can improve the recipients self-confidence.
Omega is proud to help provide a deserving woman with the opportunity to complete their education and meet their full potential.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4.4 4.2 4.5 4.5 5.3 Each of our operating companies is responsible for implementing Customers and suppliers the Group-wide health and safety policy, and for complying with We serve a broad spectrum of blue-chip customers across all key any additional local regulations.
Our Group policy covers our own manufacturing industries.
We work closely with them to employees, sub-contractors and, where appropriate, our suppliers.
understand their business, which gives us a unique ability to You can read the full policy on our website at www.
anticipate and respond to their changing needs and fosters strong All our major locations are regularly inspected by independent long-term relationships.
assessors for their compliance with health and safety policy Our business continues to evolve as we seek greater competitive and procedures.
advantage through efficiency gains and innovation, both in our Any recommendations for improvements are put into practice.
products and how we work, whilst addressing new regulatory A number of our UK offices have achieved certification to requirements and expectations from commercial and social OHSAS 18001. stakeholders and shareholders.
Focusing on supply chain management is an important tool in achieving this.
Our supply Human rights chain management policy can be found at www.
Our human rights policy is consistent with the Core Conventions of With operations spread around the globe, our supplier base is the International Labour Organization, and we comply with fragmented.
Responsibility for vetting and managing suppliers is  human rights standards at all our sites.
therefore devolved to local management but must meet the The policy includes our position on non-discrimination, harassment, Groups ethical standards.
We carry out regular inspections at our pay and forced labour.
Human rights considerations are also supplier sites and use the SA 8000 Social Accountability Standard to included in the due diligence process we undertake before any audit our key suppliers against specific criteria.
Although the Group potential acquisition.
This ensures that before we acquire a had intended to extend this to cover key suppliers worldwide business, we are fully informed of its approach in areas such as during 2017, the introduction of the anti-slavery and conflict non-discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of association.
minerals legislation necessarily resulted in a change of focus to the Our full human rights policy is available on our website at introduction of anti-slavery and conflict minerals sections into the www.
SA 8000 Asia Pacific supplier audit process.
Community We will continue to review our supply chain management policies and processes to ensure that we are compliant with upcoming Our social responsibilities also extend to the communities in which legislation and that appropriate monitoring systems are in place.
We seek to play a positive role in our local communities and participate in a range of activities and educational initiatives.
Community involvement and decisions on charitable donations and sponsorship are undertaken by local management teams and vary from one company to another, depending on business and regional priorities.
Many of the activities we undertake are aimed at supporting schools and universities to promote science, technology and engineering.
We also run a number of awards and programmes aimed at encouraging and providing support for young scientists who are at the beginning of their careers.
We do not give either cash or support in kind to political parties or campaigns.
