We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews Environmental expenditure take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in $million decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
2017 2016 2015 Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are Environmental expenditure usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 relating to the Gulf of Mexico 5,452 oil spill Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Operating expenditure 441 487 521 Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions Capital expenditure 487 564 733 appear in Financial statements Note 21.
Clean-ups 22 27 34 Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Additions to environmental 249 262 305 remediation provision Mexicooil spill For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of Increase decrease in 228 804 972 decommissioning provision Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2.
Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, Regulation of the groups business treatment or elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is often not incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, forms part of a larger transaction that includes, for example, normal pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals operations and maintenance expenditure.
The figures for production, trading, biofuels, wind and shipping activities, are environmental operating and capital expenditure in the table are conducted in 70 countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, therefore estimates, based on the definitions and guidelines of the international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including American Petroleum Institute.
legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include matters Environmental operating expenditure of $441 million in 2017 2016 such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, $487 million showed an overall decrease of 9% which was primarily health and safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, due to lower expenditures associated with BP's share of the TAPS trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
Environmental capital expenditure in 2017 was lower overall than in Upstream contractual and regulatory framework 2016, largely due to lower spend as a result of the completion of the The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under installation of the new LPG refrigeration plant for the North Sea which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
Forties Pipeline System in the previous year and lower spend on These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or Kuparuk field in Alaska driven by lower activity.
entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled company and are sometimes entered into with private property Clean-up costs decreased to $22 million in 2017 compared with $27 owners.
Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually million in 2016, primarily due to decreased contractual rates and take the form of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, overall cost reductions.
The numbers of oil spills are broadly similar although arrangements with the US government can be by lease.
and while the volume of oil has increased, this includes releases to Arrangements with private property owners are usually in the form of secondary containment which do not reach the environment.
In addition to operating and capital expenditure, we also establish Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and provisions for future environmental remediation work.
Under a licence, the holder bears the against such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is risk of exploration, development and production activities and not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such provides the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence periods.
holder is entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up payable in kind.
A licence holder is generally required to pay is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably production taxes or royalties, which may be in cash or in kind.
Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal typically, BP may explore for and exploit hydrocarbons under a plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive service agreement with the host entity in exchange for sites.
reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation production.
and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated controlled company generally require BP alone or with other impact and timing of the corrective actions required, technological contracting companies to provide all the financing and bear the risk feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future of exploration and production activities in exchange for a share of the programmes could be significant and may be material to the results production remaining after royalties, if any.
of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and expected that such costs will be material to the groups overall results production activities, and in some cases production licences are of operations or financial position.
limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration Additions to our environmental remediation provision was similar to licence.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a prior years and also reflects scope reassessments of the remediation specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the USgovernment plans of a number of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended environmental remediation provisions in 2017 included $8 million in beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
respect of provisions for new sites 2016 $7 million and 2015 $6 The term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may million.
be renewed vary from country to country.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oil and gas BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual joint arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production international oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value and or private companies.
These joint arrangements may be of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
incorporated or unincorporated arrangements, while the coIn 2017, the net decrease in the decommissioning provision, similar to ownerships are typically unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or the decrease in 2016, was a result of detailed reviews of expected unincorporated, relevant agreements set out each partys level of future costs, partially offset by increases to the asset base.
participation or ownership interest in the joint arrangement or coownership.
Conventionally, all costs, benefits, rights, obligations, BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 265 See Glossary
