50 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility report Focused on our customers Operating sustainably OneSavings Bank OSB encourages a culture that aims to: Communicate and deal with each customer on an and responsibly is integral individual basis Act with consistency across all channels to our business model and Be a confident, open and trustworthy workforce Offer simplicity and ease of business strategy, and builds on Offer long-term value for money, and Offer transparent products without the use of short-term OneSavings Banks long tradition bonus rates, and to offer existing customers the benefit of loyalty rates.
of putting the customer at the Our customers are part of our success and we aim to become heart of everything we do.
a financial services provider of choice.
To achieve that, the Group established a governance framework for consistent best practice across the Group to ensure there are robust policies Our Core Values: Specialist, Personal and and procedures to minimise the risk of failure to deliver the Flexible reflect our commitment to interact service our customers have come to expect from us.
ethically, responsibly and with integrity with The relevant policies include: all our stakeholders and the wider Conduct Risk Policy, including treating customers fairly to community in which we operate: ensure the Group conducts its business fairly and without causing customer detriment We take a SPECIALIST approach to Responsible Lending Policy to ensure that the Group lends everything we do we ensure we money responsibly understand our stakeholders Complaints Handling Policy to ensure the Group responds to complaints swiftly, fairly and consistently requirements and use our creativity, skill Vulnerable Customer and Suicide Awareness Policy to ensure and expertise to fulfil their requirements that employees can identify vulnerability and potential suicide risks in our customers and put in place appropriate with honesty and integrity actions to deal with such issues as effectively as possible Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing We take a PERSONAL approach to Policy to ensure the Group is not used to further everything we do we treat everyone criminal activities with respect and take accountability for Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure the Group carries out its business honestly our actions A Conflicts of Interest Policy to ensure the Group can identify and, if possible, avoid conflicts, and where this is not We take a FLEXIBLE approach to possible to manage conflicts fairly everything we do we ensure that we Data Protection and Retention Policies to ensure the Group protects its customer data, manages and retains it fairly work collaboratively with our colleagues, and appropriately customers and other stakeholders to Whistleblowing Policy to ensure that any employee who achieve shared positive outcomes raises concerns around misconduct is protected Environmental Policy to conduct our business in an environmentally aware manner, and What we achieved in 2017 Diversity and Equality Policy to promote diversity and In 2017, we successfully delivered on a number of equality in our workforce.
initiatives across the business aimed at improving our relationships with key stakeholders and achieving strong Employees have mandatory training on all the key policies, results, including: with a completion rate of 100% in 2017.
Customers consistently high consumer net promoter score, 62 Employees significantly improved employee engagement survey results Communities donated over 209,000 to community and charitable causes Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 51 Customer engagement We take a personal approach to our customers, treating each Kent Reliance savings customer as an individual and listening to their needs.
Many of WINNER our customers are also members of the Kent Reliance Best Cash ISA Provider Provident Society, the Society that took over the management Moneyfacts Awards 2017 for the fifth year running of the membership of the former Kent Reliance Building Society.
The Bank and the Society have benefited from WINNER member engagement through the online portal launched ISA Provider of the Year late in 2015 enabling input from a geographically broader Consumer Moneyfacts 2017 for the second year running range of members.
Topics of engagement have included key areas of customer literature, working with saving and borrowing members helping the Bank to maximise clarity and understanding, and product retention process enhancement.
Each year we hold an AGM at which members can engage with senior management and discuss their ideas for improving our customer experience.
Our commitment to our customers is evidenced in the strong net promoter score a measure of how likely a customer is to recommend a business on a scale of -100 to 100 we achieve across our lending and saving franchises, which in 2017 has improved to 62.
In addition, we won numerous awards for being the best provider for a range of services from cash ISAs Kent Reliance for to Buy-to-Let mortgages.
intermediaries Customer complaints WINNER Whilst we concentrate on providing an excellent service, when Best Specialist Lender things have gone wrong, we aim to put this right and learn The Mortgage Strategy Awards 2017 from any mistakes made.
We have a comprehensive, Groupwide complaints handling system and our staff complete WINNER rigorous training programmes to ensure a compliant and fair Best Business Development Managers Team process is followed.
The Mortgage Strategy Awards 2017 WINNER Specialist Lender of the Year The Mortgage Introducer Awards 2017 52 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility report continued Talent management and leadership programmes Focused on our employees Following a robust talent mapping exercise, we have identified Our employees are our key asset.
Their skills, expertise and employees who constitute our Primary Talent Group, based on enthusiasm are central to achieving our strategic goals, and their respective performance and potential.
Throughout 2017, we continue to invest in their training, development and a range of associated talent management activities have employee engagement activities to make OSB the best been undertaken.
At the end of 2017, all members of the Primary Talent Group In 2017, the Group established a Talent Acquisition team in had been retained, 60% were undertaking different or order to introduce an appropriate level of recruitment expanded roles and 27% had been formally promoted.
specialism within the HR function to better support business growth and implement a formalised, competency-based We are constantly seeking to identify outstanding employees interview and selection process.
Our recruitment procedures and in line with this, talent mapping will be undertaken as an are fair and inclusive, with shortlisting, interviewing and annual process in order to support the progression of those selection always carried out without regard to gender who are identified as potential senior leaders of the future.
reassignment, sexual orientation, marital or civil partnership status, colour, race, caste, nationality, ethnic or national origin, While we are still a relatively small business in terms of religion or belief, age, pregnancy or maternity leave or trade employee numbers, we advertise vacancies internally on union membership.
aweekly basis in order to provide career development opportunities for existing employees.
In 2017, we filled 36% No candidate with a disability is excluded unless it is clear that 84 of 233 of vacancies with internal candidates.
the candidate is unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic to the role, having taken into account reasonable adjustments.
OSB has a genuine desire to retain, support and develop its Reasonable adjustments to the recruitment process are made employee base.
During 2017, 66 employees in the UK and ten to ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged because of their employees in India were formally promoted to a more senior disability and questions asked during the process are not in grade.
Our regretted attrition rate for 2017 was 12% for UK any way discriminatory or unnecessarily intrusive.
To that end, employees and 18% for our employees in India.
the Group achieved Disability Confident Committed Level One status in 2017 for more details, see below.
Remuneration and benefits We believe in rewarding our employees fairly and We welcomed 177 new employees in the UK and 173 new transparently, enabling them to share in the success of the employees in India in 2017, and in line with the continued business.
Details of the Groups remuneration policies can be growth of the business, OSB has acquired a third office in found in the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 95.
Chatham to accommodate our expanding workforce.
We offer our employees a comprehensive range of benefits, Training and development and continue to review these to ensure they are in line with We encourage employees to carry out their work to the best market practice.
Although the list is not exhaustive, our oftheir ability and promote learning and development benefits include pension contributions, medical insurance, life opportunities across the organisation.
Our newly created and cover, a childcare voucher scheme, interest free season ticket consolidated People Development function manages the loan and a cycle purchase scheme.
In 2017, we introduced allocation and completion of monthly mandatory e-learning a casual dress code throughout our offices following an modules, the delivery of in-house workshops, programmes employee vote.
and coaching in addition to coordinating employees attending external or in-sourced training activities.
In 2017, 685 We also encourage our employees to hold shares in the Bank employees attended 149 separate internal and external for the long term, via an annual Sharesave Scheme.
The workshops or learning events.
The completion rate for our scheme is open to all UK-based employees and allows them to mandatory monthly online compliance training throughout save a fixed amount of between 5 and 500 per month over the year was 100%: demonstrating the importance we either three or five years in order to use these savings at the continue to place on ensuring our employees are suitably end of the qualifying period to buy the Companys shares at a aware of key requirements.
fixed price established when the scheme was announced.
The Group first launched its annual Sharesave Scheme in June The Group is also committed to supporting employees 2014 and over 250 employees are members the scheme.
undertaking professional development and in 2017, ten employees received financial support in pursuit of their In 2017, 100 employees saw their 2014 Sharesave Scheme professional qualifications.
mature, with the total value of their respective individual plans increasing by around 300%.
In 2018, the Group intends to extend its commitment to widening accessibility of employment opportunities at the Bank by implementing an Apprenticeship Scheme.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 53 Employee engagement Health and safety In 2017, OSB participated in the 2018 Sunday Times Best We have a duty of care to all of our employees, and a safe and Companies Employee Engagement survey, with 83% of UK healthy work environment is paramount to OneSavings Bank.
We are committed to fostering and maintaining a working environment in which our employees can flourish, and our The survey results demonstrated an overall increase of customers can safely transact with us.
4.8% and the achievement of a 1 Star Accreditation Rating, signifying very good levels of workplace engagement and We operate a Group Health and Safety Policy and we review represented a significant improvement when compared to our employee and customer environment regularly.
the previous two annual surveys when the Bank achieved a One to Watch rating.
Activities in 2017 Undertaking mandatory Company-wide health and safety As part of the continuing commitment to employee training with 100% completion engagement, OSB also participated for the first time in the Undertaking a full review and continuing to make Banking Standards Board survey, which aims to influence improvements where necessary on recently acquired positive change throughout the banking sector.
The survey corporate real estate to ensure statutory health and safety provided an insight into employees perception of the compliance for all sites application of their companys values, potential barriers to As part of achieving Level 1 of Disability Confident Scheme challenge and to speak up along with their observations of we have ensured that our office locations are accessible to unethical or inappropriate behaviour.
The results from this disabled employees.
survey will help to shape the Groups agenda and commitment to a shared purpose and values for all employees in 2018.
Diversity and inclusion At OSB, we recognise the benefits that diversity of our people OSBIndia OSBI takes part in its own survey, run by the Great brings to the business and we actively promote and encourage Place to Work Institute.
In 2017, OSBI was officially certified as a culture and environment which values and celebrates our a Great place to work, with a strong performance in all differences.
In 2017 we continued our journey to become a indicators, including organisation trust, credibility of truly diverse and inclusive organisation, which is committed management, respect for people, fairness at the workplace, to providing equal opportunities through the recruitment, camaraderie and culture.
OSBIs overall Trust index score training and development of our employees.
Some of our improved significantly in 2017 to 75, up from 66 in 2016, and it achievements included: received the highest score in Pride, reflecting the strong brand Formalising our Diversity and Inclusion Policy and and culture that has been created.
establishing a range of diversity initiatives including unconscious bias training for the Board and Throughout 2018, OSB will be using the results of all of the Executive Committee surveys to establish opportunities to deepen employee Attaining Disability Confident Committed Level One status, engagement on both Group-wide and department levels.
with an aim to achieve Level Two status in 2018.
By Wewill also be engaging with external consultants in order becoming Disability Confident, the Group is committed to to define our Vision, Mission and Values and establish a range employing, supporting and retaining those with disabilities of related actions that will enable us to fully embed these and health conditions and we will be partnering with Kent and proactively drive positive cultural change throughout Councils Employability Advisor to ensure a proactive the business.
approach is taken in seeking to increase the current number of disabled staff who are employed within the Group.
Employee recognition and awards Through our Long Service Award programme, the significant tenure of 41 employees was recognised in 2017, each of whom reached a 5, 10, 15, 20 or 25 year milestone and one other employee who reached 30 years service.
Every quarter, all of our employees have an opportunity to nominate their colleagues as part of OSBs Quarterly Employee Implementing the requirement to seek to interview equal Recognition Programme.
In 2017, 306 separate nominations numbers of male and female candidates at the first round were received and each quarter, an Employee of the Quarter interview stage for more senior roles was selected along with two runners-up.
Over the year, 12 Including a set of diversity specific questions in the exit employees received an award.
interview process to enable ongoing identification of potential issues and opportunities for further Our employees are valued for their expertise, not only by the enhancements, and Bank, but also by the wider industry.
In 2017 Adrian Moloney, Becoming a signatory to HM Treasurys Women in Finance OSBs Sales Director was recognised by The British Specialist Charter, which is formally published on the Groups website Lending Awards in the category Complex Buy-to-Let Lender.
and details our commitment that by 2020, 30% of our senior management roles will be undertaken by female employees.
The Group has also implemented the requirement to ensure that the pay of members of the Executive Committee is linked to the delivery of the Groups gender diversity targets see the Remuneration Report on page 81.
54 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility report continued We recently published our gender pay gap in line with new Human rights legislation which requires UK companies with more than 250 We want each member of our workforce and other employees to report their gender pay gap the difference stakeholders to be treated with dignity and respect.
OSB between the average amount that women and men are paid endorses the UN Declaration of Human Rights and supports across the whole workforce.
As at April 2017, the mean pay the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights.
Gender pay is not the same as equal pay The Group adheres to the International Labour Organisation Fundamental Conventions.
We seek to engage with and we are confident that we do not have any issue in respect stakeholders with fairness, dignity and respect.
Our gender pay gap relates directly to the does not tolerate child labour or forced labour.
OSB respects structure of our workforce and reflects the fact that we have freedom of association and the rights of employees to be more men than women in senior roles.
represented by trade unions or works councils.
The Group is a fair employer and does not discriminate on the basis of We recognise that we need to focus on improving our gender gender, religion, age, caste, disability or ethnicity.
Our policy balance and have a number of initiatives in place to do so: applies throughout the Group and is communicated to our Aside from our existing aim of seeking to interview equal numbers of male and female candidates for roles at employees during induction training.
management level, we will be implementing a requirement that with senior management vacancies, a first round face In 2015, the Modern Slavery Act came into force and it to face interview with a female candidate must be encompasses slavery, human trafficking, forced labour and undertaken before the recruitment process can proceed, domestic servitude, and applies not only to OSB as a Group but with all exceptions to this requiring Executive approval.
The also to our supply chain.
The Groups Modern Slavery same requirement will apply to vacancies at clerical level in Statement was published on 30 June 2017.
Coupled with the respect of male candidates.
statement, the completion rate for the mandatory monthly We are in the process of establishing a broader suite of online training on modern slavery was 100% with more gender related management information.
We will track focused training due to be implemented in 2018.
As part monthly progress in respect of gender diversity and gender of the Banks continuing commitment to eliminating abuse pay gap initiatives and share this openly and transparently and exploitation not just in our workplace but in that of our with our employees.
suppliers, the Bank has produced and is implementing a We have established a Womens Networking Forum to assist Vendor Code of Conduct by which all our suppliers will be the internal progression of our existing female employees.
This provides a forum for guest speakers and aims to provide practical development tips and encouragement for OSBIndia career progression.
OSBI is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
OSBI operates from an office in Bangalore and currently employs 366 people.
Our full gender pay gap report can be found on our website: OSBI supports the Bank across various functions such as www.
Customer Service, Operations, IT and other support services.
We actively promote integration between our colleagues in Over 58% of our UK workforce is female, we have three female the UK and India with frequent employee exchanges, Directors 33% of the Board and two female members of the transfers, overseas training and management visits.
state-of-the-art Bangalore office has been extended in the year to accommodate the growing number of our Indian In our office in India, women constitute 36% of the colleagues and a new business continuity site in Hyderabad total workforce.
We have also completed ISO 9001 and 27001 certifications in 2017, a testament to the Groups commitment Male Female to information security at the highest level.
Number of Board Directors 7 3 As part of the Group, OSBI falls under the same Group policies Number of Directors of subsidiaries 13 1 that are in force in the UK offices, most importantly, equal Number of senior managers opportunities, non-discrimination and harassment, notDirectors 58 17 whistleblowing, information security and clear desk policies.
1 There are only very slight differences in the Groups main HR All other employees 318 517 policies due to local legislation.
In compliance with the Modern Slavery Act, we do not support excessive overtime and our employees in India are We already have 13% of our UK employees working under encouraged to work in accordance with local legislation.
flexible working arrangements, with the majority of these Employees in our Bangalore office enjoy a range of benefits employees working part-time hours and we will be seeking to which includes 21 days of annual leave, 10 days sick leave and further develop this by revising our Flexible Working Policy to cafeteria services.
provide increased support to those employees with parental and carer responsibilities.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 55 Focused on the environment Emissions breakdown by source tCO e 2 This year, we continued to implement the objectives set out in our Environmental Policy and as a result, the Bank has Electricity 89% introduced many initiatives to enhance our commitment to Natural gas 9% conducting our business in an environmentally responsible way.
LPG Other delivered fuels 1% As an office-based financial services provider, we have a F-Gas 1% relatively low impact on the environment.
However, we aim to further promote awareness of the environmental issues amongst our employees in order to reduce consumption of resources and take measures to minimise our negative impact on the environment in which we operate.
In 2017, we appointed an independent consultant to Emissions breakdown by category tCO e 2 undertake an environmental audit which, once complete, will highlight areas where we can improve and assist us in Purchased energy 89% setting more effective objectives for becoming a greener Combustion 10% organisation in 2018.
Operation of facility 1% Activities in 2017 Some of the activities that we implemented during the year include: Pro-active energy management and measures undertaken across our corporate real estate which resulted in a reduction of electricity and gas consumption in 2017 We now source all of our energy from green energy providers Notes: Installation of a charging point for electric vehicles in our Our methodology has been based on the principles of the head office.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology Greenhouse gas emissions for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
This means that UK electricity is reported using two methods CO e tonnes 2 We have reported on all the measured emissions sources LocationMarketbased based required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Emission type method method and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated The period of our report is 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 Scope 1: Operation of facilities 12 This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where Scope 1: Combustion 101 stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 TOTAL SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS 113 Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and other emissions are those published Scope 2: Purchased energy UK 458 264 by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Scope 2: Purchased energy for 2017 18 restofworld 452 Conversion factors for UK electricity market-based TOTAL SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS 910 264 methodology are published by electricityinfo.
org The market-based methodology has only been applied to Total emissions 1,023 264 UK electricity supplies Conversion factors for overseas electricity, gas and other 1.
Location-based figure used where market-based not available.
emissions are those published by the International Energy Agency for 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: Conversion factor used for R417A F-Gas is published by Total footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 2 Linde Gas Conversion factor used for R22 F-Gas is published by Previous year Current year Year on year 2016 2017 variance Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 2016 17 Turnover m 201.4 238.1 18% As the old office in India closed during the 2016 year, the Intensity ratio following site and associated emission IDs have been retired Scope 2 locationand are not included within the 2017 report: India Old Office based method The following sites have been added to the portfolio during tCO e 100,000 0.004 0.004 2 the 2017 year: India Disaster Recovery Site Hyderabad and The Observatory Intensity ratio The addition of these two new sites into the portfolio has Scope 2 marketresulted in an increase in electricity usage and the based method associated Scope 2 Purchased Energy carbon figures tCO e 100,000 0.003 0.003 2 56 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility report continued There has been a significant reduction in both diesel fuel Focused on our community usage and F-Gas recharges between 2016 and 2017 OSB has very strong links with the community in which it The reduction of reported diesel usage in 2017 is the result operates, especially through its Kent Reliance brand which has of increased usage in 2016 at the new India site where fuel been synonymous with the county of Kent and has been a purchased by OSB was used by contractors during the passionate supporter of its local community for over 150 years.
construction refurbishment process The reduction in F-Gas recharges is the result of no UK F-Gas As we are one of the largest employers in the region, many of refills occurring during the 2017 year.
our employees live within the local community and therefore have a personal affinity with local causes and projects.
Statement of exclusions Employee feedback is vital in helping to decide where support Global diesel petrol use for vehicles has been excluded can be best placed within the community.
from the report on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint Our diverse community services programme includes being a It has been confirmed there is no LPG use within the estate major sponsor of South-East-based Demelza Hospice Care for either in the UK or overseas Children and staff-nominated national charity Winstons It has been confirmed that there is no mains gas supply in Wish.
We also donate to local Kent-based charitable causes relation to the India operations through our Kent Reliance Community Fund KRCF.
KRCF is Two UK sites: Heritable and InterBay, have been excluded the key sponsor of the Kent County Football Association from reporting as it has been confirmed that these are which includes 24 County Cup competitions and player managed rented properties and are therefore considered to development centres for under-represented groups and Kent be Scope 3 emissions and are not readily available.
An County Cricket Club, and provides sponsorship for the disability additional managed rented site has been added in the 2017 squads and academy programme which helps to develop new year Newman Street.
This has been treated as an talent.
Our Project Kent and Make Someones Christmas exclusion in order to be consistent with the methodology campaigns are undertaken with a local media partner to applied to the Heritage and Interbay sites.
We intend to highlight and support local people and projects in need.
For collect data relating to managed rented properties during the fifth year running, we have supported a key reading the 2018 year so that they can be reported as Scope 3 initiative, called Busters Book Club at Medway primary emissions in the 2018 report.
schools, which focuses on fun and innovative ways to help develop literacy levels.
In 2017, we refocused our community services programme to provide more of a hands on approach by encouraging our employees to take an active role with all fundraising and volunteering opportunities.
Each employee is given one days annual leave for volunteering which they can use to actively support any registered charity of their choosing, or to support the Banks charity partnerships.
Furthermore, if employees choose to undertake additional fundraising activities then the Bank will match any funds raised up to a specific amount.
During the year, employees carried out over 300 volunteering hours, which in monetary terms equates to nearly 7,000.
Overall, the Bank has contributed a total of over 209,000 to community and charitable causes in 2017 through sponsorship programmes, activities and donations.
Demelza Hospice Care for Children Demelza is a childrens hospice charity in the South-East, providing compassionate and expert care for babies, children, young people and their families.
As a registered charity, Demelza offers bespoke support, free of charge, to families and is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
In order to provide these vital services, it needs to raise over 10m a year.
As a locally-based charity, employees from Kent Reliance are hugely aware of and are keen supporters of Demelza.
They participated in a number of fundraising events throughout the year including being headline sponsors and participants of the annual Kent Messenger Dragon Boat Race, which helped raise over 150,000 in sponsorship for local charities and good causes across the county in 2017.
The event continues to be one of the biggest charity fundraising events staged in Kent and the Kent Reliance teams helped raise donations for Demelza through their efforts on the day and subsequent promotion.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 57 Kent Reliance also takes huge pride in raising money for Kent County Football Association Demelza through a range of annual fundraising events The partnership between Kent FA and Kent Reliance has grown involving quizzes and bake-off challenges.
Aside from over the last five years and now covers all 24 Kent County Cup straightforward fundraising, we also engage with the local competitions.
Kent Reliance is also a key sponsor of the Kent community by gifting our branch network as collection and Girls and Disability Player Development Centre, resulting in us promotion outlets for the charity.
Engagement with the being named Kent FAs first official Community Partner.
charity doesnt end with our sponsorship.
Employees actively welcome opportunities to get hands-on with Demelza, with The Kent Reliance Girls and Disability Player Development many visiting the Hospice on volunteer days to help clear Centres provide professional coaching to improve the and maintain the grounds, create a new sensory garden for standards of girls and disability grassroots football in Kent.
The families and any other tasks that may arise during the year.
support from Kent Reliance will enable the transition of young players to elite football as well as providing a community exit Winstons Wish route for players leaving the elite talent pathway.
Throughout 2017, we continued to support our nominated corporate charity, Winstons Wish, which was the first charity Paul Dolan, Kent FAs Chief Executive, is delighted to have the to establish child bereavement support services across the UK.
continued support from Kent Reliance, Winstons Wish provides specialist support programmes for children affected by deaths related to homicide and suicide, We are now in the fifth and final season of the partnership as well as military families who have been bereaved.
between Kent Reliance and the Kent FA, which has always been about supporting and promoting our local community.
The highlight of this years fundraising activity took place in Both organisations are totally committed to being inclusive June as eight intrepid employees from across the Group cycled and our innovative partnership has reflected this by engaging, a 270-mile route, stopping at each of our UK branches and developing and rewarding all areas of our diverse community.
Fortunately, the team was blessed with great weather, no major mechanical incidents and only The Kent Reliance Girls and Disability Player Development a few map reading glitches.
270 miles in three days was an Centres have provided a unique opportunity for talented ambitious target but, ably supported by huge helpings of food players in Kent to gain additional football coaching and the 24 and encouragement at each of our branches and offices, the Kent Reliance County Cup competitions have catered for over team managed to raise a grand total of 11,155 for Winstons 1,000 community-based teams each season of all standards Wish, bringing the total amount raised throughout 2017 and ages to play competitive football.
This community-based to 17,700. partnership between Kent Reliance and the Kent FA has been used as a model of best practice for other County Football Project Kent Associations across the country to emulate in order to further Project Kent was a new initiative that launched in 2017 in the development of grassroots football.
conjunction with the KM Media Group, led by KMFM.
This community initiative was powered by nominations from local This partnership also sees the continuation of the highly people who were asked to nominate a local scheme they successful #MagicOfTheCup competition which is run on a thought was of benefit to the local community.
Nominations monthly basis during the football season and encourages local received varied, including a community centre that had fallen teams to enter a submission which illustrates sportsmanship, into disrepair, a neighbourhood group that needed equipment goodwill and skilled play.
In return, the winning team receives for an afterschool club and a small local charity struggling to football equipment and is put forward to compete as overall promote their services.
Over 15 teams won football equipment during the competition last season and this year the overall winner was Throughout the selection process, it was clear that there were Ramsgate Football Club Senior Team.
The team won 16 tickets two schemes that fully deserved a helping hand as each for the England vs Slovakia international match at Wembley presented a wonderful asset to their local communities.
Farthing Corner Community Centre and Beltinge Nursery were integral assets within their community but due to lack of funds Kent Charity Awards they were unable to make vital repairs or make improvements The Kent Charity Awards KCA showcase the hard work to their existing services.
that charities and voluntary groups from around the county undertake to make the lives of others better.
Celebrating and The projects offered employees an opportunity to provide supporting the county at a grassroots level is key to Kent hands-on support through internal decorating, grounds Reliances charitable endeavours and our sponsorship of KCA clearance and general cleaning once building works had been reflects that.
Both projects have benefitted greatly from the improvements and are now better equipped to serve their local communities for many more years to come.
58 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility report continued OSBI fundraising Kent County Cricket Club Corporate social responsibility CSR is extremely important In 2017, Kent Reliance continued its partnership with KCCC, to OSBI.
The concept of helping society is embedded in its by supporting the Clubs community programme.
As with corporate governance structure through the CSR policy and our commitment to Kent FA, this relationship is another also through employee engagement.
opportunity to really support grassroots activity within the county and encourage people of all abilities to get involved As part of the OSBI CSR policy, funds are kept aside each and enjoy sport.
Our sponsorship activity provides for funding year to spend on social causes.
This is governed by a CSR for the Disability Performance Squads who currently operate Committee and implemented by the Corporate and Social two teams: Responsibility Group.
The Kent Reliance Learning & Physically Disabled LDPD The focus is to help and contribute in areas where there is Performance Squad critical need and within the office locality so they are also The Kent Reliance Visually Impaired VI Performance Squad able to contribute their time.
Both squads train during the winter months and represent Kent in national competitions against other counties during the summer months.
This is the first step to representing In 2017, the CSR Group agreed to support the areas of child the national team managed by the England and Wales welfare, education and healthcare.
The LDPD squad currently plays in two formats of cricket, both softball, and for the more Child welfare experienced players, full cricket balls hardball.
The VI team OSBI has partnered with the SOS Childrens Village, located play with size three footballs which have been adapted to in Bangalore, to fund education, food, clothing and housing contain beads which rattle, although the national team play for 20 orphans.
Working together with SOS, OSBI employees with regular cricket ball size hardball, again adapted to helped to provide support for the holistic development of rattle and the squad trains throughout the year at a number orphans, women and children belonging to vulnerable of venues around the county.
OSBI also hosted a couple of events at SOS for their staff to engage with the children, which was highly Jamie Clifford, CEO, KCCC, says We have been delighted to appreciated by both children and the employees.
once again enjoy the support of Kent Reliance in 2017.
With Kent Reliance we have continued to develop the Academy Healthcare programme.
The partnership has enabled us to bring in OSBI is currently supporting affordable healthcare through specialist coaches and further develop players life skills, which a local government-run hospital called CV Raman General helps the preparation for a professional career.
The hospital provides subsidised medical facilities to cricket programmes have also been boosted by the support the financially challenged members of the community in and of Kent Reliance which allows us to provide kit, coaching and around east Bangalore.
OSBI has contributed various surgical facilities for our players.
Thank you Kent Reliance for the and arthroscopy equipment that has enabled the hospital to difference you make.
conduct complex surgeries at a fraction of the price charged by private hospitals: for example, they are able to carry out Make Someones Christmas keyhole surgery for ligament tears at under 5!
The Make Someones Christmas campaign encourages listeners and readers of KMFM and KM Media Group and OSBI are now working with the hospital administration to customers of Kent Reliance branches, to nominate those provide employee volunteers to redo the gardens around the people they feel deserve an extra special treat during the hospital which are currently in a poor state.
OSBI plans to festive season.
Following the big success of the programme in complete landscaping work with flowering trees and sprawling previous years, this year had a hard act to follow but achieved lawns along with a childrens play area and believes that this as many nominations for the well-deserving and those in will aid in the emotional recovery of the patients.
In 2017, we helped ten special people in Kent with ten bespoke prizes that really helped make their Christmas.
Nominations were varied and included a father and daughter that had lost their wife and mum just before Christmas, an eight-year old boy who wanted to nominate his parents for their hard work in the community and a woman who annually put her Christmas Day on hold so that she could provide a Christmas lunch for the elderly.
Each winner was announced live on the radio during a two-week period and received well-deserved prizes ranging from holiday vouchers to a spa day.
Kent Literacy Scheme In 2017, Kent Reliance continued to support this educational charity to develop its new home reading initiative Busters Book Club in ten Medway schools.
The scheme was extremely successful across the county with more than 7.5million minutes of reading achieved and making the 26,000 children involved official members of the Millionaire Reading Club.
Strategic report Governance F Financial st inancial stat atemen ements ts 59 Portfolio landlord CRAIG We needed to verify the wider portfolio RICHARDSON of a new customer to the Group who HEAD OF was applying for a Buy-to-Let purchase.
UNDERWRITING The applicant completed the cash flow statement, business plan and asset and Automated liability statement, demonstrating their systems just overall strategy, profit position and ability to cover rental voids.
We then dont do this validated the existing portfolio via our new technology.
This showed up some anomalies so the underwriter reviewed the applicants wider portfolio, confirming that the existing mortgage loans were on long-term fixed rates.
The underwriter re-verified the portfolio and the ICR threshold was met.
Due to an experienced manual underwriter adopting a flexible approach, the case was approved quickly.
Automated systems simply dont do this.
Animal welfare As the sponsorship deals with Kent County Cricket Club and OSBI contributed to the movement and construction of a pet the Kent County Football Association come to an end this year, shelter run by Compassion Unlimited Plus Action CUPA.
there is an opportunity to build on the community-based CUPA provides rescue and relief to thousands of injured, ill projects and initiatives that have been trialled in 2017 including: and needy street animals in Bangalore, Karnataka.
Animals that come hurt, sick or abandoned are given the care and Increased community involvement treatment they need to recover and then are re-homed Greater staff engagement, and or rehabilitated.
Activities that bring KR branches into the mix as community hubs.
Looking forward to 2018 The activities undertaken in 2017 delivered a stronger The Strategic report is approved by the Board and signed emphasis on staff engagement within the local community on its behalf by: to deliver real, tangible benefits and lasting value and we want to build on that in 2018.
Jason Elphick Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 15 March 2018
