Role of the committee Safety, ethics and environment The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs assurance committee SEEAC executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial risk.
This includes monitoring the management of personal and process safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and mitigate such non-financial risks are appropriate in their design and effective in implementation.
Key responsibilities The committee receives specific reports from the business segments as well as cross-business information from the functions.
These include, but are not limited to, the safety and operational risk function, group audit, group ethics and compliance, business integrity and group security.
The SEEAC can access any other independent advice and counsel it requires on an unrestricted basis.
The SEEAC and audit committee worked together, through their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of any key risks during the year.
On site visits we look for Members ourselves and ask questions, Alan Boeckmann Member since September and then we engage with 2014 and chair since May 2016 management.
Paul Anderson Member since February 2010 Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 Cynthia Carroll Member since June 2007: retired May 2017 Chairmans introduction Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 The committee continued its work with executive management to Melody Meyer Member since May 2017 drive safe, ethical and reliable operations.
It has reviewed the companys John Sawers Member since July 2015 management of the highest priority non-financial group risks and continues to provide constructive challenge to the risk management process.
The risks under their remit remained the same as for 2016: Meetings and attendance marine, wells, pipelines, explosion or release at facilities and major There were six committee meetings in 2017.
All directors attended security incidents and cyber security in process control network.
The every meeting for which they were eligible, apart from Cynthia Carroll committee receives reports on each of these risks and monitors their who missed one meeting due to a conflicting meeting.
In addition to the committee members, all SEEAC meetings were Following publication of the companys Modern Slavery Act MSA attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president statement in 2017, the committee reviewed related work practices for safety and operational risk S&OR and the head of group audit or in BP and will continue to review progress in developing his delegate.
The external auditor attended some of the meetings and embedding those practices.
In 2017 it also reviewed the and was briefed on the other meetings by the chair and secretary BP Sustainability Report 2017 and will review the annual update to the committee.
The group general counsel and group ethics and MSA statement to be published in 2018. compliance officer also attended some of the meetings.
At the conclusion of each meeting the committee scheduled private sessions The committee made two site visits in the year see page 75.
In for the committee members only, without the presence of executive June, members of the committee visited the Cherry Point refinery in management, to discuss any issues arising and the quality of the Washington, and in July members were among the first to visit the meeting.
The group chief executive was invited to join the private newly operating Glen Lyon floating production, storage and offloading meetings on an ad hoc basis.
vessel in the UK North Sea.
Our level of access into the operational side is extensive and gives the committee unique insight.
On site visits, we look for ourselves and ask questions, and then we engage with management on what this means for the objectives we set.
The committee also continued its schedule of regular meetings with executive management.
In May, Cynthia Carroll retired from the board and the committee and in the same month Melody Meyer joined the committee.
Melody brings with her valuable insight through many years of industry experience, and within a few weeks of joining, participated in her first committee site visit.
Alan Boeckmann Committee chair 84 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Corporate governance Activities during the year Committee evaluation For its 2017 evaluation, the committee examined its performance S ystem of internal control and risk management and effectiveness through an internal questionnaire.
Topics covered included the balance of skills and experience among its members, the The review of operational risk and In addition, the group ethics and quality and timeliness of information the committee receives, the performance forms a large part of compliance officer and the group level of challenge between committee members and management the committees agenda.
auditor met in private with the and how well the committee communicates its activities and findings chairman and other members to the board.
Group audit provided quarterly of the committee over the course reports on their assurance work on The evaluation results continued to be generally positive.
the system to inform the review.
members considered that they continued to possess the right mix of During the year the committee skills and background, had an appropriate level of support and The committee also received received separate reports on the received open and transparent briefings from management.
regular reports from the group companys management of risks chief executive on operational risk, All members emphasized that site visits remained an important relating to: and from the system of internal element of the committees work, particularly because they gave control and risk management Marine members the opportunity to examine how risk management is being Wells function, including quarterly embedded in businesses and facilities, including in the management Pipelines reports prepared for executive culture.
Explosion or release management on the groups Joint meetings between the SEEAC and the audit committee were at our facilities health, safety and environmental Major security incidents considered important in reviewing and gaining assurance around performance and operational Cyber security process financial and operational risks where there was overlap between integrity.
the committees, particularly in relation to ethics and compliance quarter-by-quarter measures of see below.
personal and process safety, The committee reviewed these environmental and regulatory risks and their management and compliance and audit findings, mitigation in depth with relevant as well as quarterly reports from executive management.
S ite visits In June members of the committees visit was the first committee, and other directors, formal visit following its start-up.
visited the Cherry Point refinery in During visits committee members Blaine, Washington.
The site visit and other directors received included a tour of the dock, briefings on operations, the status training simulator and control of conformance with BPs room.
Meetings with senior operating management system, leadership and representatives key business and operational from across the site, including a risks and risk management and local safety committee, were held.
Committee members In July committee members, and then reported back in detail about other directors, visited the newly each visit to the committee and Joint meetings of the audit and safety, ethics and operational floating production, subsequently to the board.
See environment assurance committees storage and offloading vessel, page 75 for further details.
The audit committee and SEEAC hold joint meetings on a quarterly Glen Lyon, at our Quad 204 project basis to simplify reporting of key issues that are within the remit of in the UK North Sea.
This was one both committees and to make more effective use of the of the seven major projects delivered during 2017 and the committees time.
Each committee retains full discretion to require a full presentation and discussion on any joint meeting topic at their respective meeting if deemed appropriate.
C orporate reporting The committees jointly met four times in 2017, with the chairmanship of the meetings alternating between the chairman of The committee is responsible and the revised presentation, and the audit committee and chairman of the SEEAC.
for the overview of the BP worked with the external auditor Sustainability Report 2017. with respect to their assurance of Topics discussed at the joint meetings were the quarterly ethics The committee reviewed content the report.
and compliance reports including significant investigations and allegations and the 2018 forward programmes for the group audit and ethics and compliance functions.
The committees reviewed the approach and disclosure statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act and the results of an externally facilitated review of the effectiveness and performance of group audit.
See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 85
