Strategic report performance Sustainability We aim to create long-term value for our shareholders, partners and society by helping to meet growing energy demand in a safe and responsible way.
In summary Our 2017 sustainability focus Safety and security Human rights These sustainability issues are the ones that Climate change Environment could impact our business the most and that Managing our Ethical conduct are of greatest interest to our stakeholders: impacts Our people Value to society Process safety events Safety and security More information number of incidents Safety is a core value and our number 150 one priority.
Our stated aim is to have no accidents, no harm to people 100 and no damage to the environment.
50 We are working to continuously improve personal and process safety and operational risk management across 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 BP, with our group-wide operating management Tier 1 Tier 2 system at its core.
Our approach builds on our experience, including learning from incidents, operations audits, annual risk reviews and sharing lessons learned Recordable injury frequency with our industry peers.
BP Sustainability Report workforce incidents per 200,000 hours worked In 2017 BP reported one fatality a firefighter who died Publishes April 0.8 in the course of his duties for our biofuels business in Brazil.
Nothing matters more than every one of our 0.6 people returning home safely each day.
We deeply regret this loss and continue to work towards eliminating 0.4 injuries and fatalities in our work.
0.2 Preventing incidents 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 We carefully plan our operations, identifying potential Workforce 0.31 0.31 0.24 0.21 0.22 Employees 0.25 0.27 0.20 0.19 0.20 hazards and managing risks at every stage.
We design Contractors 0.36 0.34 0.28 0.22 0.23 our facilities to appropriate standards and manage them a American Petroleum Institute US benchmark throughout their lifetime.
a International Association of Oil & Gas Producers benchmark a API and OGP 2016 data reports are not available until May 2017.
We track our safety performance using industry metrics such as the American Petroleum Institute recommended practice 754 and the International Association of Oil & Advancing the energy transition Publishes April Gas Producers recommended practice 456.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary 47 2017 2016 2015 Managing safety a Tier 1 process safety events 18 16 20 BP-operated businesses are responsible for identifying and managing b Tier 2 process safety events 61 84 83 operating risks and bringing together people with the right skills and c Oil spills number 139 149 146 competencies to address them.
They are required to carry out selfOil spills contained 81 91 91 verification and are also subject to independent scrutiny and assurance.
Oil spills reaching land and water 58 58 55 Our safety and operational risk team works alongside BP-operated businesses to provide oversight and technical guidance, while our group Oil spilled volume thousand litres 886 677 432 audit team visits sites on a risk-prioritized basis, to check how they are Oil unrecovered thousand litres 265 311 142 managing risks.
a Tier 1 process safety events are losses of primary containment of greater consequence Operating management system such as causing harm to a member of the workforce, costly damage to equipment or exceeding defined quantities.
BPs OMS is a group-wide framework designed to help us manage b Tier 2 events are those of lesser consequence.
risks in our operating activities and drive performance improvements.
c Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
It brings together BP requirements on health, safety, security, the In 2017 we continued to see a reduction in the overall number of process environment, social responsibility and operational reliability, as well safety events, despite a slight increase in tier 1, the more serious events.
as related issues, such as maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, into a common management system.
We investigate safety incidents and near misses, including low probability, high consequence events.
And we use leading indicators, We review and amend our group requirements within OMS from time like inspections and equipment tests, to monitor the strength of controls to time to reflect BPs priorities and experience.
Any variations in the to prevent incidents.
What we learn from performance insights helps us application of OMS, in order to meet local regulations or circumstances, focus our safety efforts.
For example, we are introducing techniques for are subject to a governance process.
teams to analyse and redesign tasks to reduce the chance of mistakes OMS also helps us improve the quality of our activities by setting occurring.
a common framework that our operations must work to.
Recently Proactively managing equipment corrosion is also a focus for us and acquired operations need to transition to OMS.
See page 49 for we believe this is helping to deliver improvements in process safety in information about contractors and joint arrangements.
our upstream and downstream businesses.
Keeping people safe All members of our workforce have the responsibility and the authority to stop unsafe work.
Our golden rules of safety guide our workers on staying safe while performing tasks with the potential to cause most harm.
The rules are aligned with our operating management system and focus on areas such as working at heights, lifting operations and driving safety.
We monitor and report on key workforce personal safety metrics and include both employees and contractors in our data.
2017 2016 2015 d Recordable injury frequency 0.22 0.21 0.24 Day away from work case e frequency 0.055 0.051 0.061 f Severe vehicle accident rate 0.03 0.05 0.11 d Incidents that result in a fatality or injury per 200,000 hours worked.
e Incidents that result in an injury where a person is unable to work for a day shift or more per 200,000 hours worked.
f The figures for 2016 and 2017 are based on our new definition which aligns with industry practice.
We have seen a small increase in our recordable injury frequency and day away from work case frequency compared to last year.
Improving safety in our operations is a high priority and we are working on it right across the business.
Above: Monitoring global events at our 24-hour response information centre in the UK.
48 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report performance We use a range of measures to manage this risk, including the use of cyber security policies and procedures, security protection tools, ongoing detection and monitoring of threats, and testing of response and recovery procedures.
We collaborate closely with governments, law enforcement and industry peers to understand and respond to new and emerging threats.
To encourage vigilance among our employees, our cyber security programme covers topics such as email phishing and the correct classification and handling of our information.
Working with contractors and partners More than half of the hours worked by BP are carried out by contractors.
So their skills and performance are vital to our ability to carry out our work safely and responsibly.
Our standard model contracts include health, safety and security requirements.
Through bridging documents, we define the way our safety management system co-exists with those of our contractors to manage risk on a site.
And for our contractors Above: Operations at our Cherry Point refinery in the US.
facing the most serious risks, we conduct quality, technical, health, safety and security audits before awarding contracts.
Once they start work, we continue to monitor their safety performance.
Technology New technologies are helping us increase the amount and quality of data Our OMS includes requirements and practices for working with we gather from our operations and speed up our analysis, allowing us to contractors.
We expect and encourage our contractors and their act more quickly.
For example, our wells data platform Argus holds employees to act in a way that is consistent with our code of conduct.
historical and real-time data on nearly all of the 2,500 wells we operate We take appropriate action if those expectations, or their contractual globally, giving our engineers the ability to access and analyse alerts obligations, are not met.
This enables early identification and rapid Our partners in joint arrangements response should an issue arise see page 45.
In joint arrangements where we are the operator, our OMS, code of conduct and other policies apply.
We aim to report on aspects of our Emergency preparedness and response business where we are the operator as we directly manage the The scale and spread of BPs operations means we must be prepared to performance of these operations.
respond to a range of possible disruptions and emergency events.
We Where we are not the operator, our OMS is available as a reference maintain disaster recovery, crisis and business continuity management point for BP businesses when engaging with operators and plans and work to build day-to-day response capabilities to support local co-venturers.
We have a group framework to assess and manage BPs management of incidents.
exposure related to safety, operational and bribery and corruption risk Security from our participation in these types of arrangements.
As a global business, BP monitors for hostile actions that could harm our We monitor performance and how risk is managed in our joint people or disrupt our operations.
We particularly look at operating areas arrangements, whether we are the operator or not.
affected by political and social unrest, terrorism, armed conflict or criminal activity.
We also run exercises and drills to test our procedures and help ensure our people are prepared in the event of an emergency.
We take steps to help people stay safe when they are travelling on business.
Our 24-hour response information centre keeps watch over global events and related developments.
This meant that in March 2017 we were aware of the terrorist attack in Londons Westminster almost immediately.
Within minutes we knew which employees had scheduled meetings or travel plans in the surrounding area, so we were able to confirm their safety and provide advice.
Oil spill preparedness Our requirements for oil spill preparedness and response planning incorporate updated external requirements and what we have learned over many years.
We are also using technologies to strengthen our response to oil spills.
Working with Oil Spill Response Limited, an industry-funded co-operative, and others, we used satellites, drones and autonomous underwater vehicles in an oil spill response exercise.
This enabled us to study an oil plume from a small controlled release and the effectiveness of dispersant in helping it to biodegrade.
Cyber threats Cyber attacks are on the rise and our industry is subject to evolving risks from a variety of cyber threat actors, including nation states, criminals, terrorists, hacktivists and insiders.
We have experienced threats to the security of our digital infrastructure, but none of these had a significant effect on our business in 2017.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 49 Climate change Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Our strategy sets us up to help advance the energy The TCFD was established by the Financial Stability Board transition, while meeting the needs for energy today.
with the aim of improving disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities.
Our reporting provides information To help drive the energy transition, we are working to reduce our relevant to each of the four TCFD recommendations.
operational emissions, produce new efficient fuels and lubricants for our customers and to build up our low carbon businesses.
Governance Annual Report page 70, Sustainability Report page 73 Reducing emissions in our operations We have set an emissions reduction target of 3.5 million tonnes Strategy out to 2025.
Our operating businesses aim to deliver this through Annual Report page 12 and Sustainability Report pages 4-5 and improved efficiency, less methane emissions and reduced flaring our Energy Outlook pages 3-5 leading to permanent, quantifiable GHG reductions.
Risk management Improving our products Annual Report page 55 We are increasing gas in our portfolio, helping to meet the rising Metrics and targets demand for cleaner energy.
We are continuing to innovate with Sustainability Report pages 6 and 14 efficient fuels, lubricants and chemicals that can help our customers and consumers lower their emissions as well as Reporting on greenhouse gas emissions exploring opportunities to use our retail network to support the electrification of transport.
We report on direct and indirect GHG emissions on a carbon dioxide equivalent CO e basis.
Direct emissions include CO and methane 2 2 Creating low carbon businesses from the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, and indirect We are building up our renewable energy portfolio focusing on emissions include those resulting from the purchase of electricity and biofuels, biopower, wind and solar.
And we have established a steam.
dynamic venturing arm that is working on multiple fronts There was a slight decrease in our direct GHG emissions in 2017.
The through joint ventures, creative collaborations and new business primary reasons for this include operational changes such as planned models.
shutdowns at several of our refineries for maintenance, and actions Working with others taken by our businesses to reduce emissions in areas such as flaring, methane and energy efficiency.
We are collaborating with others to help address this global challenge.
As one example, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative Greenhouse gas emissions MteCO2e OGCI currently chaired by our chief executive Bob Dudley 2017 2016 2015 a brings together 10 oil and gas companies working to reduce the Operational control GHG emissions from our industrys operations and the use of our Direct emissions 50.5 51.4 51.2 products.
In 2017, OGCI announced its intent to provide technical Indirect emissions 6.1 6.2 7.0 and financial support for the worlds first global methane study.
b BP equity share Direct emissions 49.4 50.1 49.0 Advancing Low Carbon programme Indirect emissions 6.8 6.2 6.9 BP's new Advancing Low Carbon accreditation programme is designed a Operational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by to motivate every part of BP to pursue lower carbon opportunities by BP, going beyond the IPIECA guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities highlighting BP activities that demonstrate a better carbon outcome.
The such as contracted drilling activities.
b BP equity share comprises our share of BPs consolidated entities and equity-accounted activities initially selected include emission reductions in our operations, entities, other than BPs share of Rosneft.
carbon neutral products and investments in low carbon technologies.
The ratio of our total GHG emissions reported on an operational control See bp.
com advancinglowcarbon for more information.
basis to gross production was 0.24teCO2e te production in 2017 2016 0.24 teCO2e te, 2015 0.24teCO2e te.
Gross production comprises Calling for a price on carbon upstream production, refining throughput and petrochemicals produced.
BP believes that carbon pricing by governments provides the right Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the IPIECA incentives for everyone energy producers and consumers alike to API IOGP Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions.
play their part in reducing emissions.
It makes energy efficiency more We calculate CO emissions based on the fuel consumption and fuel 2 attractive and makes lower carbon solutions, such as renewables and properties for major sources.
We do not include nitrous oxide, CCUS, more cost competitive.
hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride as To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements affecting our GHG they are not material and it is not practical to collect this data.
emissions, we use a carbon cost when evaluating our plans for large new projects and those for which emissions costs would be a material part of the project.
In industrialized countries, this is currently $40 per tonne of CO equivalent, and we also stress test at a carbon price of 2 $80 per tonne.
50 See Glossary BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report performance We aim to recruit our workforce from the community or country in Managing our environmental and social which we operate.
In Angola, for example, around 88% of our workforce impacts is Angolan.
We assess potential impacts through the We contributed $89.5 million in social investment in 2017.
One area life of our operations.
in which we focus our investment is education.
We support science, technology, engineering and mathematics programmes in countries such as the UK, the US and India, to encourage more young people to consider careers in these fields.
com society for more information on how we generate value to society.
Tax and transparency BP is committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner and having open and constructive relationships with tax authorities.
We paid $5.8 billion in income and production taxes to governments in 2017 2016 $2.2 billion, 2015 $3.5 billion.
We support transparency in the flow of revenue from oil and gas activities to governments.
Transparency helps citizens hold public authorities to account for the way they use funds received through taxes and other agreements.
We are a founding member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, which requires disclosure of payments made to and Above: Uncovering a cultural heritage site in Azerbaijan.
received by governments in relation to oil, gas and mining activity.
As part of the EITI, we work with governments, non-governmental organizations and international agencies to improve the transparency of In planning our projects, we identify actions we need to take to address payments to governments.
In 2017 we supported EITI implementation potential impacts from our activities in areas such as labour rights, in a number of countries where we operate, including Iraq and Trinidad water use and protected areas.
If our screening process shows that & Tobago.
a proposed project could enter or affect an international protected area, we work to identify ways to first avoid, and if needed, minimize and In addition, we disclose information on payments to governments mitigate any potential impact.
for our upstream activities on a country-by-country and project basis under national reporting regulations such as those in effect in the UK.
We consult with stakeholders who may be affected by our activities.
For We also make payments to governments in connection with other parts example, we met with more than 2,600 community members in of our business such as the transporting, trading, manufacturing and Mauritania and Senegal over the course of 2017 to discuss issues marketing of oil and gas.
ranging from local employment to our ability to respond to an oil spill.
These consultations will contribute to an environmental and social See bp.
com tax for our approach to tax and our payments to impact assessment in 2018. governments report.
Every year, our major operating sites review their performance and set Human rights local improvement targets.
These can include measures on flaring, greenhouse gas emissions and the use of water.
We are committed to respecting the rights and dignity of all people when conducting business.
Value to society We aim to have a positive and enduring impact We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour on the communities in which we operate.
Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
These include the rights of our workforce and those living in We contribute to economies through our core business activities, such communities affected by our activities.
as helping to develop national and local suppliers, and through the taxes we pay to governments.
Additionally, our social investments support We set out our commitments in our human rights policy and our code communities efforts to increase their incomes and improve standards of conduct.
Our operating management system contains guidance on of living.
respecting the rights of workers and community members.
As one example, we are equipping women living in rural areas of Turkey We are aligning our business processes with the UN Guiding Principles, close to the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline with entrepreneurial skills so which set out how companies should prevent, address and remedy they can set up their own businesses, or enhance existing ones.
Our current focus areas include the recruitment, we provided training to more than 250 women and supported around working and living conditions of contracted workforces at our sites, 25 start-up companies.
responsible security, community grievance mechanisms and channels for workforces to raise their concerns.
We run programmes to build the skills of businesses and develop the local supply chain in a number of locations.
For example, our enterprise In 2017 our actions included: development programme in Azerbaijan enables local companies to build Reviewing the risk of modern slavery in prioritized locations.
their skills so that they can improve their competitiveness when bidding for work with international firms.
And in Indonesia we have set a target Delivering additional human rights training specifically on modern slavery.
of sourcing 38% of our services and project materials from local suppliers for our Tangguh expansion project.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 51 Publishing our expectations of suppliers on the way they do business Hydraulic fracturing with and for BP in line with our code of conduct, including respect for Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the potential human rights.
environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing during Continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and unconventional gas development.
BP seeks to apply responsible well Human Rights, with periodic internal assessments to identify areas for design practices to mitigate these risks.
For example, our wells are improvement.
designed, constructed, operated and decommissioned to prevent gas and hydraulic fracturing fluids entering underground aquifers such as See bp.
com humanrights for more information about our approach drinking water sources.
We list the chemicals that we use at each site.
We also submit data on their use in our hydraulically fractured wells in the US, to the Environment extent allowed by our suppliers, who own the chemical formulas, We work to avoid, minimize and mitigate at fracfocus.
org or other state-designated websites.
environmental impacts from our activities.
Ethical conduct We consider local conditions when determining which issues would Our code of conduct defines our commitment benefit from the greatest focus.
At a site close to communities, for example, the immediate concern may be air quality, whereas a remote to high ethical standards.
desert site may require greater consideration of water management issues.
See pages 48-49 for information on our oil spill performance and Our values preparedness.
Our values of safety, respect, excellence, courage and one team, represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP.
They guide the Water way we do business and the decisions we make.
We use these values Each year we review water risks in our portfolio considering the local as part of our recruitment, promotion and individual performance availability, quantity, quality and regulatory requirements.
different approaches for optimizing freshwater withdrawals and See bp.
com values for more information.
In our gas operations in Oman an area where the availability of fresh water is extremely scarce we use The BP code of conduct saline water from a local underground aquifer.
We desalinate the water and use it for drilling and hydraulic fracturing.
We continue to look for Our code of conduct is based on our values and sets clear expectations for ways in which we can reduce our demand, such as reusing treated how we work at BP.
It applies to all BP employees and members of the board.
Employees, contractors or other third parties who have a question See bp.
com water for information about our approach to water.
about our code of conduct or see something that they feel is unsafe or unethical can discuss these with their managers, supporting teams, works councils where relevant or through OpenTalk, a confidential Air quality helpline operated by an independent company.
We put measures in place to manage our air emissions, in line with regulations and guidelines designed to protect the health of local A total of 817 concerns or enquiries were received through OpenTalk in communities and the environment.
The most common concerns related to the natural gas LNG carriers with energy efficiency enhancements to our people section of the code.
This includes treating people fairly, with shipping fleet.
They are designed to use approximately 25% less fuel dignity and giving everyone equal opportunity: creating a respectful, and emit less nitrogen oxides than our older LNG ships.
harassment-free workplace: and protecting privacy and confidentiality.
We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-conformance and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2017 our businesses dismissed 70 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or unethical behaviour 2016 109, 2015 132.
This excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service stations.
com codeofconduct for more information.
Anti-bribery and corruption We operate in some of the worlds highest risk countries from an anti-bribery and corruption perspective.
We have a responsibility to our employees, our shareholders and to the countries and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in all our work.
Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery or corruption in any form.
Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures include measures and guidance to assess risks, understand relevant laws and report concerns.
They apply to all BP-operated businesses.
We provide training to employees appropriate to the nature or location of their role.
A total of 12,500 employees completed anti-bribery and corruption training in 2017 2016 13,000, 2015 13,500.
Above: Engineers on a wind turbine at our Sherbino wind farm in Texas.
52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report performance Our people BPs success depends on having a talented and diverse workforce.
BP employees a Number of employees at 31 December 2017 2016 2015 Upstream 17,700 18,700 21,700 Downstream 42,100 41,800 44,800 Other businesses and corporate 14,200 14,000 13,300 Total 74,000 74,500 79,800 Service station staff 16,800 16,200 15,600 Agricultural, operational and seasonal workers in Brazil 4,300 4,600 4,800 Total excluding service station staff and workers in Brazil 52,900 53,700 59,400 Above: A team meeting at the BP office in Baku, Azerbaijan.
For more information see Financial Statements Note 33.
We have reshaped our organization over the past few years to adapt to We assess any exposure to bribery and corruption risk when working a lower oil price environment.
Our focus is on retaining the skills we with suppliers and business partners.
Where appropriate, we put in require to maintain safe and reliable operations while developing and place a risk mitigation plan or we reject them if we conclude that risks attracting individuals with capabilities we judge important to growing are too high.
We also conduct anti-bribery compliance audits on selected suppliers The group people committee helps facilitate the group chief executives when contracts are in place.
For example, our upstream business oversight of policies relating to employees.
In 2017 the committee conducts audits for a number of suppliers in higher-risk regions to discussed remuneration policy, progress in our diversity and inclusion assess their compliance with our anti-bribery and corruption contractual programme, modernizing and strengthening our attractiveness as an requirements.
Potential areas for improvement are shared with our employer, and long-term people priorities.
suppliers and we often work with them to find the best ways to strengthen their procedures, such as improvements to training and Attraction and retention management of subcontractors.
We issued a total of 36 audit reports in A total of 314 graduates joined BP in 2017 2016 231, 2015 298.
We take corrective action with suppliers and were named the UKs leading recruiter in the oil and gas sector in The business partners who fail to meet our expectations, which may include Times newspapers Graduate Employer rankings in 2017. terminating contracts.
We invest in our employees development with an average spend of Lobbying and political donations around $3,300 per person.
This includes online and classroom-based courses and resources, supported by a wide range of on-the-job learning We prohibit the use of BP funds or resources to support any political and mentoring programmes.
We recognize the rights of our employees to participate in the political Diversity process and these rights are governed by the applicable laws in the We are committed to making our workplaces reflect the communities in countries in which we operate.
For example, in the US we provide which we are based.
administrative support for the BP employee political action committee PAC, which is a non-partisan committee that encourages voluntary The gender balance across BP as a whole is steadily improving, with employee participation in the political process.
All BP employee PAC women representing 34% of BPs total population 2016 33%, 2015 contributions are reviewed for compliance with federal and state law and 32%.
We are working to improve these numbers further by, for are publicly reported in accordance with US election laws.
example, developing mentoring, sponsorship and coaching programmes to help more women advance.
That said, we still have work to do at the We work with governments on a range of issues that are relevant to executive and senior levels.
our business, from regulatory compliance, to understanding our tax liabilities, to collaborating on community initiatives.
The way in which we We have published 2017 data on our gender pay gap in the UK at interact with those governments depends on the legal and regulatory bp.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 53 At the end of 2017 there were three female directors 2016 3, 2015 3 Share ownership on our board of 13.
Our nomination committee remains mindful of We encourage employee share ownership and have a number of diversity when considering potential candidates.
employee share plans in place.
For example, under our ShareMatch For more information on the composition of our board, see page 73. plan, which operates in more than 50 countries, we match BP shares purchased by our employees.
We also operate a group-wide Workforce by gender discretionary share plan, which allows employee participation at Members as at 31 December Male Female Female % different levels globally and is linked to the companys performance.
Board directors 10 3 23 Group leaders 310 84 21 Subsidiary directors 1,155 218 16 All employees 48,795 25,239 34 We are also committed to increasing the national diversity of our workforce to reflect the countries in which we operate.
A total of 24% of our group leaders came from countries other than the UK and the US in 2017 2016 23%, 2015 21%.
Inclusion Our goal is to create an environment of inclusion and acceptance, where everyone is treated equally and without discrimination.
To promote an inclusive culture we provide leadership training and support employee-run advocacy groups in areas such as gender, sexual orientation and parenting.
As well as bringing employees together, these groups support BPs recruitment programmes and provide feedback on the potential impact of policy changes.
Each group is sponsored by a senior executive.
We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and reward for all employees regardless of ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continued employment, training and occupational assistance where needed.
Employee engagement Managers hold regular team and one-to-one meetings with their staff, complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
We regularly communicate with employees on factors that affect BPs performance, and seek to maintain constructive relationships with labour unions formally representing our employees.
Each year, we survey our employees to gauge how they feel about BP.
The overall employee engagement score in 2017 was 73% up from two years ago when we saw a decline which coincided with the uncertainties of a low oil price environment.
Pride in working for BP increased to 75% in 2017, compared with 73% in 2016 and 68% in 2015.
Scores for diversity, inclusion and respect also recorded strong improvements.
We are considering how to address employee dissatisfaction with opportunities to develop their skills which had lower scores in 2017.
See Glossary 54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017
