Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Corporate Responsibility We deliver services to governments, serve the public and help to protect national interests.
As a provider of public services we are committed to operate with a public service ethos and recognise our responsibilities.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility recognises We have begun to embed the framework in our evolving political and economic landscapes, public approach.
We will continue to focus on this in expectations, our broader impact as a company and 2018 as well as examining stakeholder priorities how all of these align to the outcomes our customers and expectations across our principal areas of seek to achieve.
We will also explore opportunities for richer corporate responsibility In 2015 2016, we refreshed our Group strategy, clarified performance measurement.
our purpose and established the new Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board.
In 2017, we have For now, we share here a summary of our approach to continued the refresh of our corporate responsibility managing corporate responsibility of how we have agenda through development of a new corporate delivered our public services and lived the principles responsibility framework, to better reflect our strategy recognised within the framework along with our and the manner in which we conduct our business.
A good deal of care has been taken in the formulation We have continued to build momentum in long-term of the framework and the elements addressed within.
objectives for sustainable improvement consolidating We have structured it around our key stakeholders progress and maintaining our key strategies.
At the underpinned by our Values, purpose and public service same time, however, we recognise enduring challenges ethos focusing in particular on how we work to add that, whilst not exclusive to Serco, are high priority sustainable value whilst delivering their requirements issues for our business and customers.
For example: The framework defines our principal areas of we continue seeking to safeguard our people and responsibility and will help to guide future practice service beneficiaries whilst ensuring that we learn and and behaviour whilst facilitating measurement of our move forward meaningfully from every experience: this performance, supporting us in our efforts to: includes building our health and safety influence across the broader context of our operations and where set exemplary standards in public service delivery: applicable confronting developing trends in violence execute brilliantly to deliver our stakeholders and aggression with care and innovation: and expectations: we continue striving to strengthen gender balance at meet or exceed the outcomes our customers seek all levels of our organisation, which includes creating to achieve: the conditions and catalysts for a more diverse and uphold relevant laws and regulatory requirements: inclusive talent pipeline.
honour our relationships with our internal and Examples of specific activities feature in this report.
external stakeholders: and manage our impact on the environment and the We cannot claim to have met our expectations of economies and communities in which we operate.
progress in all areas, particularly where shifting climates, pressures and other causal factors remain beyond our It will form a foundation for enhancing how we conduct control, but we firmly believe we can do better, and will our business for years to come.
continue our resistance of complacency and relentless pursuit of improvement.
More information, including a more detailed report for the year, is available on our website: www.
com See also: Corporate Responsibility Committee Report page 105 and Directors Report page 144.
69 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Our corporate responsibility framework Our corporate responsibility CR framework is structured around: Our Values: Our Values shape the way everyone Our world: We are responsible in how we impact the in Serco works and behaves.
communities, economies and environments in which we operate.
Behaving with integrity and treating people with respect: We operate morally and ethically, Our owners: We are determined to protect our with respect for human rights.
shareholders interests and create long-term, sustainable value for them.
Our customers: We are driven by our public service ethos to help our customers create positive outcomes Public service: Everything we do is motivated by for society.
our desire to be a trusted partner of governments, delivering superb public services that transform Our people: We are committed to enabling the outcomes and make a positive difference for our development, wellbeing and safety of our people.
70 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our corporate responsibility governance Our Code of Conduct The Serco plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the Our Code of Conduct helps us to drive continuous Group's business strategy, including CR, and for setting and consistent responsibility and behaviours across our the Groups culture, Values and ethical standards.
Based on our Values it forms part of the SMS, clearly and concisely defining our expectations of We have a Corporate Responsibility Committee CRC operational and behavioural compliance.
Everyone who of the Board, chaired by Mike Clasper, the Senior works for and on behalf of Serco is expected to know, Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, use and live our Code.
which has oversight of our approach to CR and focuses in four areas: health and safety, people, ethics and our In 2017, we have updated our Code.
include reflecting our position regarding human rights, in particular human trafficking and slavery, and adding Our Serco Management System detail on the importance of personal security.
We have The Serco Management System SMS is our also added a behaviours section, aligned to our Values, management framework, describing how we do enabling employees, people managers and leaders to business.
It defines the rules governing how we operate, better understand expected behaviours.
behave and deliver our strategy, including all areas Our Values covered by our CR framework.
Our culture is based on a set of four values Trust, At the heart of the SMS are 16 Group policy statements Care, Innovation and Pride that shape our individual and 23 Group standards.
Group policies are signed by behaviours and hence the way the Company behaves.
the Group Chief Executive and approved by the plc They help to ensure we are all working from a commonly Board.
They define our strategic commitments and understood base that can be consistently applied apply across the Group.
Group standards reflect our Values and define the In 2017, we have continued to embed our refreshed minimum standards we must achieve, focussing on Values in our ways of working and the business mandatory requirements applicable across the Group.
Our Divisions have driven the Values through local and regional initiatives, while from a Group, Country, Divisional and Local operating Group perspective, the Values are being incorporated procedures build on these foundations within the SMS, into the SMS, our Code of Conduct and all existing providing direction on how to achieve mandatory channels, publications and resources.
For example: requirements and comply with relevant laws and regulations in the countries where we operate.
Our annual employee engagement survey, Operating procedures are sensitive to local customs, Viewpoint, and our premier programme of employee traditions and cultures.
recognition, the Pulse Awards, are now aligned to our Values, enabling us to measure values-based Employee and manager responsibilities regarding engagement and celebrate values-based behaviour.
SMS compliance are clearly defined and all employees complete appropriate SMS, Code of Conduct and Our Values are now integrated into our Code of Values training on joining Serco and periodically during Conduct, Leadership Model and annual Performance their time with Serco.
and Development Review process, enabling us to clearly define our expectations of values-based In 2017, a new Privacy policy statement and new Group behaviour and ensure they are met.
Standards for Insurance, Human Rights and Information and Data Privacy were published and the Insider Alongside our Speak Up whistleblowing process, Information and Share Dealing Standard was replaced these elements also enable us to regularly assess with a more detailed Group Standard Operating and reinforce our culture.
Our Viewpoint Culture Procedure and Share Dealing Code.
Index comprises engagement levels for each of the four Values and provides insight into our culture as defined by our Values and perceived by our people.
Culture Index results inform annual engagement action planning.
71 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Behaving with integrity and treating people Safe and healthy operations with respect Our vision is zero harm.
Wherever we work, we are See also: Fair competition page 75: committed to the promotion of wellbeing and the Responsible relationships page 76. prevention of injury and ill health.
Across all our regions, we aim to meet the high moral We strive to promote a 'just' health and safety culture and ethical standards we have set ourselves, within based on active and caring leadership and mutual the bounds of expected individual and corporate trust, innovation and pride: actively encourage input behaviour, with regard for relevant laws and regulatory from employees and others to build sustainable requirements, with sensitivity to local cultures, and with solutions: identify and assess the health and safety the utmost respect for human rights.
hazards, impacts and risks that arise from our activities and services, investigating incidents and monitoring We have zero tolerance for any form of corrupt performance and systems: and regularly review, learn behaviour or activity that breaks any law relating to and identify opportunities for continual improvement.
human rights, either directly or indirectly, anywhere in the world.
We recognise our obligations under the UK In 2017, we reviewed our Group policy and strengthened Modern Slavery Act 2015, publish an annual Modern supporting Group Standards with the definition Slavery Statement on www.
com and do not of safety critical risks, whilst embedding Incident engage in any form of human trafficking or use forced, Management and Reporting standards to raise visibility bonded, illegal or child labour, nor knowingly work of and improve consistency in related activities.
have launched a significant review of safety-related risks in support of the Group principal risk, catastrophic We use international human rights standards as a incident.
We have continued to build our health framework to assess, monitor, mitigate and remedy and safety influence across the broader context of any actual or potential adverse human rights impacts our operations, for example in Transport, where AHRIs that may affect our business.
our experiences have intensified our resolve to help improve road safety in the UAE not just for our people In 2017, we have refreshed our human rights assessment but for all UAE citizens and strengthen our aviation and decision tree process, strengthening its coverage safety oversight and sharing of best practice not just of slavery and human trafficking: published a new Group regionally but internationally through a global aviation Standard for human rights: and refreshed our mandated safety forum.
We also conducted a UK pilot of the ethics and compliance training with a new suite of Health and Safety Laboratory HSL 'Safety Climate' courses ready for 2018, including modern slavery.
tool to evaluate and benchmark our safety culture.
We have also improved our Speak Up whistleblowing programme by implementing an enhanced case Our CR in action management system, provided as before by an We celebrated Zero Harm Week across our Divisions independent third party, to make the system more in October in support of our Group objective to accessible and easier to use: updated our online gifts improve health and safety engagement by promoting and hospitality register to enable approval as well as a culture of health, safety and wellbeing.
registration of items, helping ensure compliance with In the UK, we have won several Royal Society for the the UK Bribery Act: and undertaken further reviews of Prevention of Accidents Gold Awards in 2017, including adequate procedures for Anti-Bribery and Corruption at RAF Fylingdales and Forth Valley Royal Hospital.
ABC in our Divisions, completing UK & Europe, Middle East and AsPac.
Additionally, in the UK we piloted We have driven continuous improvement in health and an ABC assessment tool to review contracts against safety across our businesses, including new tools and required adequate procedures.
training in Serco Americas to reduce risks and improve safety management in air traffic control and naval engineering, and new tools in Serco AsPac to improve roadside welfare safeguards for our road safety camera operators.
72 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Inclusive workplace Unconscious Bias e-learning programme: and continued to introduce, build and promote Divisional councils, Our business thrives because of our talented and diverse committees, working groups and networks in support of workforce, which we seek out, nurture and empower.
We recognise, however, that we must continually challenge ourselves to ensure diversity and inclusion In the UK, we have completed preparations for are embedded in our culture and ways of working.
reporting pay gap information annually from April 2018, as required by the Equality Act 2010.
We are committed Diversity and Inclusion D&I is prioritised in both our to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly, with People Policy and Strategy.
We strive to promote equality dignity, and with an equality of opportunity throughout of opportunity and create an inclusive and enabling their careers with Serco.
Measuring, understanding environment in which all our people are treated fairly and and reporting our Gender Pay Gap is a welcome and with respect, dignity and zero tolerance for any form of important step in this journey.
We prioritise proactive management and regular analysis of our workforce diversity, seeking to We have undertaken extensive analysis of what is attract, develop and retain employees from the broadest behind our current median gender pay gap of 12.9% so possible talent pool.
that we can identify real opportunities to reduce this.
This figure reflects the average paid to men and women Our approach to D&I recognises that achievement of across our UK businesses.
It is not a comparison of pay our overall goals needs to take account of business rates for men and women doing work of equal value.
maturity, regional variations and local legislation.
The primary cause of the gender pay gap within Serco Implementation of our strategy therefore takes place is the demography of our UK employee population, in at three levels: which we currently have an imbalance in the number Group sets policy and the broad framework to ensure of men and women at the various levels within the consistency of approach, as well as providing clarity organisational structure.
We have fewer women than on key areas of focus.
men in more senior positions and typically people in more senior positions receive the highest pay and Each Division maintains a D&I strategy aligned to the bonus pay.
This impacts the hourly pay and the bonus overall Group framework with priorities appropriate pay figures.
to their geographies, sectors, employee base and local legislation.
Progress is reported through normal Complementing our strategic D&I focus on leadership business review and governance frameworks.
gender, our analysis shows that an equal gender A further level of focus is appropriate for some distribution at our manager level and above would reduce the overall pay gap to well below UK averages.
Business Units or contracts within a Division, e. g. in businesses of a particular size, in particular geographies, or according to local customer Our CR in action specifications.
In the UK, we have joined the Stonewall Diversity Champion programme and launched a network for Following the launch of our refreshed approach to LGBT employees and allies, sponsored by our UK D&I in Q4 2016, we have been establishing regular & Europe CEO: established a disability network and monitoring and reporting of progress and delivery of signed up to the UK governments Disability Confident targets at each level Group Division Business Unit or initiative: and our Serco Inspiring Women network Contract, whilst continuing our work towards achieving has partnered with Everywoman, the world's largest a minimum of 25% females in leadership roles by 2020, network and learning and development platform for focusing in particular on improving gender balance in women in business.
senior recruitment and our talent pipeline.
In Americas, our Women at Serco Americas network We have also established D&I as a standing agenda has launched a learning programme designed item for our Quarterly Talent Reviews attended by to empower diversity through development of the Group Human Resources Director HRD and communication capability.
Divisional Chief Executive Officers CEOs and HRDs, In Australia, we have received an Employer Support ensuring relevant actions are delivered and risks Award from the Defence Reserves Support Council.
managed: incorporated D&I demographics into our We have been awarded Platinum membership of the employee engagement survey, as appropriate by National Program for Emiratization by the United Arab Division, expanding options for gender identity, sexual Emirates Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratization.
orientation and disability: developed and launched an 73 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Employee engagement and development Contributing to communities We are committed to fostering professional Through our business operations we contribute to local development and positive working environments that employment, small-medium enterprises, communities enable our people to be highly engaged, capable, and economies.
Beyond this, we encourage, facilitate, passionate about public service, and motivated to and proactively drive community initiatives and achieve personal success.
charitable giving both from colleagues and from the Serco Foundation.
We regularly review and strive to improve levels of employee engagement and performance, including the We strive to work closely with communities to make a development of their skills to meet current and future positive difference and partner with local governments business needs and addressing any behaviour identified in order to best contribute to local economies: employ as negatively impacting engagement.
We provide people from our local communities where possible: relevant training and development where necessary to encourage and participate in charitable activity enable individuals to perform their duties within role.
that aligns with our Values: and ensure small firms, voluntary and community organisations, and social In 2017, we have achieved improvements in overall enterprises are actively encouraged to be members employee engagement whilst incrementally of Sercos supply chain.
strengthening priority engagement drivers identified by our 2016 results connection to Serco, taking action In 2017, we enabled and facilitated efforts in on employee feedback, recognition and resources.
fundraising and support for local communities across We have sustained momentum in building leadership our businesses through our Divisional sponsorship engagement whilst also focussing on our people programmes as well as other partnering with local managers, prioritising contract managers: rolled our governments, social enterprises and charity: continued Engagement Insights tool out beyond our leadership to prioritise recruitment from local communities population, enabling immediate feedback and support where appropriate: and continued seeking to expand for all employees completing our survey online: and and enrich the diversity of our supplier base through launched a Steering Committee to improve engagement engagement with small and medium-sized suppliers across our Group Functions and Corporate Shared across our businesses.
We have also been preparing Services, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
to relaunch the independent Serco Foundation with a new strategy centred on deploying funds to charitable We have continued working to enhance and embed partners focused on innovation to improve public our core development programmes, including our service outcomes for citizens.
Management Programme, designed in partnership with Oxford Sad Business School to develop a cadre of managers aligned to driving our performance and Our CR in action strategy.
A further 118 of our global management We have continued to prioritise and facilitate population have completed the programme in 2017, recruitment from local communities where bringing the cumulative total to 208. appropriate, including for our facilities management contract at the new NHS Dumfries and Galloway Royal Infirmary, UK, which opened in December 2017.
Our CR in action We have supported a variety of local and regional We have been named one of 'Atlantic Canada's education and work experience initiatives across our Top Employers' for 2017. businesses, including hosting educational site visits from schools at the Palm Jumeirah Monorail and Dubai We have contributed to the improvement of Metro in the UAE.
healthcare service outcomes at Acacia Prison, Australia, by increasing employee engagement.
Through our corporate sponsorship of the Armed Services YMCA annual Hearts for Heroes event, we Our Learning and Development Team, Dubai Metro enable combat-wounded US Military servicemen in and Tram, have won both the Middle East Centre of California and Virginia to engage in therapy respite.
Excellence and International Centre of the Year Lion Awards from City and Guilds.
In Grafton, New South Wales, we have partnered with the national charity Midnight Basketball Australia to We have led the development and deployment help provide for the welfare of young people from the of the new Chartered Manager Degree local community.
Apprenticeship in partnership with the University of Wolverhampton.
74 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Protecting the environment Our CR in action We are committed to limiting the impact our operations In New Zealand, we are partnering with Auckland have on the environment through more sustainable Council and the New Zealand Department of business practice.
Corrections to help plant one million trees in the We strive to promote a commitment to the environment region over three years.
based on active and caring leadership and mutual trust, We have helped to transform waste management at innovation and pride: actively encourage input from New York University, Abu Dhabi, by developing and employees and others to build sustainable solutions: implementing a new solution and working with our identify and assess the environmental hazards, impacts customer to educate university faculty and students.
and risks that arise from our activities and services, We helped develop and now operate the Sentinels Data investigating incidents and monitoring performance Access System for the European Space Agency, helping and systems: and regularly review, learn and identify to monitor and measure how the Earth is affected by opportunities for continual improvement.
natural events and the underlying human contributions.
We work to minimise adverse environmental impact In the UK, we have helped Hertfordshire County through the implementation of environmental Council achieve significant improvements in energy efficiency, equating to over 1m to date.
management systems that are proportional to each contract, aligned to customer specification and We have conducted a range of local and central contractual requirements, and underpinned by our environmental initiatives across our businesses, Group Standard Operating Procedure for Health, including joining the Adopt-a-Highway litter removal Safety and the Environment.
programme and renovating re-using offices and furniture across contracts in Serco Americas.
The SMS sets out how we will deliver our environmental commitment, aligned to the ISO14001:2015 standard on environmental management.
Across more than Fair competition two thirds of our business, we work on our customers We compete legally, fairly and ethically, making sure premises and are not in direct control of environmental we promote competition in business, protect our impacts.
In such cases we work collaboratively with our customers interests and avoid situations that may, customers on environmental issues.
or may appear to, create a conflict of interest.
Where we have control, activities are managed locally, We strive to ensure we do not abuse any dominant covering a wide range of initiatives focused on reducing market position we have, obtain competitive intelligence our carbon emissions intensity, improving energy and through improper means, or enter into any agreements, fuel efficiency, improving our waste management arrangements or concerted business practices which processes and promoting biodiversity.
appreciably prevent, restrict or distort competition.
We are committed to engaging with competitors and trade In 2017 we benchmarked our approach to climate change via the globally-recognised annual Carbon associations with appropriate caution.
Disclosure Project CDP climate change questionnaire, In 2017, we have reviewed and refreshed training for achieving a score of B of all participating companies managers, and developed a conflicts of interest register 23.3% scored A, 24.4% scored B and 52.3% scored C or with approvals and action workflows.
These will be D, while within our sector 22% scored A, 21.6% scored B launched across the business in 2018. and 56.4% scored C or D. We have also undertaken an initial Scope 3 carbon emissions assessment to identify priority areas in our indirect carbon emissions and investigated the Science Based Target methodology to inform future carbon target setting.
75 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Responsible relationships Our CR in action We build honest, respectful and transparent We are helping to drive improved supplier behaviour relationships with customers, partners and suppliers around human rights in the Middle East through who share our ethical standards and who follow the enhancements we have been making to our due regulatory compliance.
diligence and supplier onboarding process.
We seek to work only with customers, partners We have continued seeking to expand and enrich the and suppliers who respect our Values and meet diversity of our supplier base through engagement our standards of business conduct and ethics.
We with small and medium-sized suppliers across complete legal, ethical and human rights due diligence our businesses, including joining Supply Nation on proposed key third parties and conduct ongoing in Australia to improve our access to Indigenous monitoring throughout the lifetime of the relationship: businesses, and maintaining our Supplier Network conduct robust needs analysis and establish a clear Portal in the US to improve our access to small and management structure for all third party arrangements minority-owned businesses.
considered necessary to meet contract requirements, In the UK, we engaged a small cross-section of including joint ventures, strategic partnerships or our key suppliers in a trial to test and refine our new consortium arrangements : apply robust supplier SRM supplier relationship management solution, sourcing and selection criteria: and monitor supplier selecting participants from a range of categories performance to inform relationship management and and lengths of relationship with Serco and working identify opportunities for improvement.
closely with them to baseline relationships, establish consistent governance and identify opportunities In 2017, we continued embedding our newly enhanced for improvement.
third party due diligence processes and commenced ongoing monitoring: refreshed our Supplier Code of Conduct and updated components in our supplier governance to meet modern slavery and human trafficking requirements, including the strengthening of contract terms: and engaged Anti-Slavery International to help us better understand related risks in our supply chain.
We have also worked to improve management of risk across our supply chain in our UK & Europe, Middle East and AsPac Divisions by implementing enhanced supplier onboarding incorporating latest ABC and ethical due diligence requirements and piloting a new supplier relationship management SRM programme in the UK, developed to deliver ongoing performance and innovation improvements with key suppliers.
76 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Duty of care Quality service delivery At the heart of the design and delivery of our services, We draw on our international best practice, cross-sector we place the health, safety and wellbeing of our service experience and our ability to innovate in order to help users and citizens.
governments raise standards of public service.
We strive to prioritise, protect and promote the health, Providing reliable and high quality products and safety and wellbeing of the recipients of our services, services that meet customer and service user needs whether they are those for whom we are directly is important to us.
To the best of our abilities, aligned responsible, such as individuals in our prisons or to helping customers achieve value for money, we travelling on our transport, or those who are the direct seek to deliver services that are as high quality beneficiaries of our services, such as patients in the as possible and subject to appropriate focus on hospitals that we clean.
We design and deliver services .
in ways that focus on the needs and experiences of We work closely with our customers, striving to service users as well as service-related outcomes: and anticipate, understand and meet their needs and work to ensure that service users are treated at all times expectations: deploy quality systems that deliver with consideration, courtesy, compassion and respect, excellent service usability for service recipients: invest in and that every provision and interaction exemplifies our public service research and development and innovate value of Care.
quickly and proactively, testing new ways of doing Specific duty of care objectives are defined, managed things and improving continuously throughout the and delivered at contract level, monitored by relevant lifetime of our contracts: develop scalable, customisable business units.
More broadly, our commitment to solutions: and transfer best practice and experience duty of care informs Divisional and sector-specific internationally and cross-sector.
business strategies, overseen by Divisional Executive In 2017, we have further developed our CoEs in Justice Management Teams and or our sector Centres of & Immigration, Healthcare and Transport to build Excellence CoEs.
differentiated capabilities, strengthen our sector It is also a defining factor for activity across our CR propositions and maximise the benefits of our crossframework, for example: improving our Speak Up regional experience: and planned the re-launch of system makes it easier for employees to report potential the Serco Institute, which will be deployed to provide risks to service users, while improving the engagement research for the improvement of public services.
levels of service user-facing employees contributes to a better service experience for service users.
Our CR in action Our customer rated our service at the Space-Based Our CR in action Infrared System in Colorado, USA, exceptional for the second year in a row.
In the UK, we have received praise for advances in the reduction of prison violence, in reports by At Wandoo Reintegration Facility, Western Australia, HM Chief Inspector of Prisons and the Independent the Office of the Inspector of Custodial Services Monitoring Board.
reported our Offender Management Model to be In Australia, we have contributed to a national study the best in the state.
aiming to reduce healthcare associated infections Our transport contracts in Dubai have been through enhanced cleaning practices.
recognised externally for the highest level quality of customer service by The International Customer In the US, we helped citizens affected by the worst Service Institute.
hurricane season on record gain more time to enrol for Medicaid and Medicare in 2018.
Our collaboration with the UK Ministry of Defence to introduce the latest generation of tug to the UK In Saudi Arabia, our colleague, Miko Baay, received a enabled the successful arrival of HMS Queen Elizabeth Global Pulse Award for helping to rescue 270 stranded into Portsmouth in August 2017. train passengers on his day off.
77 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Social outcomes Our CR in action We aim to enhance social outcomes by designing This year saw the public release of our Veterans Affairs and delivering frontline public services that make Pressure Ulcer Resource VAPUR mobile app, to a real difference to peoples lives.
support outpatient US Veterans and their care givers We believe that the provision of public services in the treatment of their wounds.
around the world for us, for our customers and for Our partnership to maintain open spaces for the society requires commitment to a social as well as a public with the City of Melbourne, Australia, has been commercial contract.
We strive to maintain our public recognised with the international Green Flag Award service ethos and aspiration to do the best for citizens, for Melbourne Gardens.
not only for our customers.
Aligned to our ambition In the Middle East, we have continued our partnership for quality service delivery, we design citizen-centred with Road Safety UAE to improve road safety public service solutions whilst maintaining a focus on awareness for our people and the wider United delivering particularly complex and transformational Arab Emirates community.
services that are critical to the functioning of society.
In Billesley, UK, we have helped to improve local In 2017, we have continued to enable the achievement engagement in sport and fitness by 600% by driving awareness, access and affordability for children of enhanced social outcomes through consistent, welland adults.
managed and continuously improving frontline services.
For example: Justice: We have helped to safeguard society and reduce reoffending through the provision of prison management, police support and prisoner escorting services.
Immigration: We have helped to protect borders and manage immigration through the provision of border control, detention centre and asylum seeker housing and welfare services.
Citizen Services: We have contributed to local community wellbeing through the provision of leisure facilities and waste management services.
Health: We have helped to enhance patient experiences and maintain safer environments in hospitals through the provision of facilities management services.
Defence: We have contributed to the protection of national and international security through the provision of critical support services to defence organisations.
Transport: We have helped to facilitate national travel, enabling local and regional economies and societies to function through the provision of air, sea, road and rail services.
78 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Value for public money Shareholder returns Along with quality of delivery, we aspire to greater We focus on creating long-term, sustainable value efficiency in public services and in enabling protecting the interests of our owners alongside those governments to deliver better for less.
of our employees, customers and communities in which we operate.
We are committed to enabling governments to achieve the best value for money for the public services we We believe that in a free market system, and in deliver.
To deliver efficiency to our customers, we the long-term, the preservation and growth of the strive to manage our business with commercial rigour: business and the maximisation of shareholder value innovate at both the contract and corporate level: fully automatically coincide, even if there is some short-term utilise our economies of scale and our international, divergence.
Delivering sustainable, profitable growth is transferable expertise: and drive a cost-effective therefore central to appropriate delivery of shareholder supply chain.
returns, and our performance framework is structured accordingly.
We will realise this by executing our In 2017, we have renewed our focus on innovation strategy to achieve our purpose of becoming a trusted through our CoEs and made significant progress partner of governments, delivering superb public towards ensuring that our operating costs are as services, that transform outcomes and make a positive efficient as possible, including work undertaken on difference for our fellow citizens.
our operating model and overhead costs, from which we expect to realise benefits in forthcoming years.
For 2017, we have delivered Underlying Trading Profit at The decision to merge our two UK-based Divisions the top end of the guidance we gave at the start of the was the first step in this project.
year, and we expect profits to grow strongly over the next two years.
Beyond 2019, our long-term ambitions for margins and revenue growth as originally Our CR in action expressed with our Strategy Review announced in We have worked with our customers to reduce costs 2015 remain intact, but the timing of achieving these across our businesses, including at the Palm Jumeirah continues to be subject to seeing improvements in the Monorail in Dubai and United Arab Emirates trading conditions across our markets.
In the meantime University in Al Ain where we have helped to create we continue to deliver against our plans and make good financial savings through improved energy, water and progress against our strategy.
For more information and our progress and performance Our highway services contract with Peterborough City in 2017, as well as our guidance and outlook, see: Council was named Contract Management Initiative of the Year 2017 18 at the GO Awards, which celebrate Strategic report: Key Performance Indicators, page 18 excellence in public procurement across the UK public Strategic report: Chief Executives Review, page 32. sector, after saving 1.8m for local taxpayers.
Our non-clinical services at Fiona Stanley Hospital have helped the Western Australian government achieve $550m in savings.
In the US, we have helped service users and our customer to save and reduce tax-penalty exemption application costs through service improvement at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
79 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Transparency Managed risk With investors, as with customers, we seek long term In order to achieve our strategic and business relationships based on transparency, honesty and objectives, protect our stakeholder interests and clarity.
We are therefore committed to open and regular maximise our returns, we seek to identify, manage engagement with our shareholders.
and mitigate our exposure to risks through robust procedures and controls throughout the organisation.
We strive to maintain open, meaningful dialogue with all our shareholders, and use a variety of communication We support informed risk-taking that promotes means to update investors on performance and gain business growth and success whilst recognising insight into shareholder views, including ensuring that the risks associated with key decisions, and embed Board members and the wider senior management systematic, structured and timely risk management in team are available to address shareholder questions our organisational processes, linked to achievement of and views at our Annual General Meeting.
We strive for early line of sight regarding to provide meaningful insight into our results and increases in threat or exposure, and maintain a robust prospects: have management information systems control environment that reduces negative impacts to that enable efficient and effective internal and external our business performance.
reporting: and base our approach to executive remuneration on a clear rationale in which the alignment For more information and our progress and performance of interests are recognisable and understandable.
in 2017, see: In 2017, we delivered our annual schedule of external Strategic report: Principal risks and uncertainties, page 20 reporting and shareholder engagement, including Directors report: Group Risk Committee Report, additional trading and contract news updates to ensure page 93. transparency of performance and around 200 meetings with institutional investors.
We have hosted an extensive Capital Markets Event, featuring in particular the Justice & Immigration and Defence sectors as well as Transformation updates: and been recognised for our commitment to transparency with a Most Honoured Companies award from Institutional Investor.
80 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Our areas of focus in 2018 In addition to delivering standard schedules of activity across our CR framework, our areas of focus in 2018 will include: Our corporate responsibility framework and governance Embedding our new CR framework in our approach to CR from both the Group and Divisional perspectives: examining stakeholder priorities and expectations across our principal areas of responsibility in greater detail: and exploring opportunities for richer CR performance measurement.
Behaving with integrity and treating people with respect Developing a condensed Code of Conduct for temporary workers: completing the review of ABC 'adequate procedures' in our Divisions: and applying elements of the UK ABC assessment toolkit across other Divisions to drive benefit and value.
Our people Developing a 'just' health and safety culture framework for adoption across the business and deploying the HSL Safety Climate tool globally: replicating the global aviation safety forum in other safety critical areas, completing a formal review of our online incident management tool and working to improve reporting of 'near miss' incidents: continuing our work to improve the gender balance of our leadership team by attracting more women into senior roles, supporting their development and providing more career progression opportunities forwomen: and developing our understanding of ethnicity as a strategic D&I focus in our different geographies.
Our world Finalising development of a new environmental strategy to consolidate performance to date and refocus our activities to address priority environmental issues by taking a broader lifecycle approach to our environmental impacts: launching our refreshed fair competition training and new conflicts of interest register across the business: improving guidance on ethical and human rights due diligence for new geography market entry and selection and appointment of partners: deploying our new SRM solution whilst applying our enhanced onboarding to existing suppliers and exploring opportunities to address Tier 2 suppliers in high risk areas: and relaunching the Serco Foundation and the Serco Institute.
81 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Key Performance Indicators 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 v 2017 Var % Notes Behaving with integrity and treating people with respect Viewpoint Ethics and Integrity Index % 66 70 69 69 69 0 1 Upheld cases of corrupt behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Upheld cases of human rights violations Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Speak Up cases: Investigated % 95 96 97 90 -7 -7.3 2 Corrective action taken % 56 63 53 42 -11 -20.8 Disciplinary action taken against one % 15 24 16 9 -7 -43.8 or more individuals involved in a case Dismissal of one or more individuals % 9 6 6 5 -1 -16.7 involved in a case Closed within three months % 70 48 64 89 25 39.1 Our people Employee engagement and development: Employee engagement % 42 51 53 54 56 2 3.7 People manager engagement % 49 58 59 62 65 3 4.8 Leadership engagement % 51 51 55 72 71 -1 -1.4 3 Viewpoint Learning & Development % 44 44 46 48 49 1 2.1 1 Index Inclusive workplace: 4 Viewpoint D&I Index % 67 75 67 69 70 1 1.4 1 Female Directors % 16.7 30.0 30.0 22.2 30.0 7.8 35.1 Female senior managers % 14.8 16.2 16.7 17.1 21.7 4.6 26.9 Female employees % 40.9 44.4 42.6 41.9 41.6 -0.3 -0.7 People with disabilities % 0.2 0.7 1.3 1.2 1.0 -0.2 -16.7 Age profile: 4 16-24 % 10.2 10.2 9.5 9.1 8.7 -0.4 -4.4 25-40 % 33.9 35.2 35.9 35.7 38.8 3.1 8.7 41-54 % 28.9 29.8 29.2 29.2 31.4 2.2 7.5 55-64 % 13.4 14.6 14.9 15.6 17.9 2.3 14.7 65 % 2.3 2.4 2.3 2.6 3.1 0.5 19.2 Undisclosed % 11.3 7.8 8.2 7.8 0.1 7.7 98.7 5 Staff turnover % 31.5 31.0 32.8 33.8 30.6 3.2 9.5 Proportion of days lost to sickness % 2.8 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.1 0.1 3.1 Safe and healthy operations: Viewpoint Safety Index % 71 70 71 73 75 2 2.7 1 Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate Per 1m hours 5.12 4.81 5.79 4.98 3.93 1.05 21.08 worked Lost Time Incident Severity Rate % 18.90 17.53 19.10 16.08 15.57 0.51 3.17 Major Incident Frequency Rate Per 1m hours 0.25 0.33 0.34 0.27 0.30 -0.03 -11.11 worked Physical Assault Frequency Rate Per 1m hours 5.11 7.04 7.19 6.92 8.64 -1.72 -24.71 6 worked Serious Physical Assault Frequency Rate Per 1m hours 0.38 0.49 0.93 1.40 -0.47 -50.54 7 worked Prosecutions Number 0 0 1 0 0 0 8 Fines paid 000 0 50 200 0 116 116 9 82 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 v 2017 Var % Notes Our world Protecting the environment: 10 Carbon dioxide equivalent Tonnes CO2 398,519 343,717 298,986 291,883 253,655 38,228 13.1 Total Group Scope 1 2 equivalent Electricity % 53 54 46 37 31 -6 -16.2 11 Gas % 12 12 9 10 10 0 Petrol % 1 0 0 1 1 0 Diesel % 7 7 9 10 9 -1 -10.0 Fuel oil % 8 7 2 1 2 1 100.0 Specialist marine fuel % 19 20 34 40 46 6 15.0 12 Fugitive emissions % 0 0 0 0 0 0 Headcount Intensity Scope 1 2 7.27 6.32 5.16 5.98 5.56 0.42 7.0 tCO e FTE 2 Scope 1 Combustion of fuels and Number 187,217 173,441 162,198 182,819 174,289 8,530 4.7 operation of facilities Scope 2 Grid electricity purchased Number 211,302 170,276 136,789 109,064 79,366 29,698 27.2 for own use location based Scope 2 Grid electricity purchased Number 70,629 13 for own use market based Scope 3 Business travel Number 7,621 14 Headcount Intensity Scope 3 0.17 tCO e FTE 2 Carbon Disclosure Project Score 92% 97% 99% B B 15 Prosecutions Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fines paid 000 0 0 0 0 0 0 Enforcement notices Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fair competition: Upheld cases of anti-competitive Number 0 0 0 0 0 0 behaviour Responsible relationships: Third party due diligence screening 16 Third parties validated Number 28,066 Third parties pending review Number 1,143 Third parties disqualified Number 3 17 Notes: The performance analysis is based on data reported as at 21 February 2018.
Additional data may arise after this date.
Where this occurs, numbers will be corrected in the following years table.
All data excludes JVs and historical BPO data to enable a like-for-like comparison.
Our private sector offshore BPO business was sold in December 2015.
Current workforce KPI levels are in line with benchmark targets for the geographies and markets in which we operate, however we continue to try to improve them.
Annual targets are managed at local and regional levels.
Historical Viewpoint Index data has been adjusted to reflect modifications to Index calculation methodology in 2017.
An index comprises one or more related questions that cover a specific area of analysis.
Scores are generated based on the % of survey respondents who agree or strongly agree to all questions within an Index.
Where anonymous cases provide insufficient information, we are unable to investigate.
We have maintained a healthy overall engagement profile and leadership engagement has remained stable while we have focused on improving employee and people manager engagement.
Inclusive workplace and age figures are representative only of employees for whom relevant data is available.
Reduction reflects improvements in data availability resulting from new D&I strategy and focus on developing clear and robust data.
Slight adjustment in rate due to late capture of incidents on reporting system.
Data includes incidents of spitting potting as serious assaults in line with UK reporting requirements.
When these are excluded the comparable rate is 0.88, a 5% improvement on 2016.
Relates to an incident in 2011.
D ubai Metro: February 2017 500,000AED public hazard relating to escalator maintenance by a sub-contractor fine paid by sub-contractor and revised work instructions implemented: August 2017 100,000AED unsafe lifting operations relating to glass movement in station revised work instructions implemented.
83 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Key Performance Indicators continued 10.
Our reporting year for greenhouse gas emissions is one quarter behind our financial year, namely 1 Oct 2016 to 30 Sept 2017.
We quantify and report to ISO 14064-1 2012, using an operational control approach to defining our organisational boundary.
The classification of reporting boundaries is set out in detail in our Basis of Reporting document, available on our website, www.
We report all material emission sources for which we consider ourselves responsible and have set our materiality threshold at 5%.
Sale of our private sector offshore BPO business 10,630,000 kgCO e in environmental reporting year 2015 16 : ASPAC basis of estimation reduced 2 due to loss of contracts c. 5,000,000 kgCO e : Hong Kong Cross Harbour Tunnel contract ended Q4 2016 c. 4,000,000 kgCO e : Leisure reductions 2 2 c. 2,500,000 kgCO e : Scatsta responsibility for paying electricity contract returned to client in 2016 c. 500,000 kgCO e : UK conversion factor down 15%.
Increased proportionally due to electricity reductions.
Expanded scope of measurement in 2017, market based measurement uses conversion factors from suppliers where available and is a metric asked for in the CDP submission.
Expanded scope of measurement in 2017, includes air, rail, private car, hire car and hotel stays.
New scoring mechanism introduced in 2015.
2017 numbers reflect implementation of new third party due diligence screening.
All current and legacy suppliers and customers have been processed in 2017 a total of 35,850 organisations.
An additional 6,634 organisations were disqualified because they are no longer used by Serco or there is a gap of two years or more in the relationship.
Health, Safety & Environment Targets 2018 Key Performance Indicator 2018 Performance Target Viewpoint Safety Index 75% Major Incident Frequency Rate Maintain at 2017 baseline Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate Maintain 4 Serious Physical Assault Frequency Rate -10% against 2017 baseline Physical Assault Frequency Rate Maintain at 2017 baseline Headcount Intensity Scope 1 2 tonnes CO equivalent -3% against 2017 baseline 2 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 21 February 2018 84 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Directors Report Corporate Governance Report 86 Board of Directors 86 Chairman's Governance Overview 88 Board and Governance 91 Group Risk CommitteeReport 93 Audit Committee Report 96 Nomination CommitteeReport 102 Corporate Responsibility Committee Report 105 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 108 Remuneration Report 110 Directors' Report 144 Directors' Responsibility Statement 150 85
