42 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Our corporate social responsibility CSR A Voice for All strategys primary aim is to support our business objectives, while demonstrating leadership in conduct and culture through We support creative initiatives our actions for the benefit of our business, that inspire new generations our colleagues, our customers and the wider communities in which we operate.
and give them the confidence to succeed.
Our values Inspire We have a defined set of values that We recognise that aspiration and achievement are underpin everything we do.
Where young and disaffected people have inthe market for our honesty, integrity and lowexpectations and poor confidence levels, they excellence in the provision of service to areless likely to do well in education or employment.
Above all else, we respect our clients and each other, without bias.
Our corporate social responsibility We promote skills development ethos A Voice for All in the communities within As a business we have been proud to employ which we operate, to increase people whatever their background.
A Voice For All is our commitment to step up providing participation in local economies.
improved access and opportunities for Inform everyone, regardless of where they are from.
Certain skills especially digital and financial literacy are essential life skills and have been This year we launched A Voice for All identified by the OECD as increasingly vital to our corporate social responsibility strategy.
Itsthree pillars guide our efforts across ourbusiness, from fund raising and engagingwith charities through to our We are building the diverse recruitment processes.
and skilled workforce the financial services sector needs for the future.
Include Financial services has seen a sharp rise in skills shortages in recent years.
At the same time, the sectorfaces challenges over low levels of gender, ethnic and socio-economic diversity in the workforce.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 43 Developing and delivering our We continued to support ICAPs Charity Day We have undertaken a number of steps to CSR strategy which raised an incredible 4.7 million in address the issue of modern slavery and As the worlds largest inter-dealer broker we 2017 for good causes around the globe.
human trafficking, including training our have a responsibility to lead our sector in employees on modern slavery issues and We also made donations of 103,200 culture and conduct, to ensure that we fulfil howto identify them, starting dialogue with totherelief of disasters such as the our primary role of creating economic value our top 30 suppliers through surveys, and GrenfellTower fire and Hurricane Harvey.
in a way that is efficient, effective and creating a new in-depth introduction process ExcludingCharity Day, we donated less sustainable.
Our CSR strategy, A Voice for for new suppliers, which covers a number of than200,000 to charitable causes in 2017.
All recognises that in order to be a highsustainability issues, including an assessment performing, sustainable business we need of modern slavery and forced labour Human rights tocontinue to develop and improve our practices.
More information is available We fully support the UN Guiding Principles culture, but also improve the communities onour website.
on Business and Human Rights.
This includes inwhich we operate.
implementing our obligations under the Sustainable procurement UKModern Slavery Act and respecting The three pillars of the strategy Inspire, We take the sustainability of our supply chain freedom of association for our employees.
Inform and Include link strongly to social and procurement exceptionally seriously, Our statement for the Modern Slavery Act mobility.
We want the work we do in setting and in 2017 implemented a number of islocated on our main website in line with asector-leading culture to enable our best initiatives that support this including: legislative requirements: www.
talents to flourish and to inspire others to printing reduction via secure login raisetheir aspirations, improve their skills As a global Company, we rely on several andprint management to reduce andultimately create the path for the thousand suppliers of products and services paperwastage: nextgeneration.
In 2018 we will embed from more than 31 countries.
80% of our top introducing Corporate Uber and a AVoiceforAll throughout our Group and 30 suppliers are leading global providers of newglobal travel provider to reduce communicate it externally to our stakeholders.
IT, telephony and professional services.
ourCO footprint: 2 Charitable giving and volunteering stopping the supply and usage of We will not tolerate slavery in our supply chain.
In 2017, we launched a new TP ICAP 14,500plastic bottles of water per week We are in the process of introducing a supplier Charitable Giving policy to support our inthe UK: code of conduct, fornew and renewed employees fund-raising and volunteering agreeing to use Equinix for TP ICAPs core contracts, which will setout our expectations aspirations with a pool of funding and we London Data Center.
Equinixs power for suppliers to comply with our approach.
allow our employees the choice to take two supply comes from the Slough Heat & days of paid volunteering leave.
We believe Power renewable energy station, which Our initial analysis of our top 30 direct empowering our employees to get involved generates hot water and electricity by suppliers shows that they are all located in charitable initiatives helps link our business burning wood chips and fibre cubes inthe US and EMEA and are, on balance, more closelywith the communities in which madefrom used paper and cardboard: viewed as low risk.
Many of our suppliers we operate.
investigating more cloud-hosted products have their own comprehensive policies to reduce our global data centre foot related to modern slavery.
Since its launch in June, this initiative has print and power consumption including, been well-received by our employees and we Icelandic Data Clouds: have supported causes across our three main conducting a top ten vendor assessment regions.
In 2017, we contributed over 15,000 every year, including monitoring their CO 2 to employee-matched giving and direct data, as well as slavery prevention: and sponsorship causes, benefitting 32 charities.
assessing the environmental impacts of In addition, our employees volunteered new suppliers operations.
around 500 hours of their time to help 19charitable causes.
