HEAD 0 2ND LINE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLitY as an international hotel company ended 31December 2017, and it highlights translated into multiple languages where operating in over 27 countries, we remain actions we have taken to enhance our appropriate.
a list of these policies can be committed to making a positive difference sustainability efforts.
found on our website at https: investors.
in the places in which we operate and millenniumhotels.
com corporateconsider corporate responsibility in all Board responsibility responsibility  of our business.
statement the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups corporate responsibility Board diversity We work hard to train and develop our initiatives, with the interim Group Chief colleagues so that they can provide a executive Officer taking the lead from a Pursuant to the Groups diversity policy, the valuable contribution to the industry and management perspective.
Underpinning Board seeks diversity of skills, experience, our local communities.
Our hotels support our commitment to sustainability, the geographical representation and gender local charities and community projects Board supports a number of policies, both in its composition and throughout and we actively seek ways to reduce our collectively referred to as responsible all levels of our business, more details of impact on the environment, in our own hospitality, which are designed to which can be found in the nominations operations and through engaging with our recognise and manage the Groups Committee report of this annual report supply chain.
wider impact on the environment and the and accounts.
communities in which we operate.
these this report reviews our current systems policies are reviewed regularly and are and performance for the financial year updated as necessary.
they are also HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2N D LINE CONTINUED HE COR ADP OR 0 1S A TT L EI NE HE CO AD n t0 in 1U ST e L DINE CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITY Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 17 in addition, we endeavour to report such as procurement and sales, and on our transparently on tax policy and other policies.
management, more information of which a group-wide anti-Bribery and antican be found in this annual report and Corruption Compliance Guide is also accounts.
made available to all employees.
this guide, which is in addition to the policy, Corporate ethics and business conduct highlights key risks relevant to the Group the Group is committed to maintaining and identifies those operations in countries the highest standards of ethics and where corruption is perceived to be a integrity in the way we do business.
the guide sets out a number Our Code of ethics and Business of procedures for managing these risks, Conduct Code sets out our minimum including escalation and whistleblower expectations for all colleagues and mechanisms and procedures for risk describes our most important legal assessments for operations of potential obligations.
the Code reflects the business associates or counterparties.
responsibility we have, not just to comply with the law, but also to do the right thing.
We take breaches of these policies We also expect our suppliers and business seriously and, if necessary, will consider partners to align to the standards set disciplinary action for non-compliance by out within the Code and other related our employees.
in the reporting year, we policies including, for instance, our antiare unaware of any staff being disciplined Bribery and Business hospitality and or dismissed due to non-compliance with Gifts policies, over which the Board has our anti-Bribery policy.
as mentioned, these policies are translated into other languages where throughout our global activities, we appropriate, including spanish and are committed to respecting the human simplified Chinese.
rights of our colleagues and others with whom we engage during the course to raise awareness of key operational of our business operations, including Millennium Hotel Queenstown risks and ensure we meet our compliance customers, suppliers and business requirements, our global online partners.
Our human rights policy reflects compliance training platform continues our commitment to certain fundamental Compliance to deliver training on anti-bribery, money human rights principles, which are Within our operations, we are fully laundering in certain jurisdictions and aligned with those of the international committed to meeting the highest competition law.
Our aim is to expand this Labour Organisation and the Un Guiding standards of legal and regulatory to include training on data protection and Principles on Business and human rights compliance.
We adhere to all applicable preventing tax evasion.
and include freedom of association and laws and regulations, not just the letter of collective bargaining.
the law, but the spirit of the law.
the Groups anti-Bribery policy has been developed in line with the requirements in accordance with the requirements of the in 2017 we did not receive any material of the UK Bribery act 2010 and is routinely modern slavery act 2015, the Company has fines or penalties associated with nonreviewed, with the last review having undertaken a review of its supply chain.
compliance with any laws relating to the taken place in april 2016. the Group Last year we had proposed a number of environment, human rights violations, maintains a confidential hotline and e-mail improvements to our modern slavery act labour standards, anti-corruption or account to encourage employees to report compliance framework.
improprieties or breaches they may have the UK we implemented regular training witnessed.
a risk assessment is conducted exercises with law enforcement agencies to identify those categories of employees no donations were made by the Group for to better train our hotel teams to spot who require training on bribery and political purposes during the year 2016: the risks of modern slavery and human corruption, which includes people in areas nil.
Our contracts are updated HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 18 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLitY COntinUeD on an ongoing basis with provisions the needs of our workforce.
in addition employees by gender male Female regarding compliance with the Groups to our training and development Directors 8 1 human rights Policy, which was updated programmes, we aim to communicate 1 senior managers 223 115 in 2016 to include requirements around frequently with our employees.
We Other employees 6,159 5,096 ethical working practices, human rights, value highly the commitment of our child labour, forced labour and other employees and recognise the important 1 this is based on the participants in the Groups similar concerns.
Our european supplier role communication has in fostering good 2017 bonus pool and excludes 36 subsidiary intake forms now include questions about working relationships and practices.
We Directors who were external non-independent supplier track records with preventing seek to ensure that employees are informed independent appointments of which 29 were slavery and human trafficking, and we on matters relating to their employment male and 7 female.
take their answers into account when and on financial and economic factors the average number of employees selecting reputable suppliers.
this area affecting the business.
at the same time, employed by the Group including the remains a priority for the Board and we we actively seek feedback and ideas from Companys Directors during the year, will look to make further improvements our employees to improve our operations analysed by category, was as follows: in our processes in 2018. the Group has and where appropriate provide forums to also adopted a formal slavery and human allow employees to voice their views.
trafficking statement which is available 2017 2016 Numbers numbers at https: investors.
com We also continue to have in place our hotel operating staff 9,020 8,397  supply-chainglobal brand-defining Outstanding  service excellence employee development management training programme where our colleagues administration 1,439 1,481 Our employees are empowered to adapt and deliver sales and marketing 461 468 a tailored service to each guest.
this We understand the importance of having repairs and maintenance 682 650 inspiration-based service approach is the right people with the right skills, now 11,602 10,996 designed to engage both our colleagues and in the future, to deliver the exceptional and guests on a personal level, service and expertise which is the basis encouraging a genuine connection and of our relationships with our guests.
to A safe working environment creating true fans of our brand.
deliver that service and expertise, we are Our overriding commitment in the continually improving our talent pool and workplace continues to be the health, are committed to training and educating Diversity safety and welfare of its employees, guests the next generation.
and all those who visit the Companys We recognise the importance of, and locations, as well as those who carry out the benefits to be derived from, diversity Learning and development work on behalf of the Group.
to ensure across our international operations.
Our Our employees are encouraged to their protection and well-being, our health employment policies not only seek to comply develop and manage their own careers and safety functions have comprehensive with all relevant legislation, but they also and this is facilitated by providing processes and procedures in place at strive to ensure that all areas of our business relevant job training and, where all properties to comply with relevant embrace diversity, creating an environment appropriate, we aim to fill vacancies legislation.
such measures also support that fosters fairness and equal opportunity with existing staff where employees our hotels to identify and assess key risk in every aspect.
For example, when are suitably qualified and experienced.
activities with a view to implementing recruiting, all applicants are assessed fairly Our hotels also help young people appropriate controls to reduce regardless of race, gender, age, disability, from disadvantaged backgrounds by occupational incidents.
marital status, sexual orientation or religious providing employment skills training and belief.
more information on our equal vocational opportunities.
For example, our health and safety is a principal risk and opportunity employment policies can be north american and european regions as such is overseen by the Board risk found in the Directors report of this annual have introduced internship programmes Committee.
effective training, supervision report and accounts.
for young hospitality talent, often in and regular communication on health partnership with local universities.
and safety matters are provided to For the year ended 31 December 2017, the our employees both regionally and at Group employed an average of 11,602 We are committed to improving employee property level.
to support these activities, people worldwide in over 27 countries engagement and learning more about a comprehensive schedule of audits, 2016: 10,996.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 19 inspections and drills are carried out both to the opportunity to identify and achieve were able to achieve an aLeadership internally and by independent bodies to even more energy savings.
score in 2017. check awareness and promote continuous Greenhouse gas reporting improvements, compliance and readiness Our energy consumption is shown below.
this has been restated to exclude the this years reporting covers the period hotels in the middle east region me 1October 2016 to 30september 2017. this in the UK region, for example, we have region as a result of our sale of our joint period has been chosen to allow sufficient put in place policies and procedures that venture interest in the operating entity for time to review emissions data ahead of the are certified to Ohsas 18001 externally the region as of 31 December 2016.
While year-end and to ensure that verification of audited by the British standards institution.
the me region hotels generally continue to the data was completed in advance of the management continues the process of be managed by the same operator, since reporting deadlines.
the data has been rolling out the system across the whole of it is no longer a subsidiary of the Group, restated to exclude hotels in the me region the UK portfolio which is designed to ensure the me region data is not included in this for the reasons stated above.
robust and comprehensive risk assessment years calculations.
and recognition across the business.
these efforts are supported by compliance Last year we also reported that a new 2017 2016 management software, resulting in tighter target had been set to reduce our Absolute Per room absolute Per room control of mandatory activities, inspections absolute scope 1 and 2 operational kWh kWh kWh kWh and the creation of audit trails.
carbon emissions from energy use and 1 1 507,724,416 22,195 491,032,100 21,047 refrigerant losses by an aggregate For added assurance, quarterly reports 1 amount of 10% by 2020, based on a restated to exclude all me region sites data covering health and safety matters are 2015 baseline year.
On a like-for-like also presented to the audit Committee.
basis between 2015 and 2017, we have a number of our hotels have also these provide statistics on incidents and already reduced our carbon emissions implemented an environmental updates on health and safety matters in all by 11%.
We are pleased with this result, management system that is aligned of our operating regions.
as we have achieved the carbon with the requirements of isO 14001 emission reduction target ahead of which requires that each asset has a Respect for our environment schedule.
We intend to review this in framework for identifying and mitigating Energy use due course and set a further stretching environmental impact, as well as having target.
processes for identifying relevant energy consumption is the most significant environmental legislation and ensuring environmental impact of our business and compliance.
we continue to drive operational efficiency Our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, as well and invest in energy efficient plant and as the underlying energy, refrigerant, Recognitions equipment in our hotels.
waste, water and travel data, have been in recognition of adopting sustainable externally verified by an independent third Our LeD light replacement programme practices, a number of our hotels in party, Jacobs U. K. Limited, in accordance continues to be rolled out across our singapore still maintain Green mark with isO 14064-3: 2006 standard.
at a number of our hotels, lift awards, an initiative set up by the Building of the verification statement can be found modernisation works have been carried and Construction authority of singapore at https: investors.
com out or are being planned, new boilers have to encourage environmentally friendly  been installed and building management buildings.
moreover, where hotel to calculate our emissions, we have refurbishments are taking place, we seek to since 2011, we have followed the Greenhouse Gas GhG maximize energy efficiency opportunities.
been reporting our Protocol Corporate accounting and emissions performance reporting standard methodology and the in the UK, as a result of the energy savings annually to the CDPs operational control approach to determine Opportunity scheme esOs undertaken climate change programme formerly the what properties are included within the in 2015, the recommendations identified Carbon Disclosure Project.
Franchise hotels and investment from hotel audits were implemented across the Groups efforts in implementing a range hotels that are managed by third party a number of our hotels and as we prepare of actions to manage climate change, both operators have not been included in the for phase two of esOs, we look forward in our own operations and beyond, we data collation.
HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 20 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLitY COntinUeD well as all waste emissions reported for the first Details of our total carbon footprint are been spread to a large extent across our time this year.
summarised in the table below.
5 restated to exclude all me region sites.
reporting period, the Groups carbon footprint was 254,572 tonnes compared to Our London hotels continue to work in the reporting period, absolute emissions 221,523 last year.
closely with our UK waste contractor to increased by 15% compared to last year improve the recycle facilities in the back due to an increase in the number of waste of house areas and conference rooms.
Global tonnes of CO e 2 emission sources on which we now report.
For example, glass bottles for drinking 2015 Previously reported emissions data were water are provided in the guest rooms and 2017 2016 Base year limited to waste sent to landfill, however function rooms, thereby eliminating the use 1 scope 1 50,024 46,811 47,542 in line with GhG protocol reporting of their plastic counterparts.
By introducing 2 recommendations made this year, we scope 2 144,190 152,626 173,510 this system, we significantly reduce the have reported all emissions from waste Carbon intensity amount of plastic waste that would be management processes including recycling tonnes of CO e 2 generated as well as reducing the carbon room.
includes scope and compost waste, together with emission emissions associated with the production, one, two and three losses from t&D and Wtt emissions transportation and recycling of plastic emissions 11.13 9.50 10.32 associated with the extraction, generation water bottles.
as a result of this, emissions per room has increased by no.
total gross emissions 254,572 221,523 245,341 For 2017 the reported volume of waste increased by 39.97% on an absolute basis 1 if we were to exclude Wtt and t&D D irect emissions from activities owned or and by 44% on a per room basis compared emission losses, our absolute emissions controlled by our organisation that release to last year largely due to a change in total would have decreased by 4% emissions into the atmosphere.
this year where indirect emissions that are a consequence of compared to last year.
data on recycling is unavailable, we have our organisations activities but which occur at assumed that all such waste is landfilled, sources we do not own or control.
Waste and resource use 3 Other indirect emissions that are a so that we account for the highest possible increasing waste diverted from landfill consequence of our activities which occur at impact on our emissions.
this has resulted remains a key focus of our sustainability sources which we do not own or control and in an increase in the amount of waste journey.
By sharing best practice and which are not classed as scope 2 emissions.
defined as landfilled but also gives us 4 W ell-to-tank Wtt and transmission and innovative ideas among our hotels, waste the opportunity to work on improving the Distribution t&D associated emissions, as reduction and recycling initiatives have quality of this data for future reporting.
Relative: Carbon Emissions by Source 2 2017 2016 kgCO e m tCO e Room 2 2 Absolute Per room absolute Per room 180 13.2 14 tonnes to tonnes to tonnes to tonnes to 13.0 12.3 landfill landfill landfill landfill 160 11.5 11.1 12 10.9 1 1 165 10.9 0.32 10,436 0.46 7,456 161 10.1 140 150 141 10 1 120 restated to exclude all me region sites data 130 130 118 116 8 100 Water 80 6 Water is a scarce resource and we 60 recognise that demand for water is likely 4 to surge further in the next few decades: 40 we therefore actively strive and encourage 2 20 our colleagues to conserve water usage throughout our business, particularly where 0 0 we operate in water stressed regions.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 Floor Area kgCO e m Room tCO e room 2 2 HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Annual Report & Accounts 2017 21 Based on the World resources institutes whilst encouraging diversity and equal laid out in our Group Charity policy.
Our analysis of future water stress, we identified opportunities throughout their business.
colleagues have embraced this by helping that 8% of our current operations are in the elderly, homeless, those in hospital and countries facing extremely high water Our selection process for suppliers is people with disabilities.
stress by 2040. stringent and we request and review Below are a few of the initiatives from our information on their reduction of We conduct risk assessments regarding hotel colleagues, who are helping to build packaging, environmental policies and water issues as part of our on-going risk brighter futures in their communities.
sustainable transport plans prior to assessment procedures at our existing contracts being signed.
since 2013, it has Copthorne Tara, London made valentines hotels.
been our aim to assess all new european Day extra special this year by participating suppliers based on their environmental, to further minimise consumption through in a fundraising campaign for the rays labour, corruption and human rights inadvertent water use, we seek customer of sunshine Charity that grants wishes practices.
engagement by encouraging the reuse of to children living with serious or lifetowels.
We also have measures in place threatening illnesses.
With every ask alfred Wherever practical, we purchase products that quickly identify leaks and potential childrens concierge package sold, 1.40 made from local renewable and ethically problems, in addition to providing water was donated to the charity.
specific focus is placed on saving devices in guestrooms and toilets.
a team from the Grand Copthorne using suppliers that reduce emissions and Waterfront, Singapore visited the red air pollution from food miles and our aim Water consumption data Cross home for the Disabled, a residential is to use suppliers with a demonstrable 2017 2016 home for those with multiple disabilities, commitment to sustainable production over two occasions to assist with art Absolute Per room absolute Per room methods.
3 3 3 3 m consumed m consumed m consumed m consumed therapy sessions.
Over 30 employees of 1 1 to demonstrate our commitment to the hotel took time off their busy work 4,582,223 200 4,764,440 204 sustainable sourcing, one of our major schedule to join residents of the home for 1 suppliers in the UK that provides us with a their painting sessions, a creative activity restated to exclude all me region sites data variety of fresh, cold and frozen foods has organised by the home.
committed to reducing its carbon emissions Our water consumption data has been Over 170 donors came forward in a blood by reducing the total distance travelled independently verified by Jacobs U. K. donation drive organised by Millennium by its fleet through the introduction of a Limited.
Sirih Jakarta, Indonesia together with red new vehicle which has separate regulated Cross indonesia and You C1000.
themed Sourcing responsibly varying temperatures in each of its storage a Drop Of Blood, a million Purposes, the compartments.
this, combined with the use as a global hotel company that purchases aim of the drive was to encourage more of the latest driver performance software food and beverage items, linens, donors to come forward, to donate safe and rainwater-harvesting facilities at their amenities, beds and energy, sourcing is a blood for national transfusion needs.
new sites represents a direct investment in complex and often decentralised process.
Participants comprising hotel staff and the sustainability of its operations and in Our suppliers extend beyond 27 countries management, hotel guests and those from the health of the environment.
and span multiple industries, with varied the surrounding offices and communities infrastructure and logistical challenges.
came forward to lend an arm for the Supporting the community We work closely with our suppliers to cause.
a total of 115 bags of blood were We are committed to making positive ensure that their products and services collected during the half-day event.
and lasting impacts on the communities meet the demands of our operations and in which we operate.
Our investment in Millennium Hotels and Resorts New the expectations of our guests.
local communities is fundamental to our Zealand is proud to support ihC, a new We therefore expect our suppliers to business both from an ethical perspective, Zealand organisation providing support demonstrate effective environmental but also as efforts to improve the prosperity and care for people of all ages with management of energy use, greenhouse and wellbeing of our local communities intellectual disabilities and their families.
gas emissions, water use, waste, pollution, will contribute to the stability of the local ihC launched a new programme called resource use and biodiversity.
We tourism industry and therefore to our take a break with us and all of our new also question whether suppliers have resilience as a business.
Zealand hotels participate by donating appropriate corporate governance hotel room nights to nominated full time We actively facilitate employee arrangements in place to operate in carers of people with disabilities.
involvement with charitable partners, as an ethical and sustainable manner HEAD 0 2ND LINE 2ND LINE CONTINUED HEAD 0 1ST LINE HEAD 0 1ST LINE CONTINUED Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 COrPOrate resPOnsiBiLitY COntinUeD in early september, Grand Copthorne Waterfront, Singapore and singapore red Cross jointly organised the Dancing Colours, Bridging Love Charity auction at the hotels Grand Ballroom.
the charity auction showcased 20 paintings for bidding that were completed by residents of the red Cross home for the Disabled as part of their art therapy programme, together with hotel staff.
the auction raised up to s$12,000 in support of singapore red Cross.
the Grand Copthorne Waterfront sales & marketing team supporting painting classes for residents at the red Cross home for the Disabled, singapore earlier this year, the Lakefront Anchorage Hotel, Alaska conducted its quarterly food drive for the alaska Food Bank and collected over 400pounds of food as part of its commitment to community service.
the goal for 2017 was to donate one tonne of food for those in need in the localcommunity.
the Grand Millennium Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia partnered with the Food aid Foundation malaysia to support victims affected by the flood disaster in Penang, malaysia which saw a continuous downpour of over 20 hours causing water levels to rise, trees to be uprooted and homes of residents to be severely damaged.
the hotel supported the charitys relief efforts by donating over 200 pieces of clothing and bedding necessities to the flood victims.
