24 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Sustainability Sustainability is integral to our company strategy.
This is no accident as commercial success cannot be separated from ethical and sustainable business practice.
It is fundamental to achieving our mission to help people progress in their lives through learning.
Two years ago, Pearson adopted its 2020 Sustainability Plan Our material issues sustainability plan.
It provides a framework Our 2020 Sustainability Plan is designed to Our 2020 Sustainability Plan is informed by for the business to focus on the most create value for our learners, shareholders our material issues those most relevant to important ways we can contribute to solving and society.
It is built around three pillars: the sustainability of the business.
They were some of the worlds greatest social and identified following consultation with senior 1.
Be a trusted partner environmental challenges, while helping leaders and employees, external experts to grow and strengthen our business at the 2.
Reach more learners and stakeholders, and a review and same time.
By setting a vision to integrate 3.
Shape the future of learning.
benchmark of current policies and priorities.
sustainability into every aspect of the We then further prioritised nine key issues.
More information on our performance company, the plan continues to guide us will be available later this year when we as we deliver on our business strategy.
These issues represent both opportunities publish our 2017 Sustainability Report.
for growth as well as risks to revenue.
We The plan was designed to reflect the United In this section, we: continue to map these sustainability issues Nations Sustainable Development Goals against our enterprise risk management Set out the key material issues for the SDGs, which together point towards a process.
As part of our risk management company and how these relate to our more equitable, ethical and environmentally process, company-wide risks are tracked risk management process sustainable world.
Of the 17 SDGs, we have across geographies and functions.
Outline how sustainability is governed prioritised Goal 4 on quality education, See Our material issues matrix p26 at Pearson Goal 8 on decent work and economic growth and Goal 10 on reducing inequalities.
Report on highlights from each of the Sustainability governance Quality education is both one of the goals three pillars.
The Reputation & Responsibility Committee, but also a factor underpinning success a formal committee of the Board, provides across all the goals.
As such, a stronger ongoing oversight, scrutiny and challenge on and more sustainable Pearson in turn will both matters relating to our sustainability allow us to help more people progress.
strategy and our corporate reputation.
The Pearson Executive drives implementation of business strategy, including responding to our sustainability issues.
The Responsible Business Leadership Council oversees the development of the strategy on behalf of the Board.
It is chaired by our Chief Corporate Affairs & Global Marketing Officer and comprises senior leaders from across the business.
Skills for jobs Section 2 Our strategy in action 2 25 5 Sustainability Sustainability plan Building a sustainable business is critical to achieving our mission and ensuring our long-term competitiveness.
Our customers, employees, partners and learners expect us to uphold the highest business standards, to continuously enhance the quality of our products and to contribute to their communities.
To help achieve this, we have three sustainability pillars: Be a trusted Reach more Shape the future 1 2 3 partner learners of education D eliver high-quality products and services I mprove access to and affordability of Le verage technology for equitable products and services learning outcomes R espect human rights C ollaborate to reach underserved learners B uild skills that foster employability and D evelop our people and communities inclusive economic growth P rotect our natural environment P romote education for sustainable B uild a sustainable supply chain development E nsure strong governance C ontribute to global research, dialogue and collective action on quality education Our plan aligns with the United Nations SDGs creating better outcomes for 4 Quality 8 Decent work and 10 Reduced customers and society, and stronger education economic growth inequalities financial returns for shareholders.
Deliver high-quality products and services We now have more work to do, and work will begin on training on the new policy early Learners trust and depend on Pearson to Be a trusted in 2018.
This is a first step ahead of policy provide course materials that are relevant, 1 due diligence.
We are also starting work in partner appropriate, inclusive, safe and work well.
partnership with Stonewall on developing Our primary responsibility to learners is guidelines for our UK Schools business through the products and services we sell Pearson has a set of commitments that on how we can make our products more and how we extend our reach.
Our section together define responsible business for us.
on Efficacy p22 describes the progress These are to: we have made in ensuring our products Respect and progress our employees Ensure that our products and services are have their intended learning outcomes.
Our commitments to our people as a inclusive, appropriate in content to the age, A focus area last year was the development responsible employer are to: location and ability of the learner and are and release of a new global editorial policy easy and safe to use and access Inform, support and equip colleagues designed to ensure we consistently publish to work collaboratively Respect and progress our employees and high-quality content and prevent errors provide opportunities for them to get or offensive content.
The policy is global Encourage and reward high performance, involved in their local communities in scope and builds upon both existing nurturing talent and creating a culture editorial principles in operation today where all are able to realise their Respect human rights, including protecting across our business as well as a review individual potential data entrusted to us by learners and our of external guidelines.
More information on our Provide a safe and healthy work approach to data privacy and security This work was happening at the same time environment for our employees and can be found in the Principal Risks as the discovery of inappropriate material in the learners we serve.
See the Principal section p58 our Concepts in Nursing series of textbooks.
Risks section on p54 for more detail on We took immediate action issuing a public how we manage this issue Extend our commitments on human rights apology, removing the offensive material and environmental responsibility to include Help our employees understand how we and offering a free replacement copy to our suppliers, franchisees and other are doing as a company, including how students who requested a reprinted copy.
business partners world and sector trends might affect them.
Deliver against our targets to make more efficient use of resources and on our response to climate change.
26 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Sustainability Our material issues Materiality matrix Learner Economic Data privacy expectations The following matrix shows how we empowerment and security Academic quality mapped our 19 issues, and highlights Competitiveness of digital products the nine that we have deemed to be Progression Summative testing the most material for the purpose of our sustainability strategy.
21st century skills We will evaluate, refine and talk with Accessibility stakeholders about our material issues Security, health on an ongoing basis, in the spirit of and safety Girls and womens continuous iteration and improvement.
Literacy empowerment Affordability and equality Corporate Key to material issues Education for governance sustainable development Lobbying and public policy GHG emissions and Nine material issues climate change in our sustainability plan and reporting Digital infrastructure Corporate functions Societal issues Disruptive Education industry distribution models Environmental issues Degree of control High Medium Low LOW HIGH Business impact Alignment of material issues to principal and other Pearson risks Sustainability report 2016 Annual report 2017 Company-wide Material issues Principal risk risk Business area risk monitoring Disruptive distribution models YES Global Product 2 Core Competitiveness of digital products 2 Growth Affordability 2 North America Environmental, Social & Governance Learner expectations 2 Academic quality 2 Summative testing YES Assessment Core 5 Lobbying and public policy YES Core North America 4 Growth Assessment Data privacy and security YES Global Product North America Legal 12 Core Assessment Tech & Ops Growth Digital infrastructure YES Global Product North America Tech & Ops 8 Security, health and safety YES Core Assessment Tech & Ops 6 7 Growth Environmental, Social & HR Governance Accessibility Assessment Legal Environmental, Social & Governance GHG emissions and climate change Environmental, Social & Governance Emerging risk See Principal risks and uncertainties, p50 LOW Stakeholder concern HIGH Section 2 Our strategy in action 27 27 Sustainability Pearson continues to manage considerable Culture, mission and values The Code was refreshed and last circulated amounts of change both within the business in September 2017.
We make sure everyone Our values to be brave, imaginative, and outside it.
We have introduced new in Pearson is aware of the Code and decent and accountable continue to business models as well as continued our confirms they understand and will comply guide us in implementing our strategy.
investment programme in new platforms with it.
Agreeing to the Code is a mandatory They are embedded into our performance and products to help us simplify and part of the on-boarding process for all new assessment, which means all employees standardise how we work.
We have achieved our are evaluated on and rewarded for acting target of 100% of employees having signed During 2017, we announced additional consistently with them.
plans to achieve annualised cost savings The Pearson Code of Conduct underpins our of 300m by 2020, including a target to Many of the areas covered by the Code values by setting out the ethical, social and reduce the total Pearson team by 3,000. are supported by detailed policies and environmental standards of behaviour we We continue to provide comprehensive procedures.
For example, anti-bribery & expect from employees, and we have a information on the trends behind these corruption, health & safety & safeguarding.
companion code for business partners.
plans, regular communication with extra Learn more about these issues in our detail on the process for affected teams section on Principal Risks p5455.
and consultation as well as support for colleagues leaving the company.
Employee engagement survey Employee engagement remains a consistent priority as we navigate changes to our business.
Last year, each member of the Pearson Executive Management team committed to respond to the key themes highlighted in our 2016 Employee Engagement Survey.
Each Executive developed a plan with progress monitored quarterly.
Highlights from those plans: Aspect Issue Response Career Development More information for employees Over 1,500 employees participated in Career Development Workshops across and Mentoring on how to progress their careers 111 sessions in 27 locations in 23 countries.
Over 100 mentoring relationships at Pearson have been established.
Company Strategy To do more to communicate on our We introduced Discovery Days forums to engage employees on our strategy, products and reporting on progress products and brand and provide workshops to gain new skills.
24 Discovery Days were held in 2017 in 14 countries.
Since 2016, 24% of Pearson employees have attended a Discovery Day.
Learning and More opportunity to develop Academies were launched on Technology, Product, Sales and Finance to strengthen Development functional and management skills expertise and career development.
We introduced Workforce 2020 capabilities defining who we are, how we act and what we do.
These provide guidance on the capabilities Pearson expects.
We launched our Leadership Academy, delivering what leadership looks like at all levels in the organisation.
The Academy offers a range of programmes, resources and support.
It includes a pilot of a new Manager Fundamentals training programme to help prepare new managers for success.
All of the above are available through Pearson U and open to all employees.
In 2017, 25,725 employees took at least one course in Pearson U.
During 2017, we followed up by asking 1,700 Pearson leaders to take an organisational health survey to help us understand areas where we could further boost performance.
Key findings include the following: Aspect: Action taken: Being clear on our strategy Set our three strategic priorities, published a company-wide performance dashboard, appointed a new Chief Strategy Officer and been clear on our priorities as part of our brand focus Accountability and ownership Have been more explicit on expectations of individuals to collaborate and deliver against the strategy Innovation and partnership Invested in new platforms and partnerships Insight Created a global research and insight function Operational excellence Accelerated the investment in centres of excellence, driving efficiency through investment in technology Diversity and inclusion Established a new committee and global team to help us better reflect the communities we serve 28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Sustainability Respect human rights Working with the 30% Club on womens mentorship In 2017, Pearson undertook a review of and empowerment its approach to human rights.
Drawing on the expertise of BSR Business for Social the power of mentoring: and for supporting To support Pearsons commitment Responsibility, we considered how our mentors and mentees to make time for to progressing women within operations, products and services, as well meetings and fully embrace the value of as the activities of our business partners, our organisation and supporting mentoring.
In the same award ceremony, may have a positive or negative impact.
women in leadership, we joined Pearson employee Carol Hill was awarded The work considered the rights of learners, Committed Mentee of the Year Runner Up.
forces with the 30% Club on a parents, employees and contractors, Being a mentee in the 30% Club scheme mentorship programme in the UK.
teachers and educators, customers, supply has been an amazing experience for me.
chain workers and the broader community.
The 30% Club is dedicated to bringing I was paired with a mentor from the banking the percentage of women on Boards industry who acted as an unbiased sounding Pearson also looked at how its policies seek and in executive management up to 30%.
board for me as I tried to work my way to respect human rights standards defined Expanding mentorship for women through my career goals.
by internationally agreed principles: is a key part of reaching that goal.
Carol Hill, Director of Global Product Lifecycle the International Bill of Human Rights: Our Women in Learning and Leadership Implementation at Pearson the International Labour Organization WILL group in the UK worked with the Declaration on Fundamental Principles 30% Club to facilitate a cross-company and Rights at Work: and the United mentorship for talented mid-career Pearson women via a scheme that Nations Guiding Principles on Business began four years ago.
At a 2017 award ceremony, the 30% Club As a result of the human rights review, named Pearson Dynamic Mentoring we have identified priority human rights Organisation of the Year for our work risks and opportunities and have developed around expanding diversity and inclusion: a roadmap to address them.
For more, see for developing events and services to harness the section on compliance in Principal Risks on p59.
Highlights of our activity include: We operate a free, independent, confidential Our Business Partner Code of Conduct sets telephone helpline and website available out our requirements of third parties and, as Expansion of the new global D&I team to anyone who wants to raise a concern.
part of our global approach to procurement, and appointment of a senior leadership We have a clear non-retaliation policy in we include specific obligations relating to role to drive the agenda.
place to encourage people to share the human rights compliance in new and Establishment of a new Executive level issues they have and we ask about how renewed supplier agreements.
We audit committee led by the General Counsel comfortable people are in raising concerns suppliers in high-risk categories in our and Chief Legal Officer to provide in our employee engagement survey.
In 2017, we had 87 concerns 107 in 2016, Around 2,400 employees get involved which were investigated and, where A concern across the value chain is for in our eight global employee resource possible, the outcome shared with the ensuring our activities are free from slavery, networks.
The networks are for women, whistleblower.
As in previous years, the servitude, forced or compulsory labour parents, veterans, Latinos, the LGBT majority of the concerns related to HR and human trafficking.
A statement on the community, generational differences, practices.
Material concerns are reported steps taken by Pearson to combat modern people with disabilities and employees to the Pearson Audit Committee.
slavery was approved by the Board and of black and or African ancestry.
can be viewed on the Pearson website Reached more than 6m people through Diversity, equality and inclusion www.
initiatives such as our #DiscussDiversity At Pearson, we value the power of our Twitter chats As a result of our review on human rights, differences.
Our global Diversity & Inclusion Over 2,400 people completed D&I related we have identified relevant areas of risk D&I programme aims to build a better, training courses and opportunity for Pearson.
These include stronger company for our employees, For a fifth year, achieved a perfect score providing a safe and inclusive environment our learners and the communities we serve.
of 100% in the 2017 Corporate Equality for learners, employees and contractors Index run by LGBT advocacy group as well as analysing how technology and Our commitment is to aspire to maintain the Human Rights Campaign.
We do not a work environment thats inclusive as currently have an overarching human rights well as diverse, in which our people can be policy, although we intend to introduce one themselves.
And we are building a culture in 2018.
We do have policies in place for key of innovation and learning where every elements of human rights including editorial idea and perspective is valued, so that our content, health & safety, safeguarding and products reflect the people we serve data privacy.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 29 29 Sustainability Protect our natural environment Renewables: We maintained our record chain through the purchase of paper and of purchasing 100% of the electricity we the associated carbon emissions.
During Climate change remains a focus for us use from renewable sources and generate 2018, we will consider the extent to which as one of the most serious issues facing our own renewable electricity at five of Pearson should amend its disclosures in the planet and GHG emissions is one of our sites.
light of the taskforce recommendations.
Offset: Since 2009, we have now protected On paper, our focus is on sustainability of over 1,600 hectares of forest.
One of our Minimising our environmental impact is supply, being efficient in how we use paper offset providers the Woodland Trust not just the right thing to do: it helps and on promoting responsible forest has also again provided offsets equivalent deliver cost savings.
We: to those generated by the printing of The environmental impact of our directly this report.
Have a policy on environmental sourcing controlled operations our buildings and of paper Pearson has had an environment policy business travel is low.
Our single most Discuss our approach with suppliers, in place since 1992.
We remain certified significant impact area is energy use and customers, environmental groups against the Carbon Trust Standard for our this accounts for less than 1% of our supply and investors global operations and were the second chain cost.
As such, environmental risk has Are active members of industry ever organisation to secure the standard been considered and does not feature bodies dedicated to responsible which recognises leadership in measuring, as a Principal Risk for the company.
forest management managing and reducing year-on-year carbon Hold Forest Stewardship Council FSC Nevertheless, good environmental emissions.
We also continue to be certified chain of custody in the UK as does LSC stewardship by companies is expected by against ISO 14001, the environmental Communication, our outsource partner stakeholders.
This is why GHG emissions management standard in the UK and in North America, allowing books in those was identified as a material sustainability Australia.
This standard incorporates markets to carry the FSC label.
both internal and external audit.
We will publish full details of our We maintained our climate neutral status The Task Force on Climate-related environmental performance including other for our directly controlled operations Financial Disclosures has published materially important emissions such as a commitment first introduced in 2009. recommendations for voluntary, consistent water use and embedded carbon dioxide Our strategy is for: climate-related financial risk disclosures for in purchased raw materials in our 2017 use by companies.
The biggest impact on Reduction: A 50% reduction in operational Environment Report.
the environment for Pearson is in its supply emissions as at the end of 2017 compared with a 2009 base year.
Key performance indicators Key performance indicators Gender diversity Global Greenhouse Gas emissions data Women in Pearson % Metric tonnes of CO e 2 Pearson works hard to create an environment Emissions from 2015 2016 2017 where women have the opportunity to build Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities careers in all functions and at all management GHG Protocol Scope 1 22,343 19,093 15,691 levels of the organisation.
At Board level, 30% of our members were female Electricity GHG Protocol Scope 2 88,831 77,579 61,047 as at the end of 2017.
As a founder member of Emissions relating to air and rail travel, electricity the 30% Club, we remain committed to the target transmission, waste and water GHG Protocol scope 3 35,644 29,714 27,646 of a minimum of 30% representation of women on the Board.
Total 146,368 126,386 104,384 2015 2016 2017 Intensity ratios 2015 2016 2017 Board of Directors 33% 30% 30% Scope 1 and 2 sales revenue 24.8 21.2 17 Senior leadership 34% 32% 30% Scope 1 and 2 FTE 2.7 2.95 2.53 All employees 59% 60% 61% Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated Two reporting lines from the Chief Executive.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our Over the last two years, we have seen a fall in the consolidated statement.
The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate proportion of women at senior leadership level.
Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the location-based scope 2 calculation method, To help reverse this, we will increase our focus together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources, including, but not limited to, and investment in diversity for 2018.
Our CEO has the UK Department for Business Energy & Industrial Strategy, the International Energy Agency, the US Energy recently become a signatory to the latest 30% Club Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on challenge to reach and maintain a minimum of 30% Climate Change.
The data in the table above has been independently verified by Corporate Citizenship.
representation of women in senior leadership.
In the UK, the government has introduced new regulations designed to help address the gender pay gap.
Pearson has provided information on its gender pay gap in the UK and has made a commitment to extend our reporting globally by 2020.
30 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Sustainability We are taking steps to tackle some of the Ability and access barriers underserved learners face, such Accessibility is one of our nine material Reach more as geographic, cultural or socioeconomic sustainability issues as tailoring the learning 2 obstacles, or personal constraints, such as learners experience to the ability level of the learner the need to balance education with work is a key factor in reaching more learners.
Reaching more learners is integral to both Standards on accessibility for people with For example, products like Revel our our business goals and our sustainability disabilities are evolving.
Focusing on higher next-generation US higher education strategy.
Through growing our business, education, Pearson has adopted a road courseware product help students learn in we can both achieve our financial targets map to invest in integrating accessibility smaller, bite-sized chunks and shorter time and help more people to progress through standards into existing products while periods, so they are able to carve out a few learning.
The commitments we make committing to apply those standards minutes from their busy days or make use are designed to contribute to a quality into new product development.
In 2017, of transition times like commuting when education for all, decent jobs and equality: we announced that we will make 100% of they would not otherwise be able to study.
our digital portfolio accessible for people Expand access to education and make Personalised, adaptive solutions in products with disabilities by 2020. learning more affordable for people like MyLab can identify students who are everywhere, including the most behind and help them stay on track.
As an employer, disability is part of our disadvantaged groups Our inclusive access subscription model wider commitment to inclusion.
We work helps students to access their materials to ensure that appropriate procedures, Harness the power of new technologies at a lower price.
training and support are in place for people to bring education and opportunities with disabilities to ensure fair access to to more people in more places career and progression opportunities.
Work together with charities, teachers, One of our eight employee resource education experts, governments and others groups is Pearson Able its remit is to to tackle some of the biggest education improve company practice for learners challenges related to gender inequality, and employees.
conflicts and emergencies, and illiteracy.
Innovating to address youth unemployment in South Africa Boost aims to address the unemployment Through Tomorrows Markets Incubator, Pearson employee Carolynne challenge for low-income youth, while making Lengfeld, Head of Learning Innovation in South Africa, is leading a team recruitment of high-quality candidates more that has worked to develop Project Boost, a recruitment, job preparation efficient for potential employers.
Unemployed and integration service in South Africa.
young people who participate will receive support and training at no cost and will have access to jobs that offer the chance to build a CV, establish a network of contacts, gain work experience and increase their earnings.
The project is in its early R&D phase and will be piloted with a small group of unemployed young people alongside a number of employers who have shown interest in the service.
The initiative is targeted at young people between the ages of 18 and 34 who are below or close to the poverty line.
This group remains vulnerable in the labour market with an unemployment rate of 37.1%, which is 10.6% higher than the national average.
Pearson aims to replicate the model in other countries in Africa in due course.
The DFID Business Partnership Fund is supporting this project by providing a combination of technical assistance and a financial grant to the value of 225,210 over 20 months.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 31 31 Sustainability Community contribution Our award-winning flagship campaign is Community Social Investment Innovation Project Literacy.
Founded and convened Pearson focuses on a small number of by Pearson, the global campaign brings Project Literacy 3.6m campaigns and issues where, working together not-for-profits and companies Every Child Learning 0.9m together with others, we can both improve with a shared aim of bringing the power access to education for underserved groups Tomorrows Markets of words to the world, by building Incubator 1.2m as well as be relevant to our commercial partnerships and driving action objectives.
We invest in a small number Employee engagement of partnerships, making sure we provide Our people are our best ambassadors other partnerships local gifts 1.5m opportunities for our employees to bring and advocates.
We support them to give their energy and enthusiasm in getting time and money to invest in communities Total 6.0m 1.2m involved in social impact work.
around where they work as well as in good causes around the world.
Our 2017 investment in social innovation and impact was 7.2m or 1.4% of adjusted Additionally, the Pearson Affordable pre-tax profits and included a number Learning Fund invests patient capital in of programmes: independently run, for-profit, education start-ups using innovative approaches Our Every Child Learning partnership with to improving learning outcomes and Save the Children and Tomorrows Markets increasing access, at scale.
Incubator, which supports Pearson employees to develop new products and services, as well as overall business models, to bring high-quality education to learners in low-income and underserved communities.
Our investment in the Incubator seeks to identify commercially viable market opportunities as well as social return Our performance sustainability rankings One way we assess how we are 2017 Gold Class & Media Sector leader doing as a sustainable business 2016 Silver Class is to maintain our position in key 2015 Bronze Class indices and benchmarks of social 2014 Bronze Class responsibility.
This year, we were delighted to be recognised in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices as best in 2017 Yes class for the global media sector.
2016 Yes 2015 Yes 2014 Yes Yes signifies inclusion in FTSE4Good 2017 Yes 2016 Yes 2015 Yes 2014 Yes Inclusion in Global 100 most sustainable corporations Corporate Knights 32 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Sustainability To equip learners for jobs, Pearsons Career There is rising demand from educators for Success Programme aims to meet the the integration of sustainable development Shape the future needs of both colleges and employers by topics into content, courses and curricula.
3 providing a digital suite of assessments, By integrating  content of education learning modules and tools that help into our products, we can explore new students identify career goals and the market opportunities while making a direct The pace of change in education is faster gaps in their academic and career skills contribution to the SDGs and inspiring the than ever before.
next generation to improve their world.
We are collaborating with leading experts We have a responsibility to play our part Delivering the knowledge, skills and in the space to advance education for in shaping a future where learning does understanding students need to prepare sustainability and respond to our even more to foster inclusive and equitable for their chosen career, BTECs can support customer needs.
This means progression to higher or further education ensuring our learners are equipped with or into employment.
Pearson VUE the skills they need to build careers and helps individuals prepare for their next communities, navigate uncertainty, educational or career opportunity address the worlds biggest sustainable through credentials that verify the skills development challenges and thrive in and learning required for a specific job or the 21st century and beyond.
Cutting-edge technology, insights and partnerships will help us deliver.
We contribute to a growing body of research, working with others to together help global education systems better serve the next generation of students.
Pearson and Everglades University prepare learners for careers in green building Upon completion of the course, students earn Pearson has partnered with Through our partnership with certificates that can be featured in the form the USGBC and Pearson, we are Everglades University in the United of digital badges and added to their rsums, improving the quality of our States and the US Green Building demonstrating their education in and course offerings and student commitment to sustainability.
Council USGBC to develop an learning outcomes, thereby Ultimately, this partnership will benefit Introduction to Sustainability digital further educating, training, thousands of students, dozens of university course designed to put students on staff and faculty members, and the community and certifying the future the path to high-demand careers in at large surrounding Everglades Universitys leaders in these growing fields.
green energy and building design.
Kristi Mollis, President and Chief Executive Through a combination of online and Officer, Everglades University hands-on learning, the course improves students preparation for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED certification in growing fields such as construction: alternative and renewable energy: environmental policy and management: land and energy: and crisis and disaster management.
Section 2 Our strategy in action 33 33 Sustainability Helping create An interview with Indika Senadhira, Senior Manager, Software Engineering, the future of learning Pearson Technology Delivery Centre, Colombo, Sri Lanka.
Indika Senadhira IS Senior Manager, Software Engineering Growing the skills of my engineers ensures they can build the best possible solutions to achieve Pearsons goals.
The Technology Delivery Centre What excites you most about the Another way I contribute to the digital work you do at Pearson?
transition is by encouraging a team in one minute culture of continuous learning and IS WHO providing the opportunity for my team The Technology Delivery Centre Im most excited by the continuous to grow.
Growing the skills of my is a team of learning opportunities available at engineers ensures they can build the Pearson that help me to grow in my best possible solutions to achieve 2,230 digital specialists career.
There is a friendly environment Pearsons goals.
and great team culture too, and I often used by program and product feel like Pearson is my second home.
What is your biggest win at Pearson teams across Pearson.
What is your main goal for 2018?
IS IS WHAT I am one of Pearsons home grown My main goal for 2018 is to increase Capabilities include: managers.
I joined eCollege which was the technical and behavioural skills Mobile testing later acquired by Pearson 13 years ago of myself and my teams.
Primarily, as an Associate Software Engineer.
Content Security testing this will help us to contribute more I then moved up in my career to Salesforce Accessibility effectively to the development of highly testing become a Senior Manager.
During that Integration scalable solutions for the business in journey, the biggest win for me has Analytics & Big User interface line with Engineering Best Practices.
Data been acquiring IEng accreditation Digital Marketing How are you helping Pearson in its Oracle with the UKs prestigious Institute of Performance transition to digital?
That has IS opened up the opportunity for me to WHERE learn both professionally and I have three teams working on Operates out of Sri Lanka, academically, as well as contribute Next Generation technology projects India, the US and UK my knowledge to Pearson and to that are used in Revel, eText and wider society.
Those WHEN applications are providing a more sophisticated digital experience for 24 7, 365 our learners and customers.
