Strategic Report | Responsible Business Strategic Report | Responsible Business Being a responsible business We provide energy and services that are at the heart ofour customers lives.
To continue doing that and generate greater value in society over the long term, wefocus on being a responsible business.
This helps us realise our strategy to deliver for the changing needs of our customers andbeatrusted corporate citizen, an employer of choice and a 21st century energyand services company, driving long term shareholder value through returns and growth.
Contents 1m Vulnerable customer householdshelped Caring for our customers Pages 33 to 34 1.6m Connected Home cumulative products sold 10m Investment in training engineers, technicians and apprentices Being an employer of choice Page 35 57,300 Volunteering hours 31mtCO e 2 Enabling the low carbon Customer carbon savings from measures installed since 2008 transition Page 36 19% Total carbon emissions reduction 156m Total community contributions Building strong communities Pages 37 to 38 10m Investment committed to start-ups with innovative energy ideas that benefit society Want to find out more?
Read more about our non-financial KPIs Explore how we do business responsibly and how we engage Pages218 to 220 stakeholders on material issues at centrica.
com responsibility 32 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Caring for our customers We care about our customers and challenge 1.7m ourselves to provide market leading products, Customers who choose to contact usviaour services and solutions that not only satisfy them, digitalplatforms butenhance their lives and business success.
We are investing in our customer service Making lives simpler and smarter capabilities so that we can provide an We are focused on saving our customers excellent service.
time and money, while making it easier for them to understand energy.
In 2017: Smart meters improve bill accuracy and UK Home invested in training and empower customers to reduce their use intelligent call-routing: byproviding insight into how much energy North America Home improved training they are using and its cost in real-time.
and self-serve capability: Since2009, we have led the smart meter Ireland increased training, process roll-out in the UK, installing around five million automation and enhanced customerA growing number of customers are able in homes and businesses.
Building on this, facing IT platforms: tointeract with us when and how they want.
asimpler, no-nonsense British Gas bill will Meet our social media customer service team UK Business strengthened bill accuracy beintroduced during 2018. to see how we are responding to customer and timeliness: and needs in real-time.
We are making it easier for customers to North America Business improved its control and optimise their energy.
In 2017, online customer platform as well as digital weestablished Centrica Innovations journeys for acquisitions.
Watch our video witha100 million investment to build, centrica.
com customerservice Over time, these efforts will help reduce collaborate and invest in purposeful startcustomer complaints and improve ups that will make energy work better satisfaction.
forcustomers by focusing on control, convenience and affordability.
Cumulatively, Read more in Centrica Consumer and CentricaBusiness we have alsosoldover 1.6 million Pages16 to 29 ConnectedHome products that can be Read more in the Business Review controlled conveniently with just a tap on Pages41 to 43 theapp from smart thermostats, plugs, lights andcameras, towindow, door and motionsensors.
Cherry Healey @cherryhealey Does anyone have aHive heating control system?
Sarah Willingham @sarahwillers Yes and yes.
Gets a bit obsessive 26 Jan 2018 89% Customers with smart thermostats who feel moreincontrol over their heating Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 33 Strategic Report | Responsible Business Caring for our customers continued Our award-winning customer service training Powering competitive advantage Helping those in need ensures we identify and support those who Through our Distributed Energy & Power We have worked hard to deliver a fairer, more need a helping hand.
By the endof 2017, fide&P business, we are giving large-scale competitive energy market for everyone, over 21,000 employees had become energy users the power to operate and especially those in need.
Having cut prices Dementia Friends, improving ourability to optimise their energy so that they can use in2016, however, we made the difficult help those living with the condition.
This increases their decision to increase them in 2017.
British supported the development of industry operational resilience and unlocks new Gas electricity prices rose by 12.5% due to guidance that willenable the utility sector sources of revenue for growth.
In 2017, an increase in costs relating to energy policy tobecome dementia-friendly.
wemade it easier to harness these benefits and the delivery to customers homes.
by launching our offer to businesses under Similarly, Bord Gis Energy put up prices Innovative products and services are anew Centrica Business Solutions banner, by5.9% for electricity and 3.4% for gas, creating a better world for people with providing end-to-end customer solutions following a rise in wholesale energy costs disabilities and those in later life.
In 2017 from flexible and local generation, battery and distributing energy to the network.
forexample, we launched a video relay storage and energy efficiency measures, IntheUK, we have set out a range of initiatives service for customers who use British Sign tosmart building management systems to help drive engagement with the energy Language, allowing them to interact with us andenergy trading technologies.
market and ensure customers get a better much more effectively.
This includes closing our standard variable tariff to all new customers and Key sectors in the UK could save millions introducing fixed-term competitive tariffs ofpounds a year if they adopted distributed seepage 18.
1 energy solutions : In 2017, we helped over one million vulnerable customer households through mandatory and voluntary schemes.
540m This included: Industry 667,900 customers accessing bill assistance via the UKs Warm Home 130m Discount scheme and North Americas See how our support can Neighbor-to-Neighbor programme: benefit those in need Healthcare centrica.
com BGET 297,000 customers supported with bill assistance following Hurricane Harvey inNorth America: 310m 26,900 customers and non-customers Hospitality & Leisure helped with debt advice and grants through the British Gas Energy Trust: and 1 Centrica Business Solutions research supported 53,200 households receiving energy byFTI Consulting, Modelling 2017. efficiency improvements via the UKs Energy Company Obligation, while five Read the full report at communities benefited from Irelands centrica.
com economicfuture Better Energy Communities scheme.
This programme has given us a level of awareness I never could have imagined.
Well not only improve our profit margins, but become better corporate citizens and better professionals.
Rafael Ruz Muoz Corporate Brand Director, CMR Chilis A restaurant chain in Mexico who use PanoramicPower sensors, part ofour distributedenergy solutions 34 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Being an employer of choice We want to be the best at attracting and retaining atalented and diverse workforce who are motivated and able to deliver for our customers.
Building skills for the future Embracing workforce diversity Respecting our people We are creating a workforce fit for the future Reflecting the diversity of our customers Our success depends on our people.
by investing in our peoples development and andcommunities in our workforce is vital Thatiswhy we want our people to stay safe providing opportunities thatattract a diverse ifwe are to attract and retain the talent to and why we respect and respond to their array of talent.
We are working hard needs.
We have robust processes in place to become a more diverse and inclusive touphold equal pay and reward our people In 2017: workplace and in 2017, we launched a new fairly, which includes paying at least the 15,000 engineers, technicians and Disability and Wellbeing Employee Network Living Wage in the UK and taking action apprentices enhanced their skills, to complement our other employee toclose the gender pay gap.
We also supported with an investment of more networks.
Business in the Community BITC conduct an employee engagement survey than 10 million intraining: have recognised our efforts in this area, tounderstand how our people feel, so that 5,800 employees seized the opportunity awarding us a Bronze award for our wecan improve our result.
to learn new skills through volunteering, commitment togender and race inclusion.
Read more about our safety performance generating 57,300 volunteering hours: and Page218 Read more about diversity and inclusion 180 young people developed workplace Pages70 to 71 Read more about employee engagement skills on our graduate programmes.
Page31 We are known for our world-class engineering apprenticeships.
We are building on this success by expanding our customer service 0.98 apprenticeships and providing new ones in leadership, management and digital amongst Total recordable injury frequency rate per200,000hours worked 2016: 0.98 other areas during 2018.
We are using our expertise to nurture the skills that our society needs.
Since 2010, View our Gender Pay Statement centrica.
com genderpay wehave reached nearly 562,000 young people with our curriculum-based lesson Hear from our people about what plans, helping to improve skills in the key diversityand inclusion means to them areas of science, technology, engineering centrica.
com ourdiversity and maths STEM.
Over the past four years, we have also helped 1,160 young, unemployed people to secure workplace skills through the Movement to Work scheme.
Around 60% of scheme participants went on to secure permanent employment or further training.
We will provide a further 300 places in 2018.
My main highlight is not only the professional development you get but the personal growth that happens day-to-day.
Mal Prasad HR Graduate Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 35 Strategic Report | Responsible Business Enabling the low carbon transition We are tackling climate change by reducing emissions across our business and providing products and services that lead to a lower carbon future.
Total carbon emissions Helping customers cut Reducing operational impact We have shifted away from being a largetheir carbon emissions 2017 4,103,348tCO e 2 scale energy producer and now emit over More than 90% of our carbon emissions are 1 2016 5,073,320tCO2e 70% less carbon for every pound of revenue associated with the energy consumed by than we did in 2010. ourcustomers.
So the biggest contribution Scope 1 we can make in tackling climate change is In 2017, our total carbon emissions tohelp them cut their carbon by using our 2017 4,044,754tCO e 2 decreased by 19%.
This was mainly due energy efficiency and Connected Home 1 tothe sale of our Exploration & Production 2016 4,986,299tCO e 2 products, alongside the solutions offered business in Canada and two power plants byour fide&P business.
We calculate this has inthe UK.
The average carbon intensity Scope 2 saved our customers nearly 31mtCO2e since ofour Central Power Generation remained 2008 equivalent to the annual emissions 2017 58,594tCO e 2 relatively stable at 125gCO kWh.
Instead 2 ofaround nine million UK homes.
1 ofgenerating power for our customers, 2016 87,022tCO e 2 wewill now predominantly buy it for re-sale Decarbonising the energy system from third parties.
Centrica is revolutionising the way energy Total carbon intensity by revenue isgenerated, managed and consumed, Meanwhile, the internal carbon footprint 2017 146tCO e m 2 byleading the transition to a decentralised ofour property, fleet and travel reduced 1 energy system that enhances grid flexibility, 11%in2017.
The decline was achieved 2016 187tCO e m 2 supports renewables and reduces reliance through planned carbon reduction activities We report on an equity basis with practices drawn on fossil fuels.
alongside headcount reductions arising from fromWRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the reorganisation of our business.
Following IPIECAsPetroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting During 2017, we: GreenhouseGas Emissions and Defras Environmental these changes, we are reassessing our Reporting Guidelines see the Basis of Reporting created Centrica Business Solutions, targets for both carbon intensity of Central atcentrica.
com assurance for full details.
a one-stop-shop for large-scale Power Generation and internal carbon 1 Restated due to availability of improved data.
energy users to harness distributed footprint see page 220. energy products and services: We are a world leader for completed a 3MW battery storage disclosure and action on scheme for Gateshead Council, to help tackling climate change keep the national electricity network and water scarcity inbalance: invested 62 million to acquire REstore, Europes leading demand-response aggregator, enabling us to counter grid imbalance by managing demand from commercial and industrial customers: and launched a 180 million investment programme to build three new flexible power generation facilities and one of theworlds largest battery storage facilities, tomeet peaks in local demand and back-up intermittent renewables.
We are additionally playing an important role in growing the infrastructure needed tolower emissions from transport, having installed around 13,000 electric vehicle charge points since 2013.
Read more about Centrica Business Pages24 to 29 36 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Building strong communities We are increasing the positive impact our presence hasin society by working with communities to address key issues, while contributing to the local economy.
Towards this in 2017, Centrica Innovations Developing local energy markets Collaborating to help communities acquired a stake in LO3, a start-up with Through our fide&P business, we are Our strategic partnerships are building afocus on developing peer-to-peer power exploring the potential for local energy abetter future whether its helping market trading and were involved in the markets to put communities in control of vulnerable households with their energy Brooklyn local energy market in New York.
theirenergy, drive down bills and unlock seepage 34, or tackling bad housing and further renewable generation.
To support these issues in 2017, we invested 156 million inmandatory, voluntary and charitable contributions.
Cornwalls energy ambitions Afurther 10 million has been committed At the end of 2016, we announced a 19 million local energy market trial in Cornwall, UK.
The tostart-ups developing innovative energy three-year trial will test how flexible demand, generation and storage can reduce pressure on ideas that benefit society, helping 38,000 the electricity grid, enable the growth of renewables and avoid expensive network upgrades.
Since then, over 300 homes and businesses registered to get involved and in 2017, we welcomed our first business to the trial a working farm and holiday retreat.
Pioneering Making a difference through our battery storage technology was installed to help them better manage the energy generated flagship partnerships by their solar panels.
In 2018, we expect to roll-out storage and solar panels in 100 homes and commence larger installations of storage, renewables and distributed generation across 15 businesses.
2012 17 We believe our trial will not only help Cornwall realise its energy ambitions, but lead the way for the UK and other countries to do the same.
4m people are expected to benefit from campaigning thatled to changes in law relating to the UKs privaterented sector, including improvements in gasand electrical safety alongside protection from retaliatory evictions 2015Ongoing 1,000 families in Ireland have been prevented from homelessness as a result of our 1.2 million 1 million partnership 2014Ongoing 3.3m lives of children and their families have been improvedacross North America through our supportof local hospitals Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 37 Strategic Report | Responsible Business Building strong communities continued Boosting the economy Being a good corporate citizen If just 50% of the UKs Industry, Healthcare, Our business depends on and creates We are committed to working with integrity and Hospitality & Leisure sectors utilised valuein the communities where we operate.
so that we can maximise the positive distributed energy solutions, the potential During 2017, we generated 1,591million impactwe have in society.
To support this, 2 economic benefits to the UK would be : inwages for our 33,140-strong workforce we launched a new Company-wide set of and we contributed 307 million in taxes.
valuesand a code of conduct in 2017 18.
Wealso spent nearly4 billion on goods Taken together, our Values and Our Code, 18.5bn andservices, supporting 36,000 suppliers demonstrate our commitment to being Gross value added to the economy and thousands of jobs.
aresponsible business and bind us togetherincommon pursuit of our strategy Distributed energy solutions have the and purpose.
potential to generate widespread economic 260,000 benefits.
It is estimated that these solutions Through Our Code, we reaffirmed that we Jobs could help the UK meet decarbonisation will ensure our business partners and third targets more effectively, saving 8 billion parties share our dedication to eliminate 1 ayear by 2030.
Likewise, key sectors could bribery and corruption.
We do not condone save millions of pounds each year while 1.5% boost any payments we feel to be improper and boosting the economy see page 34. take particular care when offering or Economic output receiving gifts and hospitality.
We prohibit all forms of fraudulent conduct or dishonest 2 Centrica Business Solutions research supported 1 National infrastructure commission, behaviour and will report any serious matters byFTI Consulting, Modelling 2017.
September 2016. to the relevant authorities.
We also set out that we respect and uphold the fundamental Read the full report at human rights and freedoms of everyone centrica.
com economicfuture whoworks for us, with us or lives in our local communities.
Aspart of our response to the Modern Slavery Act in the UK, wehave taken action to reduce risk relating to forced or compulsory labour in our business and supply chain.
In 2017, we assessed 138 suppliers on theirsocial, ethical and environmental standards to guard against risks such as human rights and bribery and corruption.
This resulted in an average supplier sustainability score of 56 low risk, which isbetter than the multi-industry average of44 medium risk.
If suppliers receive a medium or high-risk rating, we will consider appropriate next steps which may include collaborating to raise standards or ending our relationship and reporting the abuse.
Read more about our Values and Our Code centrica.
com ourcode Read more about our Modern Slavery Statement centrica.
com modernslavery 38 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
