Strategic Report 32 Corporate Responsibility We recognise that to be successful in achieving our strategy of underpinned by Group-wide programmes at supervisory and team sustainable profitable growth it is essential that we act responsibly leader level.
Our aim is to continually develop our Group leadership in all our businesses and towards all people who are stakeholders and management capabilities across all levels of the organisation, in them: our employees, our customers and suppliers and the enabling all our managers to effectively motivate and co-ordinate communities in which we operate.
the teams in their business.
Work has commenced with non UKbased subsidiaries to develop the same kind of SPTM programmes.
The Group is committed to implementing the correct policies and procedures relating to the sustainability of the environment and to Group learning and development strengthening our talent pipeline the successful delivery of an effective health and safety system, as Alongside these management development programmes, individuals well as ensuring that the people connected with the Group behave are encouraged to undertake appropriate specialist technical and in the right way, complying with all local legal and regulatory personal development opportunities appropriate to their roles and requirements.
aspirations and in line with organisational strategy.
Board level responsibility At a local level, individuals also undertake specialist technical skills Derek Muir, the Chief Executive, is the Director responsible for the development, pertinent to their roles including qualifications in Corporate Responsibility CR performance of the Group and is health and safety, project management, finance and accountancy, supported by the operating Directors in achieving compliance with construction and engineering.
the Groups policies, primarily through: Engagement and opportunity is also provided through: Communication across the businesses: Offering share ownership within the Group through the Implementation of supporting principles: and employee Sharesave Schemes, which currently have circa 700 employees participating: Monitoring performance and improvements.
Support with education, leading to recognised professional and Our operating Directors are supported in this by the Groups academic qualifications: employees, who are encouraged to contribute positively to the communities and environment in which we do business.
Health and safety training: Our people Anti-bribery, international competition, Modern Slavery and the The Group recognises the need for successful businesses to Groups Code of Business Conduct CBC training: deliver a good service and product and this can only be done by Opportunities to enhance individual knowledge and skill required developing, supporting and maintaining the right staff to provide for the employees position, which includes new procedures and this.
Appropriate resources and support to maintain the required policies: and standards of performance and conduct expected of employees are provided.
This is only achieved through the provision of training and Communication through the Groups website and intranet site.
career development opportunities, promoting a forward thinking, Diversity and inclusion proactive and creative working environment to engage and motivate The Group is committed to equal opportunities and fairness and employees.
Investing in our people development framework helps to policies, practices and regulations for promotion of equal ensure we create a skilled and motivated workforce that will opportunities in recruitment, training and career development.
positively impact on our future success.
As the Group has a global presence, these are appropriate for the Succession planning and talent management local areas of operation.
This includes a zero tolerance approach to In 2015 we commenced our Succession Planning and Talent discrimination, bullying and harassment.
All our policies promote the Management SPTM programme for managers across all principles of fairness and equal opportunities.
subsidiaries, to nurture the talent within the Group and ensure we The current policy on diversity can be found on the CR section of the are retaining and developing our leaders of the future and this has website.
developed over the last two years.
Part of this process, in 2017, was for all Subsidiary Boards to identify the senior managers within As at 31 December 2017, the Group-wide split of male and female the Group who would succeed them on their subsidiary board as employees is shown in the charts opposite.
Gender Pay UK subsidiaries have also engaged positively with the SPTM process Gender pay reporting legislation requires employers with 250 or more and recognise the need to address succession considerations, employees to publish statutory calculations every year showing how talent management and staff development to enable ongoing large the pay gap is between their male and female employees.
The SPTM programme has supplemented and legislation affects three of our UK Subsidiaries: Birtley Group Ltd, a or formalised existing arrangements for some companies: for galvanizer and construction business: Joseph Ash Ltd, a galvanizing others it has introduced a new approach to explore succession business: and Hill & Smith Ltd, a roads barrier manufacturer.
planning and learning and development more generally: whilst The gender pay gap data, which can be found on each companys others are still relatively recently adopting the process as a result of ongoing expansion and restructuring.
A number of management website via http: www.
co. uk, shows the difference in the average pay between all men and women in a workforce and is and leadership programmes have been co-ordinated since the SPTM launch an executive level development programme, different to any equality of pay, which deals with the pay differences culminating in the IOD Corporate Director qualification: a senior between men and women who carry out the same jobs, similar jobs or work of equal value.
management leadership programme and a first line management development programme sponsored by the Institute of Leadership and management ILM.
All these programmes additionally enable managers to undertake recognised management qualifications as part of their studies.
These management programmes are www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 33 Behaving correctly The Group is committed to conducting its business activities responsibly, ethically and in accordance with the laws and Number of PLC Board regulations applicable to the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Directors: The Board has introduced training and education programmes for Male & Female split employees, relating to compliance including export controls and economic sanctions and competition antitrust legislation.
Our CBC Male 5 sets down the guidelines by which we expect our business to be Female 1 conducted and this is supported by a set of global policies issued through the Group intranet and internal communications.
The CBC covers areas such as health and safety, fair honest and ethical business practice, gifts and entertainment, conducting international business, protection of individuals, resources and assets and at a high level summarises the Groups legal and compliance responsibilities in areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, export laws and regulations and international fair and open competition.
The CBC also extends to the handling and minimisation of conflicts Number of other of interest and the protection of the Groups valuable intellectual Directors: property rights.
Male & Female split The Groups written policy states that if any employee has reasonable grounds to believe that the Groups CBC policy or internal Group Male 71 policy is not being adhered to by any person or group of people, he or she is able to contact Senior Management within their business Female 3 or, if necessary, the Group Company Secretary or the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Should individuals wish to raise concerns or adverse behaviours anonymously they are able to do so via an externally-hosted whistleblowing facility the Reporting System.
The Reporting System is operated in conjunction with a whistleblowing policy annually approved by the Audit Committee and comprises both an online web-based reporting module as well as a phone line option in the language of the individual raising the concern.
The policy gives assurance that issues will be investigated Number of senior and resolved in accordance with the principles of the CBC.
managers in the Group: The CBC is designed to ensure that as a Group, all subsidiary Male & Female split companies act ethically, honestly, with integrity in their business activities as well as in a legally compliant manner, and applies to everyone who is engaged by the Group anywhere in the world, Male 182 whether they are employees or third parties.
Consequently, the Group has implemented a set of procurement standards, which seeks to Female 19 ensure that the Group and its subsidiaries mitigate any risk stemming from its supply chain and is able to leverage the economies of scale a group of its size, composition and structure can hope to expect.
However, the CBC is not designed to supersede detailed Group policies but rather to supplement and summarise the Groups compliance initiatives, its behavioural and ethical standards, as well as to give the relevant assurances in respect of the Groups key corporate, legal and social responsibilities.
As in previous years, each business is required to certify its Total number of compliance with the policies issued by the Group during the year and employees in the Group: in particular with the CBC.
Male & Female split Male 3,538 Female 346 www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 34 Case Study Hostile Vehicle Mitigation deployment on London Bridge On 4th June 2017 the Metropolitan Police requested that Hardstaff Barriers Ltd supply and install Hostile Vehicle Mitigation HVM barrier systems to protect eight Thames Bridges with immediate effect.
Barriers were delivered into London on that same evening.
This project was delivered through the National Barrier Asset Framework where Hardstaff Barriers operate as one of two HVM contractors.
Over the following week HVM products were installed on London bridges over the Thames at Westminster Bridge: Vauxhall Bridge: Lambeth Bridge: Waterloo Bridge: Blackfriars Bridge: Southwark Bridge: Tower Bridge and London Bridge to protect and keep people safe.
The rapid delivery of these key installations across London within a short timeframe astonished many stakeholders and exceeded expectations.
Images Top Hostile Vehicle Mitigation products installed on Vauxhall Bridge, London.
Bottom Varioguard barrier installed on Blackfriars Bridge, London.
Find out more about the company at www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 35 Human rights Procurement controls The Group is committed to treating all people, whether employed The Group is further developing its procurement systems to enhance directly by the Group or its subsidiaries or employed in its supply and embed best practices in purchasing activity and during the year chain, fairly and equitably and we are committed to upholding their continued to look at how the Modern Slavery Act impacts upon its human rights.
The Group recognises all individuals basic human supply chain.
rights and is committed to respecting the Universal Declaration Health and safety for Human Rights in the design of diversity practice and its ethical Minimising the risks to our workers remains a key commitment across approach to employees, suppliers and customers.
To protect the health, safety and welfare of everyone, all its worldwide subsidiaries respect the human rights of all those the Group continues to adopt various measures to maintain a safe working for or with us, and of the people in the communities where working environment, to ensure work related risks are effectively we operate.
We will not knowingly do business with companies, identified controlled, that our monitoring regimes for health and organisations or individuals that we believe are not working to at safety help to spot issues at the earliest opportunity and that lessons least basic human rights standards.
Our Group companies will also are learnt from any events that do occur.
comply with all applicable wage and working-time laws and other laws or regulations affecting the employer employee relationship The importance of safety culture, personal responsibility and keeping and the workplace.
an eye out for anything dangerous forms a key part of our Group objectives.
Sites continue to work alongside our external health We oppose the exploitation of all workers, particularly children and and safety consultant to assist the Group in achieving its objectives young people and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour which around health and safety.
involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment or intimidation of any kind and we will not employ child labour in any of our Our systems for controlling occupational health and safety risks operations.
Nor will we permit the exploitation of, or discrimination continue to be focussed on: third-party support including a against, any vulnerable group.
We support fair and reasonable programme of external audits, a compliance based software solution rewards for workers, with wages reflecting local norms and they and in the UK, the quarterly safety forum meetings.
must meet or exceed any legal minimum wage levels.
The UK safety forums, which are attended by dedicated health and The Board is committed to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and has safety representatives for each site, are continuing to ensure that continued to support a number of policies and initiatives commenced best practice is shared, that practical solutions to common issues during 2016 to supplement the Groups existing compliance controls are evaluated and that overall sites are working to a set of common in respect of anti-slavery and human trafficking.
This successful forum approach of sharing best practice is adopted a zero-tolerance approach to modern slavery and human being extended to our US operations in 2018. trafficking and, in conjunction with strengthening our supplier due The Safety Cloud compliance tool continues to assist in the reporting diligence activities and human resources procedures, in 2017 the of incidents, tracking of actions from third party audits, close out of Group requested Hope for Justice, a charity dealing with the effects safety related inspections audits and sharing of information through of human slavery, to conduct a survey of some of our UK subsidiaries the dissemination of safety alerts and bulletins.
in order to assess the potential of exposure to modern slavery.
Pleasingly the companies audited were assessed as low risk.
In January 2018 we also undertook an internal audit of our Bergen Pipe Supports business in India and concluded that there were no issues that should concern the Group.
The Group is also committed to maintaining a safe and productive environment, free from harassment in which all individuals are treated with respect and dignity and we expect all our employees and individuals that work on our sites to follow our health and safety policies and procedures and be free from substance abuse at all times.
Regulatory compliance The Group deploys an Anti-Bribery & Corruption Programme which includes policies, training and due diligence of all third parties with whom the Group engages.
The provision and receipt of gifts and entertainment is tolerated within considered parameters which align with the Groups legal obligations.
Procedures and controls are deployed to monitor such activity across the Group.
The Group benefits from a Competition Law compliance programme which includes a manual, on-line training and auditing via simulated dawn raids, to which the whole Group is subject.
The programme is based on requirements of UK law with local variations applied to non-UK businesses.
The Group continues to operate a Sanctioned Countries Policy in line with its legal and financial obligations using restricted party screening software.
Additional protocols have also been provided to certain subsidiaries to ensure they meet all international obligations when trading in sensitive geographical areas.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 36 Corporate Responsibility continued Summary of health and safety objectives for 2017 Objectives Outcomes Continued rollout of the safety culture assessment to Following the first survey in the UK in 2016, our sites have been implementing newly acquired businesses and our overseas operations their respective action plans to address the findings and further improve culture at and utilise the findings of the 2016 culture assessment all levels.
Newly acquired UK businesses will participate in a full UK survey that is to drive improvements in how we deal with health and to be repeated in 2018, and for our overseas operations, key findings from the UK safety on a day to day basis and how we can encourage have been shared and we are continuing to explore the practicalities of extending a better understanding of the behaviours and attitudes of the survey to our non-UK operations.
Specific initiatives will be driven from within each site to reflect the findings from their individual surveys.
The continuation of the external audit programme, For UK sites, 2017 has seen a consistent level of performance when compared to with current scores to be maintained or improved, as 2016, which was our best year since an audit rating was introduced.
ATA in Sweden and Creative Pultrusions in the US showed that significant progress has been made since the previous audits.
Baseline audits for Bergen Pipe Supports India and recent US acquisitions Novia & Kenway have helped them to develop more focussed action plans.
An ongoing drive to encourage better reporting of near A number of UK sites have been piloting Dont walk by and safety observations misses and non-injury related events and a further review initiatives in an attempt to get operatives to be more aware of their work of the way accident data is collated to provide a more environment and their actions.
The importance of an open culture of reporting meaningful measure based on employment rate.
near-misses and close-call events continues to be widely publicised.
Further development of key performance indicators to link Preliminary discussions over how the UK sites can link their existing performance incident rates, health and safety audit performance and have been part of the last safety forum in 2017. the results of the culture survey.
The Group companies work actively to effectively manage health and safety, evidenced by the following initiatives: Ongoing attainment of OHSAS 18001 certification by Hill & Smith Ltd, Asset International Limited, Variable Message Signs, Mallatite Ltd, France Galva and Asset Varioguard VRS : Within the Joseph Ash Group, additional sites have been certified to OHSAS 18001 with a view to remaining sites attaining it by the end of 2019: Birtley Group, Technocover and Bergen Pipe Supports India BPSI have started their OHSAS 18001 journey and are expecting to achieve certification in 2018: Joseph Ash Galvanizing once again received a RoSPA Gold Medal in recognition of their safety performance and involvement of the workforce: A number of subsidiaries continued to maintain their Achillies supplier HSE accreditation, which is a national registration scheme allowing companies to be assessed to work in the Infrastructure sector: Following on from 2016, which saw a number of UK subsidiaries launch drug and alcohol awareness campaigns with a supporting policy and random monitoring, other sites are now adopting a similar approach to help ensure the impact of social use of drugs and alcohol is better understood: and Technocover were asked to present a session on hand-arm vibration at a Health & Safety Executive organised event in North Wales, outlining how the issue could be practically dealt with.
This also built on various other UK subsidiaries introducing real time monitoring and data trackers for hand-arm vibration exposure.
This has helped greatly in operatives being able to control their own levels of exposure.
MidGuard C1, a tubular median barrier installed by ATA on the E20 at Hova, Vstergtland, Sweden.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 37 A collection of safety signs displayed at BPSI, Andhra Pradesh, India.
Incidents Encouraging the open reporting of accidents and incidents continues to be a prime objective.
In the UK, more effective near-miss reporting is leading to a much better appreciation of working safely and keeping work areas clean and tidy.
We intend to undertake further work in this area to ensure a more open and active reporting culture around close-call and near-miss events.
For 2017 the Group received, on a like-for-like basis, 503 accident reports, 2016:509.
Allowing for acquisitions which have now been included in the Groups health & safety regime the injury rate per 100,000 employees remains unchanged: however days lost due to accidents fell from 178 in 2016 to 123 in 2017.
Audits The externally managed health and safety audit programme continues to show that sites are demonstrating a high level of health and safety management and adherence to safe working practices.
In the UK for 2017 this showed that existing sites were maintaining a good level of performance and newly acquired sites had improved their rating by more than 50%.
Those overseas subsidiaries that were audited, also showed a good level for performance and improvements being made year on year, both in terms of general working conditions risk management and specific safety initiatives.
2018 health and safety objectives In the forthcoming year our efforts in promoting a safe and secure workplace will continue with specific focus on: In the UK, the safety culture assessment tool will be re-run to provide us with a comparison on how the safety culture across the businesses is improving.
In the US, an inaugural Safety Forum will be held, in April 2018, bringing together, for the first time, key health and safety teams from across our US subsidiaries who will be sharing best practice, discussing common issues and agreeing the way forward for safety performance and auditing.
The continuation of the external audit programme, with current levels to be maintained or improved, as appropriate.
An ongoing drive to encourage better reporting of near misses and non-injury related events and a further review in the way accident data is collated to provide a more meaningful measure based on employment rate.
Sustainability and the environment The Group places a high priority on meeting its environmental sustainability responsibilities within the geographies in which it operates.
Each business has an appointed Energy Champion who is responsible for ensuring that the Groups policies on energy and the environment are promoted throughout its operations.
All employees are encouraged to report energy savings and recycling ideas to their local energy champion, and the Group contributes information and data to the Carbon Development Project, a programme designed to tackle climate change.
In 2017, the Group continued to measure its water and energy usage and monitor the disposal of its waste products, paying particular attention to the recycling of materials.
Different geographies have different attitudes to waste disposal and recycling and the Group is committed to A permanent installation of ZoneGuard Fonocon, installed by ATA, on the E18 outside of Karlstad, Sweden, at a police and customs vehicle inspection site.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 38 Corporate Responsibility continued seeking ways to motivate its businesses to adopt an  approach to these activities.
We utilise the services of CMR Consultants CMR, an independent energy management consultancy who liaise with all our subsidiaries to collect, collate and verify this data.
A programme of environmental audits is carried out on a regular cycle, by an independent third party, to monitor individual company performance and to assist the Group in reducing its environmental impact on an ongoing basis.
In addition, during the year our UK-based Group companies conducted energy audits at their premises, in accordance with the Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme.
Recommendations were made following these audits and these were discussed at the Companys inaugural Energy Forum meeting in November 2016, where the subsidiary Energy Champions shared experiences and best practice, and discussed actions to identify energy savings opportunities, how to drive forward their implementation, and whether such plans should be developed on a local basis or sponsored by the Group.
These meetings have continued in 2017, where discussions have also centred on the best way to share knowledge and information.
Our UK operations are also committed to working towards compliance with the ISO 14002:2004 standard, which is awarded to companies that operate to an accepted environmental government standard.
A programme of audits has been agreed for our UK businesses, with companies monitoring their environmental impact on a day-to-day basis.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions The Groups GHG emissions continue to be constantly monitored, so that we can improve upon our use of energy, water, recyclable and nonrecyclable resources, ensuring long-term environmental and business sustainability and creating long-term value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
We recognise that our business can have a direct and indirect effect upon the environment.
The data provided below illustrates how our carbon footprint is created by our businesses, allowing us to monitor the impact of our operations on the environment and make improvements where feasible.
Group emissions Group emissions Group emissions Group total emissions by scope 2017 2016 2015 Gas and oil usage 34,468.28 37,061.92 33,557.46 Commercial and business miles driven 10,611.17 8,284.80 7,104.59 Purchased electricity 22,574.98 21,950.87 23,146.75 Water and waste 472.20 869.10 466.07 Total tCO e 68,126.63 68,166.69 64,274.87 2 Total turnover 585.1m 540.1m 467.5m Intensity Ratio 0.116 0.126 0.137 For the UK and overseas data, the Group has decided to measure the GHG emissions using the Group total turnover, as the intensity ratio IR.
The IR is measured as the total tonnage of emissions, stated as carbon dioxide equivalent CO e per 1,000 turnover.
2 Water consumption After a few years of reported reduction in water consumption, the Groups consumption in 2016 rose by 13.6%, but pleasingly the Group has responded to this increase and in 2017 water consumption fell by 7.4%.
When measured against Group revenues in much the same way as CO e 2 emissions the water consumption ratio fell by 14.7%.
Group water usage 2017 volume 2016 volume 3 3 UK water usage 36,001 m 39,737 m 3 3 Overseas water usage 55,475 m 59,034 m 3 3 Total usage 91,476 m 98,771 m Ratio per 1,000 of Group turnover 0.156 0.183 Waste management During the year the Group significantly improved its management and reporting of waste disposal at its UK sites, particularly at Medway Galvanizing where, data had previously been misinterpreted.
The information received will be reviewed to determine how waste output can be reduced or recycled and to identify new opportunities to improve our manufacturing processes.
This collation of data has not only enabled us to improve the recycling opportunities presented to the Group, but also to lower waste output.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 39 Waste quantities Overseas volume Commodity UK volume 00s ltrs 00s ltrs Liquid waste 12,663 3,417 Acidic waste like-for-like 5,257 5,218 Commodity UK tonnes Overseas tonnes Waste to landfill 1,793 2,611 Recycled waste 8,320 12,416 Total waste inc. landfill 10,113 15,027 The Group discourages waste to landfill, using expert waste disposal companies to dispose of such waste and to recycle it wherever possible.
For example, some of our plastic waste is recycled into new products and alternative bio-energy sources and a large proportion of our waste acid is reprocessed and recycled into other waste treatment processes.
Within the UK, the Group complies with the Producer Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 2007 as amended in compliance with the European Union Directive.
The Group provides evidence to Wastepack, an organisation that provides confirmation to the UK government that the Group is continuing to meet UK recycling and recovery standards set by Defra.
Community Although the Group does not have a Group-wide programme in place to support specific charities or communities, it remains committed to encouraging its subsidiary companies to fully engage with their local communities.
The Group values its relationship with the local stakeholders and the support it receives from them.
In the UK, Asset International Ltd contributed to the delivery of a Sensory Room for autistic children at a local primary school, see page 40, whilst Joseph Ash Ltd galvanized a series of signpost interpretation panels to be situated amongst Folkestone Warren to highlight points of interest for visitors to the trails.
The Warren is an area of outstanding natural beauty along the Kent coastline.
Visitors to the area can enjoy the stunning beach and the majestic views of the White Cliffs, as well as walks through woodland and fields, passing interesting sites such as Napoleonic Martello Towers and the ruins of a Roman villa.
An intrepid band of Technocover employees ran the Lake Vyrnwy Half Marathon in September 2017.
On the wet and windy Sunday afternoon the team set off to raise money for Hope House Childrens Hospices, a charity that cares for children with serious health conditions across Shropshire, Cheshire, North and Mid Wales and a charity that has long been supported by Technocover.
Hill & Smith Ltd supports a number of charity events throughout the year, including Red Nose Day: the British Heart Foundations WEAR IT.
BEAT IT: Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
In the US our colleagues at Creative Pultrusions participated in an annual Softball Tournament held in August of each year to raise funds for We CARE Foundation.
This foundation assists programmes in Blair County, Pennsylvania that focus on therapy services for children between the ages of 0 to 21 years old, including Occupational Therapy, Physical Therapy, and Speech and Language Therapy.
The We CARE Foundation is also supporting adult programmes that offer therapy services to patients with symptoms of Stroke, Parkinsons Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, brain injury and other neurological conditions.
100% of all funds raised are directed to these children and adults that live in and around Blair County.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 40 Case Study Sensory den for autistic primary school pupils Asset International Ltd, a subsidiary based in Newport, South Wales, the nature of our work, we were well placed to deliver the project, is the UKs leading manufacturer of large diameter plastic pipe which we created in collaboration with the school to ensure the den solutions.
Using Weholite, a large diameter gravity low pressure was effectively designed with the children who would be using it structured wall pipe made from high density polyethylene HDPE firmly in mind.
resin, the company utilises advanced product technology to create The new den, named the Cwtsh, will combine a range of stimuli, lightweight engineered pipes with superior loading capacity that are including different lights, colours, sounds and textures to provide used extensively throughout the water industry, in flood defence children with additional educational needs within a safe and and sewerage projects, and more recently, in the renewable energy comforting environment to explore their senses and build up their sector, providing pipework for air-ground heat exchangers and large confidence and abilities.
It is hoped that regular access to the Cwtsh scale anaerobic digestion chambers for the biogas industry.
will enhance pupils concentration and focus, improve alertness and In 2017 the company engaged on a project with a difference!
social communication skills, as well as providing a calming effect to enable them to thrive both in and out of the classroom.
During the year the company designed and built a unique project using state-of-the-art technology usually used for underground Asset International worked with other local companies to fit out and water pipes.
Using their 3.5m diameter Weholite pipe they helped deliver the den, which was officially opened in September 2017. to build and subsequently donate a sensory den to Machen Primary School in Caerphilly after being moved by the fundraising efforts of a parent of one of the autistic children at the school.
Neil Bryan, Finance Director at Asset International, whose children also study at Machen Primary school, said: On hearing about the incredible achievement and perseverance towards fundraising, we were keen to support the project in whatever way we could.
Given Find out more about the company at: www.
co. uk Image Sensory den at Machen Primary School made from Weholite 3.5m polyethylene pipe.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 41 41 41 G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce R Rep epor ort t Governance Report 43 Chairmans Introduction to Governance 44 Board of Directors 46 Governance Report 55 Nomination Committee Report 56 Audit Committee Report 62 Remuneration Committee Report 63 Directors Remuneration Report 77 Directors Report other statutory information 80 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Bristorm Zero Hostile Vehicle Mitigation HVM perimeter fence Maaden Phosphate Plant, Umm Wual.
See further information at hsholdings.
com | Stock Code HILS Governance Report 42 42 Tower Tech cooling towers being installed on the roof of 340 On The Park, the second tallest all-residential tower in Chicago, Illinois.
