Vesuvius plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Health and Safety Vesuvius remains fundamentally committed to protecting the health and safety of employees, contractors, visitors, customers and any other persons affected by our activities.
Our approach to health and safety is based on the following beliefs Good health and safety Safety is everybodys Working safely All work-related is good business responsibility is a condition of injuries and workemployment related ill-health are preventable Health and safety is one of Vesuvius core This goal is pursued through a range of Every business facility has an appointed principles, and our commitment to health policies, standards and procedures, health and safety manager, who works and safety is embedded throughout the which are reviewed and updated on an with management and all employees organisation.
The Vesuvius ethos is to ongoing basis.
In 2017, the accident and to review site health and safety, assess identify, eliminate, reduce or control all incident reporting, personal protective training needs and develop and workplace risks and an ongoing system equipment, road vehicle and machine implement site safety improvement of training, assessment and improvement safety standards were all reviewed and plans.
These local health and safety is in place to focus on achieving this.
updated to maintain their relevance to managers are assisted by a central the current Vesuvius risk pro le.
team of experts who not only identify adverse trends and respond to them, Safety Leadership but also enable the sharing of best Health and Safety Safety performance remains the first practice across Vesuvius.
item on the agenda at all our Group Health and safety is regarded as a core In 2017, a thorough review was Executive Committee and management management responsibility, with meetings, and safety performance is executives and line managers directly undertaken of the operation of the healt th h and safety function in Vesuvius.
Follo ow wi ing ng reported to the Board by the Chief responsible for health and safety matters Executive as a matter of priority at each in the operations under their control.
this review, the function was restructu ur re ed d with the creation of a new position of Board meeting.
Any site experiencing This tone from the top is demonstrated a serious dangerous occurrence or by the requirement for all senior Group Vice President Quality, Health a an nd d Safety and the restructuring of centra al l medically treated injury is required to managers to perform executive safety carry out a full 8D investigation and tours, report on their findings to local functions.
The Vice President QHSE w wi ill ll be responsible for setting the Groups incorporate the findings into their site operations management and follow improvement plan.
The Group Executive up on improvement requirements.
policies for quality and safety and controlling their application, with the Committee reviews the more serious Management is accountable for health incidents and the responses from the and safety performance against business units taking full responsibility f fo or r their implementation and accountabilit ity y sites.
The Group remains fully committed objectives and all employees understand to continuing safety improvement with a that they have a responsibility to take for performance against them.
A new safety auditing team will be established, d, Group health and safety policy stating care of themselves and others whilst at a clear goal of: work.
We expect everyone to participate to develop and maintain policies and standards, improving them in the light positively in the task of preserving workplace health and safety.
of external and internal changes on a No lost time injuries No repeat injuries No harm to our people or contractors Our Responsibility 61 consistent Group-wide basis.
In addition, Turbo S this team will systematically audit Group The current phase of the Safety Breakthrough Employees are routinely engaged in safety locations worldwide, including customer initiative Turbo S builds on the foundation of audits locations, against these policies and Safety Breakthrough and includes a strong We invest signi cantly in safety training for standards, providing recommendations focus on the standardisation of all our repetitive all employees, irrespective of their roles and activities.
Turbo S also integrates good on improvements and assisting the functions within our business management practices in the workplace, with a locations with their implementation.
All employees are expected to routinely strong emphasis on the need to implement an raise and implement safety improvement organisation which enables everybody to work to Health and Safety Policy opportunities: we focus on the number of the same high standards in safety performance.
implemented ideas As part of the continuing Turbo S initiative: All employees are expected to adhere Safety standards are continually updated, Senior executives regularly lead safety tours to the Groups health and safety policy.
translated and deployed throughout Vesuvius at all locations A copy of the policy signed by all All injuries and dangerous occurrences are Severe accidents are formally reviewed by the members of the Group Executive analysed locally, with a formal presentation of Group Executive Committee Committee is translated into local findings, root causes and improvement actions cascaded through management.
languages and displayed prominently in all locations.
Safety Breakthrough Training Employees to Work Safely Vesuvius has developed machinery Safety Breakthrough is Vesuvius global safety training with an outside industry Turbo S training pulls together all initiative to reduce the number of leader, Pilz GmbH & Co, a company Vesuvius good safety management accidents, res and lost time injuries, and specialising in safe automation practices that are aimed at enabling all to increase safety awareness through technology.
We are now extending Vesuvius employees to work in a safe greater employee engagement.
Our aim recognised best practices throughout environment.
Using a train-the-trainer is to raise health and safety performance the Group through a series of machinery approach, Turbo S training sessions are to best-in-class levels throughout the assessments and training programmes.
tailored to the audience and their activities.
Safety Breakthrough For example, there is a special training Working Safely sets a goal of attaining the lowest level course developed for customer locations of accidents within our industry sector The executive safety tours carried out by that focuses speci cally on the risks faced with the ultimate goal of reaching zero senior managers provide visible safety by our employees at our customers accidents throughout Vesuvius, as leadership on the shop oor in Vesuvius premises and how best to manage them.
identi ed in our safety goals.
The speci c sites and in customer locations.
These, Vesuvius conducts Permit to Work focus on employees based at customer along with our daily safety audits are training in all Group facilities, including locations continues to yield results not a pillar of our Safety Breakthrough customer locations and extends only for the safety of our employees but initiative.
In 2017, 111 Executive Safety recognised best practices throughout the also our customers employees helping Tours, of which 12 were in customer Group.
This ensures that all non-standard to support the strong relationships built locations, were carried out by the work conducted in our facilities, whether between customers and Vesuvius.
members of the Executive Committee by Vesuvius employees or contractors, and their direct reports across all is the subject of a p pre-commencement territories where Vesuvius operates.
r ris isk a k as ss se es ss sm me en nt a t an nd a d a fo formal permission In our plants, more than 76% of our t to o co com mm me en nce a ce ac ct ti iv vi it ty y, s se etting out the working population performed routine saf safe et ty y r re equ quir irement ements s.. safety audits, generating an average of nine improvement opportunities per person, resulting in an improvement in worker safety.
The audit programme involves employees at all levels from the Group Executive Committee and safety specialists through to local site management, employees and contractors.
Aaron Gonzalez, Quality Engineer, Flow Control, Monterrey, Mexico Vesuvius plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Health and Safety continued Safety performance in 2017 Health and Safety highlights As part of the customers Steel Zone Safety Lost time injuries per million hours worked LTIFR 12 month rolling Month December 2017 at our JSW customer location in India, three of our employees received awards from the Customer: 10 Mr Chandrakant for Best Essay on Steel 8 Plant Safety Mr Venu Jaya Prakash for Best Drawing 6 competition on Steel Plant Safety Mr Srinath and Vishnu Arat for Hazard 4 Identi cation in the working area 2 Vesuvius Chester eld in the UK gained national recognition for its efforts to improve the working 0 environment by reducing the amount of airborne 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 dust.
The Pilot dust reduction and awareness training course was awarded a certi cate of achievement by the Health and Safety Training activities undertaken in 2017 include: Executive-endorsed awarding body at the In Poland a Road Safety Champion was Safety Champion and a Road Safety Committee annual Ceramic Industry H&S Pledge Awards.
established and a Road Safety training plan were appointed.
The team developed a Furthermore, the training initiative has since developed.
In addition, work was undertaken on road safety action plan, safe driving policy, been developed into the Group Global Dust machinery safety.
Four presses were assessed by training for speci c categories of drivers and and Vibration initiative which was deployed Pilz.
They identi ed safety improvement actions updated car pool process.
These programmes throughout 2017. and a plan was put in place to complete these.
policies were shared and adopted by Canada One piece of equipment which could not be made and Mexico.
In ArcelorMittal Galati, Vesuvius took on compliant, a friction press, was dismantled.
The safe driving policy was sent to all drivers, who six tters from their previous company and In the Netherlands, Turbo S training was signed and returned it to their manager.
Monthly trained them in all Vesuvius policies with a 5S completed for 24 participants and 10 employees general awareness topics were created and sent implemented workshop as part of the renewed were trained in machinery safety by Pilz.
out, and the basic level of training was completed contract covering additional activities in the for all categories of drivers.
Skid control training customers plant.
In Germany, dust control, Turbo S, permit was completed for high-risk drivers in Canada to work and 5S Lean training were all completed.
In addition, Turbo S, permit to work, In 2017, Vesuvius Ibrica Refractarios was In the USA, 11 production employees and dust and vibration and furfural training were awarded with an honourable mention in 19 NAFTA HSE professionals were trained undertaken.
the National and International Prevention on machinery safety, by Pilz.
In addition a Road Awards as a recognition of the work done in the prevention of accidents.
Our Take 2 initiative ensures that Safety Performance in 2017 employees think again before We continue to work hard to reduce performing any unusual or non-standard incident severity and develop robust activity.
Simply stated, the employees policies, standards and practices aimed take 2 minutes to discuss the task, any at improving the safety and health of hazards and how to prevent accidents our people in all that they do and to before any work is started.
develop actionable insight from the performance indicators.
The lost time For new contracts in customer locations, injuries frequency chart shows how Vesuvius uses a formal risk assessment injuries have been reduced and how which aims to identify signi cant risks that reduction has been maintained to our employees and contractors.
through a combination of a behaviourThis enables appropriate control based approach to safety and the measures to be agreed and implemented implementation of physical safeguards.
with the support of our customers in advance of work commencing.
Our Responsibility 63 Accident and Incident Reporting In 2018, the business units will continue cascaded through management.
As part and Analysis to build on the embedded behaviourof management reporting, the Board based safety approach taken to date receives a monthly update on all lost A signi cant investment in time and to drive continual improvement in time injuries.
resources has been made over recent safety performance.
years to develop robust, comprehensive Involving Accountable Management for and timely reporting of incidents Safety Performance Working in Tidy Plants including all res, explosions and any Site safety improvement plans are now The continuing use of 5S, the workplace major spill or other chemical releases.
in place for all production sites with organisation method, throughout In its internal standards, Vesuvius deployment being the direct responsibility the Group has driven signi cant continues to use more stringent of local managers.
Any site experiencing improvements in our workplace fide nitions for lost time injuries LTIs a dangerous occurrence or severe injury environment.
Employees are encouraged and severe accidents than the fide nitions is required to investigate using 8D and to to develop ownership of their working used by local regulatory bodies.
share their incident investigation and areas, and take pride in their cleanliness This extends investigation to all medically action plans across the Group.
The added support of treated injuries and serious dangerous there were no severe injuries, but 407 Vesuvius Lean specialists has been key occurrences.
Vesuvius has implemented dangerous occurrences.
Vesuvius to improving plant safety by removing a full investigation based on the 8D encourages the reporting of all hazards for employees and offering Practical Problem Solving 8D tool to dangerous occurrences and injuries a clear, bright and safe working identify the true root causes to prevent as only through a sound root cause environment.
Daily 5S audits led by team repeat incidents with a formal analysis and preventative action plan leaders ensure continuous improvement presentation of findings, 8D-based implementation can future occurrences of working conditions and promote a root causes and improvement actions be prevented.
Executive Safety Tours carried out Vesuvius 8D Practical Problem Solving in 2017 Methodology clarify the problem D1 grasp the current situation D2 D3 contain and set target 111 Executive Safety Tours D4 analyse causes D5 fide ne countermeasures D6 execute and track progress China check results D7 Europe India standardise and establish control D8 NAFTA North Asia South America South Asia
