Vesuvius plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sustainability Our solutions improve the quality of our customers products and reduce the environmental footprint of their processes.
Vesuvius senior engineers to drive Vesuvius and its Processes Sustainability Highlights improvements across the business.
The Board recognises that good Vesuvius France installed a water network environmental management is aligned separation and rain water collection system Environmental Monitoring linked to an on-site re ghting water lagoon.
with our focus on cost optimisation and operational excellence.
Whilst Vesuvius All our factory emissions are proactively In Korea, 4,891 square metres of asbestos products do vary signi cantly in the managed in accordance with local containing roo ng was safely replaced with energy intensity of their manufacture, the regulations.
Regular analysis enables us steel cladding to improve the health, safety and environmental risk pro le of the site.
majority of our manufacturing processes to take action to reduce our emissions are not energy intensive, nor do they where possible and to operate more Process Metrix shipped a record number produce large quantities of waste and ef ciently.
The Group monitors its energy of laser systems in 2017 with the new emissions.
Vesuvius total energy costs TM consumption, worldwide CO e emissions 2 Hyperion software.
are less than 3% of revenue, with only and usage of water.
Vesuvius proactively 1.8% of the total energy requirements Process Metrix also released their new seeks to reduce waste in production Two-Color Pyrometer for surface temperature across the Group consumed in the UK.
and to reuse and to recycle materials measurement in conjunction with lining thickness where practical.
The systems typically increase ladle refractory lifetime by 1030% with a Total Energy Consumption In 2017, Vesuvius recorded nine minor concomitant reduction in waste with less brick Overall gas use increased by 6.4% environmental incidents.
These included consumed over the lifetime of the ladle.
in 2017 and electricity use by 11.9%, items such as encroachment of waste primarily as a result of the increased water from a neighbouring property, production of energy-intensive bricks complaints about a factory odour and and of our South African production of contained spillages.
All of the incidents Slagdol, an energy-intensive product were contained via Vesuvius site used in converters.
In this way, changes environmental response plans and in product mix can have a positive reported through the Vesuvius incident or negative effect on our energy reporting system.
Two of these incidents performance, such that they can in China were reported to the local outweigh any underlying changes.
No action The underlying data for 2017 does was taken by the authorities after indicate improvements in energy Vesuvius made process changes.
This detailed In all cases we complied with our analysis of normalised data is used by local reporting requirements.
Energy conservation Energy used kWh per metric tonne product packed for shipment 1,520 1,480 1,440 1,400 1,360 1,320 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our Responsibility 65 Greenhouse Gas Reporting Global GHG emissions kg of CO e 2 In line with our total energy consumption, 2017 2016 both total emissions and normalised Emissions source emissions increased in 2017, driven Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 396m 340m predominantly by the issue mentioned Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 120m 98m above the increased production of Slagdol which generated high process Total GHG emissions 516m 438m CO emissions, and increase in 2 17.
9% production of our brick plants, although we also undertook a switch from coal to Vesuvius chosen intensity measurement a cleaner gas fuel during the year in our Emissions reported above, normalised to per tonne 526.4 511.0 Chinese brick plant.
In 2017, Vesuvius also of product output 3.0% included the emission from our newly acquired ux plant in Brazil.
If these Methodology We have reported to the extent reasonably practicable on all the emission sources required products are excluded, then there is an under Part 7 of the Accounting Regulations which fall within our consolidated financial statements.
underlying downward year-on-year Scope 1 covers emissions from fuels used in our factories and of ces.
trend in normalised emissions of CO e 2 Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions resulting from the generation of electricity, heat, steam and of 7.7% and of normalised energy hot water we purchase to supply our of ces and factories.
We have used data gathered to ful l our requirements under the CRC Energy Ef ciency scheme and emission factors from UK Governments consumption of 7.3%.
and the IEA GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016 in the calculation of our GHG.
In reporting greenhouse gas GHG emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition methodology to identify our GHG New Insural furnace lining inventory of Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect CO e. We report in kg of CO 2 2 system increases productivity equivalent CO e. 2 The Group also meets all of its obligations and casting quality in relation to the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Ef ciency Scheme, the Producer Responsibility Packaging Waste regulations and the The Challenge The Insural furnace lining system is Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme The need to improve productivity, completely water free.
Consequently, by which the UK has implemented the commercial competitiveness and hydrogen pick-up from the new lining EU Energy Ef ciency Directive.
environmental impact is increasingly system is negligible and the aluminium driving the adoption of energy ef cient melt density index speci cation can furnaces in aluminium foundries.
be achieved immediately following Energy Conservation Plan However, the ef ciency of these furnaces installation.
Furnace downtime is The Vesuvius Energy Conservation Plan is often undermined by the choice of the dramatically reduced and the risk of refractory lining.
increased rejects associated with re-lining was launched in 2011 with the objective work is avoided.
of reducing our normalised energy Our Solution consumption by 10% over the following With conventional linings, the external Foseco has developed a new, multi-part furnace body temperature often runs in three years.
In June 2015, we reset our and highly insulating lining made of Insural excess of 100 C, while with Insural focus and set the objective of a 10% material.
The lining is delivered ready to furnace lining systems installed an improvement using 2014 as our base install, and combines energy saving external furnace body temperature of only year by 2018.
Against that 2014 base, potential with long service life and 64C can be achieved.
This signi cantly resistance to oxide build-up.
a 4.2% improvement has been realised improves the foundry working towards this target making a 7.1% environment and reduces energy loss.
The Bene ts Our tests show that Insural lining runs on improvement since 2010.
Managing As most of the lining system is made of 33% less energy than a tradional lining.
our energy intensity not only has an pre-cast Insural shapes, the installation The Insural furnace lining system offers environmental bene t but is also part can be completed in under three days the foundry a reduction in cost, increased of our long-term strategy to enhance unlike traditional linings which require productivity and security in casting quality.
several weeks to fully stabilise.
In addition, no sintering is necessary.
The furnace just needs to be pre-heated and maintained at working temperature for 48 hours and is then ready for service.
Vesuvius plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sustainability continued Thermal optimisation and reject Water Conservation How Does Vesuvius Contribute?
reduction are key factors in the processes Whilst water is not a scarce resource in Since 2011 we have used a CO impact 2 for which we supply solutions.
We the places where Vesuvius operates, stamp to highlight the most energycontribute to the reduction of our Vesuvius works to reduce the consumption ef cient solutions in our portfolio of customers energy usage and subsequent of water in its manufacturing processes products and services and to support CO emissions through insulating 2 by recycling and improving processes the deployment of energy-ef cient and materials, metal ow management, to reduce consumption.
Normalised sustainable solutions engineered by facilitating extended manufacturing consumption of water does vary with our technology departments.
sequences meaning less reheating product mix: however, there is an overall and reduced downtime.
Vesuvius products and services facilitate downward trend for both absolute water environmental bene ts by: consumption, and normalised water The iron and steel industry accounts for consumption that is water use per tonne approximately 6.7% of total world CO Enabling lighter, thinner and stronger 2 of product manufactured.
emissions and 18% of industrial CO components, leading to lighter vehicles 2 emissions, with, on average, 1.8 tonnes and less energy consumption of CO being emitted for every tonne of Our Customers and Their 2 Improving customer processes through steel produced.
With around 10 kg of Processes the supply of innovative consumables refractory material required per tonne Under the Vesuvius and Foseco brands, to reduce energy intensity and the of steel produced, careful selection CO e intensity ratio we deliver a wide range of solutions 2 of energy-saving refractories can that help our customers improve the bene cially impact on the net emission Reducing customers refractory productivity of their operations.
of CO. 2 usage per tonne of steel produced These solutions also improve the through higher-quality, longer In the foundry process, the amount of quality of our customers products service-life products metal melted versus the amount sold and reduce the environmental footprint is critical to a foundrys pro tability.
Increasing the level of sound castings Foseco continuously works with its produced per tonne of metal melted customers to increase the ratio of metal through improved mould design and sold to metal melted.
Sometimes this is the application of molten metal as low as 40% and we work with them ltration and feeding systems to increase it to 70%.
Water conservation Q Water used in metric tonnes 1.2 1,200,000 Water used in metric tonnes per metric 1.0 1,000,000 tonne of product packed for shipment 0.8 800,000 0.6 600,000 0.4 400,000 0.2 200,000 0.0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our Responsibility 67 People and Community Our people are unique and important to us.
We are unequivocally committed to helping them to be the best they can at what they do.
Our aim at Vesuvius is to foster a working For 2018, a strengthening of both the senior managerial level, there is the environment that is inclusive and diverse, Talent Management and Reward appropriate level of alignment in where people can be themselves functions is planned, to equip them better strategic outlook and performance without fear of harassment, bullying or for the ever-increasing battle for talent in goals.
This increases accountability and discrimination.
We recognise that the the marketplace.
We encourage and reward dedication and professionalism of our high performance, foster talent and aim people, their capacity for owning their to create an environment where all can Talent Management roles and their drive for results, are the realise their individual potential.
To meet Strengthening the leadership pipeline most signi cant contributors to Vesuvius the demands of the business and add and facilitating people development success.
In order to get the best from rigour to our employee value proposition, throughout the organisation remain our people, we emphasise that one of we have launched a number of key areas of focus for Vesuvius.
We work the most important tasks of being a programmes to assist our employees in hard to ensure that across all operational manager in Vesuvius is the development growing their careers through utilising and functional areas of the business, at a of their direct reports.
We recognise that world-class learning opportunities.
we attain our goals through our people.
Line and functional managers are guided is highly structured and takes place over a Our Training Programmes in managing and developing their people nine-month period, involving initial online ADVANCE modules, face-to-face workshops and individual by a central HR function, head-quartered This is a first generation management and group projects, in which participants are in London delivering support through development programme aimed at developing assessed individually and also against each other.
its expertise in Reward, Talent individual contributors who are likely to occupy a Participants are supported by senior executives line management role in the short to medium term and senior HR management for the duration of Management, and Global Mobility, and and managers who have no direct reports but the programme and thereafter.
Participants on backed up by modern HR information need to be familiar with a broad range of people this programme are those identi ed as being systems.
Management in the business management skills to use in one-off projects.
potential future senior management of the Group.
In its first year, the programme is designed to units and regional and local HR staff take place over 12 months, and includes a blended HeaTt draw upon this expertise and cascade learning approach of online learning, face-to-face These courses form part of the Vesuvius Technical it to their respective business units and workshops and individual projects.
Participants University aimed at the continuous technical are supported by line management and local organisations.
Much care is taken development of Vesuvius personnel.
Courses HR business partners throughout the duration of to ensure that Corporate HR initiatives range from entry to expert levels, and are the programme and thereafter where additional continuously updated to keep pace with are properly communicated and support is needed.
The programme includes a developing technology, thereby guaranteeing 360 assessment of each participant to enable implemented at local level, with the that Vesuvius staff are at the forefront of them to compile a personal development plan cooperation of identi ed employee technical innovation.
for the next stage of their career.
HR4HR WINGS The main area of attention for the central During 2016 17, under the Vesuvius HR4HR This is the Vesuvius middle management HR function is identifying and fostering project, 30 HR professionals underwent development programme aimed at those accredited professional training in psychometric talent across the organisation and who manage other managers.
Wings, now assessment and evaluation, and simulation of key in its eighth year, is held in Spring each year making sure that those individuals talent management processes, each achieving at Vlerick University in Belgium.
In 2017, identi ed as having high potential are Expert status.
These HR4HR graduates will act 26 employees successfully completed the course.
now as catalysts for implementing innovative seen as a company-wide resource, with The programme entails an introduction to recruitment and talent identi cation techniques general management theory and practice and, appropriate development plans put in across the business.
The project will be progressed like the ADVANCE programme, includes a 360 place.
In recruiting talent, whether it in 2018. assessment of each participant.
be recent graduates or seasoned professionals, we are looking for ASCENT This is the Vesuvius high potential and senior individuals who embody an entrepreneurial leadership development programme, which mindset and an international outlook.
Vesuvius offers in partnership with Insead.
It is Special attention is paid in addressing aimed at accelerating the development of top matters such as gender balance and the talent within the organisation.
The programme employment of a diverse workforce.
Vesuvius plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 People and Community continued and to reinforce the vision, strategy and race, disability, sexual orientation, SuccessFactors expectations set by the Board.
gender, marital, civil partnership or Vesuvius has invested heavily in a new parental status, religion or beliefs.
people platform and key digital We have adopted the Willis Towers products.
The SuccessFactors HRIS Watson job grading model, which The Corporate Annual Incentive Plan for project was launched globally in January enables us to compare roles and deploy managers ensures that our people are 2017.
It provides greater transparency a structured assessment methodology motivated to achieve their objectives, across the business, facilitating better across countries and specialisms to with awards linked to business performance management and focused ensure that roles are rewarded performance.
The Mid-Term Incentive talent identi cation and development, consistently throughout the organisation.
Plan for managers and senior managers and has been implemented across all our Employees can also visualise their acts as a retention tool for key talent, businesses and geographies.
potential career paths within Vesuvius on reducing employee turnover and the grade map.
Vesuvius is committed diversifying our pay methods.
The to creating reward systems which are Vesuvius Share Plan for Executive Reward transparent and objective, where Directors and Group Executive Vesuvius reward systems are designed employees receive equal pay for work Committee members encourages to create a market competitive and fair of equal value, regardless of their age, decisions based on long-term goals pay environment for all of our employees rather than short-term gains and works to align the interests of participants and shareholders.
M y first international posting was to Suzhou, China Bill Cousineau, Vice President Advanced Refractories, NAFTA A Following an early career in In 2013, I moved back to construction and refractory Canada to take over the Genera al l manufacturing, I joined Vesuvius Manager role once again and, Canada as a Sales Account in November 2015, became the Manager in 2000.
I was gradually Operations Director for Advanc ced ed promoted to the roles of District Refractories NAFTA, responsible le Manager and Steel Sales for managing our production sit te es s Manager, before becoming in the US, Canada and Mexico.
General Manager of the Canadian Finally, in May 2017, I moved to business in 2005.
My first Pittsburgh to take on the position n international posting was to of Vice President of Advanced Suzhou, China where I became Refractories NAFTA, leading the e Vice President Advanced business in this region.
Vesuvius Refractories, Asia Paci c. There has given me the chance to work k I oversaw all of our Advanced overseas gaining international and and Refractories operations for the intercultural experience enabling ng Asia Paci c region, covering me to take on senior management ent Korea, Japan, Taiwan and China, roles around the world.
including our Chinese joint venture with Angang Steel.
My next move was to Australia, where I became the General Manager, overseeing the opening of the new Port Kembla manufacturing site and the sale of some of our non-core businesses.
Our Responsibility 69 Global Mobility Although Vesuvius is active worldwide, believe that local Vesuvius companies therefore limited in time, usually to three we keep the number of international should be managed and staffed by local years.
Currently 29 employees are on assignments as low as possible as we personnel.
International assignments are long-term assignments.
We believe that Enhancing diversity.
Management teams Global mobility at Vesuvius the personal development plan of any employee bene t from having a mix of gender and Providing Vesuvius companies with skills that are being developed for a senior management, or cultures.
In speci c cases we use international not locally available and that are required at senior expert position should include a posting assignments to achieve this goal short notice.
This typically occurs in countries outside their home country.
This encourages where we are establishing a new presence.
them to develop the skills necessary to function The number of expatriates working on this basis successfully in an international environment.
diminishes over time as the organisation These postings are tailored to the needs of the matures and we recruit and train local talent organisation and the needs of the individual to take over Vesuvius expatriates do not come from programme shows that our expatriate bene ts, delivering support appropriate one or two countries alone, we have a population is as diverse as our Group.
to the nature of the assignment.
truly international mix of nationalities in By accessing this broad range of policies, Vesuvius operates a number of our expatriate population.
Individuals we can manage our international international assignment policies to move not only within a region, but assignments with greater exibility, thus provide for the different circumstances also between regions, with existing catering for changing expectations and of these assignments whether they assignments including Malaysia to demands from employees, whilst at the be short term, longer term, or require China, China to Germany, Poland to the same time meeting the demands of extended commuting.
These policies are USA and Brazil to China.
supplemented with clearly identi ed Employee Diversity Vesuvius believes that the diversity of its employees is one of the core strengths of the Group.
Having a balance of cultures, ethnicities and genders helps to promote the innovation and creativity that is key to our success.
We recognise that, in line with other engineering companies of our size and nature, we have an unbalanced gender representation.
We are seeking to address this as part of our wider commitment to diversity.
Female Male Total Female Male Group Executive Committee member 0 10 10 0% 100% 1 Senior management 994 103 9% 91% Middle management 41 305 346 12% 88% 2 Directors of subsidiaries included in consolidation 35 447 482 7% 93% All other employees 1,368 9,183 10,551 13% 87% Grand total 1,418 9,592 11,010 13% 87% 1.
Of these 103 senior managers, 42 directly report to members of the Group Executive Committee, and of these, three are women.
482 individuals in the Group are Directors of Group subsidiaries.
This disclosure is made to comply with regulatory requirements.
It includes Directors of dormant companies and those with multiple directorships.
Vesuvius plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 People and Community continued In addition to formal discussion and and to recognise excellence in quality.
Employee Consultation and consultation mechanisms, in many During a two-day programme, Vesuvius Industrial Relations countries our operations hold town hall employees were invited to present case In most of the countries in which we meetings on a regular basis.
These studies evidencing the application of the operate we discuss matters concerning provide an opportunity for local 8D methodology to offer to customers the Vesuvius business with local works management to meet with staff and sustainable business solutions.
A panel, councils and trade unions.
These provide an update on corporate chaired by Vesuvius Chief Executive, processes and procedures are regulated developments and matters material to judged the presentations, selecting the by local law and we nd that the the business.
winning team from Olifantsfontein, constructive dialogue that takes place South Africa.
This team demonstrated between employee representatives and outstanding capabilities in pushing the Valuing our Employees management provides bene t to our boundaries in high temperature Vesuvius operates a number of awards business.
In addition to local employee solutions.
Their case study demonstrated representation we operate a European and initiatives aimed at recognising the the use of 8D in a joint effort between contribution of particular individuals and Works Council EWC that contains the customer and our eld service representatives from each of the EU disseminating best practice throughout engineers, to develop a unique solution the Group.
Examples of these include the countries where Vesuvius has employees.
for the customers team to increase European management and the EWC Living the Values Awards and the EMEA operational ef ciency, and to develop 8D PPS Awards.
At this new business for Vesuvius.
meeting management provides an Our Living the Values Awards update on the performance of the programme is central to maintaining Vesuvius in the Local Community business, with a particular focus on our Groups collective focus on Vesuvius Our social responsibility activities developments likely to impact European Values.
Additional Special Event complement our values in driving our we gathered for our fifth awards culture.
Our operating sites engage with Meetings are held when the Group is ceremony to celebrate and acknowledge required to consult with the EWC about their local communities through various the efforts of 74 employees.
particular matters, including proposed were presented to 14 individuals and restructurings in the European 13 teams from 11 different countries, In Germany, Vesuvius GmbH opened organisation.
One such meeting was all of whom, nominated by their peers, its doors to junior researchers from held in 2017.
The EWC Select Committee were credited with embodying Vesuvius Borken kindergartens.
About 30 children also meets twice a year to receive Values.
They were rewarded with a interested in research, accompanied by additional updates, and the Chief specially designed trophy, with Vesuvius their nursery school teachers, turned Human Resources Of cer of Vesuvius making a financial contribution to each the Vesuvius canteen into an exciting joins part of these meetings.
All EWC winners chosen charity.
At ten research stations representatives receive four dedicated the boys and girls experimented with training days per year, to ensure they The EMEA 8D PPS Awards 2017 took colours, sowed herbs, and built noise are appropriately equipped to ful l place in Pavia, Italy, in October.
awards showcase the bene ts of the 8 Disciplines approach to practical problem-solving.
They were launched to reinforce the messages of our intensive training courses, to promote the use of practical problem-solving in the business Our Responsibility 71 8D Awards 2017 The Awards champion unique solutions designed to address customers requirements In the Netherlands, Foseco Nederland In addition, Vesuvius France SA again Vesuvius International BV operates an employee charity worked with Feignies local re brigades, Scholarship Programme donation competition.
Employees write this time conducting four major exercises The Vesuvius International Scholarship an essay explaining why the charity to learn more about managing chemical Programme is set up to assist quali ed organisation with which they have a risk at high temperatures.
We helped dependent children of Vesuvius connection, should win the donation.
them explore how best to assess employees in helping to finance underIn June 2017, Marloes Goorhuis won situations without prior knowledge, graduate and graduate education at the award for her contribution to an how to evaluate circumstantial and accredited institutions.
Awards are organisation named MeeReizen.
environmental factors under pressure, granted globally without regard to MeeReizen organises holidays for as well as how to communicate effectively race, colour, creed, religion, sexual mentally disabled people, providing the with teams when facing speci c chemical orientation, age, gender, disability or participants with an exciting adventure ow hazards.
Vesuvius has been and their carers with some respite at In China, Vesuvius Suzhou sponsors involved in this programme for 22 years, home.
Marloes has been a volunteer on primary school pupils from lower income during which period Vesuvius has these holidays for years.
The trip is paid families so that they can join in with assisted 902 students to achieve their for by the participants themselves, so extracurricular activities.
Now in its higher education goals at a cost of there is a very limited budget.
Additional seventh year, our Vesuvius Youth Team $1.08m.
Individual scholarships have donations are used to provide additional project at the China-Singapore Suzhou been awarded to employees children experiences such as a visit to the zoo, Industrial Park Youth and Children Centre living in: Belgium, Brazil, China, the a theme park or a museum.
originally began with three teams: Czech Republic, France, India, Indonesia, In France, colleagues from Vesuvius unicycle, aerobics and chorus.
Since then, Malaysia, Netherlands, Poland, France SA trained a futsal a special form the project has grown to include jump Romania, South Africa, Spain, UAE of football team, to participate in an rope and music teams, with 3040 and the UK.
inter-company competition organised children in each team.
This annual competition is organised to support the charity LEnfant Bleu which ghts against the maltreatment of children.
Our employees Employees by employment type Employees by region Employees by business unit G F C F A D E E A C A D B B C B A.
Flow Control 4,302 D. Digital Services 526 B.
Hourly 5,897 B. Europe 4,472 F. South America 1,009 B. Foundry 2,836 E. Head Of ce 49 C. Temps 1,130 C. India 838 G. South Asia 296 C. Advanced Ref 2,474 F. Others 823 D. NAFTA 2,174 Vesuvius plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 People and Community continued Developing talent in our facilities in Brazil and China is critical to the success of our strategic priority to capture growth in developing markets M y work is exciting, we are building the future together Site: Piedade, Brazil Manuel Del no, Sales & Marketing Director, Digital Services, South America Joining Vesuvius a year after 2002: Joined Vesuvius as VISO graduating, Manuel learned quickly Specialist, Andean region and was open to new challenges.
2008: Sales manager, Steel He initially joined the VISO team 2012: General and Country as a product specialist, putting Manager, Steel, Andean his technical skills to good use Region developing innovative solutions 2017: South America Director for customers.
Showing strong Sales & Marketing, Digital leadership capabilities, Manuel Services moved into a managerial role, and now heads South Americas growing Digital Services team from the Sao Paulo of ce.
Vesuvius gave me the opportunity to manage worldwide projects and work with global teams Site: Piedade, Brazil Rafael Lorenzo Jacob, Global Product Manager Hydrogen Systems, Hardware and Instruments, Digital Services Following his graduation from 2013: Joined ECIL Met Tec as university, Rafael has enjoyed a Technical Salesman successful five year engineering 2014: Avemis product specialist career at Vesuvius.
In this time 2016: Worldwide product he has been able to develop manager, Hydrogen his technical and commercial Systems & Probes knowledge across a number of 2017: Global Product Manager, roles, and he is currently using Hydrogen Systems, his experience as a worldwide Hardware & Instruments product manager.
Vesuvius has really welcomed me and my company into the international group Site: Resende, Brazil Carolina Campello Bezerra Campos, Managing Director, Vesuvius Fluxes Carolinas career began at Following its acquisition by 1992: Joined Carboox Resende Carboox 25 years ago, where she Vesuvius, Carolina became Quimica, Brazil delivered R&D success with new Managing Director, and has 2016: Carboox acquired by casting ux products and been instrumental in enabling Vesuvius initiatives to assist customers.
As a smooth transition, working 2017: Promoted to Managing Vice President, she played a key hard to integrate the Vesuvius Director, Vesuvius Fluxes, role in establishing the company culture and achieve strong Brazil as a leader across Brazil and financial results.
Our Responsibility 73 My family and I had a great experience working in Germany Site: Suzhou, China Jerry Huang, IT Director-Asia Paci c Jerry joined Vesuvius on an After growing his remit across 2002: Graduated and joined internship, learning about the value European operations, leading a Vesuvius as intern of IT to every part of the company.
number of projects in Europe, Jerry 2004: IT Specialist Always seeking to understand the became Director of IT Asia Paci c, 2006: IT Manager needs of other functions, he soon managing a loyal team that he 2013: IT Manager, Borken, built a strong culture around him.
ensures have access to many Germany overseas opportunities.
2015: IT Director-Asia Paci c I am proud to be able to share my technical expertise with my colleagues around the world Site: Kobe, Japan Shigeru Takii, Marketing Manager, Foundry Shigeru built up a strong track record after beginning his career as part of Japans sales team.
He was promoted to Manager of Filter Products following nine years at the company, where he was successful despite inheriting a challenging market.
Last year he became Marketing Manager of Steel and Non-Ferrous Products, where he has grown a global network across the company and continues to deliver strong results.
1996: Sales team, Foseco, Japan 2004: Application Engineer, Kobe, Japan 2007: Manager, Filter Products 2010: Manager, Metal Treatment Products 2017: Marketing Manager, Steel and Non Ferrous Products I can use the knowledge I acquired in the Steel division to bene t the Foundry business Site: ChangShu, China Benny Yang, BU Manager, Foundry China Four years after university, fostered a successful 1999: Joined Vesuvius as Sales Benny joined Vesuvius as a partnership, improved product Engineer Sales Engineer, applying his quality and grew market share.
2001: Slide Gate Refractories technical expertise to enhance Most recently, as Manager of SGR Purging Plugs PP product excellence for the Foundry team, he oversaw Product Specialist customers across China.
A a good set of financial results 2006: SGR PP Technical Director series of promotions enabled last year.
2012: General Manager, WG Benny to grow his commercial responsibility, where he 2016: Foundry Manager, China Vesuvius plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Section Four Governance In this section 76 Chairmans Governance Letter 78 Governance Report 85 Audit Committee 93 Nomination Committee 96 Directors Remuneration Report 96 Remuneration Overview 98 Remuneration Policy 106 Annual Report on Directors Remuneration 117 Directors Report 121 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Governance 75 I moved from Mexico to Brussels to join the Corporate HR team.
Carlos Bersoza, Human Resources Director, Advanced Refractories, NAFTA I joined Vesuvius in 2006, taking Following the completion of this my responsibilities for HR across the role of HR Coordinator at 5-year assignment in Brussels, I the US, Canada and Mexico, I also Monterrey, Mexico whilst Vesuvius returned to Mexico in 2013 as support the Digital Services was expanding the production Operations HR Business Partner, business unit, as their HR contact.
lines at its Mexico facility.
supporting the deployment Moving around the world has Following the inauguration of the and training of standardised given me an international mindset, new Pre-Cast production line, I working teams across the facility.
enabling me to support and guide was offered the opportunity to join I continued to travel internationally Vesuvius colleagues in HR matters.
the Corporate HR team, and in to deliver workshops and train 2008 I moved to Brussels to work company leaders in China, Brazil, as the HR Project Coordinator for Poland and the US on the basis of the head of ce team.
Whilst there, my experience in Mexico.
I helped to organise the Groups Two years later, I was promoted to expatriation processes, develop HR Director for Advanced internal training modules and Refractories NAFTA, moving to worked on the HR SAP Pittsburgh.
In this role, as well as implementation project.
See more about Vesuvius careers People and community on p67-73
