esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 People PEOPLE AND CULTURE This has been another great year The Group has grown in the past year and now employs 1,851 people across three offices in Reigate, Manchester and Glasgow for the Group as we continue up 19% from 2016.
We believe the key to our success is not just what we do but the way we do it.
The quality and to invest and deliver a number commitment of everyone who works at esure Group is the key to making us successful.
To achieve this, esures people of significant initiatives from strategy is built upon a competitive reward and benefits package, a high level of colleague engagement, opportunities our People Agenda.
Colleague to grow and develop and excellent internal communications.
engagement has improved, COLLEAGUES Our colleagues are rewarded both fairly and competitively demonstrating the success and our pay structure and progression opportunities are transparent and easy to understand.
Financially, the Group our investment is having.
is committed to rewarding our colleagues for the value that they bring to the Group and our reward strategy is reviewed Helen Taylor on an ongoing basis.
Annual pay increases are based upon an HR Director individuals contribution to the business and include structured pay progression for many new colleagues.
Earlier this year, we furthered our commitment to colleagues by supporting the Living Wage Foundation and paying the Voluntary Living Wage across all areas of our business.
We aim to provide a great place to work for all colleagues and we continue to invest in our people as this is fundamental to We offer a total reward package which demonstrates our our success.
This includes a competitive holiday allowance, pension provision, profit share and salary sacrifice 2017 IN SUMMARY schemes including childcare and cycle to work.
Our people are the lifeblood of our business and make it successful.
They deliver an excellent customer experience and We also operate an annual esure Group sharesave plan, are the foundation of our growth.
This has been a great year enabling colleagues to invest in the business.
The first for the Group as we have invested and delivered a number of scheme was launched back in 2013 and since then a total of significant initiatives from our People Agenda, including: c. 2,200 colleagues have participated in a scheme.
In 2017, Investment in colleague engagement which led to a 7% 349 colleagues invested in this scheme, which demonstrates increase in our engagement score.
colleagues continued commitment to working at esure.
Delivery of core skills development to c. 120 team leaders.
We offer a full range of benefits including an optional benefits Investment in developing our talent with the launch of two platform, discounted travel, season ticket loans, a wellbeing programmes in 2017 Rising Stars and Future Leaders.
offering and discounts on Group insurance products.
Launch of a new internal intranet to improve corporate The Group looks to recognise colleagues who have shown a communications across our three locations.
commitment to being part of our business and 47 colleagues celebrated their 15-year anniversary with us this year, which Investment in improving communication skills.
In addition, we had 50 colleagues celebrating their ten-year anniversary with the Group.
To mark this special occasion the Executive Team hosted a number of ten-year anniversary dinners across our locations.
Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 ENGAGEMENT We ran our third colleague engagement survey this year, ENGAGEMENT SURVEY: partnering again with Willis Towers Watson.
Whilst we always KEY AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT receive excellent response rates, this year was our best ever at 93%, meaning the results contained in the survey really do reflect the views of the majority of colleagues.
We are proud % 90 to say our overall engagement score was 72% which was 7% higher than our last survey, showing that we are continuing of colleagues believe they to move the business forward.
We also saw some significant can positively impact our improvements in this years results, demonstrating that we customers experience are listening to colleagues and implementing initiatives that do make a difference.
We continue to focus on maintaining a high level of engagement across our business and build action plans to support this.
The annual engagement survey is just one mechanism whereby colleagues can provide the senior management % team with feedback.
Twice-yearly face-to-face colleague 96 briefings to share Company news are hosted by the Executive Team and take place across all our locations.
This is further of the questions supported by roundtable events with the Executive Team and asked saw an increase senior leaders and a monthly business update communication in positive responses to all colleagues.
The Employee Consultation Group ECG provides a mechanism for feedback to the Executive Team whilst demonstrating the Companys commitment to understanding the interests of its employees.
The Group meets regularly, giving colleagues the opportunity to raise ideas or ask questions via elected colleague representatives from the business.
In addition, we recently invested in a new % intranet to improve the quality of corporate communications 16 across our business.
% We understand the importance of regular recognition and 14 we look to reward colleagues for going the extra mile in a Communications and variety of ways.
This includes everything from a gift for great Leadership, both key focus customer feedback to award ceremonies for high-performing areas in the last 12 months, colleagues.
were up 16% and 14% We encourage all colleagues to enjoy work and get involved in team-based activities.
This year there have been a number of celebrations for colleagues to be involved in, linked to % seasonal events, including regular dress-down, sports-based 95 events, our infamous Christmas quiz and Christmas lunch for all our colleagues.
of colleagues understand how their job contributes TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT to our business goals This year a key area of focus has been developing the core competencies of our colleagues.
We are unique in that we are small enough as a business that every person can make a difference, but also big enough that we can invest in our people and support their growth and progress.
This investment is crucial and throughout the year a number of key initiatives have been implemented to support colleagues development, including: a Management Excellence programme for our team leader population c. 120 to provide development on core management basics: a series of communication development sessions to leaders to improve communication effectiveness across our business: and the introduction of a small number of pilot apprenticeship schemes.
The above is in addition to the training we undertake to ensure our colleagues develop and maintain their technical competence.
In order to continue to develop our talent we currently run two programmes, Rising Stars and Future Leaders, which give the opportunity for colleagues to develop new skills, identify career opportunities and help the esure Group strengthen its talent pool and succession plans.
24 25 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 People continued From an external talent perspective, we have sponsored a At our Glasgow office, for the 13th year in a row, colleagues female leader on the Association of British Insurers ABI put together Christmas lunch boxes for the local Loaves and Future Leaders Programme.
The 12-month programme which Fishes charity who provide essential food items to families in commenced in January 2017 was created in consultation with the Glasgow and surrounding area.
The charity has said that insurers to complement and add to the development pathways our donations make a huge difference to those less fortunate of promising senior leaders.
We are delighted to support than ourselves.
such initiatives and will continue to do so in order to help At our Manchester office, colleagues supported the Royal development across the industry.
Manchester Childrens Hospital Ward 84 Summer Party.
This was achieved by sending volunteers to assist on the It is also important for us that we support the development of day, which enabled the parents to spend more time with talent across the wider industry and we are proud Gold Partners their children.
We also collected boxes full of toys for the with the charity AutoRaise.
AutoRaise was set up to redress children which we put into a raffle to raise funds to support the chronic shortage of apprentices in the car body repair forthcoming events.
Their aim is to provide a platform for young people to have a fully signed-off multi-skilled apprenticeship which We recognise that investing in a community is not just about will help ensure we have a workforce in the future to repair providing employment opportunities and we have worked hard damaged vehicles.
to support the communities where we are based.
A further example of this is in Glasgow, where we have been working esure has supported several AutoRaise Showcase events in partnership with Developing Young Workforce Glasgow which have given the opportunity to over 1,000 parents and to give the opportunity to students from schools and higher their children to find the career path they can have in the motor education who have an interest in the financial sector to visit industry and to see the level of support their children will have the Group and learn more about our business through their from the vast range of bodyshop suppliers who are committed Finance and Business Services Insight programme.
The visits to these events.
consist of groups of up to 15 people from across the education spectrum, e. g. school, college and university, and cover a range of information including a tour of the business environment, We have established a Community an overview of the Group, potential career information and opportunities.
Committee in each of our three locations which enables colleagues to support the communities and local charities that are important to them.
COMMUNITY AND CHARITY INVOLVEMENT At esure we like to support both national and local charities 13 years alongside our involvement in the community.
We have Supporting Surrey Fire Brigades Safe established a Community Committee in each of our three Drive, Stay Alive campaign and Glasgows locations which enables colleagues to support the communities Loaves and Fishes charity and local charities that are important to them.
In addition to national charities such as Comic Relief, Children in Need and the British Lung Foundation, each location has undertaken a wide range of fundraising activities throughout the year, covering everything from cake sales, fun days, animal events, Spinathons, charity football matches and sponsored runs.
During 2017, colleagues across our locations raised a fantastic 50 total amount of 52,000 in charitable donations.
In addition to monetary donations, the Group has also supported a number of Charities supported across the UK charities in more tangible ways, including: Our Reigate office has a long-standing relationship with Surrey Fire Brigade as we sponsor its Safe Drive, Stay Alive campaign aimed at preventing young drivers from being involved in traffic accidents.
We have supported this programme for 13 years now and we are proud to be a part of an initiative that sees thousands of 1618 year olds across Surrey educated about safe driving.
Over Earlier in the year we sponsored a group of road traffic police from Thames Valley Police who embarked on a 2,500-mile trans-European challenge in a 16-year-old car worth less than 500 all in the name of charity.
We 50,000 supported the police officers bid by providing them with Raised by colleagues in charitable free motor insurance and breakdown cover for the 2017 donations during 2017 Rust Bucket Challenge.
