Corporate Responsibility Report As a business that seeks to do the right thing for all its stakeholders, St. Jamess Place is committed to acting in a way that considers the long-term economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We also understand that responsible management is important to all CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE our stakeholders shareholders, clients, the Partnership, employees, Our Corporate Responsibility strategy encompasses all of the suppliers and the communities in which we operate and following areas: appreciation of Corporate Responsibility CR is therefore encouraged as a core part of our culture.
As a result, our people demonstrate extremely positive levels of CR engagement, both in their work and their wider engagement with our communities.
Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility was established in the founding principles of the Company and is expressed in both the Our Approach document, which is shared with all members of our community, and the What it means to be a member brochure, which sets out the expectations for Advisers in the Partnership.
We actively remind and encourage our people to live by this philosophy through regular team and divisional meetings, employee and Partnership newsletters and internal publications.
All new employees complete a two-day induction programme including learning about the history and culture of our Company, our Corporate Responsibility strategy and how employees can contribute, and an overview of the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation.
Our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, which comprises companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility criteria, recognise our positive culture and ongoing commitment to Corporate Responsibility.
We also remain members of Business in the Community and are grateful to their ongoing support for excellence in CR practice.
We set out in this Report details of the approaches we take to employees, social matters, respect for human rights, anti-corruption and bribery and the environment, which helps to demonstrate our commitment in these areas.
With the exception of employees, we have not included further details in this report on policies pursued or Responsibility for maintaining our culture, including our Corporate risks that arise from the Companys operations as we do not Responsibility ambitions, is a key focus of the Executive Board, with consider it necessary for an understanding of the development, oversight by the full Board.
performance or position of the Companys business activities.
The Executive Board is supported in this objective as in all of their work by a number of sub-committees, which are chaired by Directors or senior management: St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Responsibility Managing Committee Executive Board Member Remit Culture and Executive Board To ensure the strength and maintenance of the unique Andrew Croft Employee Wellbeing culture throughout our community, and to lead and manage our employees.
Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility To co-ordinate the Groups approach to CR strategy, Andrew Croft Committee with particular focus on promoting support for our Management and Oversight communities and environmental matters.
Investment Committee To manage our Investment Management Approach Responsible Investment David Lamb and oversee our fund managers, including our approach to responsible investing.
St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation To manage the St. Jamess Place Charitable 1 Charitable Foundation Trustees Foundation, including overseeing grant-making and compliance with the charitys objectives.
1 The St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation is an independent charity, managed by the Trustees.
EMPLOYEE WELLBEING Diversity and Inclusion As noted on page 18, St. Jamess Place is a relationship-focused As at 31 December 2017 we employed 2,155 people across the world business and the recognition that people are our most important asset 1,965 in the UK and the breakdown of our workforce by gender is: is a core cultural belief and a fundamental element of our success.
The importance of people and culture is recognised in its inclusion as one of Female Male our principal risks see page 50 for more information.
2 7 Board Directors 2016: 2 2016: 7 Our approach to managing employees is designed to support Company performance through the recruitment, motivation and 119 478 retention of high calibre employees, and in return to drive delivery of Managers and decision makers 2016: 92 2016: 418 the Companys business objectives.
Our regular employee survey 1,021 1,134 suggests we have engaged and enthusiastic colleagues, which Total employees 2016: 885 2016: 943 contributes to low levels of staff turnover and underpins the quality and sustainability of our proposition to Partners and clients alike.
We are firmly committed to equal pay, and for roles of a similar level Performance and Reward and size we are confident that we do not have an equal pay issue.
Reward is a critical element of our employment proposition for We regularly review and audit our pay to ensure that equal pay is driving delivery of business objectives.
However, our Gender Pay Gap report shows that we have competitive rewards and benefits, that are regularly benchmarked a long way to go to close the gap between our male and female and reviewed.
We provide competitive levels of pay, combined with employees.
The gap is being driven by there being more men than bonus arrangements that recognise and reward everyones women in senior, higher rewarded roles.
We are committed to closing contribution to the growth of the business.
Our bonus schemes help the gap and we are undertaking a number of initiatives to support drive performance through stretching targets, and have clear checks women into senior careers, and to attract and retain more senior and balances to ensure that business goals are only achieved in line level women.
It is of course not a quick fix, but we are confident we with our values, and do not encourage inappropriate behaviour or will make significant progress.
More generally we are committed to equal opportunities for all.
Age, We provide meaningful protection and wellbeing benefits, including race, colour, creed, sexuality, disability and gender are irrelevant: generous pension arrangements.
We encourage employee equity merit and experience are of greatest importance.
Further information participation through our SAYE and SIP schemes, building a sense of on our approach to diversity and the initiatives we are undertaking ownership as well as sharing in the success of the business.
In fact, can be found in the Strategic Report on page 18, the Chairs Report it is so popular that over 80% of employees participate.
on pages 72 and 73 and in the Report of the Nomination Committee on pages 94 to 96.
We are a living wage employer, and have committed to meeting the living wage for all our employees in the UK and equivalent initiatives overseas, where relevant and are encouraging our suppliers to do the same.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 53 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Employee Engagement In relation to those disadvantaged by disability, we strive to give full The Company has a calendar of regular communication with and fair consideration to applications from and promotions of employees which evolves as our business grows.
In 2017 this has disabled people, having regard to their particular aptitudes and included centrally driven programmes, including a weekly electronic abilities, and, where appropriate, we will consider modifications to newsletter which shares matters of concern to all employees as well the working environment so they can take up opportunities or as community-based information, weekly conference call meetings enhance their role.
We will similarly make every effort in the event of for Managers across the business, and monthly Directors Lunches an employee becoming ill or disabled, for example, by arranging which invite groups of employees to a two-way discussion with a appropriate training.
member of the senior leadership team.
For the communication of Employee Wellbeing and Support business results and significant events or economic factors which The wellbeing of our employees is key to maintaining engagement may impact the business, communication is managed through a and commitment, and in developing a resilient Company.
We provide mixture of face to face and written channels.
In addition, different a comprehensive formal and informal support structure for parts of the business adopt their own local engagement events employees.
At the formal end, this includes providing all employees throughout the year to supplement the corporate messages and with strong protection benefits that provide help and peace of mind reflect the nature of the community: these give all employees the when needed.
This includes private medical, permanent health opportunity to give their views on relevant matters.
insurance, critical illness and life cover for all employees.
We also Employees are encouraged to raise issues with their managers or provide an employee assistance programme, access to a second through HR, and we are developing direct means of involvement opinion referral service and counselling.
Through our development through Company-wide social media.
we also provide workshops on building resilience and dealing with stress, and we are looking to develop these further.
The right to collective bargaining has not been exercised by any of the Companys employees, however were they to do so the Company We support and encourage employee sports and social clubs, and would look to comply with due process.
The Board has noted the through involvement in the Charitable Foundation and through CR FRCs proposed inclusion of a provision in its UK Corporate volunteering we know that employees develop strong bonds of Governance Code regarding workforce engagement and has begun to friendship and support.
consider the most appropriate means, if the change comes into force.
Underpinning all of this is our belief in a healthy, supportive working Human Rights culture, where everyone is comfortable to raise issues and problems.
We are committed to managing our business in an ethical manner People Development and recognise that responsible management is important to all the At St. Jamess Place, we have always taken a tailored approach to people that come into contact with our business.
We do not tolerate employee and leadership development to meet the specific needs of or condone abuse of human rights and align our policies with the our business.
This has led to custom programmes run using a blend principles of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
of internal knowledge and external expertise, comprising stimulating We safeguard the welfare of our employees through a range of classroom programmes and challenging work-based projects.
policies, including anti-harassment, equal opportunities and We have carefully developed programmes for those who join SJP grievance policies and have in place whistleblowing procedures to through a specific route, for example as an apprentice or graduate.
provide people within SJP with a means of raising concerns in the These programmes provide us with a valuable source of internal event they believe their rights are being infringed.
Through these talent for junior and middle management roles, therefore we have procedures, employees, Partners and other interested parties are taken great care to ensure that people joining this way are provided encouraged to report any instances of wrongdoing, anonymously, to with insights to the business beyond their immediate role.
We have either the Chair of the Audit Committee or the Money Laundering an excellent retention rate for employees joining us on these Reporting Officer.
The approach we take to safeguarding our programmes and they also provide a great source of talent for our employees and our approach to responsible investment help to Partner businesses.
demonstrate our commitment but we have not included further details on human rights issues in this report as it is not considered For all existing employees, we have a broad offering of employee necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or development activities available and empower everyone to take position of the Groups business activities.
responsibility for their own development, in a supported environment.
The opportunities available will reflect the nature of the Our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement can be found at: role and, in 2017 have had as an area of focus, the development of a https: www.
co. uk media Files S sjp-group documents range of programmes for those who manage others.
pdf general personal development, we fully support employees in both Anti-bribery and Corruption time and materials and peer support, to develop their technical St. Jamess Place has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and professional qualifications.
For 2018, we plan to invest our corruption.
The Board has responsibility for oversight of the Groups apprenticeship levy to enhance and extend the development anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures and annually opportunities for employees to include structured non-technical carries out a review of their adequacy.
Employees and Partners can qualifications.
access the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Statement, along with For employees identified as having potential to progress more rapidly other related policies and procedures via the Companys intranet and in our organisation, we have a number of targeted programmes are provided with training with regards to money laundering, financial which aim to accelerate the development of individuals at specific crime, fraud, bribery and corruption via online training programmes, levels.
In this area in particular we seek to align the best of external the completion of which is compulsory.
thinking and expertise, with the particular capabilities which are During 2017, no employees or Partners were disciplined or dismissed critical to success at St. Jamess Place.
due to non-compliance with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and no fines were levied against the Company in relation to bribery or corruption.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITIES 2017 HIGHLIGHTS Through our CR strategy we identify specific groups of people in need and aim to change or transform their lives for the better.
We 7% dont look for brand awareness, awards or commercial gain for our CR activities, we aim to do the right thing using best CR industry the percent of pre-tax profit invested in supporting our practice.
We know that the good work we do in the community communities and good causes inspires our employees and not only motivates them but helps build a culture where employees are proud to work for us.
97% of Group employees involved in some kind of citizenship activity.
14.0 hours the number of hours our employees receive per year for community support in work time.
Made up of: 5.5 hours the average number of volunteering hours our employees gave to support our communities in 2017, during work time.
77% staff giving 76% staff giving through one-off through salary donations 7.0 hours the average number of hours our employees gave of their own time in support of our CR activities and the Charitable Foundation.
12% organising 53% participating 672,288 in Charitable Charitable the total value of all the time our employees gave in work time.
Foundation Foundation activities fundraising events 13.1m the total cash value we invested this year in supporting our communities and good causes through our CR programmes and the Charitable Foundation.
28% participating 19% participating in CR activities in in CR activities in 2,776 work time their own time the number of young people our staff have worked with face to face through our Financial Awareness programme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 55 Corporate Responsibility Report continued The St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation Community Engagement and Volunteering We have always recognised our social responsibility to our local communities and, from the founding of the Group 26 years ago, have encouraged our staff and advisers to use their expertise to help local charities and other voluntary organisations.
The desire to provide support to the less fortunate in society resulted in the establishment of the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation which continues to receive support from all parts of the St. Jamess Place community: employees, the Partnership, clients, suppliers and shareholders.
Over 79% of our employee and adviser community donates to the Charitable Foundation every month.
This has been another record year for fundraising by members of our community and, as a result, the matching grant in this 25th year which reflected double matching as agreed by the Board, totalled 11.0 million.
Since 1992, the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation has now raised 71 million for good causes.
This year a detailed impact study completed by Cranfield School of Management concluded that by the start of 2017, the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation had supported at least 3,000 organisations through 5,532 grants and these had directly supported at least 500,000 people.
The aim has always been to change lives and, following the LBG methodology, the report concluded that through the 2015 grants alone, a life improvement was made with over 56,000 direct beneficiaries and a life transformation was made with over another 43,000 direct beneficiaries.
Additional information from the St. Jamess Place Charitable Foundation about its activities is provided on pages At St. Jamess Place we are proud to be a leading Company when it 63 to 67 or available from its website at www.
comes to employee engagement with our communities.
We are delighted to have increased the level of activity, whether it be by giving time, skills or money, from 88% in 2016 to 97% in 2017.
Some of this activity is sponsored by the Company, for instance our initiative to build long-term relationships in support of a number of local charities, whilst, elsewhere, the Company is pleased to provide encouragement for self-driven activities of our employees.
In recent years, we have been pleased to build long-term relations with local charities providing support for people in need.
The support provided has typically included core funding, but also access to the physical resources and skills of our organisation.
The support has not been targeted at specific projects, but rather to the heart of the charity with a view to improving efficiency and sustainability.
These relationships are aimed to last at least five years with decreasing funds but increasing staff ties and skills-based support.
In 2017 we added the following charities to our support network: Cirencester Opportunity Group, an independent pre-school charity enabling children with additional needs to play and learn with other children: Cirencester Signpost, a local charity that works to support people in need, focusing on hunger, homelessness, isolation, financial hardship and debt, while also directing people to other charity support in the area: and Cirencester Citizens Advice, specifically working to help families remain in their homes during times of crisis and financial difficulty.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Employee support has included marketing guidance, providing briefings and support in relation to the application of the new Data Protection legislation GDPR, use of building space, volunteering and help with events.
During 2018 we aim to add more charities to this initiative, and, by providing a hub of resources, we hope to empower these charities to work together as they all strive to help the same people.
Another core initiative in recent years, in support of the self-driven activities of our employees, has been our drive to link the professional skills of our employees to the professional needs of local charities.
During 2017 we were able to award 118 of our staff, who already volunteer with a local community organisation, a grant of 300 to their charity as our way of recognising and supporting the 14,300 hours of volunteering they gave in their own time.
All our employees can also benefit from two days a year in work time for community engagement and volunteering.
This has been used to support the Charitable Foundation, to get involved in other CR initiatives, or through giving skills directly to a charity or community organisation of their own choice.
In 2017, 29.6% of employees used half a day or more of their two days with 10.4% both or more of their two days.
Increasing this again remains a core objective of 2018.
In addition to their two days, we continue to provide employees with the opportunity to take part in community team challenges carefully chosen to meet a genuine need of a community organisation.
Groups of colleagues undertake these projects together, which benefits the community as well as strengthening teamwork and motivation.
This year we delivered 34 activities to 41 teams involving 353 employees over 1,950 hours of work time.
We have established a partnership with WellChild, which is supported by the Charitable Foundation and through this we worked to deliver six garden projects around the UK, in 2017, over 12 days to improve the lives of children Staff from our Group Risk team working with life limiting conditions.
In 2018 we will deliver a further 12 of these high impact projects.
on a WellChild project in Oxfordshire.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 57 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Employability and Financial Education Preparing the Next Generation for Work and Financial Confidence St. Jamess Place is an entrepreneurial organisation and we have always been keen that the next generation should be able to contribute successfully through employment.
In 2017 we have taken on dedicated resources to increase our work with long-time partner Cirencester College, and now many other schools and colleges ensuring this programme continues to grow faster even than the wider Company growth.
Cirencester College St. Jamess Place has now been providing support to Cirencester College, a further education college local to our head-office, for over 13 years.
During that time, we have been able to offer 111 internships to students from Cirencester College, with 31 of them turning into full time employment opportunities often in our Apprenticeship scheme see below.
This programme is run in conjunction with the national charity Career Ready, each of the three Academy Programmes designed for students who aspire to work in a particular market Some of our 2017 apprentices and graduates.
The support provided includes providing paid summer internships, mentors, and business coaching to many students.
Apprenticeships Working in conjunction with Cirencester College, South Gloucestershire and Stroud College and FWD Training which provides the training, our apprenticeship programme is now an important part of our long-term recruitment policy.
Our 2017 September intake of 22 has included apprenticeships in Financial Services, Business Administration, Marketing, IT and Accountancy.
Since 2016 the programme has been enriched by the addition of The Duke of Edinburghs Award for all our apprentices with the 2016 intake meeting HRH The Earl of Wessex KG GCVO in London after achieving their Awards.
This forms part of ensuring the continuation of our culture of CR engagement with all apprentices undertaking volunteering activities in their own time and, with our Graduates, organising our summer Head Office Charitable Foundation event for 450 people.
A further intake of c. 20 apprentices is planned for September 2018.
Financial Education As one of the leading providers of financial advice to individuals and 2016 apprentices with HRH The Earl of Wessex KG GCVO, The Lord business owners in the UK, we recognise the importance and value Kirkham, David Bellamy, Andrew Croft and Jonathan McMahon.
of financial education and this continued to be a core focus in the year.
During 2017 we significantly increased the resourcing and delivery of our Year 9 and Sixth Form Financial Education courses with schools.
Offering a mix of full day, half day and flexible modular programmes we supported PSHE Personal, Social and Health Education and Maths curriculum in 16 schools in Gloucestershire and London and the National Citizenship Service in Bristol.
We have developed a team of employees to go into the schools to deliver our courses which brings the day to life for the students and delivers excellent engagement and positive experiences learning about tax, budgeting and understanding debt.
We have also delivered these courses to our own apprentices and graduates.
In all, 35 sessions have been delivered supporting over 3,300 students, 2,776 face to face through our volunteers.
We have been able to both lead and support these days thanks to the 117 individual employees who volunteered to be involved, in all, giving 845 hours of work time.
We will again grow this programme in 2018.
We have also made more growth in including volunteers from our wider Partnership opening the programme across the UK and this second area of growth will continue in 2018.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other Employability Skills Training RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT During 2017 we have begun to develop a wider employability and At St. Jamess Place, we see Responsible Investing RI as an work skills programme for schools in Gloucestershire.
The CR important component in both our investment process and those of and HR Departments are working together to support a wide our fund managers.
This involves the explicit awareness of range of young people and through HR provide clearer links to environmental, social and governance ESG factors alongside the St. Jamess Place for those interested in working for us.
In addition traditional financial metrics, important for both risk management to the numerous career workshops evenings attended, we have and long-term value creation.
Being aware of these potential supported 27 skills focused events with schools including CV non-financial risks can allow investors to better understand the workshops, networking days, assemblies, interview training and companies in which they are investing and take a more informed insights days for 64 young people in our offices.
We have also view on a corporate valuation or credit risk.
As such, we believe maintained our paid internship programme with 42 summer interns responsible investing enables investors to look through a wider lens and additional places through the Active Communities Network and helps SJP in its fiduciary duty to produce long-term sustainable programme in our London and Manchester offices.
During 2018 this returns for our clients.
employability programme will be a key area of growth.
2017 was a significant year for St. Jamess Place in this context.
We know that our employees cannot volunteer in every school so This saw us further integrate responsible investing principles into our this year we have increased our grant support for youth development investment process and in building the awareness of ESG principles organisations like Young Enterprise, Employability UK, The Money within the processes of our fund managers.
In addition, part of our Charity, Career Ready and Urban Stars.
We have also developed a recent work has been to increase our involvement with responsible close relationship with The Duke of Edinburghs Award, supporting investing bodies, signing up to both the United Nations Principles for their work with disadvantaged young people to bridge the gap Responsible Investment UNPRI and the UK Stewardship Code.
We were also proud to be the title Our Responsible Investing Committee RIC has continued to engage sponsors of the 2017 DofE Adventure where 71 of our employees with our community of fund managers in a comprehensive took part in a gruelling two-day fundraiser of 700 people in the Peak programme of annual due diligence and periodic manager meetings.
To further strengthen our ongoing oversight, we have integrated ESG In measuring our CR community support activities, we use the LBG data into our internal monitoring and analysis.
This will significantly measurement methodology.
enhance our monitoring of managers with the ability to analyse portfolio and company data and make managers aware of holdings that may have high reputational or non-financial risks.
Alongside this, we have engaged with all our independent investment consultants with the view to incorporating the assessment of RI principles in the research and selection of potential managers.
While this is at an early stage, we believe ESG factors can play a greater role in the selection and appointment of our managers in the years ahead.
Finally, we have enhanced our reporting to help inform our stakeholders on our approach to responsible investing and the importance ESG principles have in investment decision making.
This includes the publication of our Responsible Investing Policy, our Stewardship Policy, an SJPTV video and our first client-facing annual RI report.
While we have made substantial progress over the past 12 months, the incorporation of ESG factors into our investment decision making remains an evolving process.
We acknowledge the need to St. Jamess Place staff from around the UK taking part in the 2017 continue this development in a controlled manner and look to further DofE Adventure in the Peak District.
embed the principles of responsible investing into our investment philosophy over the years to come.
This will include extensions to our RI policy, enhanced data analysis and reporting, and continued engagement with our fund managers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 59 Corporate Responsibility Report continued SUPPLIERS AND SUPPLY CHAIN THE ENVIRONMENT St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our stakeholders fairly.
We St. JamessPlace is committed to managing our environmental also believe in the benefits to be gained from building long-term impact through effective monitoring of energy systems, travel, water relationships based on mutual trust.
As a result, many of our key usage and waste recycling.
Although a relatively low-impact suppliers have been associated with the Group for a number of years business, we recognise that even our business can have an effect on and we have been able to cultivate very strong and mutually climate change, and we manage our business activities to reduce this beneficial relationships, such as with our providers of outsourced impact where possible.
We were pleased to see these efforts administration services: DST, Capita and State Street.
recognised in 2017, when we were awarded a Grade B, Management by the CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project.
More generally, we expect all our suppliers to act in accordance with the standards embedded in our culture, and will undertake due Oversight of our environmental strategy is through a Corporate diligence on new service providers to ensure we are comfortable Responsibility Committee with ultimate responsibility resting with with their approach to socially responsible management.
This is also Andrew Croft CEO.
The committee regularly reviews environmental covered in our ongoing due diligence process with existing suppliers.
performance and is supported by an operational Environmental Since 2014 we have been accredited with the Living Wage Committee.
Foundation, which involves us working closely with our supply chain.
We collect and report our environmental data from October to We are particularly pleased that many of our suppliers share our September.
The following tables summarise targets and progress, desire to make a positive and lasting difference to the lives of those expressed in terms of both absolute and normalised CO e emissions 2 less fortunate than ourselves, and we are very grateful to all those for our core business activities in recent years.
Core business who have provided support to the St. Jamess Place Charitable activities are defined as those within Operational Control.
Our Foundation, both through donations and through active participation emissions are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol in many of the events.
using the 2017 emission factors provided by DEFRA.
The emissions St. Jamess Place has always placed great reliance on the support of were calculated by our external sustainability partner, Carbon Clear.
third party suppliers and the continued success of our business As our business continues to grow, we have worked to integrate the reflects, amongst other things, our success in cultivating and acquired entities and our offices in Asia into the Company-wide managing successful relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased to environmental reporting.
Our new Head Office building in Cirencester remain signatories of the Prompt Payment Code which is has achieved a BREEAM rating of Very Good and has been used encouraged by the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial throughout this reporting period.
We are committed to recycling, with Strategy BEIS and demonstrates a commitment to good practice furniture recycled from offices vacated during the year saving 6,817 between organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code kg CO e going to landfill.
2 commit to paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly defined terms, and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for In 2016 we committed to reducing our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by dealing with any issues that may arise.
Through purchasing renewable electricity for our UK offices, we have exceeded this ambitious target During 2018 we will be looking to review opportunities to use social in 2017.
We will continue to purchase renewable electricity in the UK, enterprise suppliers, in keeping with our CR strategy of doing the reflecting best practice and driving demand in the renewable energy right thing.
market, as well as exploring carbon reduction opportunities in our Scope 1 operations.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information 1 Targets Absolute Emissions Targets % of % Decrease Emissions in from Base Base Year ID Scope Description Scope Year Base Year Emissions Target Year 1 & 2 Market Abs1 Based Gas, Owned vehicles and Electricity 100% 50% 2016 2,809 2020 2 Progress Absolute Emissions Progress Actual Emissions in Year % Variance ID Scope tonnes CO e from Target Comment 2 In 2016, we set an ambitious target to reduce our Scope 1 & 2 emissions by 50% by 2020 1 & 2 based on our 2016 emissions.
This year, we have purchased 100% renewable electricity for Market our UK operations, exceeding our target.
We will continue to purchase renewable electricity Abs1 Based 1,007 -28% in the UK, reflecting best practice and driving demand in the renewable energy market.
The table below illustrates the changes in our absolute emissions over the past three years.
During this time, we have taken steps to improve our data quality and calculation methodology.
This has enabled us to gain a more accurate understanding of our environmental impact and therefore to take the appropriate steps to mitigate it.
3 Gross Emissions Normalised Emissions Gross emissions tonnes CO e 2 Scope Activity 2015 2016 2017 1 Gas and owned vehicles 764 683 876 2 Market Based Electricity 1,984 2,126 130 3 Business travel, waste, hotel stays, Electricity T&D 2,559 4,847 8,875 3 Property Trust and WTT 12,182 12,130 15,101 Total 17,489 19,786 24,982 Normalised Emissions Normalised Emissions in Prior Year in Year Scope tonnes CO e per 000 sq ft tonnes CO e per 000 sq ft Comment 2 2 1 1.73 2.14 Our floor area has continued to increase in 2017, leading to an increase in site energy consumption.
This year, our Scope 1 intensity has increased, 2 Market Based 5.40 0.32 largely driven by our new building in Cirencester being operational for the 3 12.31 21.64 entire reporting period.
However, our Scope 2 intensity has decreased significantly, due to our renewable electricity strategy in the UK.
Trends in Scope 3 emissions are difficult to predict due to high variability in emissions from business travel and conferences.
This year, our intensity has increased due to attendance at a number of overseas conferences.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 61
