Our People St. Jamess Place is a relationship-focused business and the recognition that people are our most important asset is key to our culture.
OUR APPROACH EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT St. Jamess Place is a relationship-focused business and the We are proud to have engaged and enthusiastic colleagues who have recognition that people are our most important asset is key to our helped drive the success of our business over time.
Our regular culture and a fundamental element of our success.
Members of our employee survey, which we conduct biennially, provides us with a community tend to share core values that are highly compatible with range of important insights, crucially on employee engagement.
The the values that are central to the business and established at the most recent survey, which was conducted in 2016, received a strong outset expertise, integrity and discretion.
They are passionate survey response rate of 87%.
Our overall engagement score of 86% about our business and believe in hard work and dedication.
Age, was significantly higher than the financial services benchmark of race, colour, creed, sexuality, disability and gender are irrelevant: 77%.
We are especially pleased with survey scores that suggest merit and experience are of greatest importance.
They treat each employees are proud to work for St. Jamess Place, are committed to other with mutual respect, openness and fairness and are driven by staying with the business, and feel that we are an employer that a desire to do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
encourages them to strive for greater achievement.
This strong engagement contributes to low levels of staff turnover and underpins The basis of our culture is articulated in a booklet entitled Our the quality and sustainability of our proposition to Partners and Approach, which gives guidance on the culture and values of clients alike.
St. Jamess Place, and the employee handbook includes a statement about our Code of Ethics.
We believe it is important that our community knows and understands our objectives, including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and values should be maintained.
FOCUS Diversity and Inclusion We also encourage shared commitment to the St. Jamess Place We recognise that a diverse community, made up of people Charitable Foundation.
As our business grows it is essential that we from a wide variety of backgrounds, and with a range of take care of and protect our culture and we remain proactive in experiences, skills and approaches, will make our business building and reinforcing it, ensuring that it maintains its relevance.
stronger and drive continued growth and innovation.
We have a The Board is committed to being consistent and clear-sighted in its structured approach to promote diversity and inclusion to leadership and support of the culture, and in particular the principle ensure that we are proactive in this agenda across the business.
that St. Jamess Place will seek to do the right thing for its clients and all its stakeholders.
We have a diversity steering group in place, chaired by Ian Gascoigne with dedicated resources to ensure that the agenda In a world where the reputation of the financial services industry is receives the appropriate level of focus.
In 2017, we introduced a constantly under pressure, we aspire to create an authentic number of bespoke development initiatives, in particular alternative which clients and suppliers can trust, and which the focused on the area of women in management, as well as communities we are part of can appreciate and respect.
embarking on a more wide-ranging review of key people practices to ensure that we are able to recruit, develop and retain a diverse range of employees.
For 2018 we will focus further on targeted inclusive development programmes along with the implementation of enhancements to specific policies.
For further information on these initiatives, please see the Chairs Report on page 72 and information contained in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 94.
St. James's Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic Report St. James's Place Charitable Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual Report and Accounts 2017 St. James's Place plc 19
