Corporate responsibility We believe that a successful business must also be a Our business reputation, responsible business, and we are committed to developing and implementing a successful corporate responsibility programme that benefits our stakeholders.
The values and standards that together with the trust and we subscribe to as a company are embodied and reflected in our Code of Business Conduct and related policies confidence of the people we collectively, the COBC.
do business with, is a core We aim to: A chieve sustainable profits for our shareholders asset and one which we Build enduring relationships with key stakeholders, especially our customers strive to protect.
Value our employees Give something back to our local communities Respect the environment Our corporate responsibility objectives support our Core Values: Customers Ensure that our customers are the focus of our business Build a foundation for positive, mutual success Innovation and improvement Stay ahead of business challenges Develop new methods and skills that improve our business Maintain and strengthen continuous improvement culture in all areas of our business Employees Hire, develop and retain talented people Provide a safe, respectful and inclusive working environment Foster teamwork through communication Communities Be a responsible member of our communities Support local engagement in charitable and other activities that benefit our communities Compliance Comply with all laws that are applicable to our business, operations, workforce and products Demonstrate the highest levels of integrity by embracing our COBC Environment Encourage the prevention of pollution and the conservation of resources These corporate social responsibility principles are part of the way we operate on a daily basis and reflect the way we interact with customers, our people and the community.
Transmission oil cooling line Used for liquid transfer function related to thermal management systems for the transmission TI Fluid Systems plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Customers Environment, Health and Safety We promote a customerfocused culture and are proud of the The health and safety of our employees and environmental strong and longstanding relationships we have with our customers guardianship remain central to everything we do.
We focus on all around the world.
In 2017, as in past years, we received safe working environments and eliminating workrelated injuries dozens of awards from our customers in every region recognising and illnesses.
our commitment to quality, delivery, safety and innovation.
Leadership Employees The Group has a global Health and Safety Policy which is Our commitment to customer service is embedded in implemented and overseen by local Health and Safety committees our recruitment, selection, development and compensation located at each manufacturing facility.
Our Global Environmental, arrangements with our employees across the Group.
We seek Health and Safety Director is responsible for environmental, health to attract, motivate and retain the best talent we can, and this and safety matters.
Regional managers lead environmental, underpins our delivery of consistently high customer service.
health and safety matters in each geographic area.
Our people are considered for employment, training, career Continuous improvement development and promotion on the basis of their abilities and Since 2016, we have implemented enhanced systems designed aptitudes, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, religion to measure and benchmark health and safety performance and or ethnic origin.
accident frequency rates at each manufacturing facility and within each geographic area.
We use this information to compare Our gender split in 2017 across salaried employees of the Group injury rate, safety culture and levels of engagement for each was 2.62:1.00 Male:Female with a total global salaried work location.
As part of our health and safety strategy, we are in force of 4,777, as shown in the table below: the process of developing more robust reporting and control measures in order to further improve our safety practices.
Salaried employees as at 31 December 2017 Our environment Male Female We have procedures and policies in place to monitor compliance Executive Directors with all applicable laws and regulations related to the environment, and senior Executives 7 0 including air and water discharges and the handling and disposal Senior Directors 62 11 of waste.
We have a global energy monitoring programme which Other salaried employees 3,387 1,310 we use to calculate our CO2 equivalent greenhouse gas emissions Total 3,456 1,321 with a longterm goal of implementing efficiency programmes to reduce energy consumption and our carbon footprint.
We seek to ensure that our people benefit from effective communications and engagement, with regular business updates, senior directors briefing sessions and constructive relationships with employee representatives across the Group.
We also encourage our management teams to hold regular informal update meetings to keep our employees informed and engaged.
Our COBC applies to the Group on a worldwide basis and covers a wide range of ethical and compliance matters, including antidiscrimination, selfdealing, bribery corruption, sanctions and antitrust competition.
All salaried employees receive annual refresher training.
Community We operate in 28 countries worldwide.
Each of our operations are encouraged to develop a local strategy to give back to the communities in which we work and live.
Last year our local employees participated and contributed to over one hundred community and charitable projects and programmes.
These took place in Europe, Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America.
TI Fluid Systems plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
