36 | Corporate responsibility Playing an active role in ourcommunities Our approach to corporate responsibility is based on our 4Cs ways of working: se ser rv five a e an nd i d in nv five es st i t in o n ou ur c r co olllle ea ag gu ue es s, c, cu us st to om me er rs s, c, co om mp pa an ny a y an nd c d co om mm mu un niit tiie es a s an nd d be a g be a go oo od n d ne eiig gh hbo bou ur r. W. We f e fo oc cu us o s ou ur e r ef ff fo or rt ts l s lo oc ca alllly s y so t o th ha at w t we p e plla ay a y an a n ac ct tiiv five r e ro olle e iin t n th he c e co om mm mu un niit tiie es w s wh he er re w e we w e wo or rk a k an nd l d liiv five e.. O Ou ur r 4 4Cs Cs D Do oin ing g t th he e r riig gh ht t t thin hing g f fo or o r ou ur 4 r 4C Cs d s dr riiv five es o s ou ur r d fide ec ciis siio on n m ma ak kin ing g a at t H Ha as st tin ing gs s, g gui uidin ding g u us s a as s w we e c co on nt tin inu ue e t to o g gr ro ow w a a sus sust tai aina nab blle e a an nd d f fiin na anci ncia alllly y s st ta able ble G Gr rou oup p iin a r n a re es spo pon ns siib blle m e ma an nn ne er r.. O Ou ur 4 r 4C Cs w s wa ay ys o s of w f wo or rk ki in ng g O Ou ur b r be elliie ef i f is t s th ha at i t if w f we p e pr ro ov viid fide o e ou ur r c col olle lea ag gu ue es s w wiit th h t the he r riig ght ht t to ool ols s, lle ea ad der ers ship hip, t tr rai ainin ning g, s sy ys st tem ems s, p pr remi emis se es s a an nd i d in nf fo or rm ma at tiio on t n th he ey w y wiilll b l be a e ab blle t e to o d dom omo ore f re fo or o r ou ur c r cu us st to om me er rs w s wh ho w o wiillll, iint ntu ur rn n, b, bu uy m y mo ore f re fr ro om u m us s, e, en na ab blliin ng u g us s t to g o gr ro ow t w th he b e bu us siin ne es ss p s pr ro ofi fi t ta ab blly a y an nd i d in n as asu us st ta aiin ne ed w d wa ay y. T. Th hiis a s allllo ow ws u s us t s to i o in nv five es st t iin t n th he c e co om mm mu un niit tiie es w s we s e se er rv five a e an nd b d be e a re a res sp po on ns siib blle m e me em mb be er o r of t f th he fi e fi n na an nc ciia all s se er rv viic ce es c s co om mm mu un niit ty y. W. We u e us se t e th he 4 e 4C Cs t s to o m me ea as su ure p re pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce a e an nd s d su uc cc ce es ss a s as s iin nd diiv viid du ua alls a s an nd a d as a G s a Gr ro ou up p, s, so w o we h e ha av five e ac aclle ea ar r, c, co on ns siis st te en nt a t an nd b d ba alla an nc ce ed a d ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h t to d o fide elliiv five er riin ng o g ou ur o r ob bjje ec ct tiiv five es s.. H H Ha a as s st t ti i in n ng g gs s s G G Gr r ro o ou u up p p H H Ho o ol l ldi di din n ng g gs s s p p pl l lc c c A A An n nnu nu nual al al R R Re e ep p po o or r rt t t 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 37 Colleagues We encourage two-way feedback through a number of channels, including: Our 4Cs ways of working always start with colleagues.
We believe that engaged colleagues lead to happy Our annual engagement survey is designed to understand how Your Voice colleagues feel about life at Hastings and what we do for our customers so we are committed to 4Cs.
We then capture key themes raised by colleagues through listening to, developing and investing companywide and local action plans that feed through to 4Cs in our colleagues so they continue to objectives so we can make improvements where necessary and contribute, thrive and be who they are.
importantly, we can measure progress through the year.
This gives us one view so we regularly ask for colleagues to Contribute share their thoughts, ideas and frustrations through all of our As we grow, its important that communication channels to make sure we that we focus on colleagues share how they feel about life things that are front of mind.
Regular conversations allow Some of the key changes we have made as a result of colleague us to listen and respond in the best feedback include wider and more frequent recognition through possible way.
our 4Cs Awards process: more training opportunities, changes to shift patterns and back to the floor days for leaders to stay in touch with colleagues and what they do for our customers every day.
Our colleague elected representatives from across the Hastings business meet monthly to consult with the company on any key Colleague changes and provide invaluable feedback and insight from their Forum teams.
As a result of their input we have made some significant changes ranging from improved benefits to simplified HR policies and processes.
Small change Agility is key to our success and we apply focus on the big changes and small fixes in equal measure.
To support this thinking, we created a small change team in January 2017 who worked with our Hastings Colleague Forum to get colleague feedback and prioritise the small operational things that they would like us to fix or change such as changes to internal processes that help provide our customers with first call resolution.
We share all updates through our Chief Executive Officers monthly update, which focuses on all things 4Cs.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 38 | Corporate responsibility Rewarding hard work and dedication all our colleagues, company, customers Colleagues and local communities.
In 2017 we had over 2,000 nominations and the winners of seven categories received Thrive their coveted awards at the annual 4Cs Through ongoing development Awards final event.
Were committed to developing the skills and careers of all of our colleagues and Be who you are continually invest in our training and Attracting, recruiting and retaining talent development programmes: is vitally important for us as we grow.
Classroom and live academy training Our agility, clear identity and 4Cs way of for customer serving colleagues, working is why we stand out and what whoare regularly upskilled: makes us who we are.
Feedback from colleague surveys and focus groups Yourcareer portal providing tells us that although we do need to do information about internal career some things better, colleagues really frameworks and the training and like working at Hastings and feel they development colleagues need to can truly be themselves and bring their help them develop their careers personality to work.
They feel supported within the company: by their colleagues, that there is a strong Working for Hastings Apprenticeships In 2018 well be sense of team and a focus on getting it expanding our approach and will right for customers.
is a blessing and invest in apprenticeships aligned to I love working for our critical skills so we retain and attract the skills needed to grow a company that our business: and encourages me to Leadership programmes and bemyself.
development activities designed to develop, engage and retain key Neha Kadiwar leadership talent.
Team Leader and reward and recognition forajob well done We regularly recognise and reward the hard work and dedication our colleagues deliver providing a high quality service experience for customers whether its just by saying thank you, awarding a voucher or by celebrating with them at our 4Cs Awards event in the summer or Christmas parties.
We also use the 4Cs to recognise and thank colleagues for going the extra mile on a monthly and annual basis.
Our 4Cs Awards programme offers colleagues the chance to nominate their team members for their achievements and the positive impressions they make on Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 39 Equal opportunities and Diversity Over the last 12 months we have been successful in recruiting a number of humanrights We regularly monitor all aspects of females to senior roles.
We acknowledge We are committed to ensuring colleague diversity across the business.
there is an imbalance in the number We consider candidates from all that everyone has the right to of senior females in the organisation equal opportunities at all stages of backgrounds as part of any recruitment and we are taking steps to address this, process and we are committed to recruitment, selection and throughout whilst ensuring shareholders interests their working careers.
Short listing, attracting and retaining the best talent are protected by appointing the best in the industry.
interviewing and selection is carried candidates into demanding senior out without regard to gender, gender leadership positions.
We are realistic reassignment, sexual orientation, that this will take time to achieve, marital or civil partnership status, Gender diversity but are putting in place a number of colour, race, nationality, ethnic or across the Group as internal initiatives aimed at increasing national origin, religion or belief or age.
These are likely to encompass colleague lifecycle All colleagues activities such as recruitment, induction, maternity, talent and succession 1,586 1,602 planning.
Total: 3,188 We have also signed up to the 30% Senior Leaders Club www.
org to demonstrate our commitment to having 76 23 more women in senior leadership roles.
Our aim is for women to represent 30% Total: 99 of senior leaders in the Group by 2020.
Group Board 9 3 Total: 12 Retail Board HISL 4 3 Total: 7 Underwriting Board AICL 5 0 Total: 5 Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 40 | Corporate responsibility Standing out from our competitors Customers The customer service representative made What makes us stand out from our competitors is our great value pricing everything so easy to sort out.
and products and the way we are built It was effortless on my part for the way customers buy insurance.
Key to our success is providing a due to the excellent customer refreshingly straightforward service.
Straight We do this by: forward and stress free.
listening and responding to customer feedback F Trewick monitoring and predicting customer behaviour and market trends, adapting our pricing and product strategy accordingly: and providing a quality service to all our customers by working in an open and accountable way.
The representative from Hastings was very helpful and couldnt do enough for me while renewing my car insurance.
V Anderson Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 41 promoting a Travel Green initiative that supports our colleagues in Community Company making greener journeys to work With happy colleagues, satisfied Hastings stands out because we focus through car sharing, increased cycle customers and a profitable Group we on getting it right for our 4Cs.
We use and discounted rail travel: are able to take the 4Cs full circle by work with our suppliers to make sure dedicated recycle and confidential taking an active part in serving our that we adopt an aligned approach waste stations and at our head office communities.
We do this by being to caring for our environment where site in Bexhill we send zero waste a good neighbour, investing in local possible.
It is our belief that ethical to landfill: education initiatives and being an conduct is an integral component of ethical member of the financial running a business successfully and encouraging the use of travel mugs services community.
it is an expectation we have of both and water bottles to cut the use of our colleagues and our suppliers.
disposable cups: A good neighbour We continually look at ways to make using reduced energy electric light Our Charity Events Committee is improvements so we can continue bulbs and motion sensitive lighting made up entirely of colleagues who to serve our communities and be a where possible and practical: and volunteer to organise fundraising events goodneighbour.
throughout the year for local charities recycling unwanted furniture by Strong supplier relationships are vital to nominated by colleagues.
The Hastings donating it to local charities our continued success.
We work closely Community Fund provides a helping and organisations.
with our local and national suppliers to hand to local individuals or groups by communicate our standards, values, providing advice, physical support or principles and sustainability goals to small grants to help with fundraising.
By working with our suppliers, 2017 we raised over 65,000 for local we can offer the best price, product charities and organisations and spent and service solutions to benefit our over 1,000 days in our communities.
part of our InsurePink product offering, where 10 for every insurance policy Each colleague is responsible for purchased via the brand is donated to achieving the highest level of business a breast cancer charity Pink Ribbon conduct and for delivering our everyday Foundation, we are pleased that our activities in a way that reflects ethical customers helped us raise over 20,000 principles.
We play our part by: for this worthy charity in 2017. inviting our customers to receive all their documentation electronically: T o have Hastings support our charity this supporting local businesses with a year has been an amazing experience range of unique offers that encourage and incentivise our colleagues to of passion, drive and teamwork at its buy from local retailers, suppliers highest level in the support shown through andservices: donations to having colleagues come out and help feed the less fortunate.
Dom Warren Founder, Doms Food Mission Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc 42 | Corporate responsibility Helping to shape the future Community Investing in local education initiatives We have significant interaction with schools, colleges and universities in and around our communities to help develop, attract and nurture home B e the Change is one of the most grown talent.
In 2017 we completed the rewarding things Ive ever been a part second year of a three year education programme called Be the Change in of, and seeing children grow confidence Bexhill and Leicester which aims to within the first five hour session was raise the aspirations of local 1314 year olds.
The course is designed to amazing!
I am excited to see my group help remove barriers that may make of students again and I hope theyve students disengage from school and in life and provide them with life skills to implemented the change they want help shape their future.
volunteer as business mentors to help support the students with anecdotal Lauren OKeefe and professional advice and guidance.
Claims Advisor Hastings continues to be the only corporate organisation to sponsor a full bespoke Be the Change programme in the UK.
The money we have received has been used towards granting the wishes of eight very poorly children creating memories that the children and their families will never forget.
We have met the team on several occasions and have built up a very special relationship with them.
Janine Bates Trustee, Wishes4Kids Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017
