Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 35 Corporate Social Responsibility strong social purpose We are proud to sponsor the Citizens Advice The Just brand has a strong social purpose at Money Plan initiative.
This initiative is supported by the Personal Finance Society, its core.
Over the last year we have continued whose financial planners give up their time on a pro bono basis to work with Citizens to strengthen and develop new ways to help Advice to deliver this valuable service to improve the lives of people approaching citizens across 113 bureaus across England and Wales.
The service provides access to and in retirement, with a particular focus on free financial guidance and information across a variety of topics including pensions, vulnerable consumers retirement planning, mortgages, equity release and debt.
Over the last 12 months the Moneyplanners have helped around 600 citizens in potentially vulnerable situations.
Community and charity Looking forward Just has a comprehensive programme Offering greater help to vulnerable customers of community and charitable activities, will be an important focus for our Company and during 2017 we have maintained our over the coming years.
At the Future of extremely popular schools engagement Ageing conference in November, Just, in programme.
This gives colleagues across conjunction with the International Longevity the Group the opportunity to participate in Centre, launched a programme called various activities in primary and secondary Innovating for Ageing to bring together schools in Reigate and Tower Hamlets, experts, innovators and groups who work to London, including giving assistance with support vulnerable consumers to collaborate reading, developing study skills and offering on future solutions.
The aim is to identify career advice.
We have continued to support and support the development of practical a number of charities - this has included products and services that will address the Just are proud to be working with Citizens Advice on the Money Plan initiative taking part in St Catherines Hospice 2017 challenges faced by ageing consumers at Dragon Boat Festival with a Company risk of vulnerability due to physical disability, team called Just Oar-some, donating illness, dementia or financial exclusion.
food to Loveworks to help families who are This is one of a number of focused activities experiencing food poverty, and a Reindeer that colleagues at Just will be involved Run around the City of London to raise funds in during 2018, as well as more broadly for the London and Midlands Air Ambulances.
helping people who are approaching and in-retirement to manage their money, Vulnerable customers build social and digital connections, As a business we are acutely aware maintain healthy minds and get active.
of the number of consumers who are potentially vulnerable, and recent FCA reports suggest that as many as half of UK consumers more than 25 million Just and ILC-UK are working together to develop people currently show one or more solutions for vulnerable customers in later life characteristics of potential vulnerability.
This indicates the scale of the challenge.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 36 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement OUR environmental impact We remain committed to reducing the environmental impact of our business and are now reporting as one entity, Just Group plc We have reported on all of the emission GHG emissions data sources required under the Companies Act Current reporting period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Tonnes of CO e tCO e 2 2 Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within Scope 1 - Gas consumption 143.64 our consolidated financial statement.
Scope 2 - Purchased electricity 901.31 We do not have responsibility for any Scope 3 - Business travel 1,834.44 emission sources that are not included in our Total emissions 2,879.39 consolidated statement.
Intensity measurement Tonnes of CO e per full time employee 2.64 2 We have used the Greenhouse Gas GHG Intensity Measurement Tonnes of CO e per m revenue 1.52 2 Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK Governments GHG 1.
INTENSITY MEASUREMENT Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, The reporting period set using a fixed year approach is 1 January We use both a financial emissions intensity metric tonnes of expiry 31 July 2018.
CO e per m revenue and an employee intensity metric tonnes 2 of CO e per employee to normalise our data and provide useful 2 2.
Since our revenue is largely relative to our We have identified relevant activity data for We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and business activity levels with our clients which in turn influences our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions with the support Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from level of business travel and revenue growth, these are the most of independent consultants, Alphacello Ltd. UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting appropriate and useful intensity measurements for our sector.
Data from all emission sources has been 7.
APPROACH TO ASSURANCE collected and the validity and completeness 3.
ORGANISATIONAL BOUNDARY Alphacello Ltd conduct an annual review of Just Groups data of the dataset was verified by Alphacello Ltd. We have used the financial control approach to identify the GHG collation and calculation processes and provide verification of their emissions for which Just Group have responsibility.
The boundaries GHG Emissions Statement.
of the reported emissions comprise all UK offices and building Greenhouse gas emissions are measured related emissions including business travel, covering car, train and 8.
CARBON OFFSETS in units of tonnes of carbon dioxide flights long haul and domestic.
At present, carbon offsets do not form part of our carbon mitigation equivalent tCO e which is a standard 2 strategy.
We are currently implementing energy saving initiatives unit used to express the impact of each 4.
OPERATIONAL SCOPES throughout our buildings as a result of our ESOS report.
This includes We have measured our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, and significant updating out of date air conditioning units and the installation of different greenhouse gas in terms of the Scope 3 emissions.
The building we occupy in London uses amount of CO that would create the same 2 photovoltaic cells to generate renewable energy.
TARGETS Just Group have set annual targets in accordance with the recommendations that are included within our ESOS Energy Pack, which has been submitted to the Environment Agency.
Just group PLC Annual Report and accounts 2017 37 Governance The Group Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance in Just ChRis Gibson-Smith ChAIrman IN THIS SECTION 38 Board of Directors 42 Corporate Governance Report 48 N omination Committee Report 50 A udit Committee Report 53 Risk and Compliance Committee Report 55 D irectors Remuneration Report 73 Directors Report 77 Directors Responsibilities
