Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility We believe that a crucial criterion of how an organisation operates and how its success and development is measured is the way in which it fulfils its responsibilities both within and outside its businesses, is its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
Our CSR strategy focuses mainly on community, environment and workplace.
THE CSR PRINCIPLES These moral obligations include: As the event unfolded, the most awaited For over 40 years the Group has been actively promoting preventive health guest for the evening, Dr. BR.
Shetty, using its medical and non-medical programmes designed to improve the Founder and Chairman, Prasanth infrastructure along with our expertise health and quality of life of residents: Manghat, CEO and Dr. C. R. Shetty, Group in the region to positively impact funding and making publicly available Medical Director arrived and took to the community, environment and workplace.
the annual Health Index for the UAE: and stage to take the evening further.
After NMC has been committed to practising introducing best practice the welcome address, our beloved a strong professional and social environmental management.
Shetty, was presented responsibility to its community, with an exquisite plaque as a gift on his sustainable management of UAEs These all contribute to the common 75th birthday on behalf of all staff.
environment and ethical conduct and good of people in the workplace, the Shetty addressed the staff with his good governance in the workplace.
NMCS GENERAL APPROACH TO CSR NMC considers three specific areas Mr Manghat also addressed the gathering NMC takes very seriously its social in relation to its social responsibility and presented awards.
Such events give responsibility and supports the report employees the opportunity to come of the International Bioethics Committee Our Employees together, celebrate past successes and of UNESCO on Social Responsibility The Environment leave with optimism, vigor and and Health.
This report interprets social The Community renewed energy.
responsibility and healthcare delivery as both passive and active in how EMPLOYEE EDUCATION PROGRAMME Employees to manage internal operations and the NMC conducts multiple training programs impact of activities on the community throughout the year for its employees.
In 2017 alone, both medical and nonNMC FOUNDATION DAY medical staff have been trained in various NMC organises many employee At NMC we engage in passive social engaging training programs which engagement programs and events each responsibilities by complying with all include fire and safety, quality control, year.
In 2017, the principal such event was regulatory requirements and general occupational safety, utility management the first NMC foundation day, hosted on ethical standards, such as: training, infection prevention control, 1st August 2017, which saw events taking health talks, etc.
These training programs place across all of our facilities across the respecting human rights: ensure continuous education and training Group.
Staff across the Group celebrated non-discriminatory work practices: to our staff across all healthcare and the success achieved by NMC since protecting privacy rights that trading facilities.
These programs are inception, and also attended receptions improve society: not only conducted internally but also where the CEO, or other members of the strict adherence to Anti-Bribery, by external qualified and reputed Senior Management Team, congratulated Anti-Corruption, Gifts and organisations such as Abu Dhabi Civil staff and honoured high performing Entertainment Policy by having a zero Defense for fire and safety teams and employees.
Presentations tolerance to such behaviour regardless training programs.
were made to employees reinforcing the of the identity or position of the spirit of the Foundation day which will be originator or recipient of a Bribe: NMC Healthcare further conducts celebrated each year.
welcoming patients from all segments Continuing Development Programs of society, nationalities and income in-house at facilities across UAE.
The NMC Foundation Day ended with a levels: and aim of these programs is to impart and gathering of corporate staff members having environmental policies and reinforce the doctors, nurses, and other who, in line with events earlier in the day, practices that protect our society staff on various health topics that range came together to celebrate this occasion and environment.
from prevention and management of with much gusto.
The evening was also diabetes, lifestyle diseases, cardiovascular presided over by the senior management We are also committed to active social diseases to name but a few.
and guests from other facilities.
Staff also responsibilities that go beyond legal enthusiastically shared their experiences obligations and general ethical standards.
of the day and extended warm wishes We actively pursue the interests and to NMC.
values of individuals and the local and global community and environment.
32 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. GENDER DIVERSITY Board of Directors Senior management team Total: 11 Total: 7 8 3 6 1 Male Female Male Female 73% 27% 86% 14% Corporate office Corporate infomation technology Total: 477 Total: 82 295 182 73 9 Male Female Male Female 62% 38% 89% 11% Management Total: 122 83% 17% Management Total: 11 91% 9% Staff Total: 355 55% 45% Staff Total: 71 89% 11% Healthcare Distribution Total: 11,070 Total: 2,092 4,362 6,708 1,833 259 Male Female Male Female 39% 61% 88% 12% Management 90% 10% Total: 586 64% 36% Management Total: 179 Doctors Total: 1,437 59% 41% Staff Total: 1,913 87% 13% Staff Nurse Total: 3,813 17% 83% Technicians & Total: 1,069 43% 57% Pharmacists Others Total: 4,165 49% 51% DIVERSITY, DISCRIMINATION AND GENDER and supports Centros especiales fide discrimination policies and the multiOur commitment to diversity and empleo, special work centres that employ cultural nature of the UAE, our anti-discrimination policies is reflected disabled people by purchasing their primary market.
in the profile of our employees.
Our employees, and how we treat them NMC has an anti-discrimination policy As at 31 December 2017, our Group has as an employer, are important to us and in place to ensure that there is no grown its employee base across all its we were very pleased to have been discrimination or harassment of any business operations to over 13,000 recognised as one of the Top Companies person employed or seeking employment employees.
We employ individuals from to Work For in the UAE by the Great Place on the basis of their race, colour, religion, different nationalities around the World.
to Work Institute in 2017. gender, age or nationality.
In addition, our workforce is nearly equally split between female and male In accordance with Spanish Law, Eugin employees.
We believe that this also works to stimulate the social and widespread cultural and balanced gender labour integration of disabled people mix is testament to the effects of our NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued OUR ENVIRONMENT AND We have applied an operational control Environment ITS CHALLENGES approach in presenting our GHG The extremely hot and humid weather emissions, and have reported on all RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT leads to the UAE being one of the highest material emission sources within scope 1 NMC recognises the importance and per capita greenhouse gas emitters combustion of fuel from operation of our responsibility of environmental globally.
The use of gases and refrigerants facilities and usage of vehicles and scope stewardship.
Reflecting our role in the is extensive, not only in the UAE as a 2 purchased electricity and cooling.
Gas sustainable management of UAEs whole, but also to ensure the most and electricity usage information has environment, we are committed to appropriate environment within which been obtained from purchase invoices.
conducting our work in an to treat and care for our patients, Vehicle fuel usage is based upon environmentally responsible way.
maintain our food and pharmaceutical purchase invoices.
Where NMC is not We operate in compliance with all stocks safely and to care for the welfare directly billed for the consumption of relevant environmental legislation and of our employees.
power and therefore does not have full we continue to strive to use pollution visibility of the data, an estimation using prevention and environmental best In line with our CSR principles, we seek average consumption from other similar practices in the workplace to minimise to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions sites has been applied.
our potential impact on the environment.
where possible and hence limit our effect on the environment.
The data shows that there has been All employees in NMC have enthusiastically a 22% increase in GHG intensity per 1,000 undertaken a responsibility to work in a OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS orders and 8% increase on a per 1,000 sustainable manner and reduce the Our greenhouse gas reporting covers the dollar revenue basis for the distribution negative impact of their own activities on 12-month period of 1 October 2016 to business.
This increase is mainly due to the environment.
This reporting period increase in warehouse storage area along responsible for implementing this policy enables us to collate and review the data with increase in overall fleet for the and are accountable for environmental in a timely manner ahead of the annual distribution business.
performance in their areas of responsibility.
At these sites this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel for generators.
Scope 2 indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and cooling.
The GHG emissions reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and additional guidance issued by the UK Government.
The emissions have been calculated using carbon conversion factors published by the UK Government in October 2016.
The total Scope 2 emissions have been reported in accordance with the location based method which uses grid average emissions factors.
There are no energy certificates or supplier-specific information available in the UAE, therefore, the market based method is not applicable here.
Conversion factors applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have been obtained from the publication IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 edition.
A conversion factor for Sevoflurane was not available from the UK Government so an epa.
gov ghg reporting figure was used.
During FY 2017 period, Group one of the acquired entity, Fakih IVF, started GHG reporting.
For comparison, we have excluded acquired entities which started reporting from FY 16 and FY 17.
These entities include: Fakih IVF, Clinica Eugin, ProVita, Dr Sunny Healthcare Group and Americare.
34 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. There has also been a 5% increase in Community tonnes CO e per 1,000 patients, and a 2 0.4% increase in tonnes CO e per 1,000 2 OUTREACH CAMPS dollars of revenue for Healthcare when As part of NMC Healthcares community excluding the new facilities, this is due outreach initiatives, facilities in Abu Dhabi, to NMC Royal hospital which was Dubai, Sharjah and Al Ain conduct health excluded in last years reporting but has and wellness programs for various private been considered fully in FY 17.
However, and public companies, insurance there has been a 7% decrease in GHG partners, academic institutions, intensity on a per 1,000 patient basis educational organisations, embassies overall, when looking at all Healthcare and other professional entities in the UAE.
This is due to the initial ramp up Over 250 such health and wellness phase whereby hospitals are operational camps have been conducted across the but patient numbers are initially lower in country where NMC has touched over last year as compared to this year where 500,000 people through educational the patient numbers in the ramp up health talks, screening programs and hospital have increased substantially.
We also This has contributed to a 21% overall distributed educational literature and decrease in GHG emissions intensity per vouchers for both employees of these 1,000 dollars of revenue for NMC as companies and their families to avail of a whole.
at their nearby NMC facility.
NMC remains committed to continuous Organisations such as Abu Dhabi improvement and ongoing reduction of Investment Authority ADIA, Abu Dhabi GHG emissions when measured on an National Exhibition Center, Etisalat, Du, intensity basis.
Siemens, SERCO, First Abu Dhabi Bank, Emirates NBD, Mashreq Bank, Dubai OTHER SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS Police, Dubai, Abu Dhabi Investment Bank, Businesses across the NMC Group UAE University, Higher Colleges of undertake various sustainability initiatives Technology, DAMAC, Sharjah Ports each year.
Authority are some of the companies where NMC has provided health and NMC Trading, Dubai participated in the wellness campaigns for their employees.
We Plant initiative on 17th December 2017 at Dibba Al Hasn, Sharjah.
On the online front, we posted over 200 NMC Trading Quality Department Team posts on good health and prevention has initiated a sustainability drive and which attracted engagement with has collected paper waste from NMC approximately 300,000 people, while Trading offices and warehouses across having an organic reach of over the UAE.
NMC Trading has donated over 3 tons of paper waste to Emirates NMC Trading conducted a Blood Donation Environment Group, Dubai for recycling.
camp as part of its CSR initiative, in which In return NMC Trading has been gifted over 200 staff have donated blood.
2 trees which have been planted at Dibba Al Hasn, Sharjah.
Group businesses also undertake other Recycling increased by 1,167.66% specific outreach programmes.
The Group Strategic Report set out on pages 12 to 35 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: PRASANTH MANGHAT Chief Executive Officer NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Governance Governance The Board and management team have strengthened internal controls and kept approach to risk under review during the period of sustained growth and integration.
36 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 I. II.
V. NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
