Fidessa group plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 management levels.
The table below sets out the gender Fidessa encourages employees to own shares in the breakdown across the Group.
Company through their participation in the Share Incentive Plan SIP in the UK and the Monthly Share Purchase Share Male Female MSPP across the Group.
As at 31st December 2017, 91% 2016: 91% of employees are eligible to participate in Directors 7 1 the SIP and or MSPP.
Regulations in certain jurisdictions Other senior managers 16 3 prohibit Fidessa from offering the MSPP to 100% of employees.
Further details of the SIP and MSPP can be All employees 1,355 350 found in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
Fidessa also offers flexible working arrangements, Fidessas apprenticeship programme not only helps build supporting part time working and reduced hours to allow internal talent, but can also further increase the diversity its employees, where compatible with their responsibilities, amongst employees as apprentices do not typically follow flexibility.
Health and safety In the countries that permit the monitoring of race and The health and safety of employees, customers and ethnicity of employees, as at 31st December 2017 Fidessa visitors is of primary importance.
Fidessa is committed had 44 nationalities working across its locations, further to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment by supporting Fidessas position as a diverse employer.
managing its activities so as to avoid unnecessary or Although Fidessa does not monitor LGBT data, its policies unacceptable risks.
To help achieve this, health and safety are designed to ensure that those who recognise audits and risk assessments are carried out regularly and themselves as LGBT are protected against any form of any remediation recommendations are acted upon.
In 2017, Fidessa joined Stonewall Europes Additionally, appropriate information, training and largest LGBT charity as part of Stonewalls Diversity supervision are provided in support of this policy.
That programme aims to help Throughout the year the Board received updates on health employers create a workplace that enables LGBT and safety matters including any steps taken to remediate employees to reach their full potential.
Employee engagement Corporate social responsibility Effective communication and openness with employees Fidessa recognises the importance are vital and Fidessas internal communications policy of meeting globally recognised corporate responsibility promotes the understanding and involvement of all standards.
Fidessa seeks, through its policies, to promote employees in its business aims and performance.
Fidessa a culture which recognises and encourages support for has a relatively flat management structure and is good causes: contributes positively to communities of committed to and encourages regular face-to-face which Fidessa is part: donates to charities in line with its communications.
The policy of providing employees with policies: considers local, national and international causes: information about new products and services, operations and, encourages our employees to participate in initiatives and the performance and development of the overall that positively influence the local, national or global business has continued through the intranet site, product communities.
seminars and interactive Group-wide meetings at which progress updates are given by senior management.
The Board believes that Fidessa has a positive social impact through the employment it creates, the payment It is important for Fidessa to understand how its employees of local corporate, employment and sales taxes, its feel about working at Fidessa and the Fidessa Focus participation in activities with local communities and its employee survey last conducted in 2016 helped provide regular support of a number of fundraising activities for some valuable feedback.
The next survey will be employee nominated charities.
Specific examples of conducted in 2018.
The 2016 Annual Report provides community outreach projects include providing backpacks further details of the outcome of that survey.
and school supplies to children in need and help to those Employee benefits in homeless shelters: running coding clubs at a local Based on external benchmarking within the key regions, school: and, holding open days for pre-university pupils to Fidessa offers remuneration and benefits packages learn about finance, technology and business.
Additionally, consistent with similarly placed technology employers in around 25 employees in the UK became STEM science, the countries in which Fidessa operates.
In addition, technology, engineering and mathematics ambassadors
