Sustainability Sustainability atthe heart of our business The Groups international operations fulfil their responsibility to record, monitor and make publicly available the potential impact of its activities.
Sustainability Highlights Inpursuing its corporate strategy, Synthomers aim is to adopt business practices that are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable, Best ever recordable injury rate, reduced by 56% and to promote these to its stakeholders in order to strengthen compared to 2016 relationships, share knowledge and encourage best practice.
10% reduction in VOC emissions The Groups risk management processes include consideration of Relaunch of Company website, strengthening the potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Synthomers performance.
The Groups investment decisions take into account employee brand appropriate evaluations of the potential consequences for its Successful launch of mentoring programme employees, customers and suppliers and theenvironment.
Introduction Our commitment to science Synthomer recognises the significance and importance of being and education a responsible Company.
We take responsibility for the complete life cycle of our products and for the impact our operations have This year, Synthomer supported SCIs inaugural Bright SCIdea on people and the environment.
Challenge a competition for teams of university students to turn an idea for a scientific innovation into a business pitch.
The aim Synthomer considers the issues that are material to its business of the competition is to help ambitious young scientists develop and seeks to respond to them in a manner appropriate to the their entrepreneurial skills the essential tools required to interests of all its stakeholders.
translate a scientific idea into a commercially viable business with real-world benefits.
We are committed to approaching our business in an ethical and SCI is a multidisciplinary membership organisation where science environmentally sound manner and have been committed to the meets business on independent, impartial ground.
Established in International Council of Chemical Associations ICCA Responsible 1881 as the Society of Chemical Industry, it supports the translation Care project since the early 1990s.
of science-based innovation into industry for the benefit of society.
SCI work through a global network of industrialists and academics Our work in this area has been highlighted through the Groups in sectors as diverse asfood and agriculture, pharmaceuticals and energy.
inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index since 2004.
The FTSE4Good Index is operated by FTSE and highlights the performance of stock Synthomer was excited to take the sponsorship role for the SCIdea market listed companies against a range ofenvironmental, social initiative.
This was a great opportunity for Synthomer to help early and governance criteria.
To be eligible for inclusion in the index career scientists gain exposure and develop some core competencies companies must demonstrate a high level ofcommitment in that will help shape them as future leaders of the chemical industry.
areas such as climate change, environmental management Robin Harrison, Global Innovation Director and human rights.
To ensure the safe management and use of its products, Synthomer is committed to sharing relevant health and safety information throughout the value chain.
To achieve this, we work closely with our suppliers and customers to fully understand the environmental impact of our raw materials, processes and products on the overall product life cycle.
We identify potential improvement areas and focus efforts on delivering those improvements.
Growing sustainably is a challenge, but it is one that we are committed to taking on.
44 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our approach Our people Employees We have made good progress in all five pillars of our growth and productivity framework to 2,879 create an open and positive work environment for our people.
Read more on pages 46 to 49 Employees working in R&D 186 Safety, health and Recordable the environment accident rate per 100,000 hours We have continued to focus on reducing accident rates in the past year.
Total recordable accident rate 0.13 fell 56%.
We are committed to achieving a zero accident rate.
Read more on pages 50 to 55 Reportable PSEs per 100,000 hours 0.19 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 45 Su Sust sta aiin nab abiilliit ty y continued Our people Employees in the Total Group markets emerging markets 17 24% Attraction & Retention In 2017 we relaunched our Company website with a particular focus Growth and productivity framework on strengthening our employee brand.
The new website makes it easier for prospective employees to better understand the benefits of joining Synthomer and to access employment opportunities.
We are proud to support a range of initiatives to promote STEM Science Technology Engineering Maths careers, working in Drive Growth partnership with industry partners such as the Royal Society of and Productivity Chemistry RSC, the Society of Chemical Industry SCI and the Chemical Industries Association.
Our people attended Chemistry at Work 2017, a careers event organised by the RSC, to promote our business as well as providing Year 10 school students with valuable career advice.
Members of the team also visit universities and schools in all of the countries in which we operate as part of promoting STEM and attracting the best people to Synthomer.
Our commitment to employee health & wellness Proactive, Responsive The employee health & wellness programme is divided into three Promoting Business HR Policies, phases with the phases one and two delivered over 12months: a Positive integrated Systems and Environment HR Team processes Phase one: health and fitness screening and analytics.
Phase two: focuses on reviewing results, goal setting, targeted education anddevelopment of a personal plan to improve resilience and performance.
Phase three: provision of the support required todeliver long term Male Female Total behavioural change and subsequent re-evaluation.
Board 7 1 8 Senior management 36 4 40 The CorPerformance programme caused me to reflect on personal behaviour and potential consequences.
It was a real wakeup call Employees 2,265 566 2,831 helping me to sustainably shift the balance towards a more active and healthier lifestyle.
In the programme cohort that I was part of, not only have individual suit sizes changed drastically but also the spirit in the team, who share the passion for sensible eating and drinking important in our jobs and sports.
Over a year into the programme and Im still sometimes to be found running through Hyde Park at 6.00am with an international and cross functional group of colleagues this is perhaps the most obvious sign apart from weight and blood pressure of how fundamentally this programme has changed me as a leader in Synthomer.
Lars Wallstein, SBU Director Functional Solutions 46 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Attraction and Retention Reward and Recognition Organisational Effectiveness Learning Development Leadership Development Strategic report We offer an executive programme to our senior leaders in Learning & Development partnership with CorPerformance, a company dedicated to Our belief is that continuous learning benefits everyone in driving performance, improving personal resilience, enabling our organisation and drives the performance of our business.
lasting behavioural change, while actively reducing the long term In 2017, Synthomer employees around the globe participated risk of disease in individuals as well as organisations.
In 2015 in many thousands of hours of focused learning activities.
a cohort of fifteen of our senior leaders attended the programme and based on the significant success of this first intervention In 2017, we launched a European Mentoring Programme pairing the programme was extended to a further cohort of 30 leaders 12of our early career professionals with members of our European in 2017 and will continue in 2018.
This scheme is one example of how our leaders take an active role in developing future leaders and Reward & Recognition how we are investing in learning and development.
In 2017 we worked on improving the communication around our Global Bonus Scheme.
We are proud to offer a bonus scheme that We have launched a similar scheme in Asia and will further extend extends to all levels in our organisation, not just to senior leaders, mentoring schemes in 2018. and having listened carefully to employee feedback have improved our communication so that every employee understands how they Our Fit for Leadership programme for Shift Leaders and Middle contribute to the sustained success of our business.
Managers was launched this year in Operations.
The programme is designed to support the Synthomer leadership culture and Given our global focus on delivering and sustaining world class build engagement and performance in our production sites.
The levels of Safety, Health and Environment SHE all employees programme focuses on empowerment and building self-reliance.
have some elements of their bonus based on safety performance The initial training of more the 60 employees took place in Germany measures which pay out, if targets are met, irrespective of Group and will be rolled out to other countries in 2018. financial performance.
Organisational Effectiveness Building on our focus on Succession Planning in 2016 we have extended our proactive and structured approach to this area Our commitment to developing further down the organisation to key positions and levels below leaders of the future the senior leadership team.
"Talent and succession plans continue to be regularly reviewed by leadership teams, by our Executive ""The Synthomer European Mentoring Programme gives young team and the Board."
professionals the opportunity to interact with the senior team and understand how the business operates in a supportive environment.
At the same time it gives that same senior team the opportunity to get new perspectives by connecting with bright, young professionals frequently from different cultures Our commitment to recognising and functions.
The combination of group and one-on-one our people interactions provides a good mix of both formal and informal networking.
Inthis way it helps to develop the leaders of Our businesses around the world reward and recognise our tomorrow while enhancing the leadership of the business today.
people in many different ways.
Our Four I programme was launched in Asia three years ago and it recognises and rewards Andy Axford, European Operations Director Mentor employees who can demonstrate Ideas, Innovation, Improvement and Implementation at work.
"Anyone, irrespective of their level in the organisation, who shows they can translate ideas into practical ""The Synthomer Mentoring Programme is a big opportunity for action will get a chance to present to senior management."
It gives the possibility to meet and work performers are then duly recognised and rewarded during the with the companys senior leaders.
Synthomer has given me annual dinner held in Malaysia.
this opportunity and to others at an early stage of my career.
It gives mentees an interesting challenge: dealing with senior Our regional leadership team are very active in supporting not managers, having one-to-one meetings, and working with peers just our Four I programme but all our recognitions schemes from different countries and backgrounds, developing our skills, and are passionate about recognising people who uphold and sharing experiences that deepen our knowledge of and our practise the Groups core values.
Dato Norashikin Ismail, HR Director Asia Clara Colombo, Finance Manager Mentee Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 47 Sustainability continued Leadership Development Our commitment to In 2017 we continued to invest in the recruitment & development leadership development of graduates and early career professionals with schemes and structured programmes launched in Europe, Asia and within our Sherace studied an MSc in Advanced Chemical Engineering Engineering function.
at the University of Birmingham 2017, and a BEng in Chemical Engineering at the University of Hull 2016.
She joined Synthomer We received over 1,400 applications for our Asian Graduate in 2017.
Programme where we aim to develop and create high calibre graduates by exposing them to different environments within I applied for the Synthomer Graduate Programme because theGroup and giving them international assignments.
As well as of the emphasis on development.
As a graduate I was looking getting exposure to our engineering and commercial operations, for a company whose ethos matched my own career goals, and the candidates are assessed quarterly through presentations to Synthomer presented themselves very well as a growing company senior management.
who wanted to invest in future leaders.
Moreover, I had previously undertaken a placement in a Speciality Chemicals company, and We seek individuals who are action-oriented, resourceful, and have specifically wanted to join a Speciality Chemicals company in a the courage to challenge thenorms.
The competencies we look graduate role.
So for both those reasons, Synthomer ticked my forinclude all-round ability, ambiguity management, the ability to boxes and the opportunity to travel didnt hurt either!
collaborate with others together with good interpersonal skills.
Since I joined in September, Ive been working with the We look to be a valued part of communities in which we operate production department at the Harlow plant.
As promised, and, as such, we encourage our employees to engage with their Ive had the opportunity to take on a diverse portfolio of projects.
We actively promote STEM in schools and other Ive worked as the Commissioning Engineer on some of the key educational institutes and in 2017 our employees attended and site 2017 projects.
Ive even spent a month on shift with the presented at a number of events in the UK, Europe and Asia where site operators.
Currently, Im working as the Project Manager positive feedback was received from both our employees and the of some key debottleneck projects that yield significant payback participants.
Our employees are involved in charitable fundraising to the business.
for good causes in their local communities and one of the ways wehave to encourage this, for example, is by having a policy in I love the diversity of my job, and the constant emphasis on theUK to match donations raised by employees.
That diversity helps me as Im working towards becoming a Chartered Engineer with the Corporate Responsibility policies IChemE.
To qualify, you need to have an extensive experience in Our global Code of Conduct is governed by a wide range of different engineering capacities.
Before I even joined Synthomer policieswhich we adopt to ensure our daily business is conducted in September, the company sent me on a commissioning course in a professional and responsible manner.
These policies play a key to ensure that I could jump straight into my role after University: role in maintaining our reputation with our internal and external and since then, the push for development hasnt stopped.
They also set out the standards to which we hold ourselves, our employees and our business partners.
Sherace Francis, Graduate Engineer Diversity and human rights Our Equal opportunities, diversity and human rights policy includes ourresponsibility to follow all applicable laws and regulations as wellas a complete prohibition of forced, compulsory and child labour.
Details of this policy, along with our Modern Slavery Act Statement are available on our website: www.
Diversity is one of Synthomers core values.
We are a diverse organisation who employ significant numbers of employees inEurope, Asia and North America.
Whilst our Group Head Officeisbased in the UK the majority of employees are based elsewherearound the globe.
Major Synthomer locations tend to becharacterised by a diverse range of nationalities and in the UK, where we have around 500 employees, we have people from over20 different countries.
48 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Whilst Synthomer operates in a typically male dominated industry 20% of our employees are female.
The rate at which talented women are joining our business is increasing and in 2017 41% ofemployees who joined Synthomer in the UK were female aswere over 30% of our graduate recruits in Europe and Asia.
Inmanyof our scientific roles we have achieved a gender balance.
Synthomer will comply with UK Gender Pay Gap legislation and has a Diversity & Inclusion action plan.
Corruption and anti-competitive behaviour Synthomer is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all the countries inwhich it operates including those covering corruption and anti-competitive behaviour.
This applies whether Synthomer is acting directly in a country through employees, orindirectly through agents, distributors or other intermediaries.
Synthomer requires anyindividual or entity acting on its behalf, whether as a consultant, representative, agent or distributor to know, understand and abide by the laws and regulations applicable in the country or countries inwhich they act for Synthomer.
Detailsof this policy are included in the Synthomer Code of Conductwhich is available on our website: www.
com Application of policies Our values are visible in all corporate communications and are prominently displayed at all Synthomer sites.
Around the globe wehave multiple ways in which we communicate our values in anengaging way and bring our values to life including induction processes, training interventions, communications and awards andrecognition campaigns.
All employees are required to complete online training in relation to our corporate responsibility policies and this certification is renewed annually.
Before a vendor is on-boarded and approved for purchase and use, Synthomer employs multiple assessment processes.
A periodic review of key suppliers is carried out to assess performance of the supplier against criteria covering technical support, commercial performance, reputation including REACH andlocal regulatory compliance.
We also carry out periodic supply chain risk reviews and continually build and improve the raw materials and vendor on-boarding processes and procedures.
In 2016 we ran an initial awareness training and risk assessment session with our procurement teams from around the globe toassess the risk of modern slavery in our supply chains whereweconcluded that our business is not facing a high riskoftheseforms of exploitation.
During 2017 we reviewed theeffectiveness of our policies and supplier due diligence processes to reduce further the potential formodern slavery within our supply chain.
In 2018 we will provide further awareness training from the lessons learned over the course of the last two years and re evaluate our riskassessment.
Our procedures will be updated as a result of the outcome of this work.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 49 Sustainability continued Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Our approach Synthomer is also committed to continually reviewing its activities Our primary focus as an employer is to ensure that our employees and identifying how we can positively benefit our employees, the worksafely in a safe and secure environment.
Synthomer has communities in which we operate, and in ensuring that alongside policies and procedures in place, which are constantly being financial performance we identify and manage broader material improved, to enable this to happen.
In line with our SHE Policy, the Board, Chief Executive and Executive Key practices and programmes Committee are fully committed to improving SHE performance and SHE management practices and systems are embedded engaging and involving employees at all levels inall locations in throughout the Group with the aim of continuously improving ourSHE programmes.
Effective SHE Leadership todeliver SHE SHE performance.
performance is a primary duty and expectation of management Key measures, SHE performance indicators and SHE audit results atall levels in the Group, aligned to our three long term goals: are reported to the Board, the Executive Committee and to the 1.
To have no accidents or incidents: regional management meetings on a monthly basis.
To have no adverse impact on the health of those who work in, Embedding of the SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules launched or live near our operations, nor on the health of those who use in2016 was a priority for 2017, with a focus on systems linked to our products: and permit to work and management of change, as well as refreshing 3.
To minimise any environmental burden created by our activities.
ofguidance on line of fire, circulated in local languages across all operating locations and supported by a short guidance video being incorporated into site inductions.
Key SHE programmes 2017 SHE key actions 2018 SHE key focus Groups Safety, Health and Identification and sharing of best practice: Refreshing of further Group SHE procedures: Environment Management refreshing of Group SHE procedures linked completion of revised permit to work guidance: System SHEMS standards to keyareas of management of change and development of self-assessment questionnaires and policies permit towork.
Group SHE audits Completion of 3 year audit cycle on heritage New cycle of auditing with continued process safety Synthomer sites.
Group SHE assurance focus: move to risk based frequency of auditing.
checks onsites internal audit process as part of site visits.
The Group Accident and Trend analysis undertaken to identify common Effective use of lessons learnt and site review of Incident Management System themes as regards incidents and system failings high potential incidents to help prioritise where to AIMS loss of containment issues identified and as a result focus resource to improve performance.
Actions led to 20% reduction in monthly reported losses by year end.
Incident root causes identified for further focus included poor risk assessment, human factors and asset integrity issues.
SHE training, communication Continued roll-out of first line manager Development of modular in-house process safety and support competence assurance programme.
training tailored to our technologies and processes.
Ongoing process safety training across Increased level of support vs. audit to achieve theGroup.
targeted improvements in performance based on findings from last audit cycle.
Global SHE Managers and Site Managers Workshops focus on sharing learning and Working with sites to develop a programme of SHEleadership.
standardised SHE routines to back-up all other major SHE initiatives.
Process Hazard Assessment PHA revalidation process facilitated by Group Continuation of PHA revalidation process across PHA SHE team on several sites to assure the lower risk profile sites.
Executive Committee that major accident KPI tracking of significant actions from 2017 PHAs hazards are being appropriately managed as high priority SHE Improvement Plan items.
The Group publishes an annual Corporate Social Responsibility CSR report which is available on line.
It discusses a wider range of safety, health and environmental measures of our performance as well as other CSR measures and activities.
com to find a copy of the most recent report.
During Q4 work began looking at aligning sustainability reporting to the new Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards.
This activity will be covered in more detail in the 2017 CSR Report to be published in Q2 of 2018, with the Group objective to align reporting at a core level to the Standards in our 2018 Company Reports.
50 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Safety, health and accident performance Process Safety Occupational Safety Ensuring the safety of our operations is of paramount importance The Groups main lagging indicator of SHE injury performance to the Group.
Alongside our auditing and site support activities, is the recordable injury rate for accidents involving more than from 2015 onwards, we have recorded, rated and tracked first aid treatment.
During 2017 we saw a significant improvement process safety events PSE using a 4 tier scoring system where with the number of recordable injuries halving from 18 down to 9, tier 1 and 2 incidents tier 1 being more severe meet the definition with a frequency rate of 0.13 per 100,000 hours worked, a 56% for a Reportable PSE from the International Council of Chemical improvement on 2016.
A Reportable PSE incident rate is now calculated that will allow for future benchmarking of performance against our peers.
The Groups reportable lost time accident rate improved in 2017 to give Synthomer its best ever performance, with six over-three-day lost time accidents during the year down from 11 the previous year, Performance in this area during 2017 remained broadly flat against at frequency rate of 0.09 per 100,000 hours worked.
awider definition of what we classed as a process safety event.
There were 13 Reportable PSEs equivalent to a rate of 0.19 per 100,000 hours, a 13% increase on 2016.
Thankfully none of the Our target ultimately is to have no accidents or injuries and whilst reported incidents resulted in serious injury.
More information will 2017 performance is encouraging we will continue to reinforce our beprovided in our CSR Report.
SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules work to achieve a sustained performance and interdependent safety culture.
This is being supported by work such as the Line of Fire cards and video The increase was partly linked to the wider definition and seven roll-outnoted earlier.
ofthe events occurred at sites acquired in 2016 and 2017.
Those sites were adopting our more stringent standards and there is an increased focus on support for all acquired sites to ensure that There were no reported cases of disease attributed to occupational their process safety management controls and layers of protection factors during the year.
Permit to Work PTW and New indicators were developed to track Management of Change MOC and analyse progress, with specific focus system improvements on live monitoring of permit controlled work and control of high hazard activities.
A PTW and MOC improvement programme was implemented during By the end of 2017 most of the indicators 2017 with the aim of ensuring that all showed improving trends however sites PTW and MOC systems met Group it was clear that there were still some standard expectations as a minimum.
Activities linked to PTW and MOC will To support the work, self-assessment continue to be prioritised during 2018 questionnaires SAQ aligned with each part with the focus on embedding and of the Group Standards, periodic monitoring sustaining improved performance.
check-lists, guidance documents or pocket cards were developed to support the sites in this journey and to establish a common ground.
Site management teams were directly involved in the process with on-site support from the Group SHE team in reviewing the SAQs and site performance.
High hazard activities in particular were targeted and 4-eyes validation of all such work is now required.
Revised training packs were also developed for permit issuers that are being rolled out early in2018.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 51 Sustainability continued Delivery of the programmes of work started in 2017 on PHA Energy revalidation and further strengthening of management of change Based on the sites which formed part of the Group during theyear and permit to work systems will continue in 2018 with the goal the total net specific energy consumption SEC, i. e. energy use per of delivering significant improvement in this area.
tonne of production with electricity converted to primary energy rose 2.5%.
Most of the increase relates to a rise of 3.5% GJper tonne at our plant in the Czech Republic that produces monomers Environmental performance and accounts for 25% of the Group total energy consumption.
For 15 years we have been able to report ongoing reductions in each of our main environmental targets: global warming burden: energy and water consumption per tonne of production: and waste The new Belgian speciality additives site operates more energy disposal from our sites.
intensive processes compared to our latex and dispersion processes so also contributed to this increase.
Following the acquisition of 7 sites in 2016 from Hexion and theacquisition of a Belgian site from Perstorp, the Groups Absolute energy consumption based on primary rather than baseline for target setting and approach to delivering Group metered electricity was up 1.6% whilst Group production output level improvements is being revised to reflect the fact the Group dropped 0.9%.
Most of the net increase in GJ used related to the has afar different energy and emissions profile to its previous Belgian site excluding this the increase was 0.2%.
core polymer technology focused structure.
Lower output at some sites combined with switching to some Going forward the focus will be on Tier 1 operations the 5-6 producttechnologies that are more energy intensive e. g. more thatcontribute around 75% of the Group total and some Tier 2 steam stripping on some latex products offset some significant sites thenext 15-20% implementing projects and efficiency improvements on sites where the full benefits of a number of energy improvement initiatives to meet Group targets.
This will include 2% projects were realised during 2017.
This included installation of year on year reductions in specific energy consumption from 2018 steam generators to replace old boilers at a plant in the UK during to 2020 as an initial step against a revised 2017 baseline.
Q4 2016 that led to a more than 10% improvement in performance.
SHE Principles Look After Yourself : Look After Each Other - Effective Last Line of Defence Stop and Think THA Safe Workplace Do Dont Safe Vehicle, Safe Driver Do follow the procedures Dont walk under suspended loads Do use the right tools and ensure Dont remove guards from energized they are in good condition equipment Safe Processes and Operations Do think about body position Dont interfere with unguarded equipment Do think about your other hand Dont touch any equipment or product moving with enough force to cause injury Do stop work if there are distractions Dont put your hands where you cannot Safe Systems of Work Do stop work and re-think if the job see them changes or you hit problems Dont rely on protective equipment to Do look at other people: learn from them and help them protect you from impact Do consider all pipeline break-ins as Stay out of the No Change Without Assessment having potential to contain hazardous liquids under pressure use specific PPE Line of Fire Do use mechanical aids or ask for help with heavy loads Learning From Our Mistakes Do guard against sharps, hot surfaces, and pinch points We always have time Do plan a route of escape Stop and Think to work safely ENG We always have time to work safely 52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 ENG Strategic report There is a pipeline of energy saving related projects now being Waste disposal progressed on the Tier 1 sites that are designed to help return Overall there was a 24% increase in total waste generated by the toanimprovement in performance in the coming years.
group, 26% on a waste per tonne production basis.
Most of this is related to a specific waste stream on the new site in Belgium, which will increase the baseline going forward.
Excluding this there was Water use 4% increase per tonne.
600t of this relates to a one-off relocation of Total water consumption per tonne of production decreased 4.5% cinder waste from our plant in the Czech Republic to offsite landfill.
in2017, with most of the improvement due to a reduction in once through cooling requirements on two German sites and reduced losses due to a replacement reactor in the Middle East.
Looking ahead, with several major capital investment projects underway, one-off construction waste figures are expected to influence 2018 performance.
Excluding river water used for once through cooling and then returned to the river on a number of sites, water usage per tonne improved by 2.4%, reflecting improved operating processes and investment on some There was a 34% drop in the amount of hazardous waste sent sites.
Variance is expected year to year since the majority of our products tolandfill on a per tonne basis.
This was mainly due to 800t of are water based dispersions with some changes down to product mix hazardous waste being processed with other waste streams atan and volumes.
As with energy, opportunities to improve water efficiency intermediate facility to produce non-hazardous waste.
Ongoing will be built in to sites manufacturing strategies and environmental projects to improve product quality and reduce process waste targets on a prioritised basis.
should lead to a reduction in overall waste going forward.
Figure 1 All Recordable Accident Figure 2 Total Net Primary Energy Use Figure 3 Total Water Consumption 3 FrequencyRates Giga Joules per production tonne m per production tonne Accidents per 100,000 hours Recordable Case Rate Actual Old Target base 2005 Actual Old Target base 2005 1.4 6.00 8.00 7.00 1.2 5.00 6.00 1.0 4.00 5.00 0.8 3.00 4.00 0.6 3.00 2.00 0.4 2.00 1.00 0.2 1.00 0.0 0.00 0.00 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Figure 4 Hazardous Waste Disposal to Land Figure 5 Global Warming Burden Figure 6 Recordable Process Tonnes waste per production tonne Tonnes CO2 equivalent released per production Safety Event Rate tonne Including CO2 from energy generation use Actual Old Target base 2005 Actual Old Target base 2005 Recordable PSE Rate 0.006 0.35 0.30 0.30 0.005 0.25 0.25 0.004 0.20 0.20 0.003 0.15 0.15 0.002 0.10 0.10 0.001 0.50 0.05 0.000 0.00 0.00 17 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 2015 2016 2017 Rate per 100,000 hours worked Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 53 Incidents per 100,000 hours Sustainability continued Greenhouse gas emissions Synthomers site in Stallingborough, UK takes most of its electricity The Group reports environmental KPIs in the format recommended from an exclusive contract with an adjacent waste incinerator by the Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA, operated by Newlincs.
This electricity is certified as Green by the with Annual Reports containing data for each year since 2005 on UK government.
As a mixture of waste is deemed both renewable a three year rolling basis.
and non-renewable, it does not have a zero emission factor.
For 2017 the applied emission factor for electricity from Newlincs is based around that determined for the sites Climate Change Reporting parameters Agreement CCA reporting of around 0.50 kg CO e per kWh.
Work The 2017 financial year reporting includes all manufacturing 2 is ongoing to validate the factors applied.
The site is also provided operations, all office locations co-located with manufacturing with indirect heating in the form of hot water from Newlincs.
and those listed as contact locations in the Annual Report or on the Companys website.
It does not include some very small locations such as home offices.
These locations will have no VOCs have been aggregated on a Group basis and converted to material effect on the Groups overall GHG emissions, being CO e using a factor of 11.
This figure has been used by UK CIA 2 estimated at considerably less than 0.1% of the Group total.
member companies since 2005 and is at the upper end of the range for VOCs.
Information on the release of refrigerant gases has been collected for the past 5 years.
Releases of each individual gas have All known emissions from manufacturing process have been been aggregated each year to give a Group release total and then included.
Specifically this covers direct energy usage and the converted to CO e using the equivalence factors given by DEFRA indirect energy costs of heating, cooling and other site services 2 for each gas.
The emissions factors applicable to refrigerant release where these are provided by a third party.
They include estimates in 2017 are as per those in 2016 as no changes were reported by for the effects of the release of volatile organic compounds VOCs DEFRAGlobal Warming Potential GWP factors from the IPCC 4th and refrigerant gases.
The only known emissions which have not assessment report.
been included are direct emissions of CO from on-site waste 2 treatment facilities that have not currently been quantified, but which are not believed to have significant material impact on Performance in 2017 the overall figures reported.
An increase in energy consumption and associated emissions from the plant in the Czech Republic that uses brown coal and accounts for 31% of Group emissions meant that overall emissions also rose The Group has no known uses or releases of perfluorocarbons in 2017 compared to 2016. orsulphur hexafluoride.
All releases of nitrous oxide or methane areassociated with energy production and are not separately quantified.
The Group continues to report scope 1 & 2 emissions.
However, a reduction in reported VOC emissions, implementation of No estimate has been made of scope 3 emissions.
The Group energy related projects and the purchase of green grid electricity continues to use emissions per production tonne as its intensity for all UK sites meant the overall emissions increase at Group level ratio.
The data sources for emissions factors CO e are those was 1.1% tonnes CO equivalent tonne production against the 2.5% 2 2 from DEFRA dataset for 2016 reporting published in June 2017 increase in GJ tonne energy used.
and the IEA International Energy Authority.
Changes in the emissions factors in different countries have Calculation methods a significant impact over which the company has no control.
For All direct energy production from fossil fuels has been aggregated 2017 reporting the emissions factors for the Czech Republic, Italy on a Group-wide basis and converted to CO e by using the and Malaysia countries whose sites all contribute 2% of overall 2 appropriate DEFRA emissions factors.
No allowance has been emissions all increased by more than 3%.
Some benefit was gained made for possible country to country variation in calorific value in Germany where there was a 5% reduction in the factor applied.
orCO emission factors for primary fuels.
2 Refrigerant losses in the larger Group were up 5% compared Electricity has been converted to CO e on a country by country to2016, mostly linked to equipment failures on one site where 2 basis.
For 2015, factors provided by DEFRA for all operating replacement equipment has now been purchased.
However, owing countries were used.
For 2016 and 2017, factors from DEFRA to the refrigerants involved having less global warming potential, were used for UK grid electricity and for overseas grid electricity the the CO equivalent tonnage loss was 24% lower than 2016.
2 factors used are those from the relevant IEA World CO Emissions 2 from Fuel Combustion databases.
VOC emissions reduced by 10% in 2017 due mainly to better operation of the cryogenic VOC system in Harlow.
In accordance with UK Government guidance, factors used for 2017 reporting are based on 2015 validated data.
Several sites within the Group purchase certified green electricity.
Electricity for these locations has been given a CO e emissions 2 factor of 0.00 in calculating energy related emissions totals.
These sites were Oss Netherlands, Marl Germany and all sites in the UK.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Environment KPIs This table presents environmental KPIs for 201517, with a coverage and format in line with DEFRAs 2013 guidance, to comply with the reporting required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Report of the Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Data relates to site usage of all fuels, excluding transport of goods to and from site and the movement of these vehicles on site.
Internal transport on site is included.
Emissions to air have been calculated from the usage of all fuels, excluding transport fuel.
They therefore include both direct emissions and indirect emissions related to bought-in electricity, steam, compressed air, cooling water etc.
with the exception of transmission and distribution losses for electricity these losses are in Scope3, this report is for Scope 1 & 2.
CO2 equivalent emissions include contributions from CH4 and N2O associated with combustion.
NOx emissions are predominantly those from combustion processes.
The CO2 equivalent Global Warming Potential contribution from these releases is already included in the CO2 from energy figure above.
The total CO2e figure is the total of the CO2 equivalent from energy the VOC contribution assuming an average factor of 11 kg CO2e per kg VOC the .
Percentage changes are calculated from the base data and may differ slightly from changes calculated from the data in the tables because of rounding.
R Atkinson Company Secretary 1 March 2018 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2017 55
