Strategic report Corporate responsibility report Responsible investing The concept of stewardship and responsible investment SRI means focusing on the client and ensuring an active approach to the ownership of securities.
Implementing effective stewardship is integral to our investment process as a means of protecting and enhancing value for clients, often through encouraging high standards of corporate governance.
During 2017, we reviewed and updated our policies in this area and are pleased to report on our progress below.
Also, we remain a constituent company of the FTSE4Good Index series and a signatory to the UNbacked Principles for Responsible Investment PRI.
Our employees Our business success is dependent upon delivering a highly professional and personal service to our clients and we believe this can only be achieved by having engaged and motivated employees with a diverse range of skills and experience.
Our employee strategy, policies and investment plans are all Chief executives annual statement on designed to achieve these goals.
Members of staff have access to corporate responsibility management and leadership courses, continuous professional development CPD programmes to achieve continuous learning Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy aims to ensure that and agreed career development programmes to enable social, environmental and ethical considerations are taken into progression within the firm.
With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, Charities and communities the board believes that the social and environmental committee The Rathbone Brothers Foundations have continued to support SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the small local charities where its donations can make a real company.
The SEC focuses not only on potential risks but also on difference.
During the year, each office across the firm created a opportunities for the company to play its part as a good employer foundation in order to be able to donate to and support local and as a contributor to the environment and communities in charities.
The overall charitable objective of the firm is to support which we work and our clients live.
This report provides an small, locally-based charities that help to improve the lives of overview of our activities more information can be found on young people.
Further information on our various initiatives can our website.
As reported in last years report, 2017 marked the firms ten-year In 2017, Rathbones was lead sponsor of the FIL Rathbones anniversary for reporting on carbon footprint and a review Womens Lacrosse World Cup, the largest international womens was conducted to align our environmental and sustainability sporting event in the UK that year.
As well as supporting and objectives with the broader commercial goals of the business.
highlighting the importance of womens sport, we used the The objective of this review was to set the framework for the firms opportunity to encourage young women in particular to get corporate social responsibility CSR strategy for the long term involved in sport through the tournaments legacy programme and develop key initiatives to ensure the sustainability of the firm.
and our ongoing partnerships with English Lacrosse and Lacrosse You will find further details below.
Through our sponsorship of the Rathbones Folio Prize, we were also involved in the establishment of a mentoring programme for young writers.
com 43 Corporate responsibility report continued Environmental reporting Our approach Despite the continued growth in our business, total carbon Rathbones corporate responsibility approach can be summarised emissions were reduced to 2,553 tCO2e tonnes carbon dioxide as follows: equivalent, 9% lower than reported in 2016 and 10% lower than Investing for clients our baseline.
Emissions from buildings energy consumption fell by 14% due to reduced energy use and the continued Considering corporate responsibility and governance issues in decarbonisation of the UK grid.
Following a 17% increase in the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients headcount, our business travel emissions increased slightly by 2%, Developing our employees despite a 7% reduction in emissions from flights.
For further details of our carbon footprint, please read the environmental impact Motivating and rewarding our employees appropriately, section of this report.
encouraging their development This year also marks the 10-year anniversary of Rathbones Working with communities reporting on its environmental impacts.
In recognition of this Engaging in the communities in which we operate milestone, we completed several initiatives in 2017 to improve our performance and further enhance our knowledge and Being aware of our environment management of environmental issues.
We conducted an inManaging our environmental impact and reducing our carbon depth review of our wider sustainability strategy, improved our footprint by the efficient use of resources environmental management and reporting processes and completed our move to an award-winning, energy-efficient head Responsible investment office building at Finsbury Circus.
Rathbones specialises in discretionary private client investment management.
We manage assets for clients based on their goals.
Philip Howell Central processes provide guidance on equity analysis and Chief Executive and Chairman of the SEC strategic asset allocation advice and are shared by the group.
But it is central to our business model that investment managers retain 21 February 2018 their independence to buy and sell securities for clients.
Therefore, a top-down responsible investment framework is provided whilst maintaining investment flexibility for investment managers.
Nonetheless, we are long-term investors and ESG factors form a key part of our equity analysis.
To this end, in 2016, we formalised our approach to the long-term stewardship of our clients assets with the approval of a group stewardship policy, which was approved by the board in 2017.
The concept of our stewardship policy means taking a client first, active approach to the ownership of securities.
Implementing effective stewardship is integral to our investment process as a means of protecting and enhancing value for clients.
The core principles that we follow are: 1 Materiality We recognise that governance and stewardship risks can be material to the performance and valuation of companies.
2 Active voting We actively consider proxy votes for client holdings.
3 Engagement Active engagement with companies on governance issues is an important adjunct to voting activities.
4 Transparency We report annually on our stewardship activities.
In addition, the issue of governance as a risk factor is covered by the work of our stewardship committee, recognising that governance 44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report issues can be material in the companies in which we invest on behalf companies in question.
Our investment managers retain the of our clients.
As well as conducting our own in-house analysis, we ability to vote independently of this advice if appropriate.
subscribe to specialist providers of ESG research as part of our Rathbone Investment Management exercises the voting rights research budget.
Governance risk scoring is now integrated into the attached to its largest holdings, covering the most widely-held work of various investment committees.
Social, environmental and stocks across the business.
Voting is also undertaken on any ethical considerations are also taken into account for specific company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
mandates throughout the group, particularly those managed by our specialist ethical investment unit, Rathbone Greenbank Investments, Rathbone Unit Trust Management, as an institutional investor, and a number managed by our charities team.
meets its obligations as a signatory to the Stewardship Code and was classified as a Tier 2 signatory by the FRC in 2016.
In addition Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit to expanding the scope of proxy voting in 2015 and now Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the company is able to employing ISS to vote actively on all of its holdings, Rathbone Unit provide investment services tailored to clients interests in the area Trust Management has recently clarified its policy on stewardship of socially responsible or sustainable investment.
Where and company engagement in line with the demand of regulators.
appropriate, the company is also able to participate in new share issues offered by companies that provide environmentally or Votes are entered in line with UK corporate governance best socially beneficial products or services.
As at 31 December 2017, practice, overseen by the stewardship director and fund managers Rathbone Greenbank Investments had 1.1 billion of funds under and investment managers.
During 2017, the committee oversaw management, equivalent to 2.52% of Rathbone Investment active proxy voting on 5,046 resolutions at 398 company Managements funds under management.
Voting on these resolutions includes consideration of Bond Fund had 1.1 billion of funds under management.
such issues as executive remuneration, auditor independence, appointment of directors and non-financial reporting.
Affiliations The firm has the following affiliations and accreditations: Case study Smith & Nephew CDP Carbon Disclosure Project as well as being a signatory to Our major issues with variable pay come when the experience the CDP sister programmes on water disclosure and forests of management and shareholders becomes misaligned.
We also play an active role in the PRI vital that remuneration policies be designed in such a way that Collaboration Platform.
Out of over 1,800 members of this leading investors can have confidence that exceptional variable pay initiative, Rathbones was named as one of the top 20 most active will only come under certain prescribed circumstances, and influential members of the PRI Collaboration Platform in 2015 meeting performance conditions which are unambiguous and and 2016, a significant achievement given our size relative to other easily understood.
However, most companies equip their PRI members.
In 2017, we launched our stewardship policy and remuneration committees with discretion to make awards moved into the A band in the Strategy & Governance module of even where performance conditions have not been met.
In the UN PRIs annual reporting framework the year in question, the remuneration committee at the company exercised discretion to provide for elements of a UK Sustainable and Investment Finance Association UKSIF Long Term Incentive Plan to vest despite targets on Total and the Ecumenical Council for Corporate Responsibility.
Shareholder Return not being met.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments is also a leading member of the Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change IIGCC We wrote to the company expressing our concern over the use of discretion and the lack of convincing rationale for doing Voting so.
The performance targets were set by the remuneration The cornerstone of all responsible investment is an active and committee, with full knowledge of the market conditions, and considered approach to proxy voting.
Since 2010, the groups we consider it a matter of sound precedent that the company voting activity has been coordinated by a dedicated committee, should be prepared to accept the outcome of the structure and established in line with Rathbones obligations under the PRI, and incentives that it has chosen.
Given the companys relative pays heed to the Financial Reporting Councils FRC UK size and standing, we viewed the use of discretion in such a Stewardship Code.
Composed of investment managers and other manner to fall short of best practice.
representatives from across the business, and supported by a We are committed to transparency in this area and permanent stewardship director, the committee maintains general regularly report on our activities via our corporate website.
group policy on corporate governance.
Advice and research A more detailed assessment of our votes against received by the committee supplements the analysis carried management can be found in our review of Stewardship out internally as part of the investment process.
The committee and Proxy Voting which can be found on our website.
issues voting recommendations based on best practice which establishes a baseline for consideration by the major holders of the rathbones.
com 45 Corporate responsibility report continued Engagement Engagement with companies on ESG matters is largely Employee s undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical research team and the stewardship director on behalf of the stewardship 680 committee.
Engagement may occur as a result of fundamental analysis of companies ESG reporting or through collaborative 1,068 efforts initiated by interest groups such as CDP, UKSIF or the PRI Collaboration Platform.
It covers a wide range of themes spanning 1,227 the whole of the environmental, social and governance spectrum.
In 2017, we joined the steering committee for the PRI-coordinated 0 300 600 900 1,200 1,500 engagement on cyber security.
Number of employees in SAYE Headcount at 31 Dec 2017 Number of employees in SIP Employees Our approach Number of employees by length of service We are firmly committed to evolving our people policies and practices and having continued high levels of employee engagement in line with our corporate values.
Our goal continues 015 969 to be the delivery of the highest possible quality of service to our 1630 226 clients through talented and professional employees.
Rathbones 3145 32 has over 1,100 staff in 16 locations in the UK and Jersey.
We promote a culture where we recruit and retain individuals whose values match those of the business.
To promote engagement with our values, we actively encourage employees to become involved in the financial performance of the group through our all employee SIPs UK Share Incentive Plan and International Share Incentive Plan and SAYE Save As You Earn share option plan.
We also encourage our employees to become financially aware Number of employees by age range and offer discounted independent financial advice.
We have offered share ownership plans to our employees since 1996 and now have 55% in our SAYE and 87% in our SIP plans.
1620 19 Employee statistics 2135 469 % of female employees 48.7% 3650 437 % of employees working part-time 10.6% 5165 290 % resignation rate 4.7% 66 12 Learning We continue to support the development of all our employees and have maintained our average investment per person at a significant level of 783 2016:634 and an average of two days training per year.
These figures are a very conservative estimate because there is much more employee development that has no direct cost and is conducted at the desk.
Our aim when delivering high-quality programmes is to ensure that employees have the best opportunity to put their learning into practice.
We do this by engaging with line managers and other stakeholders in the business to ensure that the opportunity and support is in place for employees to use new skills.
We regularly implement new initiatives across the group to ensure that all employees have access to the development they need for their current and possible future roles.
46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Leadership and management development Diversity and inclusion We have developed a comprehensive suite of management and Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy leadership courses.
These are designed to enable the business to to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly identify high-potential employees and progress them through key and on merit regardless of race, sex, marital civil partnership stages of learning from being highly effective team members to status, age, disability, religious belief, pregnancy, maternity, gender ultimately growing into senior leadership roles.
The leadership reassignment or sexual orientation.
programme continued successfully throughout the year and the We have two female directors out of seven and have thus programme again involved senior managers focusing on how to achieved our commitment to meet Lord Davies target of 25% lead their teams to achieve corporate goals.
The programme female board representation.
We are working towards achieving culminates in a presentation about leadership changes and the the adjusted target of 33% of female board representation for FTSE value of the learning.
This format will continue to cascade through 350 companies by 2020 and are developing a policy aligned to the the firm during 2017 to build leadership and management skills recommendations published in the Hampton-Alexander review in across the group.
We have aligned some of our management development to Historically, women have been less well represented in the formal qualifications.
A number of managers have successfully investment management industry and addressing this imbalance achieved a level 5 qualification awarded by the Chartered is a key priority.
We are working hard to bring in more women in Management Institute.
This included a module on managing graduate trainee positions our graduate and apprenticeship operational risk which was tailored to the specific issues in programmes currently comprise broadly equal numbers of men Rathbones.
We will continue to support this type of development and women and by encouraging more applications from women where the formal recognition of learning is appropriate.
to our work experience and financial career programmes.
Continuing professional development CPD We continue to target the progression and development of Our client-facing employees continue to meet and mostly exceed existing female employees with opportunities for leadership and the required CPD targets set by our regulators.
After engaging with our recently managers have the opportunity to further improve their technical returned maternity leavers in 2016, we undertook a and management skills to ensure that the highest levels of client comprehensive review of our family leave policies.
In 2017, we service are maintained.
implemented significant improvements to our maternity, Talent development adoption and paternity policies.
We also introduced group Rathbones is keen to develop a pipeline of high-calibre talent to coaching and online support for working parents.
ensure appropriate skills and succession planning for the future.
We have started a training programme covering diversity, Our third apprenticeship programme is well underway with 11 inclusion and unconscious bias.
Our executive committee were participants and, in light of the ongoing success of this programme, amongst the first to participate and are actively supporting the rolla further group will be recruited in 2018.
Our continued out to all managers across the firm.
commitment to developing younger talent means that the existing graduate development programme will be completed in Rathbones prides itself on being a real Living Wage employer and March 2018 and a new programme started in September.
The pays Living Wage Foundation rates of pay to sub-contractor staff programme sees the trainees participate in a variety of placements and internal employees.
around the firm to gain a broad range of experience.
Modern slavery Career development and performance management Rathbones is committed to maintaining and improving our We have further developed our career frameworks to help practices to tackle slavery and human trafficking violations with employees see their future pathway for progression within the respect to our own operations, our supply chain and our services.
There is further work to do in this area and there is a We welcomed the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act in 2015 commitment to help employees and managers with the skills and used this as an opportunity to build on our existing policies required for career management.
A leadership framework has and develop a focused approach to addressing the risk of modern been developed that we intend to incorporate into our slavery.
Rathbones already has a range of relevant policies in place management training and promotion processes in 2018. such as our policy on stewardship, being a living wage employer, The performance management process is reviewed on an ongoing equal opportunities and whistle blowing.
To further develop our basis and, in 2017, we have launched an online performance approach, we set ourselves a set of objectives over the next three management tool to help us better support both line managers years.
These include: carrying out a third-party risk assessment, and employees.
developing prioritised actions based on the results, introducing a modern slavery screening process, training our staff and communicating what we are doing.
com 47 Corporate responsibility report continued This year we engaged a third-party sustainability consultancy, Anti-bribery policy Carbon Smart, to carry out a modern slavery risk assessment of As a firm we value our reputation for ethical behaviour and our operations and supply chain.
This was important to us upholding the utmost integrity and we comply with the Prudential because, although we are a professional services business in a Regulation Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority highly regulated market and therefore low risk, we do know that FCA clients best interests rule.
We understand that in addition to no supply chain is risk free.
Carbon Smart mapped our annual the criminality of bribery and corruption, any such crime would supplier spend based on sector and location to identify areas of also have an adverse effect on our reputation and integrity.
elevated risk in our supply chain.
The majority of our spend is in Rathbones has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and the UK with a small proportion in the US and Canada and the corruption and we ensure all our employees and suppliers are majority is with professional services, which is low risk.
However, adequately trained as to limit our exposure to bribery by: the risk assessment did show that there was an elevated risk, setting out clear anti-bribery and corruption policies although still below the UK average and well below the global average in the following sectors: providing mandatory training to all employees Construction refurbishment of our buildings encouraging our employees to be vigilant and report Paper the stationery that we buy any suspected cases of bribery in accordance with the specified procedures Chemicals cleaning chemicals that we purchase escalating and investigating instances of suspected bribery With an understanding of our level of risk and the relevant sectors, and assisting the police or other appropriate authorities in we were able to develop a risk-based approach which allows us to their investigations.
focus our attention and resources where it matters the most.
In the event our staff wish to procure products or services from the Gender pay reporting above sectors, additional checks must be performed.
All new The firm will be preparing and submitting its data on gender pay suppliers in the above categories must share with us their modern to the government and will ensure its available on the website slavery statements.
In addition to this, we have engaged with all ahead of the deadline of 4 April 2018. our current suppliers to understand the due diligence they have in place to mitigate the risk of modern slavery in their supply chains.
Performance and reward This year our focus is on embedding the due diligence checks.
We offer a comprehensive remuneration package which is Our key staff will receive modern slavery training to ensure that regularly reviewed to ensure that our employees are fairly they understand how modern slavery may manifest itself and rewarded.
This is supported by challenging objective-setting and what they can do to mitigate the risk when engaging with appraisal processes to align reward to corporate goals and suppliers.
To raise awareness, we will also communicate to motivate and encourage high performance.
wider staff what we are doing in this space.
At the end of the All employees have the opportunity to participate in a pension year, we also plan to review the due diligence checks we have arrangement and are eligible to receive at least a 3% contribution carried out to understand the effectiveness of our approach and from the company to a group personal pension arrangement, update accordingly.
rising to 10% with additional employee contributions.
In 2017, we concluded a consultation with members of the company defined benefit pension scheme and this resulted in closure of the Rathbones 1987 defined benefit pension scheme to future accrual in June 2017.
Going forward, we have provided members of this scheme with access to the same pension benefits provided to all of our other employees.
We provide a wide range of core benefits such as private medical cover, income protection insurance and life assurance.
All employees are eligible for an annual medical examination funded by the company.
48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 48 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Employees are encouraged to identify with and benefit from the Enabling Enterprise is an award-winning not-for-profit social financial performance of the group through share-matching enterprise, set up by a team of teachers in 2009.
Their mission within the SIP, free shares and SAYE schemes.
is to equip young people with the skills, experiences and aspirations they need to succeed in life.
The Liverpool team We have a continued focus on employee wellbeing.
Employees hosted children from Blessed Sacrament Primary School.
have access to an employee assistance programme EAP offering Guided by Rathbones employees, the children took part in a confidential advice and support to them and their families.
We fun activity where they played the role of stock market traders have rolled out a number of training and drop-in sessions on who had to evaluate potential investments and make wellbeing-related topics.
decisions on behalf of their clients.
The London office hosted Our people can also take advantage of the vast range of children from years four and six of Holly Park Primary School voluntary benefits available such as the cycle to work scheme, and St Francis fide Sales.
The same challenge applied and gave childcare vouchers, flexible holidays, voluntary leave and the kids a great opportunity to use their imaginations, work in discounts on products and services through our Reward Board teams and give a presentation at the end of the day benefits platform.
Clearvision is a lending library that adds Braille to childrens books, before loaning them to visually impaired children.
Employee relations The charitys library is well established and serves over 1,000 Engagement with our employees is crucial to the continuing families, schools, Vision Support Services and public libraries.
We communicate regularly and openly with The London Rathbone Brothers Foundation has donated them on matters affecting them and on the issues that have an money for the past three years impact on the performance of the group and actively seek their The Teapot Trust is a childrens charity which uses art therapy feedback on these matters.
After the success of the engagement as a way of helping young people cope with long-term medical survey run in 2016, we will be running a second employee survey conditions.
The Edinburgh office supported the charity in 2018 in order to assess employee engagement.
through its annual in-house art exhibition.
Over 200 Rathbones Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate work-life guests attended the exhibition, which was held across two balance, both to the health and welfare of employees and to the evenings in November, showcasing local artists business.
Holiday entitlement begins at 25 days per annum for all The Cambridge office supports two local charities: the employees, increasing to 30 days after five years service, with the Cambridge Central Aid Society, which offers rapid financial opportunity to buy up to five additional days of flexible leave help to individuals and families in Cambridge who are in need: each year.
and the Connections Bus Project, a charity providing youth work services across Cambridgeshire, delivering youth clubs, Communities training courses and consultations and support for smaller Donations and fundraising community youth projects.
During the year, the group made total charitable donations of Investing in brighter futures 378,000, representing 0.70% of group pre-tax profits 2016: 353,000, representing 0.6% of group pre-tax profits.
It The FIL Rathbones Womens Lacrosse World Cup was the largest also included the matching of employee donations made through womens international sporting event in the UK in 2017.
As lead the tax efficient Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
sponsor of the tournament, Rathbones put on and supported In 2017, Rathbones employees made payments totalling 225,000 many activities throughout the year to highlight the importance, 2016: 196,000 through this scheme, which is administered by and encourage the advancement, of womens sport.
The company matched staff Rathbones has been a strong supporter of lacrosse in the UK since donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and, 2011 through our partnerships with English Lacrosse and Lacrosse in 2017, donated 161,000 2016: 164,000 to causes chosen by Scotland.
Our focus for these programmes has been on employees through this method.
encouraging girls to play sport, as we acknowledge the value of During 2017, the Rathbone Brothers Foundations across the sport in the lives of young people in teaching key life skills.
country considered many requests for assistance and met a The Rathbones Financial Awareness programme is another number of charities.
Significant donations were made to and significant element of our investment in young people.
volunteering activities organised for the following organisations: Investment managers deliver presentations to 1625-year-olds The Rathbones Winchester office staff chose to do their annual within our offices and at schools around the UK.
The programme volunteering week at Shepherds Down school.
The team aims to equip those attending with the necessary information to helped improve the outdoor environment of the school that take ownership of their finances at a young age.
In 2017, the provides care and education to children with special needs programme was delivered to nearly 2,000 young people.
com 49 Corporate responsibility report continued Rathbones also supports the arts through the Rathbones Folio Our 2017 carbon footprint programme.
The pinnacle of the programme is the Rathbones We are pleased to report a 9% reduction in our overall emissions Folio Prize, a prize awarded to the best English language book to 2,553 tCO2e, down from 2,798 tCO2e in 2016.
However, just as important are the other parts of our emissions intensity has also reduced by over 20% following the programme, which include the Rathbones Folio Mentorship continued growth in both headcount and funds under management.
for aspiring young writers and the Rathbones Folio Sessions, These reductions are primarily attributable to reduced energy which encourage thought and stimulate debate at literary festivals throughout the country.
consumption across our offices, reduced emissions from flights, paper and waste, and the continued decarbonisation of the UKs electricity supply.
Notably, our new head office building in Environmental impact Finsbury Circus has proved significantly less energy intensive This year marks the tenth year in which Rathbones has reported than our previous Curzon Street location.
As a responsible investor, Rathbones leads by Building energy emissions arising from energy consumption at example in our approach to environmental matters, striving to understand the environmental impacts of our business activities our offices and data centres were 1,484 tCO2e in 2017, down 14% from 1,730 tCO e in 2016. and, wherever possible, act to reduce them.
In 2017, we enhanced 2 our environmental monitoring and reporting process, thereby Business travel emissions increased to 716 tCO e, up 2% from 699 2 improving our performance management capabilities.
Key tCO2e last year, despite a reported 7% reduction in emissions from benefits of the revised approach include the alignment of our flights.
Our travel emissions rose largely due to a 17% increase in 1 carbon footprint reporting with Rathbones financial year and an headcount and increased use of employee-owned cars for improved ability to assess and influence environmental business purposes.
Emissions from other resources, namely paper, waste and refrigerants, were 353 tCO e, down 4% from 369 tCO e in 2016, 2 2 following reductions in paper and waste emissions.
Aligning our carbon reporting with the financial year required a rebaselining of emissions back to 2013 and resulted in some minor variations to previously reported annual emissions.
Further information on rebaselining is provided below 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Key achievements in 2017 Rathbones completed several important initiatives in 2017 to mark the tenth anniversary of our reporting on environmental impacts.
Our new head office In February 2017, we completed our move to 8 Finsbury Circus, a building which has achieved a Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM Excellent rating in recognition of its performance and facilities across a range of environmental criteria.
Although our new head office provides over 50% more floor area, it used 20% less energy in 2017 than Curzon Street in the previous year.
Furthermore, it enables Rathbones to reduce environmental impacts through the provision of 160 cycle spaces, photovoltaics, and a green roof grey water recycling system.
Improved performance management and reporting Having reported Rathbones environmental impacts on an annual basis over the last 10 years, in 2017 we increased the focus and frequency of this process to provide quarterly performance updates, analysis and trending information throughout the year.
This has delivered the following key benefits to management: More timely provision of environment data, enabling the alignment of carbon footprint reporting with Rathbones financial year Improved data quality and accuracy, reducing the number of estimations required due to unavailable or incomplete data Intra-year visibility of environmental performance, thereby creating capacity for the management team to identify actions during the year that will influence year-end performance.
Compliance with regulations Rathbones complies with the regulations for reporting greenhouse gas emissions.
Following an operational control approach to defining our organisational boundary, our 2017 greenhouse gas emissions from business activities amounted to: 321 tCO e resulting from the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facilities classified as Scope 1 in this report 2 851 tCO e from the purchase of electricity by the company for its own use classified as Scope 2 in this report.
2 In February 2017, we moved to our new head office location in Finsbury Circus, which increased our reporting boundary.
It was not possible to obtain consumption data during the fit-out period in 2016 and so these emissions were excluded from last years report.
This data has now been obtained and included within our rebaselining of 2016 data.
It has not been practical to gather data on energy use at our Lymington office and we have used typical energy consumption benchmarks to calculate the energy use at this site based on floor area.
The methodology used is in accordance with the requirements of the following standard: The World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised version.
This includes best practice Scope 2 guidance using the market-based method: Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Defra, October 2013 and ISO 14064 part 1. rathbones.
com 51 Corporate responsibility report continued Rebaselining Rathbones reporting period for greenhouse gas emissions is now 1 January to 31 December, aligned to our financial year.
The reporting period was previously offset by three months to allow additional time for data collation.
To ensure comparability of 2017 performance against previous years, we have rebaselined emissions back to 2013.
Variations in seasonal consumption and emissions factors produced several minor variations as detailed below.
Last years report of 2015 16 emissions excluded 28 tCO e of Scope 1 and 2 emissions linked to the fit out of our new Finsbury Circus head office due to unavailable data.
In accordance with best practice introduced in 2015, we report two numbers to reflect emissions from electricity.
Location-based emissions based on average emissions intensity of the UK grid and market-based emissions to reflect emissions from our specific suppliers and tariffs 2.
Data centre emissions are reported as Scope 3, as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
However, where figures are stated in this report for overall buildings electricity consumption, we have included data centres to ensure transparency of electricity use 3.
Emissions from line losses associated with electricity transmission and distribution 52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Carbon intensity The table below shows the emissions intensity of Rathbones in relation to the number of staff, office space, operating income and funds under management.
Carbon intensity is the total all scopes tCO e per: FTE: m : m of operating income: bn of funds under management 2 Carbon Smart opinion statement This statement provides Rathbones and its stakeholders with a third-party assessment of the quality and reliability of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the reporting period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
It does not represent an independent third-party assurance of Rathbones management approach to sustainability.
Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbones for the tenth consecutive year to calculate Rathbones carbon footprint for all offices for its 2017 annual report.
Through this engagement, Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is representative of the business and that the data presented is credible and compliant with the appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has been collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 standard and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Carbon Smarts work has included interviews with key Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external documentation, interrogation of source data and data collection systems, including comparison with the previous years data.
Carbon Smart has concluded the points listed below.
Relevance We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately reflects the GHG emissions of the company and serves the decision-making needs of users, both internal and external to the company.
Completeness Rathbones continues to use the operational control approach to define its organisational boundary.
Rathbones calculates total direct Scope 1, 2 and major Scope 3 emissions.
Reported environmental data covers all employees and all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant influence of the reporting organisation.
Consistency To ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation methodologies and assumptions as for the previous year.
In 2017, previous years emissions have been rebaselined to align with Rathbones financial year.
Transparency Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions and recalculations performed.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
com 53 Corporate responsibility report continued 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
Here is a selection of our achievements over the last 10 years.
CDP respondent since 2006 Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 UN PRI Signatory since 2009 Corporate responsibility report continued PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE 250 Corporate responsibility report continued 2013 FTSE4Good ranking: 98th percentile Corporate responsibility report continued 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 Corporate responsibility report continued Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
CDP investor member since 2015 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones CDP Respondent since 2006 CDP Respondent since 2006 One of the top 20 most active and influential members of the UN PRI Collaboration Platform 2015 and 2016 Rathbones 10 has years a long-stand of corporate ing commitmen social t to acrespo tion on CSR nsibility mattersat.
HeRathbones re is Ove a sele r 2.3 ct m ion illio of n iou n cha r ac ritab hieve le d men onatits ons over since th 2 e 007 last 10 years.
Corporate re sp ons Ove ibility report r 2.3 m cointi llio nued n i n charitable donations since 2007 Corporate responsibility report contiRathb nued ones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matte rs.
U H n e it re ed is N a a sele tions ct PRI ion Sig of nat our or ay chieve since men 2009 ts over the last 10 years.
Over 5,000 16- to 24-year-olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme CDP Respondent since 2006 Corporate responsibility report continued PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 United Nations PRI Signatory since 20 09 CDP Respondent since 2006 Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Corporate responsibility report continued 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98th Percentile Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98 PwC th Pe Build rcenitil ng e Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 CDP Respondent since 2006 CDP Respondent since 2006 10 years of corporate social responsibility at Rathbones CDP Investor member since 2015 Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 Over 2.3 million in cha 2 ritab 013 le F dT onat SE4 ions Go so ind ce Ran 2007 k ing: 98th Percentile 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 Rathbones has a long-standing commitment to action on CSR matters.
Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 CDP Respondent since 2006 United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98th Percentile United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 CDP Respondent since 2006 CDP Investor member since 2015 49% Female employees in 2016 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 CDP Investor member since 2015 Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Over 2.3 million in charitable donations since 2007 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98th Percentile Top 20 most 2 a 0 c 13 ti v FT e SE4 and Go o in d fl Ran uen kintia g: 98 l th mem Percen bers tile UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 CDP Investor member since 2015 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 United Nations PRI Signatory since 2009 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 49% Female employees in 2016 Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 CDP Investor member since 2015 CDP Investor member since 2015 PwC Building Public Trust Award 2011: Best People Reporting in a FTSE250 49% Female employees in 2016 49% Female employees in 2016 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98th Percentile Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 2013 FTSE4Good Ranking: 98th Percentile Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme 49% Female employees in 2016 Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stake h 49 o % ld Fe er ma dile sc elm os pu loye re e in s i n a 2 F 01 T 6 S E 250 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 2014 ICSA Excellence in Governance Award: Best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure in a FTSE 250 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 CDP Investor member since 2015 CDP Investor member since 2015 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 Top 20 most active and influential members UN PRI Clearinghouse 2015 & 2016 49% Female employees in 2016 49% Female employees in 2016 Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Over 5,000 16 to 24 year olds engaged in Rathbones Financial Awareness Programme Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 Moved head office to award-winning BREEAM Excellent rated building in 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 54 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report CSR strategy review During 2017, Rathbones undertook an in-depth review of CSR with the aim of developing a framework for promoting sustainability across the business and ensuring good corporate citizenship.
Through consultation with key stakeholders, we considered material sustainability issues alongside key drivers for our business.
This review was an important first step towards the definition of a longer-term roadmap to sustainability and identified the following four pillars as most relevant to our business.
Employees Rathbones began life as a family business.
Many of our employees are also shareholders and the success of our business is intrinsically linked to our people.
We recognise that every person around the world deserves to be treated with dignity and equality and our responsibility to respect the human rights of our direct employees and those within our supply chain.
Governance and stewardship At Rathbones, we believe in the importance of adopting best practice corporate governance standards and managing companies and investments in the long-term interests of shareholders.
As with good governance and responsible stewardship, sustainability, at its heart, is about promoting long-term success.
Environment For the last 10 years, Rathbones has reported its environmental impacts and acted to reduce them.
Now more than ever, we recognise the importance of tackling environmental issues and that every business, regardless of sector, must act to reduce its ecological footprint.
Social and community Rathbones is part of an increasingly interconnected global community.
We recognise the importance of acting to promote wellbeing and maximise the positive impacts of our business in the societies and communities within which we operate.
By promoting the success of those around us, we can help to generate the conditions for sustainable growth in our business.
Four pillars of sustainability High level sustainability drivers, themes and stakeholders Key drivers Themes Stakeholders Employees Governance and Responsible Clients stewardship investment Diversity, transparency, gender Responsible investment trends pay in financial services Anti-corruption practices Employee engagement Remuneration Supply chain workers Management structure Employees action on modern slavery Increasing regulations and transparency Social and community Environment Communities Respect for human rights Climate change, low carbon investment Volunteering, charitable giving Air pollution Millennials as Support for community initiatives Waste employees and Suppliers Paper use deforestation clients Water rathbones.
com 51 Corporate responsibility report continued Looking forward Rathbones continued action on CSR is driven by the following considerations.
Firstly, it is our longstanding and collective desire to be a good corporate citizen.
We recognise that acting on sustainability issues is the right thing to do.
Over the next 10 years, we fully expect the importance of acting sustainably to increase for our business and its stakeholders the clients we serve, our employees, the local and global communities within which we operate and our suppliers and delivery partners.
Secondly, we recognise this increasing focus on sustainability issues as one of several leading trends that will impact and define businesses in every sector the over the coming years.
Already we see a growth in related regulation and the need for transparency on social and environmental issues.
The advent of millennials as employees and customers of our business will serve to accelerate interest both in acting responsibly as a business and in responsible investment opportunities.
For these reasons, Rathbones will continue to increase its focus on sustainability issues.
In 2018, we will further develop our programme of action across the four pillars identified above and, by 2020, we will produce a dedicated, standalone report on our CSR performance.
The strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements, which are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Statements contained within the strategic report should be treated with some caution due to the inherent uncertainties including but not limited to those arising from economic, regulatory and business risk factors underlying any such forward-looking statements.
The strategic report has been prepared by Rathbone Brothers Plc to provide information to its shareholders and should not be relied upon for any other purpose.
Pages 1 to 56 constitute the strategic report, which was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Philip Howell Paul Stockton Chief Executive Finance Director 21 February 2018 56 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Governance Governance Governance 58 Corporate governance report 58 Introduction from the chairman 60 Governance at a glance 62 Our leadership 64 The role of the board 66 Board and board committee evaluation 67 Risk management 67 Relations with shareholders 68 Group risk committee report 70 Audit committee report 76 Nomination committee report 78 Group executive committee report 80 Remuneration committee report 80 Remuneration committee chairmans annual statement 84 Remuneration outcomes for 2017 86 Our new remuneration policy 88 Directors remuneration policy 91 Key changes to the remuneration policy 94 Annual report on remuneration 104 Directors report 106 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts rathbones.
