Sustainability Principles SIG recognises its corporate responsibilities towards its Shareholders, ETHICAL TRADING AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to socially The Ethical Trading and Human Rights Policy covers the main issues responsible business practice.
In 2017 SIG continued to integrate that may be encountered in relation to product sourcing and sets Corporate Responsibility 'CR' across the Group.
out the standards of professionalism and integrity which should be maintained by employees in all Group operations worldwide.
The Group implements policies that include social and environmental issues in our decision-making process, and is investing in the The policy expresses the standards concerning: safe and fair working development and wellbeing of its people and communities.
SIG conditions for employees: responsible management of social believes this approach supports the Group in achieving its business and environmental issues within the Group: and the international goals as well as growing Shareholder value.
As a constituent of the supply chain.
FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, SIG is pleased SIG promotes human rights through its employment policies and to inform stakeholders of the measures it is taking to continually practices, through its supply chain and through the responsible use develop its approach to CR, including how it monitors and improves of its products and services.
There is no separate policy in place which deals specifically with BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS human rights: however, SIG will keep under review the need for a The Group has in place Group-wide Ethics, Anti-Bribery and specific human rights policy over and above its existing policies.
Corruption, and Ethical Trading and Human Rights policies.
These policies, which are regularly reviewed, underpin the Groups CR ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY programme and support its business integrity.
SIG has a number of fundamental principles and values that it believes are the foundation of sound and fair business practice, one ETHICS POLICY of which is a zero tolerance position on bribery and corruption.
The SIG issues to all employees a Group-wide Ethics Policy which sets Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy clearly sets out the ethical out the standards and behaviours that are expected throughout values required to ensure compliance with legal requirements within the Groups operations.
The policy is designed to ensure that the countries in which SIG and its subsidiary companies operate.
business conforms to the highest ethical standards.
The policy can be Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided across the Group for viewed on the Companys website www.
all senior management through to branch managers and external The policy sets out the following key principles: salespeople.
This training is provided via our online training resource, To abide by the laws applicable to each country of operation.
and also includes modules on competition law.
Not to tolerate any kind of discrimination or harassment.
SIG values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial probity and To be a responsible partner within local communities.
It recognises that over and above the commission of any crime, any involvement in bribery will also reflect adversely on its To take into account the legal and moral rights of others in image and reputation.
To maintain a safe and healthy working environment.
Its aim therefore is to limit its exposure to bribery and corruption by: To be proactive in managing responsibilities to the environment.
Setting out a clear policy on anti-bribery and corruption.
Not to knowingly make misrepresentations.
Training all employees so that they can recognise and avoid the use of bribery by themselves and others.
Not to make political donations.
Encouraging employees to be vigilant and to report any suspicion Not to give or receive bribes.
of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication To avoid, and in all cases report conflicts of interest.
and ensuring sensitive information is treated appropriately.
Encourage employees to report any suspected wrongdoing.
Rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery and A confidential and independent hotline service is available to all assisting the police and other appropriate authorities in any employees so that they can raise any concerns about how the Group resultant prosecution.
SIG believes this is an important resource Taking firm and vigorous action against any individual s involved which supports a culture of openness throughout the Group.
The service is provided by an independent third party with a full A copy of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy is available to view investigation being carried out on all matters raised and a report on the Companys website www.
prepared for feedback to the concerned party.
MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES POLICY The Group has published its Group anti-slavery statement in respect of The Group has published its Diversity and Equal Opportunities Policy the year ended 31 December 2016 on its website www.
SIG is committed to developing a in line with Home Office guidance.
The Group continues to work with working culture that is fair and inclusive, enabling all employees to its supply chain to ensure there is a zero tolerance policy to slavery.
make their distinctive contributions to the benefit of the business.
The Board is in the process of reviewing progress in order to provide an updated statement to 31 December 2017.
The statement will be uploaded to the Company website within six months of the financial year end.
46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Sustainability Our People CASE STUDY Developing our people OUR VISION AND VALUES At SIG, our vision is Stronger Together, which is underpinned by six values guiding the way we work with one another, with our customers and suppliers, and also in our communities.
These values are Trust, Respect, Integrity, Commitment, Teamwork and Fun.
Our vision and values sit alongside and complement our strategy, with its focus on our people as key to successful delivery across the Group.
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE AND CAPABILITY We firmly believe that our people and our branches are central to our success, and that their development is essential for them and for our business.
Ensuring that our people have the skills and capability to take SIG forward is a key focus of our strategy to deliver excellence in customer service, customer value and operational efficiency.
When new starters join the Group, their local induction programme informs them about our history, culture, values and strategy.
Induction is an important part of welcoming a new joiner into the business and explaining and embedding our Stronger Together ethos and strategy.
Over the last year, we have been reviewing our local induction programmes to ensure that they are refreshed and reflect the current direction of SIG, and to check that they are a valuable and Colchester branch leads positive experience for all of our new joiners.
Our Performance Development Review PDR process ensures the way for apprenticeships all managers and employees know what is expected of them in their roles from year to year, and helps measure and manage their performance.
The PDR process also provides an opportunity for employees to discuss their career aspirations, and set individual SIG Distributions Colchester branch has no less than development plans.
2017 has seen a review of our PDR processes six team members who are either on an apprenticeship across the Group.
SIG Benelux, Air Handling and the UK & Ireland programme, or who have completed one.
business have all revised their local processes to make sure they The apprenticeship programme and the associated NVQ provide the best support for their part of the Group and for their training is of benefit not only to the apprentices themselves, people.
We are currently reviewing our senior leadership PDR but also to longer-serving branch colleagues, who have process, with a view to refreshing it to provide the most effective found that it can give them a different perspective on how support for our needs.
things are done in the work environment.
The intention is to simplify the process and ensure there is a focus Nick Holliday, the Branch Director says: Recruiting on individuals developmental needs, to support them in their apprentices brings new challenges, as some candidates careers, through in-depth conversations.
We continue to support have no, or very little, work experience and in all cases our managers, with training and materials to help them conduct an require closer support and more attention than someone effective performance review, and over 80% of our colleagues now who has been working for years.
However, the rewards benefit from an annual, and sometimes bi-annual, review.
and benefits make it very worthwhile.
There is so much Alongside our PDR process, our annual Talent Review is a key satisfaction in seeing these young people develop into skilled mechanism for identifying our top performers, and those with and professional employees of whom the Company can be potential for growth.
In 2017 we worked with the leaders of all exceedingly proud.
business areas across the Group to highlight our high performers and also our  employees.
The aim is to develop these individuals through on-the-job experience, projects, international assignments, coaching or mentoring from internal and external managers, and also via our new programme specifically created for our high-potential individuals - known as the RISE programme.
This scheme, which was launched in November 2016, draws together our high-potential middle managers on an 18-month development programme that is focused on: creating a cohort of leaders equipped to drive the strategic growth The six past or current apprentices on the Colchester team of SIG: are Connor Aves NVQ in Customer Service : Becky Cutmore and Holly Birkett NVQs in Business Admin and Customer embedding a stronger culture of collaboration and understanding Service : Tom Blackiston Warehouse and Distribution : Kurt across the Group: and Excell Business Admin : and Charlie Blackiston currently accelerating the development of high-potential managers, doing his NVQ in Customer Service.
ensuring that we significantly improve our talent pipeline and support succession plans.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Our People CASE STUDY Developing our people The training and development of employees at all levels remains a key investment area, to support our people and develop the capability necessary for our future growth.
We continue to invest in e-learning solutions to give more of our people access to a convenient and efficient learning opportunity.
We are continuing to develop our language skills across the Group, particularly at our middle manager level.
GROWING OUR TALENT Finding talented people, and developing and retaining them as they begin their careers is key to our future success.
APPRENTICESHIPS Apprentices continue to be an important source of new talent for our business.
We are committed to supporting the emerging careers and development of people as they come into our business, through a variety of local apprenticeship schemes.
Following the launch of the apprenticeship levy in the UK in 2017, we have had an increased incentive to widen the apprenticeship offering in our business.
The UK now provides driver, administration, operations and commercial trainee apprenticeships, and we are also considering offering Executive MBA qualification support via a levy-funded scheme.
The Gold standard In 2017, eleven apprentices joined our UK business, and 26 new apprentices joined us in SIG Germany.
In the UK, our focus has been on upskilling our existing workforce, and by the end of 2017, we had in respect signed up a further 33 employees from our existing workforce to apprenticeship programmes.
GRADUATES Pawe Strzelecki, Deputy Finance Director in Our International Graduate Programme is well established within SIG Poland, won an SIG Stronger Together Gold the Group.
The new recruits who joined us in September 2016 as Cohort 2 moved through their programme and rotations throughout award in the Respect value category.
Cohort 1, who joined us in September 2015, completed their This category recognises colleagues who programme in August of 2017.
A number of them were retained in roles within the business after the completion of the programme.
encourage others to strive for high standards, act as a role model, share knowledge and expertise While we continue to recruit graduates directly into specific functional to support others, treat others well and inspire areas on a country-by-country basis, the international graduate programme provides successful applicants with greater insight and admiration.
exposure across our whole business.
2017 has seen international Pawe was given the award for showing that he graduates complete their overseas rotations in Germany, Belgium, Poland, France, UK, and for the first time in the UAE.
The two-year is a true people person, who is committed to programme is aimed at attracting high-calibre individuals who are creating a positive and collaborative working capable of becoming our leaders of the future.
It involves four rotations environment.
Pawe prides himself on working in different business areas and five extensive development modules closely with all his colleagues across the Group supported by both internal and external development expertise.
- from team mates at the Polish headquarters Alongside our internal work with graduates, we continued to support in Krakow to operational colleagues in local Enactus as a Gold Sponsor throughout 2017, sponsoring a number branches and colleagues from other operating of aspects of the Enactus World Championships held in London in companies.
Enactus is a community of students, academics and business leaders that develops outreach projects to improve the lives He was recognised for consistently striving to of people across the world.
find better ways of working, for encouraging his peers to do the same, and for taking a proactive approach in all his projects from the implementation of a standardised rebate management system, to the introduction of a new incentive scheme for sales and branch colleagues.
48 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six INTERNAL COMMUNICATION EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Two-way internal communication is recognised as essential in We adopt a fair and consistent approach to both fixed and variable SIG and is well supported by our leadership.
We reach our senior pay throughout the organisation, and it is regularly benchmarked leadership through interactive leadership conferences, broadcast both externally and internally.
calls at least monthly, email bulletins, and face-to-face briefings.
Our The bonus schemes we have in place are designed to reward leaders are responsible for cascading key messages and information exceptional performance across the business.
to their teams, in support of direct colleague communications.
Group-wide communications include a quarterly digital magazine The bonus operates to an aligned reward framework across in employees local languages, direct emails, posters and intranet the Group for our Senior Leadership population, and it focuses articles, print materials and roadshow events, all of which support specifically on Group-wide deliverables and performance outcomes.
local print, digital and face-to-face communications.
The bonus awards are also made in the local operating businesses, where they are aligned to local performance results.
This year, we are In 2017, we introduced a Group-wide communications campaign focusing in particular on aligning our bonus objectives to our medium week in support of our Stronger Together vision, with the intention of term planning process across the organisation, to ensure delivery of a similar campaign week becoming an annual event.
key financial and operational improvements.
A key communication campaign to engage employees with our We also encourage all of our employees and new joiners to become strategy also launched in 2017.
The Building on our Potential Shareholders in the Company.
Our Long Term Incentive Plan operates campaign introduced the key strategic levers, enablers and, more at the senior level, and across our whole UK organisation we operate a importantly, behaviours underpinning the strategy across the Group, Share Incentive Plan SIP that gives one matching share for each share through a leadership conference, a series of local country roadshows purchased by the employee up to a maximum of 20 per month.
As at and an onward cascade to all employees.
This is set to form the basis 31 December 2017, there were 768 employees participating in the SIP.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES ENGAGED EMPLOYEES Throughout SIG, our policy is to provide equal opportunities to SIG Listens is our employee engagement survey.
It gives our people all existing and prospective employees.
We recognise that our the chance to have a voice and to tell us what we are doing well, reputation is dependent upon fair and equitable treatment of all how we can improve, and how we can make SIG an even better place our employees and we prohibit discrimination on the grounds of to work.
race, religion, gender, disability, sexual orientation, age, nationality or In 2017, we continued to focus on the areas for improvement that ethnic origin.
Equal employment opportunities are available to all.
were highlighted in our last survey carried out in 2015, such as the We value inclusion and diversity of thinking and see this as critical need for better communication across the Group.
Our quarterly in generating new innovative ideas and solutions for our business e-zine was established and is shared across the business in five and customers.
Employment opportunities are available to disabled different languages in response to this.
Our Polish business created people in accordance with their abilities and aptitudes, on equal focus groups, and in the Benelux a review of communications and terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes disabled improved cascade mechanisms were carried out.
during our employment, we make every effort to ensure that they can The SIG Listens survey also highlighted a need for improved induction continue in employment with us, by making reasonable adjustments processes across the Group which led to the creation of two in the workplace and also by providing retraining for alternative work Induction Manager roles in the SIG Exteriors business.
During 2017, we ran a smaller SIG Listens pulse survey across a DIVERSITY randomly selected 20% of our population, to take a temperature Across the total workforce as of 31 December 2017, 1,864 20% check of the business at a time of some change.
We plan to run the of all employees are female and 7,351 80% are male.
Two Board next full SIG Listens survey in the first quarter of 2018. members 25% are female and six Board members 75% are male.
Nine senior managers 16% are female and 47 senior managers RECOGNISING OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE 84% are male.
The Board considers SIG to be diverse in other areas A key aspect of the SIG culture is to recognise and celebrate our including age and race.
In line with its Diversity Policy, published on employees excellent performance and successes.
the Company's website www.
com, SIG continues to work towards improving all aspects of diversity across its workforce.
The SIG Awards, which cover employees across the Group, are awarded on an annual basis, and give our leaders the chance GENDER PAY GAP to nominate employees who have gone above and beyond for SIG welcomes the UK Governments requirement for large companies SIG.
Senior leaders present the awards and the winners are then to be more transparent on gender pay.
This year, for the first time, UK recognised and celebrated through newsletters and intranet articles companies with over 250 staff have to report on their gender pay gap.
Were committed to creating a diverse and inclusive place to work where Following the introduction of our Values in Practice ViP recognition our people can be themselves and be at their best.
SIG is confident programme in the UK last year, a number of our mainland European that its gender pay gap does not stem from paying men and women businesses are also now interested in launching this programme.
differently for the same or equivalent work.
Rather its gender pay gap is the result of the roles in which men and women work within the This scheme allows peer-to-peer recognition of colleagues who have organisation and the salaries that these roles attract.
The Gender Pay demonstrated our values.
Gap reporting is published on the Companys website www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Health Safety and Environment SIG has a zero tolerance to anyone being unfit for work due to drugs HEALTH AND SAFETY or alcohol and reserves the right to provide for testing of individuals The Groups Health and Safety management system is modelled on subject to the legislative constraints within the countries where the internationally recognised Health and Safety Standard BS-OHSAS it operates.
A routine programme of random testing by in-house 18001:2007 with the UK businesss management system accredited testers is provided in the UK & Ireland businesses for employees to the standard for more than 10 years through its partnership and others engaged in safety critical roles.
For cause testing is with Intertek.
also provided for instance following an accident or where there is SIGs Zero Harm health and safety programme is fully embedded reasonable suspicion.
The programme has delivered on its aims to move The Zero Harm programme continues to deliver significant away from compliance based auditing to a risk based process and reductions in accidents, both in terms of numbers and the AIR per to transfer ownership of health and safety back to management and 1,000 employees for over three day and specified major injury.
away from the technical support.
Achieving these aims has brought Since its launch in 2014, the AIR has fallen by 39% across the Group, about significant benefits to the business including a 39% reduction and the number of accidents in this category has fallen by 36%.
The in the Accident Incident Rate over three day and specified major rate of RIDDOR reportable accidents and equivalent has reduced injury AIR since its launch in 2014. over that time by 35% for the Group, by 52% in the UK & Ireland and These achievements have resulted in SIG receiving the prestigious by 22% in Mainland Europe businesses.
RoSPA Gold standard for occupational health and safety in each year since the launch of the Zero Harm programme.
Retaining the Gold OCCUPATIONAL ROAD RISK Standard in 2017 for the third year running is external recognition SIG recognises that its drivers represent the business and its values of SIGs very high level of performance, with a well-developed whilst they are on the road and it promotes through its policy and occupational health and safety management system, outstanding training the requirement for drivers to drive with due care and control of risk and very low levels of error, harm and loss.
courtesy to others and to obey the law and site rules.
Despite this being a UK-based award scheme, the submission The Group also recognises that driving is among the most hazardous represents the Groups Health and Safety programme and the tasks performed by its employees.
Drivers are assessed for achievement reflects the hard work and dedication of the Health competence and selected through an authorisation and licence check and Safety team across the Group, as well as the leadership of SIGs procedure.
Road vehicles and the compliance of each business with management at all levels in taking ownership of health and safety and fleet procedures are subject to routine audits and inspections.
A fleet driving the key initiatives.
maintenance and inspection programme for commercial vehicles is managed centrally.
The SIG Charter for Zero Harm which commenced in 2016 provided new impetus to the programme in 2017 with management and Road traffic accidents and statistics are reviewed through the colleagues committing to high standards of health and safety.
Accident Review Panels to identify high-risk areas, to enable the Within the programme is a commitment to twelve Life Saving Rules Groups operational management to focus its attention accordingly.
developed to target SIGs risk profile.
A communication programme Significant issues are communicated to Board level and the Group including business presentations, tool box talks, workshops, posters, shares this information with its insurers and brokers.
e-learning and monthly information updates targeting the rules SIG is keen to adopt road safety schemes, including the voluntary Fleet commenced in 2017 and will continue in 2018.
Operator Recognition Scheme FORS scheme which encompasses all A key element of the success to date has been the introduction of the aspects of safety, fuel efficiency, economical operations and vehicle RoSPA accredited SIG Certificate in Health, Safety and Environmental emissions and is designed to help improve operators performance in Management modular training programme, delivered to managers each of these areas.
SIG is also an active champion of the Construction and supervisors.
The programme continued throughout 2017, and Logistics and Cyclist Safety Group with the aim of minimising the risk to has been supplemented with regionally-based training workshops vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians and has taken in Supervising Safely, Working Safely and Work at Height, targeting part in Safer Urban Driving courses, which are essential to SIG drivers local supervisors and branch employees.
in understanding the cyclists point of view.
In support of this, new innovative solutions are being tested, such as lower windows in vehicle A robust Risk Assessment and Management Review process is in doors to improve visibility.
SIG will continue to work with the major place through dedicated Health, Safety and Environmental HSE manufacturers in developing new processes.
professionals across the Group through which the key health and safety risks are identified.
This is supplemented by an Accident Review Panel process involving senior management to identify learnings from accidents and near misses.
SIGs Risk Profile is reviewed annually to inform the Groups HSE Plan.
Occupational road risk and deliveries, along with traffic management, have been identified as areas of significant exposure to be targeted in 2018.
Manufacturing also remains an area of focus following the growth of this area in the Group in 2016.
A dedicated HSE team provides competent support and manages the HSE plan for continuous improvement for this group of businesses.
50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS UK & IRELAND Rate per 1,000 employees 2017 2016 2015 2014 Major injury 1.6 2.3 2.3 2.5 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 6.4 6.8 10.8 12.1 All RIDDORs 5.8 6.5 9.3 10.9 Average UK & Ireland headcount 4,968 5,569 5,174 4,880 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 19.2 22.2 26.3 32.9 MAINLAND EUROPE Rate per 1,000 employees 2017 2016 2015 2014 Major injury 1.1 1.7 1.8 1.6 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 12.4 12.6 13.2 18.7 All RIDDORs equivalent 12.2 11.0 13.0 15.7 Average Mainland Europe headcount 4,688 4,746 4,467 4,395 Lost work day rate number of work days per 100 employees 27.5 28.1 29.9 44.3 GROUP Rate per 1,000 employees 2017 2016 2015 2014 Major injury 1.3 2.0 2.1 2.0 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 9.3 9.5 11.9 15.2 All RIDDORs equivalent 8.9 8.5 11.0 13.2 Average Group headcount 9,674 10,315 9,641 9,275 Includes Middle East This includes accidents in non-UK businesses that would meet the criteria for reporting in the UK under RIDDOR.
The Board member responsible for HSE is the Chief Executive QUALITY ASSURANCE AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Officer, who has stated that The safety of our people is paramount The Groups management systems are maintained to a high and will always be more important than anything else and is the standard through management review and internal auditing.
Where signatory to the Groups HSE policy, a copy of which is displayed in it is commercially advantageous the quality and chain of custody the local language at each operating branch.
The Groups HSE plan management systems are externally certificated to ISO 9001:2015, is reviewed annually and supports the objectives of the Groups FSC0STD 40-004 and PEFC-ST 2002:2013 standards.
These universally strategic business plan.
It is managed and supported by the Group recognised standards are fully integrated into the daily operations of HSE Manager and a team of directly employed HSE professionals in the business and ensure that the products and services consistently each part of the Group.
It also ensures that quality and responsible procurement is constantly maintained and improved.
The Continuous improvement is maintained through a programme of Groups ongoing commitment to maintaining the highest possible objectives set at Group, operating company and local level with quality standard is demonstrated by the successful transition from the regular reviews of associated key performance indicators KPIs, UK ISO 9001:2008 to the ISO 9001:2015 accreditation in July 2017. including those set out in this report and on the Companys website.
ENVIRONMENT The risks associated with SIGs operations are set out in qualitative SIG operates a combined Health, Safety and Environmental HSE and quantitative, generic, model and task-specific risk assessments, Policy and management system to OHSAS 18001 for health and and the Groups Aspects and Impacts Register and are regularly safety and ISO 14001 for the environment.
Significant findings are formally communicated to management systems are accredited to both standards through management and operatives.
Compliance and the integrity of external verification by Intertek.
any control measures are reviewed through a Group-wide audit programme and local management inspections, with significant risks recorded and progress on actions reviewed up to Board level.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Health Safety and Environment Driver awareness and behaviour is a primary focus for the reduction ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT of fuel consumption.
Driver eco training courses and the fiveThe potential impact of SIGs operations on the local and global year Driver Certificate of Professional Competence CPC training environment is set out in the Aspects and Impacts Registers provided programme continued throughout 2017.
Fleet management for the Group and its operating sites along with a Corporate driver trainers also provided an auditing and advice programme.
The highlight of the 2017 programme was the Driver of the Year SIG is committed to maintaining good environmental management competition which reached its conclusion in June.
Awards were standards across its operations to meet its statutory obligations issued in several categories and the overall winner was Steven Miller and best practice, and has continued its excellent record of from SIG Distribution Eurocentral.
environmental legal compliance and environmentally sound A review of the Company car policy within SIG has led to the operations throughout 2017 with no prosecutions or actions from introduction of hybrid and Plug In Hybrid Electric Vehicles PHEVs as the authorities.
The hybrid vehicles are more fuel efficient through the use CARBON MANAGEMENT of on-board battery technology, when compared with their normal diesel or petrol counterparts.
These types of vehicle are also more The Groups Low Carbon Policy supports its HSE Policy and is signed tax beneficial for the individual user.
by the Groups Chief Executive Officer who is responsible for the Group's environmental performance.
ENERGY SIGs carbon footprint accounting process is annually verified to Electricity consumption is SIGs second highest priority for carbon ISO 14064-3 to a limited level of assurance.
In 2017, following a management, accounting for 12.9% of the Groups Scope 1 and 2 detailed assessment, both qualitative and quantitative, of the Groups emissions in 2017 2016: 14.4%.
Greenhouse Gas 'GHG' emissions assertions, SIG has achieved the SIG has maintained a programme of energy auditing through internal standard for the fourth year in succession.
and external competent persons in compliance with both voluntary The emphasis for the Groups environmental objectives for 2017 is and statutory carbon accounting schemes.
Initially working with the derived from its Low Carbon Business Policy, which aims to reduce Carbon Trust CT and achieving the CT Standard in compliance with fuel, energy and water consumption as well as reduce waste.
This the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme, for the past three years SIG has report details the progress made by the business.
worked in close partnership with Carbon Credentials to improve the data accounting process, achieve the ISO verification standard and In addition to internal scrutiny by the Group and the operating continue the downward trend for carbon emissions.
companies and publication on the Groups website, environmental KPIs are published externally through the voluntary Carbon SIGs carbon accounting programme meets all the requirements of Disclosure Project CDP and the UKs statutory Energy Savings the UK Governments statutory Energy Saving Opportunities Scheme Opportunities Scheme ESOS.
ESOS and the energy efficiency opportunities identified through ESOS, and the ongoing internal audit processes continue to feed into CDP works with investors, companies, and governments to drive the objectives for the business for 2018 and beyond.
environmental disclosure and action that will deliver a sustainable economy, prevent dangerous climate change and protect natural SIG continues to invest in capital projects, including energy efficient resources.
SIG achieved a performance rating of band 'B' in 2017 movement and daylight sensored LED lighting systems, energyagainst an average of all respondents and industry activity group efficient heating and cooling systems and energy-efficient hand of band 'C'.
These systems are installed at both new sites and existing sites undergoing refurbishment.
In 2017 SIG invested 0.25m The Group continues its investment in both capital projects and on such energy efficient projects.
This has not only improved energy-efficient technology installations across the property portfolio, the efficiency of the building stock, but provided a safer working including refurbishment of existing buildings, along with the fit out of environment.
Emissions from electricity consumption reduced by new sites.
Together with the continued consolidation and upgrade of 13.7% in 2017 compared to 2016. the Groups road vehicle fleet, this has contributed to the continued reduction in the Groups GHG emissions.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS SIGs carbon footprint includes all emission sources as required TRANSPORT under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Vehicle fuel consumption is the primary KPI for SIG, with road vehicle Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August fuel consumption making up 75.6% of the Groups total carbon 2013, and in order to maintain accurate and consistent data, the footprint emissions.
The Group target in 2017 to reduce the absolute emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion consumption was achieved, with a reduction of 2.4% compared Factors for Company Reporting 2014 are applied to calculate its to 2016.
Reductions in fuel consumption have been achieved through a SIG is committed to providing full and accurate data for its carbon range of projects, including branch consolidation and fleet sharing footprint across all of its operational businesses.
That is why for programmes: the installation of Masternaught Telematics in vehicles the fourth year in succession in 2017 it has achieved external across the Group providing accurate driving efficiency measurement: verification of its carbon accounts by Carbon Credentials to the a Group wide initiative to introduce a Vehicle Routing and Scheduling ISO 14064-3 standard.
System 'VRS' to improve journey planning: and the investment in new Euro 6 standard vehicles fitted with fuel consumption reducing features, enabling commercial vehicle access to Low Emissions Zones.
52 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six The Groups carbon footprint includes Scope 1 CO emissions, for dedicate the appropriate time and resource to enable more accurate 2 which businesses are directly responsible, and Scope 2 CO emissions carbon reporting and for a suitable audit of the process.
In 2017, 2 from the generation of electricity by a third party resulting in indirect 95.1% of calculations are based on actual data 2016: 96%.
The Group has also disclosed Scope 3 CO emissions over Estimates are prepared on the basis of agreed and verified 2 which the business has limited control, being third party air and rail accounting processes.
Following a small increase in the emissions in 2016 due to an SIG is committed to providing full, accurate and actual data for its increase in the number of operational sites, headcount and turnover, footprint with minimal reliance on estimates.
For this reason SIGs SIG has recorded a decrease of 3.7% in Scope 1 and 2 emissions in emission accounting period is non-coterminous with the Groups the last reporting year.
financial year, with current year data reflecting the year to 30 The overall footprint of the business for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions September 2017.
This policy enables the Groups businesses to showed a decrease of 3.7% in the last reporting year.
CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 DIRECT 2 Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes 2017 2016 2015 1 Road vehicle fuel emissions 62,950 64,510 63,352 2 Plant vehicle fuel emissions 5,287 5,335 4,562 3 Natural gas 3,072 2,894 2,772 4 Coal coke for heating 46 51 45 5 Heating fuels Kerosene & LPG 689 722 801 Total 72,044 73,512 71,532 4.
Data source and collection methods 1.
Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Purchases in tonnes converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Direct purchase records in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Purchases in litres converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Consumption in kWh converted according to BEIS guidelines.
CO2 EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 INDIRECT Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes 2017 2016 2015 1 Electricity 10,677 12,371 12,307 Data source and collection methods 1.
CO2 EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 OTHER INDIRECT Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes 2017 2016 2015 1 Third-party provided transport air and rail 570 586 352 Data source and collection methods 1.
Distance travelled converted according to BEIS guidelines.
Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes Emission per m of revenue 2017 2016 2015 25.1 25.8 27.9 Scope 1 3.7 4.4 4.8 Scope 2 Scopes 1 & 2 as required by GHG Protocol 28.8 30.2 32.7 0.2 0.2 0.1 Scope 3 29.0 30.4 32.8 Scopes 1, 2 & 3 The data relating to CO emissions has been collected, where practicable, from all of the Groups material operations and is based on a 2 combination of actual and estimated results where actual data is not available.
The 2017 data includes the Carpet and Flooring business and the businesses classified as non-core in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT Sustainability Health Safety and Environment SIG also offers waste take-back schemes to its customers for off-cut WATER CONSUMPTION materials including plasterboard and plaster products and fibre SIG has two manufacturing sites in Southport UK and Alizay France ceiling tiles as well as packaging return programmes for reusable that use a small amount of water as part of a manufacturing process.
Both installations maintain water filtering, recycling and reuse practices to minimise any wastage of potable water.
Due to the difficulties in measuring and quantifying the amount of waste disposed of in a year, the KPI for waste management remains In excess of 95% of the Groups water consumption is consumed for the percentage of waste diverted from landfill.
However, the Group welfare purposes.
Water efficiency is a key element of the specification continues its programme to reduce overall the amount of waste for new and refurbished properties and facilities, including dual flush generated, by adopting paperless delivery processes, online activity and cistern management systems for toilet facilities.
SIG continues to reports and the consolidation of photocopying and printing facilities.
identify significant opportunities for water consumption efficiencies through the branch audit and bill validation process.
SIG is a member of the Valpak compliance scheme and continues to comply with its commitments under the Producer Responsibility Litres Litres Litres Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations.
000 000 000 2017 2016 2015 HAZARDOUS WASTE Third-party provided water Absolute Absolute Absolute supply from national network for tonnes tonnes tonnes processes and welfare 114,113 116,122 104,999 2017 2016 2015 The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Landfill 0.0 5.0 2.0 Recycled 147.4 87.0 28.0 WASTE MANAGEMENT Incinerated SIGs main objective for waste management is to minimise the Total 147.4 92.0 30.0 production of waste.
As a break bulk supplier of products, the primary source of waste is through packaging opened on the Absolute Absolute Absolute premises.
Where practicable these materials, for instance cardboard tonnes tonnes tonnes boxes, pallets and bearers, are reused or returned to the supplier.
2017 2016 2015 Where reuse is not an option, materials are segregated for recycling Hazardous waste per m of and for this purpose each of the Groups businesses has partnered revenue 0.05 0.03 0.01 with a waste management business.
Waste contracts are managed NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE and monitored centrally and through the environmental audit and inspections process.
Waste bailers and compactors are provided Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute where practicable, to maximise waste segregation and recycling tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 2017 2016 2015 2014 opportunities and minimise storage and welfare hazards.
The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
54 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six Sustainability Community and charity COMMUNITY CHARITABLE ACTIVITY Across the SIG Group, we are committed to supporting the In 2017, SIG relaunched its charitable activity policy internally, with communities in which we operate, in a wide variety of ways.
the aim of encouraging colleagues to take part in activities to support local and national charities.
The policy encourages colleagues to give For example, in the UK, we have been working with business students something back through team or individual volunteering, payroll at Sheffield Hallam University as they study for a course module on giving and fund raising.
strategy, and our WeGo business in Germany was recognised during the year for its support of AfB, a Social Enterprise employing people During the year, colleagues took part in a diverse range of fund-raising with disabilities, which is engaged in recycling discarded IT hardware.
activities, individually and in teams.
As a Group, we are committed to supporting their efforts, by matching the amounts they raise by up Our German business has also supported a community project to to 500 or equivalent.
We also help to publicise their fundraising construct a new building at a local fire station, and has donated activities, and support them with branded clothing and materials.
materials to aid the work.
Employees individual activities have ranged from running in the In Belgium, our Air Handling business sponsors The Red Dragons London Marathon, to raise funds for charities like Cancer Research the national Belgian mens volleyball team.
UK and the Alzheimers Society, taking part in a 12k Iron Run race for Macmillan Cancer Support, and supporting the Teenage Cancer With a focus on safety, SIG Poland took a significant role in the Trust and the Rainy Day Trust by driving through 10 countries in the annual industry-organised Safety Week campaign, by hosting safety Pavestone Rally to list but a few.
presentations at construction sites across the country.
Our WeGo team in Germany has also once again supported the Hanau Soapbox Derby, hosted by the not-for-profit Hanau Family Network Association.
Colleagues volunteered at the event and raised funds, alongside a direct donation from WeGo.
Other charitable donations made by SIG as a business include 30,000 given by SIG Air Handling as an element of its partnership with the European Federation of Allergy and Airways Diseases Patients Associations EFA.
Air Handling has also extended its commitment to support EFA as a partner into 2018.
In all, in 2017, the Group donated 63,589 to charity 2016: 64,395, including donations made through our matched funding scheme.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no such donations were made in the year 2016: nil.
Employees in the UK can also make charitable donations through our payroll giving scheme.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE 56 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six In this section Board of Directors 58 Introduction to governance 60 Corporate Governance report 61 Audit Committee report 73 Nominations Committee Report 78 Directors remuneration report 80 Statement of Directors responsibilities 97 57 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six GOVERNANCE
