Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Corporate responsibility People development and training Our people Every new employee attends two office based How We believe that our people are the key to Rightmoves success Rightmove fits together days to introduce them to the and our most valued asset.
We have always strived to make business and our customers.
They also attend an off-site Rightmove a great place to work and embedded this into our residential induction course to introduce them to strategic management objectives.
We are proud of the energy, Rightmoves culture and values.
talent and experience our people bring to the business.
Our culture is open and supportive, with an encouraging To ensure our colleagues can work to the best of their ability, and restless yet focussed approach which fosters innovation we continue to invest in extensive training and leadership and dedication to excellent customer service.
programmes, designed to equip them with all the necessary Recruitment skills to provide exceptional service to our customers and Recruiting the right people with capability and experience consumers.
We have also developed a suite of internal to drive growth is vital to our business plan.
The highly development courses for our employees covering both competitive market for technology and customer centric technical and non-technical skills to improve their performance skills means that we are strongly focussed on maintaining a through continual professional and personal development.
happy, collegiate working environment and the top benefits Employee benefits to attract and retain the best people.
Whilst we believe that being a great place to work helps us Referrals from existing employees are a valuable source of attract the best talent we also reward our employees with new recruits, typically ensuring a higher quality candidate a range of additional and competitive benefits.
All new vacancies are advertised Rightmove contributes towards a group stakeholder pension internally first to give our colleagues an opportunity to apply plan.
Opt out rates are low and currently 95% of employees or recommend someone.
In 2017, 8% of new employees are members of the pension plan.
We also offer private were introduced to Rightmove by an existing employee.
healthcare complemented by a cash plan scheme for all our employees medical needs.
We also believe that long-term commitment from Rightmove employees is key to our culture and success.
It is important that our people can directly benefit from their For a relatively young company we are proud to have contribution to the success of Rightmove and we offer two 67 people who have celebrated ten or more years all-employee share plans.
Every employee can join the service, which represents over 14% of our employees Groups Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, which allows and contributes to our strong people survey results.
employees to save money from their salary with the option to We continue to support Milton Keynes College in preparing purchase shares at a discount after three years.
In November students for their future careers.
During the year we 2017, the Groups ninth Sharesave contract matured allowing welcomed six students completing their Level 3 Higher employees to benefit from the Groups success and strong National Diplomas in our design studio and offered two share price growth over the last three years.
In addition, our designers have offered employees currently participate in Sharesave.
support and mentoring to students on campus.
We have The Rightmove Share Incentive Plan was launched in 2015 continued to expand our intern programme across with an award of 100 free shares for all employees.
Our technology teams took on four computer shares were available to sell from January 2018, with those and data science interns from University College London.
employees benefiting from the Rightmove share price more than doubling over that period.
Further awards of 50 free shares have been made annually in subsequent years to all qualifying employees.
Rightmove plc annual report 2017 25 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued We offer flexible working arrangements, fully support partAn employee engagement score will again form part of the time working and reduced hours to allow our employees to senior management bonus criteria in 2018, demonstrating balance their work and family commitments.
In 2017, we also the importance of employee management to the continuing introduced a flexible holiday scheme to operate from 2018, success of Rightmove.
allowing employees to buy or sell up to five days or the The management team continues to work hard to improve part-time equivalent of holiday each year to suit their the employee experience at Rightmove.
In 2017, we took on personal circumstances.
additional space and refurbished our London office, taking Engagement employee preferences into account: the result being a We encourage employee involvement and keep colleagues creative and welcoming space.
informed of the Groups activities through townhalls, Equality and diversity business performance updates with senior management Rightmove has a firm commitment to equality of opportunity and quarterly sales conferences.
in all our employment policies and practices.
Our recruitment We have an employee recognition scheme, based on the and selection processes focus on selecting the best Rightmove behaviours which allow us to focus on how we candidate for a role, regardless of their age, gender, sexuality, work not just on what we achieve.
It is an opportunity to full-or part-time status, disability and marital status.
nominate colleagues who have demonstrated the best We recognise that a diverse workforce reflects Rightmoves behaviours in action and it continues to prove popular with broad consumer base and our many customers.
Our people awards presented every two months at our townhalls.
have a wide range of experience and perspectives that we We conduct an annual Have your Say people survey to believe promote innovation, constructive challenge and gauge what our employees think and how they feel about success.
Drawing on a wide variety of personal attributes working for Rightmove.
The survey results are followed up drives value in the way we do business and helps us by every manager and we are never complacent about the anticipate and provide what our customers need from importance of acting on colleagues feedback.
We are proud us and what home hunters want from Rightmove.
of another set of strong results from the survey with At 31 December 2017, female representation on the Board highlights including: was 38% and with the appointment of Lorna Tilbian in 90% of respondents think Rightmove is a great place February 2018 that proportion has risen to 44% of Board to work: members.
Following the retirement of Ashley Martin in 90% are proud to tell people they work for Rightmove: and May 2018, we are delighted that female representation on 92% enjoy working in their teams.
The Board continues to focus on succession planning and developing potential within the senior management team to enable us to promote internal candidates to the Board.
The Group succession plan also identifies individuals with potential to join the senior management team in the wider organisation.
As at 31 December 2017, 26% 2016: 21% 1 of our leadership team, were female.
The Board is keen to strengthen female representation in senior roles and has been a contributor to the Hampton-Alexander Review, a Government sponsored initiative which aims to increase female leadership within the FTSE350.
In line with the Hampton-Alexander Review, Rightmove has set a target for 33% female leadership by 2020.
1 Being the Executive Committee and their direct reports as per the Hampton-Alexander definition.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements A breakdown by gender of the number of persons as at 31 December 2017 by various classifications as required by the Companies Act, is set out below: 1 2 Directors Senior management Hampton-Alexander All Rightmove employees 7 8 3 237 244 5 22 23 Female 38% Male 62% Female 24% Male 76% Female 26% Male 74% Female 51% Male 49% 1 The Senior Management Team comprises the Hampton-Alexander cohort, excluding the executive directors.
2 The Hampton-Alexander cohort comprises members of the Executive Committee and their direct reports.
Gender Pay Balance for all Rightmove has reported its gender pay gap for 2017 and We have developed maternity and paternity workshops to full details can be found on the Companys website at plc.
support Rightmovers through the changing dynamic of rightmove.
co. uk family and work responsibilities and their return to work after a career break: and We are confident that all Rightmove employees are paid We recognise that balancing work and life commitments equally for working in the same jobs and we are pleased to can make people shy away from taking the next step in report that men and women are almost equally represented their career.
New flexible working arrangements have in our wider workforce.
The main contributor to Rightmoves been rolled out for all employees.
gender pay gap is the mix in Rightmove communities comprising the highest and lowest quartile salaries.
Women Addressing imbalance are underrepresented in the higher paid senior management We are developing a mentoring programme to support and technology teams and men are underrepresented in the career development.
We aim to exceed the Hamptoncustomer experience team.
Alexander review target of 33% of the leadership team being female by 2020: Technology is a sector blighted by a lack of gender diversity, We are creating an internal talent pipeline to promote but accepting the status quo is not in our DNA.
Below is our the next generation of leaders: gender pay gap as at April 2017, together with a description We have launched a graduate programme in technology of some of the initiatives that we have underway for to attract the best new talent to help create balance in improving our gender balance going forward.
our technology teams over the longer term: and Difference between male and female pay We have reviewed all job specifications and updated the Mean Median format of our recruitment days to guarantee universal 1 appeal and attract the best talent.
Difference in hourly rate of pay 30.6% 37.0% 2 Difference in bonus pay 70.4% 36.5% Human rights 1 Calculated using Rightmove Group Limited pay data from April 2017.
Rightmove does not have a specific human rights policy, 2 Calculated using 12 months of Rightmove Group Limited bonus pay data we have a framework of policies and statements covering to 5 April 2017. equal opportunities, dignity at work, disability, anti-slavery We work hard to create an environment where men and and anti-bribery that adhere to internationally recognised women have the opportunity to build careers throughout the human rights principles.
business and believe that our open, collaborative culture is key to that objective.
We are committed to a number of actions to balance our teams in a fair and transparent way, including: Rightmove plc annual report 2017 27 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued Charitable activity The quality of property information available on Rightmove We continue to encourage our employees to raise funds for also reduces the amount of time home hunters waste in their chosen charities.
In 2017 we match funded 24,000 visiting inappropriate properties, usually by car.
We have 2016: 18,000, supporting charities including The Stroke worked hard to improve the functionality of our platforms Association, The Carers Trust, Scope and many more.
From with better photographs and property floor plans to breakfast mornings to running marathons we are delighted comprehensive map searches and aerial photographs, that so many of our colleagues devote their time and energy which helps to identify the specific location of a property.
For the second year running we have We continue to add information to help home hunters supported food banks at Christmas: this year we delivered a customise their property search on Rightmove including car packed full of food to the Milton Keynes Food Bank.
School Checker and broadband speeds.
All these innovations have helped to reduce the carbon footprint In 2017, we contributed 56,000 2016: 49,000 via Agents generated by prospective buyers and renters making Giving to support our customers charitable initiatives, which unnecessary journeys to visit unsuitable properties.
ranged from a Mount Everest trek to Tough Mudders, triathlons and fun runs.
We contribute to the costs of setting The Rightmove platforms enable our customers to display up the fundraising activity, which allows more of the money Energy Performance Certificates which allow prospective raised by our customers to go directly to charities through a buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency of a property before charitable sponsorship fund we set up with Agents Giving.
buying and to identify opportunities to improve the energy We are very proud that the fund has raised over 1 million efficiency once they have purchased the property.
since 2014 for charitable causes supported by our customers.
As an internet-based business with most staff employed in Looking ahead to 2018 we are pleased to be partnering with two office locations, our environmental footprint is small.
the Milton Keynes marathon as headline sponsor in 2018 the We continue to encourage our employees to minimise their home of Rightmove in aid of Meningitis Now and Winter Night use of resources and recycle materials wherever possible.
These two causes are very important to our employees There are no individual waste bins in our London and and fund raising efforts are well underway as part of our On The Milton Keynes offices to encourage and increase the Move campaign, with over 1,200 raised in the last four weeks amount of recycling.
We have set our employees a target of raising 26,000, As an operator of an online property portal, our main to be split equally between both charities and Rightmove will environmental impact is from the power usage of our data make a significant additional contribution.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware will be volunteering their time, training and being creative with with the best computational performance which uses the their fundraising efforts to support these charities.
We will be sponsoring the Milton Keynes College Football We encourage our employees to use public transport rather Academy again in 2018.
We have worked closely with the than driving between our two office locations in London and college over the last few years, enabling the academy to Milton Keynes.
We encourage participation in our Cycle to create more opportunities for their students to study for Work scheme and have many keen cyclists.
We have also off-pitch roles in sport.
introduced the option for staff entitled to a company car to Environment select hybrid electric cars as an alternative to petrol or diesel We are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate engines.
In 2017, our fuel card provider Allstar, again partnered change and always encourage the efficient use of resources with Forest Carbon to capture the CO emissions from our 2 that contribute to environmental damage.
fleet of company cars and turn them into new UK woodlands.
Rightmove has changed the way people search for As an online business, we tend towards a paperless property, reducing the reliance on printed media and the environment.
However, we recognise that our responsibilities environmental impact that goes with it.
Our platforms are do not stop with how we operate internally and we encourage designed to optimise the information available to home all our customers, business partners and suppliers to use hunters, giving our customers the ability to advertise high online records and reduce printing, especially emails.
quality photographs, floor plans and property particulars and Wherever possible we have replaced paper-based services reducing the need for paper copies of property particulars.
and communications with online alternatives, including e-communications for shareholders, online customer membership forms, management information and marketing reports and product documentation.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Greenhouse gas reporting Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we Report Regulations 2013 requires all UK quoted companies are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of to report on their greenhouse gas GHG emissions, which fluctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a are classified as either direct or indirect and which are divided people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Employee, based on the average number of employees during the year.
The Groups emissions per employee are Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are shown in the table below.
owned or controlled by Rightmove.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the Emissions per Employee Group but that occur at sources owned or controlled by Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 1 1 per employee per employee other entities.
Scope Source 2017 2016 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the Scope 1 Company cars 1.0 1.0 Group arising from Company cars.
Whilst the cars are leased, Scope 2 Electricity 0.5 0.7 we are responsible for the emissions and therefore we report Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 0.5 0.7 these under Scope 1.
Total 2.0 2.4 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the 1 Based on 479 2016: 469 employees taken as the average number of Group due to its consumption of purchased electricity.
employees in the Group throughout the year.
Scope 3 emissions: Other indirect emissions associated Scope 2 and 3 emissions per employee have declined year on with activities that support or supply the Groups operations, year due in part to an increase in average headcount which has we include emissions arising from our third party run not had a proportionate impact on emissions from running data centres.
our offices or the outsourced data centres.
We will continue to monitor and look for ways to improve energy efficiency.
The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for its reporting year to 31 December 2017.
Scope 3 is not Methodology mandatory, however, the Group has again chosen to report We have reported on all of the emission sources required Scope 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in data under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and centres, in which the Group rents space to house and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have used the operate various servers, which host our platforms.
GHGs Protocols Operational Control consolidation method.
We do not have responsibility for any emission Rightmove emissions by scope: sources that are not included in the above information.
1 1 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope Source 2017 2016 Health and safety The Groups policy on health and safety is to provide Scope 1 Company cars 495 486 adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from Scope 2 Electricity 255 303 work activities.
This is delivered through consultation with, Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 257 298 and training of, employees, the provision and maintenance of Total 1,007 1,087 plant and equipment, safe handling and use of all substances 1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have and the prevention of accidents and causes of ill health.
At been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually Rightmove, our approach to the effective management of by Defra.
uk  and safety is to treat it as an integral part of business .
During the year, we continued our fire safety, Higher fuel consumption was due to increased business first aid and work place safety training.
mileage by employees entitled to Company cars.
The reduction in electricity use is partly due to closing one floor of our London office for refurbishment during 2017 and lower electricity consumption on the two new floors.
We expect Scope 2 emissions to return to historic levels in 2018.
