Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report continued For existing employees Fidessa has regulatory compliance Employees training together with department and role specific Fidessa considers its employees as key stakeholders training courses covering both technical and professional in the business and critical to its success and growth.
development that support employee development It therefore aims to maintain an attractive place to throughout their career at Fidessa.
Additionally, Fidessa work, where employees can develop successful and offers coaching to employees at key stages in their career, rewarding careers.
in most instances facilitated by internally trained coaches.
Fidessa endeavours to ensure that its Values of teamwork During 2017 Fidessa rolled out its Managers@Fidessa and collaboration, service, commitment and dedication, programme.
This in-house programme is designed to excellence and innovation run throughout the business.
establish a set of consistent, best practice management Fidessas recognition scheme, the Extra Mile Award behaviours to support and challenge the continuous rewards nominated employees for exceeding expectations, improvement of employees and teams across the and is aligned to specific Fidessa Values.
This is one of a number of global training on Fidessa s Values can be found at www.
com programmes whose aims are to build a consistent careers company-culture values approach across Fidessas global operations.
To recognise employees who have accrued a number of Fidessa also has policies, procedures and training designed years service Fidessa introduced its long service awards to ensure that it operates in a legal and ethical manner.
This year 31% of employees have reached 10 or These include policies, procedures and or training relating more years service with Fidessa.
to health and safety, whistleblowing, anti-corruption, Recruitment, learning and development grievance, maternity, paternity, adoption and parental Identifying talent and employee development continue to leave, flexible working, learning and career development, be key priorities for Fidessa.
In addition to the traditional cyber, physical security and IT.
Fidessa reviews its policies on methods for recruitment, referrals from existing employees a regular basis with a view to ensuring that they continue to are also a valuable source of talent as they can often be a be fit for purpose.
During 2017 11% of new employees were Diversity and equality introduced through the Fidessa referral scheme.
Fidessa continues to focus on building a diverse and The recruitment of graduates continues to be a strong inclusive culture throughout the Group and as an equal pipeline of talent, with 40 graduates being employed in opportunities employer its employment policies are 2017.
Upon joining Fidessa, graduates undertake a designed to attract, retain and motivate the very best detailed structured training programme, based on employees regardless of educational or professional Fidessas Values, to help them develop the skills required background, culture, nationality, race, religion, gender, to succeed at Fidessa.
The graduate recruitment gender identity, disability, sexual orientation or age or programme is currently being expanded globally.
any other characteristic protected by law.
In addition to its employment policies, Fidessa managers with global To support and promote Fidessas graduate pipeline, there is responsibility receive training designed to ensure that they an established summer intern programme in both the US avoid unintended bias.
This programme has resulted in a number of permanent offers being made.
Drawing on this success, the Applications for employment by disabled persons are summer intern programme will be expanded and developed always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes to include the Asia-Pacific region in the summer of 2018. of the applicant concerned.
Wherever possible the employment of employees who become disabled During the year, Fidessa began operating an will be continued and appropriate training and career apprenticeship scheme with the first apprentices expected development will be offered.
Fidessa is committed to to join Fidessa in 2018.
It is hoped that this programme will being able to support fully employees with hidden or become a key source of acquiring new and diverse talent.
visible disabilities, reinforced by Fidessas membership of Fidessas comprehensive suite of learning and the Business Disability Forum.
development provides ongoing professional development Achieving gender diversity in certain sectors, including the opportunities for employees.
Fidessa has an extensive software and technology sector, continues to present induction programme for new joiners giving them the challenges when considering the profile of the available opportunity to understand Fidessa, its Values, history, talent pool in those sectors.
Fidessa has active female business and customers.
This programme also includes involvement at director, senior management and other required local and global governance training.
