Fidessa group plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report continued during the year.
STEM ambassadors are a free of charge Fidessa also believes that employee awareness of its resource for teachers and others with the aim of bringing a policies relating to diversity, equality, equal opportunities new and inspiring perspective to STEM lessons and career and anti-corruption helps avoid causing or contributing to opportunities.
Employees are responsible for ensuring that their own actions do not impair the Employees are encouraged to follow good principles of human rights of others, and are encouraged to bring social behaviour, which are reflected in Fidessas internally forward, in confidence, any concerns they may have about published corporate social responsibility policy.
believes that engagement with local communities helps support the principles set out in its social and ethics policy.
In addition to Fidessa requiring its suppliers to confirm During the year Fidessa contributed globally 27,000 respect for human rights, Fidessa also monitors whether 2016: 30,000 to charities through direct donation or there have been any changes in its business practices that matched funding.
might require a reassessment of its conclusions that there is a low risk of slavery, human trafficking or other human Fidessas website provides further details on Fidessas rights breaches in its business and supply chains.
Fidessas website provides further details on Fidessas Human rights human rights policies, including Fidessas latest statement Fidessa is committed to respecting the human rights of in relation to Section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015. individuals in the UK and internationally.
Fidessa does not have complicated supply chains or complex relationships Anti-bribery, anti-corruption with businesses based in higher-risk regions of the world, and whistleblowing where labour laws are non-existent or are not properly Fidessa has a zero tolerance approach to bribery and enforced and as such Fidessa has determined that there corruption and this is reflected in its anti-bribery policy, is a low risk of slavery, human trafficking or other human which forbids bribery or corruption of any type.
Fidessa rights breaches in its business and supply chains.
That said, also has a gifts and hospitality policy that sets out the Fidessa recognises that it has a role to play in ensuring limits within which employees can give or receive gifts and that human rights are understood and observed in the hospitality together with the internal reporting obligations.
areas in which it operates and Fidessas human rights The gifts and hospitality policy is designed to prevent policy recognises Fidessas support of the principles set corrupt activities by raising awareness and adding out in the following international standards: monitoring controls.
Finally, there is a whistleblowing policy which allows employees the opportunity to report UN Declaration of Human Rights: matters of significant concern to the Chairman of Audit UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Committee and Company Secretary.
and Core Conventions of the International Labour Those policies are periodically reviewed and updated Organization.
where necessary so that they remain fit for purpose.
The review includes identifying any new regions in which Additionally, Fidessa is committed, and expects its business Fidessa operates, changes in business practices and any partners to be committed to: recommendations received from local counsel or internal audit that might require specific processes or procedures prohibiting any form of child labour to be put in place to mitigate any actual or perceived prohibiting forced or compulsory working for any employees increased risk.
providing working environments which are healthy and Fidessa provides training and awareness raising safe and free from inhumane treatment programmes designed to ensure that employees respecting employees right to participate in trade understand the anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality and union arrangements and freedom to join an whistleblowing policies.
Training on these policies organisation of their choice is compulsory.
paying not less than that required by local law or, in the absence of a law, the level paid generally within The Audit Committee receives a report on the that industry effectiveness of the anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality and whistleblowing policies together with a summary of any known instances of bribery or corruption.
