Fidessa group plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The quantity of Scope 2 emissions is set out in the Environmental table below.
It is important to Fidessas employees, customers and suppliers that it acts in an environmentally responsible 2017 2016 manner and that Fidessa has endeavoured to manage Carbon emissions the effect that it has on the environment and to support tonnes of CO e 6,674 9,384 sustainability.
Fidessas environmental policy is regularly 2 monitored and is published on its website and intranet.
As an office-based software and services provider, In order to determine our carbon emissions, we have used Fidessas activities do not have a major negative the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting environmental impact.
Usage of energy to facilitate the Standard and have reported on Greenhouse Gas.
computing requirements of its data centres and its Fidessa calculated the emissions from data available for its employees, as well as international travel, are considered major operations and extrapolated these results to take to be the greatest environmental impacts associated with account of the smaller operations.
Scope 1 data has not its daily operations.
Other factors include encouraging the been included as it is not considered to be material as it use of energy efficient electrical and electronic equipment, relates to one small vehicle.
Refrigerant losses are reducing any unnecessary use of water and paper and the excluded as they are the responsibility of either Fidessas proper disposal of waste.
landlords or its data centre service providers.
Fidessas policy and approach includes: The legislation requires the statement of relevant intensity purchasing the most energy efficient computer ratios.
This is an expression of the quantity of emissions in hardware that achieves the required performance relation to a quantifiable factor of the businesss activity.
specification Fidessa has identified four such intensity ratios as set out generally seeking to reduce energy consumption in the table below.
reuse and recycling of equipment and materials, Intensity ratios where possible using licensed and appropriate organisations to tonnes of CO e per unit 2 dispose of waste Ratios of carbon emissions to: As part of Fidessas recent office move from New York to 2017 2016 Jersey City, environmental considerations were taken into account when fitting out the new office.
Measures taken Total revenue 0.02 0.03 included the installation of energy efficient lights and lighting management systems and the use of recycled Recurring revenue 0.02 0.03 materials wherever possible.
Operating profit 0.13 0.21 Fidessa seeks to locate its major offices close to public transport infrastructure thereby reducing reliance on Employees 3.86 5.41 personal cars and the associated pollution generated.
More generally, Fidessa encourages employees to reduce their usage of finite resources and its environmental policy Fidessa has reduced the number of intensity ratios assists in this whilst ensuring that productivity is not reported as it does not consider those previously reported adversely impacted.
as providing a meaningful understanding of Fidessas energy use.
Fidessas website provides further details on its environmental policy.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Greenhouse gas emissions In accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Andy Skelton Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Director Regulations 2008, Fidessa is required to make certain 16th February 2018 disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions relating to the current and preceding financial years.
