John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE JOHN LAING GROUP REMAINS COMMITTED FOR THE LONG TERM TO ITS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AGENDA.
Our community investment strategy is based on supporting the efforts of our employees with the worthy causes they select to make a significant positive impact.
We believe it is most effective to support and encourage our employees to contribute positively in their own capacities to good causes where they live and work.
Our policies and procedures in general reflect our values as a responsible employer which operates with integrity, and in a manner that is both ethical and transparent.
Olivier Brousse CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMMUNITY INVESTMENT HEALTH AND SAFETY Our community investment strategy is based on delivery through John Laing believes that proper attention to the health and safety our employees and a number of partners.
of its employees, subcontractors, and the community within which the Group operates is a key element of effective business Since 2006 we have been an active Patron of the Prince's Trust, management and sees health and safety as an important which has allowed us to support disadvantaged and vulnerable measure of business performance and essential to our reputation.
young people across the UK, to help them move into work, The Group is committed to ensuring the health safety and education or training.
welfare of all its employees and all other persons who may be affected by its direct activities, or those under its control.
The Group encourages its staff across each of the different markets where it operates to involve themselves in activities The projects in which the Group invests each have their own that benefit local communities, both related and unrelated to health and safety policies.
projects John Laing is working on.
The John Laing WestStadium team in Perth, Australia continues ENVIRONMENT to provide vital support to their Business Class partner school, The Group aspires to reduce the impact on the environment Girrawheen Senior High School, by assisting in developing the of the infrastructure projects in which it invests, for example, schools strategic plan, organising project tours and one-on-one in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and the volume of training by site-based personnel as part of the schools vocational waste going to landfill.
Environmental considerations play an education and training.
They also help with the management important part in any PPP procurement, ongoing construction and structure of Aboriginal Girls Academy which exists to and operations and are a central feature of the planning develop and empower young women through leadership approvals granted for renewable energy projects.
The Groups training, mentoring, sport and extra-curricular programmes.
investments in renewable energy projects are contributing to During the year, Student Sponsor Partners, an organisation reduced CO emissions.
The number of renewable energy 2 which aims to bridge the educational achievement gap for low investments in the Groups investment portfolio increased income, academically at-risk high school students in New York from 16 at 31 December 2016 to 19 at 31 December 2017.
City was awarded a grant by the John Laing Charitable Trust towards tuition scholarship of five students for the full four Greenhouse gas emissions report years of high school.
This partnership offers our US team the Since John Laing Group plc was listed on the London Stock opportunity to mentor the sponsored students and enhance Exchange in February 2015, we have had a regulatory obligation their chances of achieving educational progress.
to report greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The John Laing Charitable Trust JLCT see Workplace section.
In 2017, employees who received such awards were given the opportunity to nominate a charity JLCT has special regard to supporting the needs of current to receive a donation of up to 3,000.
A total of 79 successful and former employees or their families who are in need of applications made under all available schemes during the year financial assistance on account of illness, old age or other amounted to combined donations of over 90,000 to charitable causes.
It supports the valuable work of the welfare team who organisations including a number based in Canada, the US, look after the needs of former employees and their surviving Australia and the Netherlands.
JLCT trustees make available considerable funds to the 1st Claygate Scout group in Surrey which supports the each year to relieve financial hardship through the provision development of young people and gives them an opportunity of gratuities and other allowances.
to develop new skills including team work, leadership, All John Laing Group employees or members of their immediate communication, self-motivation as well as learning respect family directly involved in a charity are able to apply to JLCT for for others and how to make a positive impact in the community.
a grant of 1,000 to support a good cause.
Additionally, JLCT JLCT supports the Companys corporate responsibility is able to match charitable donations raised by employees, activities as well as making a difference in the communities up to a value of 1,500 per employee.
JLCT, together with the where the Company operates.
During the year, 16 projects Company, recognises the loyalty of long serving staff and their were awarded a total of over 382,000 in donations and grants.
contribution to the business through the annual Star Awards Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 44 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Methodology The table below shows emissions by scope for 2017 and 2016.
Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK John Laing quantifies and reports its organisational GHG are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO rather than tCO e. 2 2 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and has Scope 2 emissions were calculated using both the location-based utilised the UK Government 2017 Conversion Factors for and market-based approaches, with supplier-specific emission Company Reporting and European Residual Mixes 2016 factors and residual mix emission factors used for the latter.
RE-DISS II to calculate CO equivalent emissions from 2 corresponding activity data.
Supplier-specific emission factors Year-on-year change in Greenhouse Gas Emissions were supplied in grams of carbon dioxide per kilowatt-hour of electricity CO kWh by EDF Energy and E. ON.
2 2017 2016 This report has been prepared in accordance with the Combustion of fuel and operation amendments to the Greenhouse Gas Protocols Scope 2 of facilities Scope 1 11.8 tCO e 81.7 tCO e 2 2 Guidance and therefore includes both a location-based and Electricity, heat, steam and cooling market-based Scope 2 emissions figure.
When quantifying purchased for our own use emissions using the market-based approach, John Laing used Scope 2: location-based 127.8 tCO e 139.9 tCO e 2 2 a supplier-specific emissions factor where possible.
If this was Electricity, heat, steam and cooling unavailable a residual mix emissions factor was used instead, purchased for our own use and as a last option the location-based grid emissions factor Scope 2: market-based 115.4 tCO 97.0 tCO 2 2 was used.
Other indirect emissions Scope 3 618.0 tCO e 708.3 tCO e 2 2 Greenhouse gas emissions The table below shows our total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions In 2017, John Laings activities emitted a total of 11.8 tCO e 2 for 2017 and 2016 under the two accounting methodologies Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel combustion and operation of location-based approach and market-based approach its facilities.
This tCO e figure includes emissions of GHG other 2 applicable for the Scope 2 emissions.
The table also shows the than CO, such as methane or nitrous oxide, in addition to CO. 2 2 total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as a ratio against full-time Through electricity purchased for our own use Scope 2 indirect, equivalent FTE employees.
This calculation is based on the we emitted a total of 127.8 tCO e when taking the location-based 2 average number of full-time equivalent FTE employees each approach and 115.4 tCO when taking the market-based 2 year.
We have also chosen to voluntarily report Scope 3 previously, emissions from electricity consumed outside the UK emissions arising from our business travel and water and Scope 2 emissions are calculated using the market-based consumption where information is available.
approach using supplier specific emission factors and residual mix emission factors are calculated in tCO.
2 Location-based Market-based approach approach 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total Scope 1 and 2 139.6 tCO e 221.6 tCO e 127.2 tCO e 178.7 tCO e 2 2 2 2 tCO2e per full-time equivalent FTE employee 0.87 tCO2e 0.89 tCO e 0.79 tCO2e 0.72 tCO e 2 2 Market-based includes Scope 2 in tCO 2 There was a decrease in Scope 1 emissions because vehicles Assumptions and Estimations used by our Amsterdam office run mostly on electricity a Scope 2 In some cases, missing data has been estimated using either activity, rather than biofuel a Scope 1 activity.
Scope 2 extrapolation of available data from the reporting period or data emissions decreased year-on-year for several reasons: the from 2016 as a proxy.
The Groups New York, Auckland, Toronto removal of certain offices as part of the sale of the UK PMS and Los Angeles offices are serviced and as such do not receive activities in 2016: the reduction in emission factors in the separate utility bills and so were not able to provide any data, countries in which John Laing operates: and the refurbishment and therefore an average annual consumption figure per square of air conditioning equipment at the Groups headquarters.
metre of floor area was used to estimate electricity consumption In 2017, there was an 88% reduction in rail travel and a 1% at these sites.
reduction in air travel which resulted in a reduction of Scope 3 emissions by 13%.
TOTAL EMISSIONS 2016 AND 2017 tCO e 2 708.2 Reporting Boundaries and Limitations 6 61 18 8.. 0 0 We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational control approach and have adopted a materiality threshold of 10% for GHG reporting purposes.
The GHG sources that constitute the operational boundaries for the 2017 reporting period are: Scope 1: Natural gas combustion within boilers and fuel combustion within leased vehicles 1 13 39 9.. 9 9 1 12 27 7.. 8 8 8 81 1.. 7 7 Scope 2: Purchased electricity consumption for our own 2017 1 11 1.. 8 8 use within buildings and leased electric vehicles 2016 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 3: Business travel and the supply and treatment emissions tCO e Location-based emissions tCO e 2 2 of water emissions tCO e 2 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 SCOPE 2 EMISSIONS BY METHODOLOGY Recognition and Reward tCO e and tCO 2017 2 2 We review our pay and benefits structure on an annual basis 127.8 to ensure that we remain competitive within the market, are 1 11 15 5.. 4 4 attractive to potential new employees, and provide the right link between performance and reward.
As well as a competitive pay and benefits structure, we recognise and reward employee performance through bonuses and long-term incentive plans.
We conduct annual staff awards the Star Awards which provide for recognition of the achievements and contributions employees make to both the business and the community.
Work-Life Balance Policies We recognise the importance of a working environment which enables employees to achieve a balance between their work Scope 2 - Location-based Scope 2 - Market-based and personal life to the mutual benefit of the individual, the emissions tCO e emissions tCO 2 2 business and society.
Our aim is to create an environment that supports staff and their general wellbeing, maintains effective WORKPLACE working practices and enables a productive and positive balance between work and life outside work.
The Group has a number of Our People work-life balance policies and practices in place which support John Laing aims to attract and retain, develop and reward high flexible working, working parents and periods of absence from quality employees.
We support our people through learning and the work place.
The Group seeks to exceed statutory minimum development so they can maximise their career potential and requirements where it can.
For example, we offer enhanced their value as an employee, and we encourage them to achieve maternity, paternity and adoption pay arrangements.
We recognise that investing in our people is critical to the success of our business.
The Group also provides an employee assistance programme which is available to all employees, their partners and their We are committed to a positive working environment which is immediate family.
This is an independent service which offers free from any discrimination, harassment or unfair treatment, support and counselling on a wide range of work, personal and providing all employees with equal opportunities to develop family issues.
within the Group and we have the appropriate policies in place to support this.
Learning and Development We aim to enhance the skills, development and learning of all our Employment employees through external courses and seminars, sponsorship At 31 December 2017, the Group employed 158 people in the for undertaking professional qualifications, secondments, UK and overseas 2016 160.
A reduction in UK headcount development assessments and coaching and mentoring.
and an increase in overseas recruitment have resulted in the percentage of staff located outside the UK increasing from 36% Retention of our employees through effective development to 39% at 31 December 2017. is key to the success of the business.
Throughout 2017, we focused on the development requirements of individuals Employee Engagement and teams, supported where necessary with external facilitation, to ensure teams were operating effectively.
Employees are regularly informed of progress and updates in the business through conference calls conducted by senior We continue to manage the development of our people through management as well as through other briefings on topical a bi-annual Performance Development Review.
This encourages and relevant business issues.
The Groups 15-25 most senior a two-way discussion on performance and objectives between managers met on two occasions in 2017 over one to two days individuals and their managers.
It also allows individuals to to address specific business issues and future strategy.
discuss their career aspirations and identify with their manager development opportunities.
Staff numbers at 31 December 2017, broken down by certain remuneration and gender criteria, were: Total Male Female Number Number % Number % 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total Group 158 160 115 107 73 67 43 53 27 33 Senior managers earning above 70,000 per annum 101 96 92 84 91 88 9 12 9 12 Executive Directors 2 2 2 2 100 100 Modern Slavery Act The UK Modern Slavery Act addresses the role of businesses in preventing modern slavery within their organisations and down into their supply chain.
Last year we published our first modern slavery statement, setting out the steps the Group has taken to ensure slavery and human trafficking are not taking place in any part of our business or supply chains.
A further statement will be produced and published on our website describing our continued efforts in this respect over the last year.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
