CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sustainability OUR PATIENTS We transform the lives of patients More than 300m people living with Asthma withairways diseases.
This shared purpose drives our strategy and our and COPD respectively and significant unmet behaviours set a framework for how need remains.
wedeliver ourgoals and measure our Commercial success will follow if we are genuinely successes.
Ultimately, we believe that delivering solutions to match patient need.
how we achieve success is every bit Frazer Morgan Vice President, Programme Development asimportant as what we achieve.
The future of our business depends upon our ability to meet the We assess our performance across four needs of our patients and our ability to respond to changing key areas: our patients, our people, our dynamics in the highly complex airways disease market.
partners, and our local communities and Our areas of focus our environment.
By operating responsibly Our patient focus drives what we do and how we do it: we are we will build a business that is durable in passionate about transforming the lives of patients with airways-related diseases.
the long term, maximise our commercial success and deliver long-term value for How we engage We seek to understand the needs of our patients by maintaining our shareholders and society.
anin-depth appreciation of the continuous clinical innovation in the way that Asthma and COPD patients are being treated.
This enables Jo Hombal us to match our future pipeline to the emerging treatment Executive Vice President, Human Resources paradigm, thus addressing unmet medical need.
We ensure that our employees understand the science behind the diagnosis and treatment of airways disease patients by hosting educational seminars with charity advocates, internal experts, industry experts, practitioners and patient guest speakers.
Our development teams actively consider the needs of our patients throughout the development process striving to develop relevant products and easy-to-use device platforms to help improve patientcompliance.
Promoting affordable quality products Our diverse pipeline includes a number of generics programmes.
Vectura is a responsible partner to major pharmaceutical companies such as Hikma which strive to reliably supply affordable, high-quality generic medicines to meet todays diverse healthcare needs.
Promoting access Vectura currently licenses its products, technologies and know-how to partner companies.
We play an important role in improving access to healthcare through the development of innovative technologies and solutions that address major areas of unmet medical need: the need to improve patient compliance and outcomes: and reduce overall costs of healthcare.
We utilise our development and regulatory expertise to support our partners in bringing the benefits of these innovative products to as many markets as possible, including developing economies.
STRATEGIC REPORT Patient safety Although our business does not include direct marketing and sales OUR PEOPLE to patients, patient safety is our number one priority in the development, testing, manufacturing and ultimate use of our products.
All medicines have potential risks as well as benefits.
Our robust policies and More than 450 talented and diverse governance framework are designed to help us and our partners detect and act on any side effects that may be associated with our employees working internationally medicines.
We always put patient safety first in the design and across five sites.
conduct of our clinical trials.
Everything we all do has a positive impact on Clinical trials Vectura has an established set of standard operating procedures transforming the lives of airways disease patients SOPs and policies which govern the conduct of clinical trials which notonly does it make me want to come to work it sponsors.
These SOPs and policies ensure that Vectura-sponsored eachday, it makes me want to go the extra mile clinical trials are compliant with internationally recognised and ineverything that I do.
adopted standards and with national and international legislation inthe relevant territories.
Compliance with our SOPs and policies Liza Hemmings Director, HR Operations ismonitored and inspected on an ongoing basis by our internal quality assurance department.
Our ability to deliver upon our valuable product pipeline and to We do not conduct animal testing in house and we have no plans innovate for the future is dependent upon the skills and expertise of our workforce.
It is vital that our people are motivated to achieve todo so.
We outsource toxicology studies which are required by law before human clinical trials of novel therapeutics can be our common goals in order to drive Vectura forwards.
Each of our employees contributes to and shares in Vecturas success.
There are a limited number of companies with the expertise to conduct regulatory-standard, inhalation toxicology Our areas of focus studies, which are our area of focus.
We strive to create a stimulating and rewarding place to work andensure that our culture and values are a definitive expression Our progress in 2017 During the year we: ofhow we do things at Vectura.
hosted a live patient interview event for all staff, giving a patient How we engage and their physician the opportunity to explain the impact of Communication is part of our day-to-day operating model.
Engaging severe Asthma on their lifestyle including a discussion of the our colleagues is a priority and it is embedded in everything we do.
issues and side effects of current treatments and hopes for We have a number of communication channels to ensure that the future treatment options: views and needs of our employees are understood and considered hosted an internal education event for all staff focusing on by the Executive Leadership Team and the Board.
Connecting our Vecturas pipeline, including guest key opinion leader speaker different sites through communications channels, both electronic and todiscuss the treatment burden and challenges in treating face to face, improves collaboration and integration and embraces Asthma and COPD: diversity as well as helpingto speed up internal processes.
held a V2V charity cycle ride where employees cycled from our Gauting site to Muttenz to raise money for Asthma UK, a charity Our values: for which Vectura is an ambassador: and PATIENT FOCUS our patient focus drives what offered two employees the opportunity to take paid leave to we doand how we do it: we are passionate about volunteer as part of the support crew for this years Antonias improving the lives of airways disease patients Friends Race Across America RAAM event, in support ofAsthma UK.
INNOVATION we look to innovate every day.
Each one of us is inspired and enabled to improve what we do and how we do it.
We keep learning so that we can push the boundaries of what is possible COLLABORATION we seek to understand each other's needs consistently, and use our combined knowledge and expertise to enable mutual success in every collaboration ACHIEVEMENT we enjoy working together to achieve what needs to be done.
It is our individual drive to apply our learning and be accountable to others that makes our collaboration so successful Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 65 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Overall gender breakdown of all employees at 31 December 2017 Senior managers Directors and above at 31 December 2017 50 Male Male 237 Female Female 31 241 Our employment practices our business leaders briefing packs, which are issued post Our commitment to diversity theQuarterly Leadership Team meetings to facilitate ongoing The diverse perspectives and experiences of our global workforce engagement via team cascade sessions, to ensure that all strengthen our business and help us meet the needs of our patients employees understand how their work contributes to the and other stakeholders.
Vectura promotes a culture of opportunity overallprogress of Vectura: and for all decisions about employment, development, promotion, pay our annual employee engagement survey: the 2017 annual and benefits are based upon ability, qualifications and performance.
survey was conducted in March 2017: 84% of employees We believe in diversity in its widest sense and we have not set any responded and we received feedback indicating we are ahead formal diversity quotas or targets: all appointments, both internal ofthe comparator benchmarks including the top 10% of and external, are ultimately made on the basis of merit.
Our policies participating companies in the following areas: support the differing needs and commitments of our employees, employees are encouraged to share their thoughts and views with around 16% of our employees benefiting from some kind of with their managers and senior leaders at my organisation: flexible working practice.
James Ward-Lilley, our Chief Executive Officer, is the Board member responsible for overseeing human my manager communicates well with me, giving me clear resources and non-discrimination issues.
feedback on my work and performance: and We are a global organisation and want our leaders to represent my organisations values have been clearly articulated.
Four nationalities are currently We use the feedback obtained from the processes and activities represented on our Board of Directors.
outlined above to determine key priority areas for improvement going forward and we regularly communicate our progress.
Employee engagement Wemonitor our employee turnover on a monthly basis to identify Communication is part of our day-to-day operating model.
Engaging any possible employee relations or motivational issues and to our colleagues is a priority and it is embedded in everything we do.
assistin our recruitment and resource planning.
In an industry based upon innovation and research and development, our employees are our biggest asset and it is therefore critical that During 2018, we will continue to review employee communication we forge strong connections through timely and meaningful channels to identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
communication: we aim to achieve this through: Developing our people Attracting and retaining skilled people with values aligned to our our Group-wide intranet and video information terminals, which ethos is critical for the long-term sustainability of our business and we are evolving every year.
Working with our employees, we we aim to develop and maintain a motivated and professional continually strive to improve the design and effectiveness workforce.
We recognise the importance of investing in our people, ofcommunications channels across the Group: ensuring that they are equipped to deliver in their current and our Manager Forum, which enables all people managers to future roles within the business.
meeton a monthly basis to discuss topical items, share learnings, In addition to investment in general training and development, communicate updates, provide feedback on corporate initiatives Vectura offers all employees the opportunity to apply for and benefit from upskilling: scholarship funding.
The Vocational Qualification Award provides our Employee Representative Forum of elected representatives, substantial financial assistance to those who wish to pursue further which provides a mechanism by which employees can raise self-development, largely in their own time.
Any course that would issues that matter to them for discussion, enables employee significantly enhance an employees skills whilst benefiting Vectura feedback and facilitates the communication and dissemination is considered.
During 2017, we have supported employees through of key information throughout the organisation: MSc studies in clinical development, A Levels in chemistry and EMBAs.
our all-employee quarterly business updates, hosted by members Talent management is another key component in the attraction and of the Executive Leadership Team, are used to share strategy, retention of motivated and highly skilled employees.
On an annual programme, people and business performance updates through basis, the Executive Leadership Team reviews the succession plan, the use of a balanced scorecard and facilitate two-way dialogue identifying the high potential employees who are the future leaders through Q&A: of our business, and ensures appropriate retention, support and personal development planning is in place.
66 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Rewarding our people Anti-bribery and corruption Remuneration plays an important role in retaining and motivating We have adopted a clear anti-bribery policy, which has been our people.
We seek to provide well-constructed and fair reward communicated to all employees so they can recognise and systems designed to incentivise superior performance and align avoidthe use of bribery and report any suspicion for rigorous theinterests of our employees with those of our shareholders investigation.
Political donations are prohibited and advance andother stakeholders.
The annual bonus allows us to reward approval from management is required before management employees for achieving and exceeding challenging corporate and andstaff may accept or solicit a gift of any kind.
In addition to our remuneration packages, We do not believe that human rights issues present a significant which include a pension entitlement, permanent health insurance, issue for Vectura, but we are committed to protecting the human life assurance and private medical care, all employees are given the rights of our employees and the people who come into contact opportunity to participate in our all-employee share plans.
For more details of our all-employee share plans, please refer to the Sales and marketing ethics Remuneration Report.
In addition to standard remuneration packages, Vectura does not currently market pharmaceutical products directly our recognition policy acknowledges the impact and value of a to patients: however, we are committed to employing ethical sincere thank you and a series of thank you cards areavailable marketing and sales practices.
We follow the Code of Practice of for employees to provide sincere appreciation to colleagues, and theAssociation of the British Pharmaceutical Industry ABPI, which managers are also encouraged to provide low monetary value governs the promotion of medicines to health professionals.
awards to those who go the extra mile to achieve a great outcome.
Working with suppliers Our commitment to health and safety Our ethical standards are integral to our procurement and partnering We consider health and safety to be a priority in our workplaces.
activities and we continuously monitor compliance through We have an established Health and Safety Committee that reviews assessments and improvement programmes.
We have ahighly health and safety standards within the organisation.
The Committee regulated vendor selection process, which includes evaluating continually monitors and reviews health and safety practices to prospective suppliers technical capability and a full audit of their ensure that health and safety management procedures are robust quality systems to ensure compliance with appropriate quality and in line with industry best practice.
Annual updates are provided andsafety standards.
to the Board for review and additional update reports are provided Manufacturing compliance as required.
Each ELT member also receives a quarterly HSE report, Vectura manufacturing and laboratory facilities are subject to regular enabling them to reinforce the importance of a strong safety culture.
inspection by relevant regulatory authorities.
Theseinspections have James Ward-Lilley is the Board member to whom responsibility for not revealed any major instances ofnon-compliance at any of our sites.
health and safety issues has been delegated.
Specialist ongoing training is provided to those individuals who are Our progress in 2017 responsible for health and safety across the organisation.
General Vectura has a talented workforce with an invaluable diversity of health and safety training is delivered to all staff via in-house skills, knowledge and experience.
Following the 2016 merger with training sessions provided by our Health and Safety Manager Skyepharma, we undertook a Group-wide project to identify, andby e-learning courses.
articulate and deliver our shared cultures and value.
Vectura has an excellent safety record and there have been no During the year we: major incidents or accidents to report to the Health and Safety worked across the Group to develop and articulate our shared Executive in the United Kingdom or to the equivalent bodies in culture, with high levels of participation and feedback from our Germany, Switzerland or France during the period 2016: none.
employees achieved through surveys, workshops and an online digital discussion forum: Policies and practices hosted a Group-wide AsOne event to launch new culture and Our Code of Conduct values with subsequent roll-out of materials and supporting Our Code of Conduct documents our behavioural standards and ways tools across all sites to support consistency of understanding of working.
The Code of Conduct is provided in all of the principal and behaviour: languages spoken by our people, and it describes the principles, policies and procedures that ensure our business continues to launched a new reward framework across all sites which operate in accordance with the requirements of our highly regulated includes career development paths so that all ouremployees industry.
The Code of Conduct is applicable to all permanent and can understand how their role fits into the wider organisation temporary employees and contractors and third parties we work and clearly see their opportunities for development: with are expected to adhere to the same standards.
launched a Recognition Scheme and Performance Management Our Code of Conduct sets out Vecturas zero tolerance attitude to system that is fully aligned and supportive of our newly bullying and harassment and bribery and corruption and details articulated values and culture: and ourwhistleblowing policy and procedure.
The Code of Conduct developed and delivered a new Leadership Development isavailable to all employees via our Group-wide intranet.
Programme which equips leaders at all levels within our organisation with the skills and knowledge to lead their teams effectively and in accordance with our defined culture.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 67 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR COMMUNITIES AND OUR PARTNERS OURENVIRONMENT Over ten active partnerships and 20 As a responsible business, we are committed revenue-generating in-market assets.
to having a long-term positive impact within our local communities and to minimising our We build collaborations and alliances every day and long-term impact on the environment.
It makes us strong when we use the knowledge and experience of all our team members Our areas of focus it has helped us find solutions for difficult challenges.
We maintain close relationships with our local universities, supportour employees in local and national charity endeavours and monitor the carbon footprint of our organisation.
Vectura has developed and maintains a partnering model for its generic development programmes and certain Vectura enhanced How we engage delivery programmes.
In order for this model to continue to be Vectura has always sought to foster close working relationships successful, Vectura needs to meet the changing scientific and with universities close to our R&D sites.
We believe that bringing operational needs of its wide partnership base, enabling the best placement students into our premises is an essential mechanism outcomes forprogrammes and patients.
viawhich we can give students direct exposure to the world of work and, in so doing, we are contributing to developing the next Our areas of focus generation of pharmaceutical scientists, creating potential future We strive for a culture of scientific and Operational Excellence permanent employees and helping to support the local academic andinvest in our intellectual property portfolio and our device, community.
In addition to this, Vectura also supports a number development and formulation capabilities.
ofacademic collaborations with universities developing novel drug How we engage delivery technologies of interest in the field of pulmonary delivery.
We routinely establish industry standard management and governance We support the communities within which we operate by providing process for our partnerships and then maintain close working high-quality employment opportunities, supporting charitable social relationships with our partners, ensuring regular feedback and engagement and local volunteering.
Our employees, particularly dialogue to enable us to continue to deliver against our partners' those on our Green Action Team, are committed to reviewing Vecturas needs and expectations.
We continue to invest in our people, our impact on the environment over the long term and proposing IPand our core capabilities and technologies to maintain our broad energy reduction initiatives where appropriate.
We offer our UK integrated drug delivery platform offering, leaving Vectura uniquely employees the opportunity to participate in a cycle to work scheme placed as a key partner within the industry.
and encourage car sharing where possible.
Our progress in 2017 Our progress in 2017 Our partnerships continue to make significant contributions to One of the most significant impacts that we can have within our ourbusiness.
To support systematic and continuous improvement local communities is to continue to provide high-quality employment in the performance of our partnerships during 2017 we designed opportunities and to develop therapies to help patients with and undertook a health check survey for use with partners.
Thisscheme was piloted with a major partnership: we engaged with all key personnel across the partnership to assess how We are proud to have a highly creative and active Social Committee important behaviours are to supporting progress of the relationship.
which initiates a calendar of social and charitable events each year.
The analysis of the survey allowed us to jointly understand areas With a dedicated budget, this team is empowered to organise that are working well and where improvement should be targeted.
engaging and rewarding activities to raise money for local charities, Joint workshops allowed us to share the results with the team and as well as facilitating our support of nationwide charity campaigns to identify specific actions to progress the partnership more effectively.
such as Comic Relief, the BBC Children in Need appeal and Macmillan This process will be repeated at appropriate intervals and we intend as well as local charities nominated by our employees.
Wherever to roll this approach out across other selected partnerships and possible, Group facilities are made available for these events.
Forthe second year running, Vectura supported a bike ride with 40employees participating in a Gauting to Muttenz charity bike On an ongoing basis we also use a scorecard where key attributes ride.
This raised over 20,000 for Asthma UK, as well as forging of the partnership Strategic, Financial Resources, Operational strong relationships built on mutual trust and support, having andRelational are summarised, scored and tracked.
This funand sharing a great achievement.
The team raised a further allowsthe governance teams project teams and Joint Steering 6,500 for national asthma charities in Germany and Switzerland.
Committees toeasily track and measure progress of the project and partnership performance.
68 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our carbon footprint the environment and cost effective for the business.
Vectura has The Group is committed to protecting the environment in all areas aGreen Action Team which has responsibility to pursue initiatives of our operations, including undertaking initiatives to effectively forenvironmental sustainabilityand carbon reduction.
manage and reduce waste throughout the organisation.
Our environmental initiatives We aim to foster a positive attitude towards the environment Vectura has adopted and maintains a number of specific among employees and to raise employee awareness of responsible environmental initiatives.
environmental practices at all sites operated by the Group.
The Energy efficiency Group endeavours to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation It is our policy that when an existing light unit requires and regulatory requirements as a minimum.
Andrew Derodra, replacement it is replaced with an LED light.
The LED lights ChiefFinancial Officer, has responsibility for reporting on relevant installed are up to four times more energy efficient than the environmental matters to the Board.
There have been no reportable traditional light units that they replace.
The majority of the incidents in 2017 at any of the Groups sites.
lighting at our Chippenham site is now LED.
Due to the nature of our activities, Vectura considers that it has Passive infrared light sensors are installed in many general work alow environmental impact.
However, we remain committed to areas.
This ensures that lighting is not left on in work areas that minimising the impact of our activities on the environment and are not currently in use.
actively seek to make energy savings in a way that is beneficial for Greenhouse gas emissions Vectura reports greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
Emissions data is reported using a financial control approach to define our reporting boundary, which meets the requirements of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for which we are responsible.
The information is presented for a twelve-month period.
Emissions have been measured for all sites except for our office in London as it is considered to be negligible for these purposes.
The amounts shown below for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions are those required to be reported under the Regulations.
9 months Year ended ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 March 1 Greenhouse gas emission by source 2017 2016 2016 Scope 1 2,312 465 431 Scope 2 1,522 1,163 1,426 Total emissions Scope 1 and 2 3,834 1,628 1,857 2 Emissions reported tonnes of CO per sq ft 0.01 0.01 0.03 2 The significant increase in Scope 1 emissions relates to the inclusion of Skyepharma sites for the full twelve-month period and the gas consumption at our Lyon manufacturing site that accounts for 70% of the total.
However, the emissions reported per sq ft is in line with last year.
1 GHG emissions r eported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Emissions factors were sourced from the UK Defra database.
2 Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from purchase invoices and verified by reference to meter readings.
Vehicle fuel usage is based upon recorded mileage.
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and is signed by order of the Board.
Andrew Derodra Chief Financial Officer 20 March 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 69
