SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEES CONTRACTOR STANDARDS ENGAGED EMPLOYEES ARE COMMITTED Antofagasta is committed to ensuring its contractor workers operate TO BUSINESS GOALS under the same safety and health standards and management system as its own employees.
Its contractor companies must comply with Antofagasta is committed to the wellbeing, mandatory corporate standards regarding human rights, business motivation and professional development integrity, minimum salaries and working conditions, including health and life insurance, which must be offered to all their employees.
It seeks to engage them Failure to comply can lead to sanction and even contract withdrawal.
through its shared values and an attractive The Group regularly audits its contractors to ensure full compliance with these standards.
offer that enhances the experience of being part of the mining group.
The Group ENGAGEMENT One challenge is to keep employees engaged with the organisation actively manages and develops the talents and aligned with the Groups business goals.
The Human Resources of its employees and strives to maintain Model is designed to attract and retain talented and committed employees by offering the opportunity to be part of a growing excellent labour relations.
company with strong corporate values.
The Group offers a safe work In 2017 the Groups average total workforce was approximately environment, good quality accommodation, fair pay and opportunities 21,360 people, of which about 6,360 were employees and for talent to develop, alongside a healthy work-life balance.
LABOUR RELATIONS The Group recognises employees rights to union membership and collective bargaining.
It has ten unions: four at Centinela, three at Los Pelambres, two at Zaldvar and one at Antucoya, together representing 76% of the total number of employees.
In 2017, Antofagasta sponsored 30 labour leaders taking a diploma in Labour Relations from the Universidad Catlica fide Chile.
In 2017 labour agreements were negotiated with the unions at Los Pelambres, Centinela and Zaldvar.
These binding agreements cover salaries, shift patterns and employment benefits and are renegotiated every three years, in accordance with Chilean legislation.
Among other provisions, Chilean law limits working hours and forbids both In 2017 labour child and forced labour.
76% agreements were The Groups excellent labour relations are based on good working of employees negotiated with the conditions, mutual trust and regular dialogue, and have been are unionised successful in reaching fair labour agreements and avoiding strikes.
unions at Los Pelambres, Centinela and Zaldvar.
58 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPING TALENT Antofagasta has introduced a management system designed to retain employees with key talents by providing them with opportunities for professional growth.
Succession plans are in place for key positions and employees in supervisory and managerial positions are offered regular training to further develop their leadership skills.
The Groups management strongly believes that internal mobility, training and professional development opportunities foster engaged employees, and 57% of new positions that became available in 2017 were filled by internal candidates.
In 2017, Antofagasta invested $3.1 million in training, providing an average of 4.8 hours of training per employee per year.
INCREASING GENDER DIVERSITY A Diversity and Inclusion Strategy has recently been approved by the Board to increase the Groups capacity to attract and advance the progress of women and to encourage the inclusion of people with different international experience, training and capabilities.
These new perspectives and experiences will help the Group develop excellence and increase both productivity and engagement.
In 2017 women represented 9% of the mining divisions workforce, of whom 58% were supervisors or above and 10% held senior management roles.
There are two female Board directors and one Vice President.
IN FOCUS: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION STRATEGY In December 2017, the Board approved a Diversity and Inclusion Strategy with the goal of achieving greater inclusivity by 2022 and being an employer of choice.
This strategy is based on three priorities: increasing gender recognition, expanding opportunities for disabled people and attracting employees with international experience.
The strategy encourages the development of a respectful working environment that promotes collaboration, flexibility and equity in a meritocracy without prejudice through the appropriate training of managers and employees.
The first steps of the implementation plan include onsite workshops at all four mining operations, establishing a baseline and monitoring progress.
co. uk 59 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED COMMUNITIES As Somos Choapa progresses at each municipality, local development ENGAGING LOCALLY TO CONTRIBUTE visions are translated into a portfolio of projects and programmes NATIONALLY to be financed through publicprivate alliances and implemented via strategic partnerships.
These initiatives are aligned with local priorities Antofagasta contributes to the and contribute to the UNs Sustainable Development Goals.
sustainable development of the regions EXTENDING THE PROGRAMME and communities in which it operates, The Somos Choapa framework includes funding for an integrated creating a shared vision for development technical team of professionals from the fields of social sciences, architecture and strategic design.
This team supports the engagement by engaging in effective, participatory process and the design of projects, ensuring all initiatives carry a and transparent stakeholder dialogue, recognisable watermark of technical excellence, systemic vision and adaptation to the local context.
The experience was presented as well as recognising controversies at Chile Architecture and Urbanism Biennial Exhibition entitled and opportunities.
Unpostponable Dialogues as a leading example of innovation in the sustainable collaboration between a company, its surrounding The Group believes the wellbeing of its surrounding communities communities and local authorities.
is a direct enabler of its business success, and strives to prevent, By 2017, engagement processes based on Somos Choapa were mitigate and compensate for any adverse impact that its activities being rolled out by Centinela with its Sierra Gorda community and may have.
Antofagasta is convinced its activities bring opportunities by Antucoya with the municipality of Mara Elena.
The Group has for national and local development and is committed to building on named this latter initiative Dialogues for Development.
MEASURING PROGRESS LONG-TERM ENGAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT During 2017 Somos Choapa continued working on the definition From 2013 the Group made a thorough review of how it engaged of indicators to measure its progress, developed through a with the communities impacted by its activities, introducing a radically participative process combining technical factors with governmental new local engagement framework called Somos Choapa We Are requirements and input from beneficiaries.
Some of these indicators 1 Choapa.
It is based on a methodology devised to sustain ongoing will be used to assess the impact of each community investment dialogue between the Company, local authorities, neighbours and local project and its efficiency.
Others will measure the overall contribution organisations to address its impact on the local area: and, on how the of the Somos Choapa project portfolio in improving the wellbeing of Company can contribute to the sustainable development of the region.
communities according to the UNs Sustainable Development Goals Participation is a key ingredient of this framework and the first stage SDG parameters.
The decision to use SDG indicators reflects of the programme is an open invitation to stakeholders to participate Antofagastas willingness to find common ground with public in a series of regional meetings to discuss local challenges and their authorities regarding long-term sustainable local development.
Choapa is the name of the province where Los Pelambres is located.
It includes the municipalities of Salamanca, Illapel, Los Vilos and Canela.
60 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY CONFLICT TRANSFORMATION IN FOCUS: INNOVATION, REGIONAL DIALOGUE In May 2016 over 80% of the residents of Pupo, Rincon and Caimanes, the three communities near the Mauro tailings dam, AND PUBLIC POLICY signed an agreement with Los Pelambres, the Caimanes Agreement, Antofagasta is a contributor to publicprivate efforts to ending a ten-year conflict and inaugurating a new era of co-operation.
ensure Chile remains internationally competitive and becomes This agreement included Los Pelambres contribution to a Community a centre for highly sustainable mining practices.
Maintaining Development Fund that will finance the most popular projects chosen mining operations social licence to operate is key to achieving by over 300 residents.
This involved a formal transparent selection this.
One of the publicprivate institutions supported by the process following ten preparatory meetings to review the whole Group, Valor Minero Mining Value, is developing new project portfolio.
institutional processes to implement shared value agreements and to manage potential conflicts from early-stage projects Caimanes residents decided to build a fire station, buy an area for to mine closures.
a planned police station, purchase equipment for the local health clinic, fund repairs to the local church and improve school facilities.
This initiative has advanced through a series of dialogues The residents of Rincn chose to build a clubhouse and to repay at which political authorities, communities, indigenous people, a community debt they had taken on to pay for a collective NGOs, mining companies, academics and other stakeholders agricultural project.
have exchanged views and contributed their insights.
The results will be presented as a Public Mining Policy In Pupo, the community chose to install solar panels on their proposal to Chiles President by mid-2018.
houses and to build water storage facilities.
Valor Minero is also organising a pilot regional dialogue in the Sierra Gorda community.
The aim is to build a shared value MANAGING SOCIAL RISKS agreement for the areas development and a roadmap for both public and private contributions, taking a similar approach to WATER SCARCITY Antofagastas Somos Choapa.
Participants include the regional Water scarcity remains a major community concern in Los presidential representative, Sierra Gordas mayor, local Pelambres area of influence.
Besides adopting operating measures organisations and the four nearby mines, Centinela to preserve water see page 62 and actively participating in local Antofagasta, Spence BHP, Gabriela Mistral Codelco water management initiatives, the Company is leading the public and Sierra Gorda KGHM.
private Salamanca Agreement to develop long-term solutions such as building a public desalination facility and more irrigation dams.
Ensuring water availability and quality was one of the key issues addressed in the Caimanes Agreement.
In 2017 the Company began sealing the contour channel built around the dam that prevents naturally flowing run-off water from reaching the tailings dam below.
The Company is also covering other channels that carry this water to the Pupo stream for use by the community and is building two pools for animal drinking water.
Lastly, Los Pelambres is collaborating with the Rural Drinking Water Committee on a set of projects to improve local drinking water facilities.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS The Groups tailings dams and other facilities are designed to resist extreme weather conditions and severe earthquakes.
The Mauro tailings dam continued to operate normally after an earthquake in September 2015 that reached 8.5 on the Richter scale, and had its epicentre only 50 km from the dam wall.
As legally required, all four of the Groups mining operations have emergency procedures in place, approved by the national mining Under the new framework, authority, and response plans co-ordinated with public agencies community investment and other authorities.
These plans include preventive and corrective 10 priorities come from local operating measures at each of the sites.
At Los Pelambres these preparatory meetings to residents, who remain plans are supplemented with a special emergency communication review project portfolio involved until the projects procedure designed jointly with the Caimanes community in order are completed, empowering to protect neighbours in any emergency situation.
This initiative project beneficiaries and included defining a new safety zone, improving early warning and increasing effectiveness evacuation procedures, providing emergency transportation for of the results.
impaired residents to the safety zone, new road signals and a sound alarm, and establishing additional procedures to monitor the Mauro tailings dam.
