ACCOUNTABILITY: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT HOW WE LISTEN AND ENGAGE WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Successful relationships with stakeholders are essential to the long-term success of the Group.
The Group has a network of arrangements in place to ensure that the views and interests of stakeholders are represented in the Boardroom and considered as part of the Boards deliberations.
WORKFORCE Why we engage How we engage The Group has a Constructive relationships Site visits workforce of built on mutual respect Quarterly on-site approximately 21,000 and transparency help the CEO updates people working at its Group to retain employees Engagement surveys operations, on projects, and avoid labour disputes, On-site reviews in exploration and at the contributing to greater Groups corporate offices.
productivity and business Regular meetings More than 99% of the efficiency.
with unions workforce are based in SUSTAINABILITY Chile and more than 95% work at the Groups operations.
FORWARD CORE THINKING LOCAL COMMUNITIES Why we engage How we engage Our activities naturally The wellbeing of our local Ongoing dialogue EXCELLENCE affect local communities communities is a direct through the Somos and we strive to prevent, enabler of our business Choapa local mitigate and compensate success and we are engagement framework, for any adverse impact convinced that our as described on that these activities activities bring pages 60 to 61 may have.
opportunities for national Regular reporting and local development.
of local community dialogue to the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee and the Board 98 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE EMBEDDING CULTURE As noted in the Chairmans introduction on page 71, during and to ensure that the Groups values and culture are adopted 2017 a management committee led by the CEO was established across all levels of the organisation.
As was the case when the to design and implement a cultural reinforcement process current values were adopted in 2013, the Groups employees in consultation with employees.
were invited to participate in forums to assist with this during the fourth quarter of 2017.
The deployment of the refreshed The Groups charter of values was critically reviewed and it values and Group purpose will be completed in 2018. was agreed that these values continued to reflect our industry, the nature of our Company and our Chilean culture.
As part of The Board set the tone for this process during a dedicated this exercise it was agreed that the supporting explanations session held as part of the Boards strategy discussion in June.
Progress since then has been overseen by the and behaviours that align with these values should be updated Remuneration and Talent Management Committee and final to provide a clearer understanding and alignment with the actions will be reported to the Board during 2018.
Groups strategy and the current business environment.
Further work is also under way to refine the Groups purpose CUSTOMERS Why we engage How we engage The majority of our sales The majority of the Major customers are are to industrial Groups sales are based equity holders in our customers who refine on long-term customer mining operations or further process the relationships and Annual trip to Japan copper concentrate and commitments.
Without by the Chairman and cathodes that we sell.
these long-term several Directors to Most sales are made relationships, the Group meet our partners under long-term would be required to sell Marketing team framework agreements a greater proportion of regularly meet with or annual contracts with cathodes and concentrate customers around the sales volumes agreed for on the spot market, which world the following year.
entails greater uncertainty SAFETY Representative around pricing and AND HEALTH marketing office volumes that may be sold.
in Shanghai SUPPLIERS Why we engage How we engage Suppliers provide a large Suppliers play a critical The procurement team range of products and role in the Groups ability maintains close RESPECT VALUES services, from grinding to operate safely and relationships and media to catering.
regularly meets with suppliers at the operations and in Santiago The Group encourages suppliers to raise any issues or concerns INNOVATION they have about their relationship with the Company, their contracts or the workforce GOVERNMENTS Why we engage How we engage AND REGULATORS Mining is a long-term We work with industry business and timescales bodies to engage with Governments and can run into decades.
governments on public regulators implement Political cycles are policy, laws, regulations social policy and set the typically far shorter and and procedures that framework within which material developments may affect our business we are required to operate.
and changes to policy, We provide broad-based legislation or regulations explanations of the can have a major impact activities of mining on the Groups business.
companies to the public antofagasta.
