SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE THE FUTURE OF SUSTAINABLE MINING In October 2016 the Environmental Superintendency raised charges Antofagasta seeks to prevent, mitigate against Los Pelambres for delayed or incomplete compliance with some of its RCA commitments.
The Company reacted by conducting and control the impact of its activities an in-depth review of its internal processes to understand how these on the environment.
The Group remains compliance gaps had occurred and to accelerate implementation of the new corporate Environmental Management System.
The review committed to achieving sustainable found that some smaller and older commitments had been missed by and efficient use of natural resources the original control system: interpretations of other commitments had evolved over the years, and audit standards had changed.
throughout the mining cycle, from Towards the end of 2017 the Environmental Superintendency exploration to site closure and beyond.
accepted the compliance programme proposed for Los Pelambres and suspended the charges raised in 2016.
The Groups environmental stewardship priorities remain: The Group had no significant operating incidents with environmental 1 1.
Ensuring compliance with all of its include RCA commitments impact in 2017. under its operating permits.
Ensuring all key environmental risk controls are in place.
Enabling its projects through the early identification and The Group pioneered the use of raw sea water in its mining assessment of environmental risks to reduce, mitigate and or operations in the 1990s and currently 45% of its total water compensate for their impact.
consumption comes from the Pacific Ocean.
The main loss of water is through evaporation and no water is discharged into waterways.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT The Group has achieved a high reuse rate, which varies from In Chile, mining projects are subject to strict environmental and 7693%.
Residual water remains inside the tailings dams.
In 2017 3 social impact assessment by the national environmental authority, Antofagasta consumed 36.5 million m of continental water.
which includes formal consultation with the local communities.
If the project is approved, the impact prevention, mitigation and compensation measures proposed as part of the application become legally binding commitments set out as RCAs in the operating permit.
IN FOCUS: ENSURING ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE The Environmental Superintendency regularly reviews these Antofagastas updated Environmental Management System commitments and non-compliance can result in severe fines is based on its successful corporate Safety System.
Both focus and even revocation of the operating permits.
on preventing key risks, assigning each risk to regularly audited Antofagastas mining operations have a total of 54 RCAs listing some specific controls and encouraging the reporting of near-miss 6,500 environmental commitments.
These commitments are now incidents.
Executive-led onsite verification now considers centrally administered through Antofagastas updated Environmental environmental matters as well as safety.
Management System, which is similar to the Safety System and The new Environmental Management Systems implementation focuses on key risk prevention, specific controls, audits and the began with a review of the four operations RCAs, applying reporting of near-miss incidents.
one common standard, and by the end of 2017 some 6,500 In 2017, Los Pelambres submitted the Environmental Impact commitments within the RCAs had been fully reviewed.
Their Assessment EIA for its Incremental Expansion Project, and this descriptions and controls were then standardised for the first was approved early in 2018. time, and their respective compliance conditions were assessed using the Environmental Superintendencys audit criteria.
Resoluciones fide Calificacin Ambiental Environmental Qualification Resolutions.
62 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Water quantity and quality are monitored by national authorities, In early 2018 Antofagasta set its first carbon reduction target and jointly by local communities and the mining operations, to reduce forecast CO emissions over the period 2018 to 2022 2 to improve transparency.
by 300,000 tonnes which it will achieve by implementing projects that have been selected after two years of studies.
Los Pelambres uses continental water from the Choapa river, which is a water-stressed zone.
This is why the Companys Incremental The Groups emission reduction will also benefit from the Expansion project, approved in February by environmental authorities, interconnection of Chiles two main power grids that should be includes a desalination plant to supplement the mines demand in completed in 2018.
Interconnection will increase the proportion of case of a drought.
Also, the Company is an active member of the renewable energy available in the north of the country and so, over publicprivate alliance in charge of finding long-term solutions time reduce, the carbon intensity of Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar.
MINING WASTE IN FOCUS: TOWARDS ZERO WASTE MINING Mining waste takes the form of waste rock, spent ore and tailings, Mining the raw material the world needs to produce computers, which are left over after the valuable portion of the ore has been circuitry, wiring, batteries and structural components can result separated from the uneconomic portion.
As Antucoya, Zaldvar and in dangerous by-products.
Advancing towards Zero-Waste Centinela Cathodes use leaching to produce copper, their waste goes mining is a significant challenge and a tremendous opportunity to fully-permitted spent ore dumps.
Los Pelambres and Centinela for innovation.
Concentrates use flotation and deposit their mining waste in licensed The Chilean Mining Consortium is a public-private alliance tailings storage facilities.
between the countrys four leading copper operators and Corfo Centinela was the first large-scale copper mine in the world to use Chiles innovation agency.
It is committed to making Chile thickened tailings technology that is more water-efficient, makes a global innovation hub for sustainable and inclusive mining.
tailings more stable and offers better dust control.
Its expansion In 2017 the Consortium sponsored the XPRIZE Grand project will also use thickened tailings.
Challenge inviting innovative solutions to the challenge of Zero Waste Mining.
The prize will be awarded to a moonshot idea CLOSURE PLANNING or technology aiming to extract critical metals, minerals Antofagasta has no operations close to closure.
The nearest is and rare earth elements without solvents, strip-mining or Zaldvar, but the Group is working on plans to extend its life.
stockpiles, ensuring water contamination ceases to be a threat.
Chilean legislation requires mining operations to have comprehensive See more at: closure plans approved by Sernageomin the National Geology and www.
org visioneers teams zero-waste-mining Mining Service.
Approved plans are required before environmental approval of new projects is granted and must be updated at least every five years while the mine is operating.
Closure plans focus on preventing pollution and ensuring tailings dams physical and chemical stability.
They also consider the funding of closure activities and the financial provisions for its implementation.
CLIMATE CHANGE The effects of climate change can be observed in northern and central Chile through higher than average temperatures and reduced rainfall.
One of Antofagastas priorities is to reduce the intensity rate of GHG emissions arising from the Groups growth by investing in renewable energy sources.
Renewables now account for 21% of the Groups total energy consumption.
In 2016 the Group designed an integrated climate change strategy based on: identifying risks and opportunities encouraging innovation for cleaner and more efficient energy sourcing committing to measuring progress and transparent reporting under CDP setting an obligation to mitigate GHG emissions.
Total CO emissions per tonne of fine copper produced Scopes 1 and 2.
2 SUSTAINABLE ENERGY Energy represents around 19% of the mining divisions total cash Antofagasta set costs.
Antofagasta is already very energy-efficient and has succeeded its first carbon in securing renewable energy for Los Pelambres from several wind and solar sources.
In 2017 renewables accounted for 54% of Los emissions Pelambres total energy requirement, and 21% of the Groups.
reduction target In 2018 when Chiles two main electricity power grids interconnection is completed, renewable energy will become available to supply mining operations in northern Chile where Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar are located.
A decrease of their emissions intensity is to be expected when their PPAs expire, the first of which is in 2020.
BIODIVERSITY AND HERITAGE The Group has no operations in protected areas.
Its biodiversity challenges are mainly at Los Pelambres as it is at the head of the Choapa Valley, which is an area rich in biodiversity.
Since it started operating the Company has undertaken several biodiversity projects Antofagasta has including the restoration of a coastal wetland recognised under the no significant Ramsar Convention that had become an illegal waste dump, and the protection of Santa Ines, a rare temperate relict rainforest.
In 2017 gaseous Los Pelambres also obtained government recognition for two new emissions other biodiversity areas already under its protection, the Llau Llau ravine and Palmas fide Monte Aranda, one of the last remaining Chilean palm than GHG forests.
Los Pelambres now protects over 25,000 hectares of high conservation value land.
The Choapa Valley is also rich in archaeological remains of the ancient cultures that inhabited this area, about which there is still much to be discovered.
Some of these remains had to be rescued and moved when the Mauro tailings dam was built.
These items are exhibited in the Parque Rupestre Archaeological Centre, a large openair museum, and the Campesina Cultural Centre, which is dedicated to preserving the cultural heritage of the area.
Two new nature conservancy areas were established in Chile during 2017 and placed under private conservation by Los Pelambres 64 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017
