Our people We have over 13,000 nurses, theatre staff, Our values allied health professionals, non-clinical support Driving clinical excellence Keeping it simple Image: colleagues and bank staff, working together Justin Ash reaffirming We stretch ourselves to achieve We make complex things easier Spire Healthcares fantastic results to deliver outstanding care to our patients across values at the Senior Leadership Doing the right thing Delivering on our promises the United Kingdom.
We are committed to doing Conference We make sound and considered People can trust us to do what in December 2017. more to support them and to attract new talent judgements we say well do for the future.
Caring is our passion Succeeding and celebrating together We put patients at the heart We work together, learn from each of everything we do other and celebrate success Diversity Our challenges Whilst the feedback from the engagement Overall employees It has been widely reported that there is survey showed largely high scores, they currently a shortage of nurses and doctors were lower than in the 2015 survey and 2015 2,261 10,165 in the UK.
The number of registered nurses the results highlighted a number of areas 2016 2,288 10,166 is falling for the first time since training to focus on.
As a result, we are relaunching 2017 2,461 10,562 cuts in 2010, and 96% fewer EU nurses our performance management process, have registered since the Brexit vote.
reviewing incentives and recognition, Given the length of training required, and introducing a number of new Senior Managers these shortages will take several years communication and engagement activities.
We are committed to acting on the 2016 37 26 With the shortage of nurses, it is feedback from our colleagues.
To ensure we 2017 48 29 more important than ever that we are have clear focus on making improvements successfully recruiting and retaining following the 2017 survey, we introduced colleagues to account for natural a simple action plan process for teams Board turnover and to meet our patient needs to use across the business to make where we have invested in new and positive change.
2016 7 2 Culture and values 2017 7 2 Engaging our colleagues Our colleagues are at the heart of Our colleagues interact with thousands our business, they are our lifeblood, Male of patients every day and play a crucial representing who we are, our positive Female role in delivering the highest quality culture and live our values each day.
It is therefore Our values demonstrate how we work more crucial than ever that we set our together and provide us with a common Diversity colleagues up to succeed and engage language that all colleagues can recognise closely with them, particularly given and relate to.
Following Justin Ashs our competitive market.
appointment, we refreshed our values Clinical educational events held slightly to reinforce the importance of Our annual engagement survey saw an clinical excellence and that celebrating overall engagement score of 81% that our successes is important.
1,500 exceeded external benchmark rates 1 of 73%, but was 7% lower than the last We are committed to supporting the Attendees at educational events survey.
The results showed colleagues communities in which we operate, and feel positive about the type of work we run a comprehensive programme they do and value the teams they work of GP clinical education events across 23,000 in.
Over 80% of colleagues who responded our network of hospitals.
In 2017, 1,500 to the survey are proud to work for Spire events were attended by over 23,000 GPs, Healthcare, feel they make a positive nurses, physiotherapists and other Money raised by our hospitals for their local charities difference and would be happy with healthcare professionals.
our care for a friend or relative.
53k 1 I xia External Benchmarking, based a mixture of over 50 public and private organisations across multiple sectors.
44 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Our values Driving clinical excellence Keeping it simple Image: Justin Ash reaffirming We stretch ourselves to achieve We make complex things easier Spire Healthcares fantastic results values at the Senior Leadership Doing the right thing Delivering on our promises Conference We make sound and considered People can trust us to do what in December 2017. judgements we say well do Caring is our passion Succeeding and celebrating together We put patients at the heart We work together, learn from each of everything we do other and celebrate success Case study Last year, over 53,000 was raised by the Tomorrows team hospitals for important local and national charitable causes.
Next year, it is our aim Spire Healthcare is leading to go further and raise more, and build developments in healthcare upon the good work our colleagues already do.
education developing apprenticeship schemes Our commitments We are committed to delivering on our that will train our hospital promises and making Spire Healthcare teams of tomorrow.
We are a destination employer attracting, recruiting, training and retaining the best.
working with universities To do this we are committed to: across the country to develop being an employer of choice based new degree courses on an outstanding recruitment process, enabling our staff to work our quality performance culture, and with an aligned reward framework: and learn together.
growing our own both at the key leadership roles in hospitals and Jack Longhurst is a theatre healthcare of the time Im in the hospital with my with our qualified clinical and other assistant at Spire Parkway Hospital.
At the end of the course colleagues through training and Jack worked in a pharmacy before Ill be a fully qualified ODP, thanks to development, a clear competency joining Spire Healthcare two years ago.
framework and apprenticeships to He is currently on his Level 3 Healthcare attract and develop new talent: and Deborah Barker, Spire Healthcares Support Worker qualification, a new setting ourselves up to succeed through national lead for developing apprenticeship which became available stronger human resources support, apprenticeships and university in May 2017. comprehensive workforce planning relationships, comments: In the and effective communications across His next step will be as one of the new Level 3 Apprenticeship Standard, all our hospitals.
first cohorts in the University of Derbys delivered by our supplier Eurosource new three-year Operating Department Solutions Ltd, there are Theatre and Our priorities Practitioner ODP degree course, Adult Nursing pathways, making it In 2017, we strengthened our central starting in January 2019. much more flexible and appropriate human resources capability and made in hospitals.
On completion of the As Jack says: I asked about training step changes towards delivering on our qualification, Jack will be able to assist in my first interview and Spire commitments.
We developed a Human a fully qualified ODP to scrub in minor Healthcare has supported me all the Resources Business Partner structure cases and it qualifies him for the way since.
Its really exciting to be one to closely support each of our hospitals.
Degree Apprenticeship programme we of the first to do this new university are developing with the University of Leadership is a key driver and influence apprenticeship course I can continue Derby.
Were committed to developing on our culture so developing values-based to work and get paid, and I dont have to apprenticeships across the country leadership competencies for our senior take out a loan for university fees.
Ill go helping to develop the next generation hospital management teams was a top to Derby three times a year but the rest of healthcare professionals.
All senior hospital 45 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Our people Continued Leadership competencies Building Working Adaptability Delivering Inspiring relationships collaboratively and resilience excellence Customer Balanced Drive Commerciality understanding judgement Gender pay gap GPG reporting management teams will be assessed As demonstrated in our values, it is Spire Healthcares workforce across all against these and in February 2018 important that our colleagues always feel our hospitals and clinics is 75% female a dedicated leadership development able to do the right thing.
Whilst we and includes 24% temporary workers programme at Ashridge Business encourage an open culture whereby issues predominantly bank staff comprising School began.
can be raised and handled at a local level, nurses and other clinical staff.
we realise that there may be times where Ensuring new recruits are a good cultural We are required to report GPG figures it is not appropriate, or a person may not fit who will understand and support our for our main employing entity Spire feel comfortable, to raise a concern values helps to set new colleagues up Healthcare Limited covering 98% through their line management.
for a successful and rewarding career of all relevant employees of Spire with Spire Healthcare.
To enable this, the Healthcare Group.
In the interests of Whistleblowing criteria from our leadership competencies full transparency, we have supplemented We want colleagues to feel confident and will be used as a part of our recruitment the statutory disclosure requirements empowered to raise any issues of concern processes in the future.
To further improve with additional data that captures they may have: however, we also have our recruitment processes both internally relevant employees across the Spire a robust whistleblowing policy in place.
and for candidates, we are aiming to Healthcare Group.
Our whistleblowing helpline is managed reduce hiring time, assure candidate The GPG required by the Gender Pay Gap by a third-party provider, enabling quality and improve retention.
Regulations is expressed as an average colleagues to raise any concerns they During 2017, we completed a detailed figure.
It represents the percentage may have about issues of safety or review of our reward framework difference between average hourly wrongdoing, if necessary, anonymously.
including all benefits to help develop earnings for men and women.
This is All such concerns received through the a simple, clear framework that can be distinct from equal pay, which considers helpline are sent to the Group Company used across all roles and functions to whether men and women are paid the Secretary for review, and to ensure that provide consistency and fairness.
same for carrying out the same work, they are appropriately investigated and or work of equal value.
In 2017, we received two calls Our communications and engagement to the whistleblowing helpline.
activity helps promote and maintain our Key findings culture.
We invested more in these areas The overall median GPG in both Anti-bribery and corruption in 2017 across a number of channels and Spire Healthcare Limited and the Spire Healthcares Anti-Bribery, Gifts activities.
We held our first leadership Spire Healthcare Group 7.9% and 7.8% and Hospitality policy extends to all of conference in over two years in December, respectively is considerably lower than its employees.
Spire Healthcare takes a attended by 200 leaders across our the Office for National Statistics ONS zero-tolerance approach to bribery and hospitals and central functions.
The provisional national average of 18.4% corruption and we are committed to new CEO and executive team engaged as per their publication of 26 October conducting our activities free from any the leaders in developing our forward 2017.
The bonus GPG for 2017 should form of bribery and corruption.
We also 2 strategy and, following the event, 95% be treated with caution.
Firstly, less expect the same from any third parties of delegates responded positively when than 3% of employees received a bonus providing services for or on behalf of Spire asked if they were excited about the in the period under review.
Employees who fail to comply future ofSpire Healthcare.
that the data is based on a relatively with the requirements of our policies and In 2018, we will continue to build on small number of employees.
Secondly, standards may face disciplinary action, our engagement activities such as town the data has been heavily skewed by a including dismissal.
hall forums, an executive leadership limited number of legacy share awards hospital visits programme and all hands granted in 2014 to a very small number conference calls for all colleagues.
46 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information 2 95% of delegates responded positively when asked if they were excited about the future of Spire Healthcare.
Gender pay gap GPG reporting Gender pay gap of senior employees who were all male.
Top pay quartile These share awards were partly related across Spire Healthcare Limited and the Combined Group to legacy arrangements which pre-dated the Companys IPO in 2014.
As these awards crystallised in value during 75% women 2016 17, they are included in our 2017 reporting.
Spire Healthcare Group including Spire Healthcare Limited, Spire Healthcare How we are responding to the GPG Group plc and Montefiore Spire Healthcare is committed to Spire Healthcare Limited House Limited diversity and inclusivity, and in particular Number of employees 11,326 11,536 supporting women to become leaders includes bank workers within the business.
We believe that the completion of Womens hourly rates within Spire are: our Reward Framework Project and the introduction of the Leadership Mean 17.1% lower 20.5% lower Development Programme, both Median 7.9% lower 7.8% lower discussed, under Our priorities, will provide greater consistency between Pay quartiles: roles and locations, assist reducing pay How many men and women are in each quarter of our payroll anomalies and, in time, help our GPG.
Men Women Men Women In addition, we recently undertook a review of our approach to maternity Top quartile 25% 75% 25% 75% pay.
Previously, Spire Healthcare only Upper middle quartile 14% 86% 14% 86% provided statutory maternity pay SMP to eligible employees.
We have reviewed Lower middle quartile 16% 84% 16% 84% the level of maternity benefits which Lower quartile 19% 81% 20% 80% we offer and we have enhanced our maternity pay so that employees receive 100% of pay for six weeks, followed Womens bonus pay is: by 50% of pay plus SMP for the next Mean 96.8% lower 98.1% lower 18 weeks, to further improve reward and retention.
This change was Median 60.0% lower 60.0% lower implemented in June 2017. Who received bonus pay?
We will continue to monitor our GPG and we are committed to taking steps Men 2.9% 2.9% and spotting opportunities to reduce it further.
Women 2.4% 2.4% E mployees who received salary during the year.
2 L eadership Conference feedback survey To what extent do you agree with the following statement: I am excited about the future of Spire Healthcare 94.87% favourable 48.72% Strongly agree: 46.15% Agree.
47 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
