com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY At Polypipe, our commitment to sustainability flows from our way of working, to build and develop a sustainable business, through to taking solutions to market that are by nature of their application enabling a sustainable and resilient built environment.
The start of this journey is rooted in the way we process our polymer raw materials.
The reputation of plastic as a material has suffered a deterioration in its public perception in recent times.
However, the very characteristics that can lead to plastics being a problem for the environment can also be applied to solve key environmental challenges, such as the management of water, or the management of various attributes of climate.
By their nature, plastics are chemically inert, which means that by themselves they do not pollute, in the way that Not only is the polymer material Producing pipe with recycled plastics hydrocarbons that run off from roads, recyclable at the end of its product instead of virgin plastic reduces the or fertilisers that run off from fields do.
life, which is designed to be at least 50 embedded carbon dioxide further Furthermore, since plastics repel water years, the benefits of plastic make it a still.
Recent life cycle analysis LCA and do not readily biodegrade, they much more considerate choice for the reports suggest that there are clear are ideally suited for applications that environment versus alternative materials.
environmental benefits to producing manage water in a sustainable manner.
Concrete, clay, copper, steel and ductile plastic products from recovered plastics, iron pipe systems all require significantly compared with using virgin polymers Therefore, in an environment where more haulage and specialist lifting and disposing of the product post-use extreme storm events are becoming equipment than much lighter plastics, via incineration or landfill: and these frequent, and existing combined sewage which means that the use of Polypipe environmental gains are particularly high outfall infrastructure is reaching capacity, systems greatly reduces carbon emissions for high density polyethylene HDPE, the use of plastics can be engineered as in delivery and installation.
such as that used to make plastic a very effective part of the solution to bottles.
For each tonne of HDPE that is manage water.
For example, producing a kilogram of recycled, one tonne of carbon dioxide virgin plastic releases 23 kilograms of Along with ensuring that virgin plastics is saved versus producing and disposing carbon dioxide, which is about as much and polymers are sourced only from of the same quantity of virgin material.
as the same amount of steel.
However, a reputable suppliers, Polypipe has invested HDPE is the material that Polypipe uses single kilogram of plastic can produce 10 heavily and optimised its own recycling to produce its large diameter pipes.
In times more usable product in application and polymer processing plant at the 2017, Polypipe recycled 44,000 tonnes than steel and 100 times more than Horncastle site.
Furthermore, Polypipe of plastic, of which 17,500 tonnes concrete, so the embedded carbon works with industry leading partners came from recyclable plastic bottles and dioxide in application is significantly such as Veolia to source quality recyclable containers.
As such, recycled plastic less with plastic pipes than with the bales of plastic bottles and containers.
accounted for 75% of the raw material alternative legacy materials.
This allows the Company to create consumed by our Civils and Infrastructure products from recycled plastics, reducing In addition, the light weight attribute of Division in 2017, to produce pipes that transport and the number of processing plastics means that plastic pipes can be were destined to be buried in the ground steps to convert recyclate into a high 70% cheaper to transport than equivalent in applications that will manage and treat performing product, ensuring quality size concrete pipes and can be handled rainwater and stormwater.
and stored much more safely on-site.
For more information about our 15 15 sustainable journey in action see page 18 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 1 STEP 1 4 STEP 1 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY CARBON EFFICIENT 3 SOLUTIONS STEP 1 Product systems that save energy and reduce SUSTAINABLE CO2 emissions.
During the manufacturing process, systems are not overwhelmed.
In addition, MATERIALS Polypipe works hard to limit these podium decks can encourage environmental impact.
Taking an biodiversity in urban environments WATER MANAGEMENT LIGHT IN SOLUTIONS engineered approach to manufacturing through the creation of green roofs.
WEIGHT 2 Products that recognise ensures that Polypipe customers are Building owners can cultivate roof gardens STEP 1 Plastics are lighter, water as a scarce resource easier to handle and reduce and reduce ooding.
able to receive systems that meet that can actively help to mitigate issues 2 SUSTAINABLE STEP 1 their needs exactly, minimising waste.
such as the Heat Island Effect.
This helps PROCESSES STRONG Polypipe staff recognise the importance to maintain a stable climate and constant IN USE REDUCED of design through to manufacturing and temperature inside the building and can Plastic pipes and ttings WATER are tough, durable and CONSUMPTION installation and the impact that these be part of a carbon efficient solution to resistant to corrosion.
processes have on the environments in further reduce the energy requirement for REDUCED which their products are manufactured cooling and air conditioning.
MANUFACTURING 1 STEP 1 ENERGY and used, continuously searching for CONSUMPTION OUTCOME In addition, the Groups Nuaire ventilation SUSTAINABLE the optimum methods of reducing their business enhances Polypipes ability to INPUTS THE SUSTAINABLE REPROCESSED environmental impact.
MATERIAL BUILT ENVIRONMENT provide solutions for energy efficient PRIME Polypipe believes that to fulfil its ventilation alongside its heating products POLYMERS responsibilities to the wider industry it which are suited to low carbon heating.
INTERNALLY should actively participate in relevant While apartment blocks are ideal to RECYCLED RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL CIVILS INFRASTRUCTURE POLYMERS trade bodies such as the British Plastics meet the housing demands of cities, 3 STEP 1 EXTERNALLY Recyclable at end of life Federation, encouraging best practice developers must deal with the complex RECYCLED POLYMERS and a uniform approach to sustainability issues of optimising space, managing across the industry.
air quality and overheating, without creating nuisance ambient noise.
Nuaires All of this starts with an understanding energy-efficient and low-noise ventilation of the built environment.
While systems, with integral heat recovery and global warming may mean increasing air filtration, provide solutions to these temperatures, it also means increased issues, offering developers low-energy rainfall events that have the potential to solutions which safeguard the health of be erratic.
Flooding, which has become residents, in terms of providing sufficient more frequent in the UK in recent fresh air.
years, can cause mass disruption in the areas it affects, causing damage to With an increasing awareness of the homes, commercial premises and vital need for cities to not only be resilient to infrastructure.
flooding events, but to plan for these 4 STEP 1 events in advance using principles like In residential dwellings and tall commercial water sensitive urban design WSUD, buildings, Polypipes solutions start the Polypipe and its experts can provide process of managing water at roof level.
solutions for the creation of spaces that The Companys market leading geocellular are healthy and safe by mitigating water solutions, Permavoid, enables architects abundance, water scarcity and poor air and M&E consultants to create podium quality from manufacture through to decks within roofs that can capture water system performance.
and release it into surrounding drainage systems at a controlled rate to ensure Climate Management Solutions see pages 20 and 21 Water Management Solutions 16 16 see pages 18 and 19 QUALITY CONTROLLED INPUTS polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT 4 STEP 1 SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Polypipe is passionate about not only CARBON EFFICIENT 3 managing its own environmental impact, but SOLUTIONS STEP 1 ensuring that its systems work to benefit the Product systems that save energy and reduce SUSTAINABLE CO2 emissions.
environments in which they are used.
MATERIALS WATER MANAGEMENT LIGHT IN SOLUTIONS WEIGHT 2 Products that recognise STEP 1 Plastics are lighter, water as a scarce resource easier to handle and reduce and reduce ooding.
SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES STRONG IN USE REDUCED Plastic pipes and ttings WATER are tough, durable and CONSUMPTION resistant to corrosion.
REDUCED MANUFACTURING 1 STEP 1 ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTCOME SUSTAINABLE INPUTS THE SUSTAINABLE REPROCESSED MATERIAL BUILT ENVIRONMENT PRIME POLYMERS INTERNALLY RECYCLED RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL CIVILS INFRASTRUCTURE POLYMERS EXTERNALLY Recyclable at end of life RECYCLED POLYMERS SUSTAINABLE INPUTS SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE PROCESSES MATERIALS SOLUTIONS Enforcing quality reinforces productivity.
All of our raw Polypipe does not just recycle all Polypipe is proud to manufacture Our products are not only materials, whether prime or in-process material waste: we plastic pipes that are strong yet sustainably produced, but they recycled polymers, are sourced monitor every process and pursue light in weight.
This fact alone enhance sustainability in their to a strict sustainable policy and continuous improvement in our helps towards considerably installation and everyday use.
For this ensures all suppliers meet operations to make a bigger reducing fuel consumption in example, they save energy, reduce the highest standards.
For example, we reduce transportation, lowering health CO emissions and manage water 2 ISO 9001 Quality Management power and water consumption by and safety risks on-site and, as as a valuable resource.
Systems and ISO 14001 Environmental metering usage at machine level.
we know, our products can be such as our underfloor heating, Management accreditation, we recycled at the end of the life.
Mechanical Ventilation with Heat only manufacture with the very Recovery and geocellular solutions best materials.
provide the most comprehensive range available in our market to meet these requirements.
THE OUTCOME Recycling is also an integral part of this philosophy.
The built environment across the residential, commercial, civils and infrastructure markets contributes significantly to the environmental impact of our habitat.
At Polypipe, we are confident that our materials, processes, products and their applications in use are serving the demands of today and enhancing our environment into the future.
Read more about our Sustainable Journey www.
