Sustainability Our brand promise, to put better health within reach every day, is embedded within our sustainability strategy.
Our essentials What this means for our approach to sustainability Some notable achievements Highlights More information Our organisation is dedicated to achieving best practices across our operations.
This is Maintained our position in the FTSE4Good sustainability index See page 46 Quality without boundaries 3 a standard which we extend to our supply chain.
We work alongside our industry partners Strengthened our commitment to safeguarding ethical business practices FTSE4Good to uphold ethical labour practices and safeguard human rights.
across our supply chain by incorporating modern slavery clauses into our ESG Score Supplier Audit Questionnaires Worked alongside leading educational institutions to improve the quality of information available to doctors in the MENA region Ensuring that our products are available and accessible to those that need them is the Established a specialised oncology unit in Egypt, increasing the availability See page 48 Global expertise, local 340k essence of our brand promise.
Across our operations, we remain dedicated to affordability of affordable oncology products in the country and across the MENA region solutions units of medicine donated and inclusivity so that the people in need in our communities can benefit from high-quality Donated in-kind medicine to those in need in Jordan, Libya, Sudan, Gaza across five countries healthcare products and information.
and the US Provided access to information about the growing challenge of Anti-Microbial Resistance AMR through multiple awareness campaigns targeting HCPs, policymakers and the general public We are continuously exploring new and creative ways to serve our communities.
From the Distributed more than 500,000 smart syringes across Jordan and trained See page 50 Practical creativity 400 introduction of novel products to the support for new research, we consider ingenuity to doctors and nurses to combat syringe reuse and prevent needle-stick injuries doctors and nurses in Jordan be embedded within our organisation.
Key to this is the empowerment of our employees, Introduced the Hikma Innovation Competition, which provided employees trained to effectively use smart who we provide with platforms and channels to express and develop their ideas.
with an opportunity to share innovative ideas and solutions with syringes and improve patient safety executive management Our employees: Our employees are central to our success.
We take measures to engage Undertook our first global employee survey to enable all employees to See page 52 Committed to people 6.4m and empower them and ensure their safety.
express their views unwanted or expired tablets Undertook several drug disposal programmes to remove and dispose disposed of in Columbus Our communities: We are committed to serving our communities.
In all of our markets, of unwanted or expired medications we engage with those around us, helping to improve lives and address social needs.
3 Completed our wastewater treatment facility in Egypt, our contribution 200m The environment: We take measures to minimise our environmental impacts and enhance to address the countrys shortage of clean water of water treated per day environmental compliance and regulations.
in Egypt through our wastewater treatment facility 44 Strategic report | Sustainability Our essentials What this means for our approach to sustainability Some notable achievements Highlights More information Our organisation is dedicated to achieving best practices across our operations.
in Egypt through our wastewater treatment facility 45 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC
