com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT During 2017 we had 32 apprentices updated each month on areas relevant POLICY employed in our businesses in the UK and to the strategy such as health and safety Polypipes policy is to enhance we intend to increase the number further.
performance, products and process shareholder value while ensuring we The majority of our apprenticeships are improvement initiatives, and customer provide a safe working environment in electrical, mechanical and tool-making satisfaction performance.
and continually seeking to minimise the trades but we continue to support a impact of our operations and products on While the Group does not have a specific number of apprenticeships in other the environment.
human rights policy, it does have an disciplines.
Anti-Slavery policy and Modern Slavery The Board considers that operating Underlining our commitment to Act Transparency statement available on efficiently with high quality standards advanced manufacturing engineering, the Companys website, within which we includes promoting high standards of we continue to place apprentices at the state our zero tolerance policy towards health and safety and helping to protect new University of Sheffield Advanced any modern slavery or human trafficking the environment.
Manufacturing Research Centre, a rights violations.
This section of the Strategic Report state-of-the-art centre that offers the The Group gives every consideration to sets out our approach to corporate very best in practical and academic applicants for employment regardless responsibility and includes regulatory training.
In support of our engineering of their sex, sexual orientation, religion, information on carbon emissions, focus we continue to work closely with colour, race, nationality, marital status or employee diversity and our policies in Cogent Skills, strategic partner to the disability having regard for their aptitude relation to the recruitment and retention science industry, supporting ongoing and ability to adequately perform the of our employees.
development of industry specific role while maintaining a safe working apprenticeship frameworks for the future.
Where employees become The Group involves employees through Our vision for our businesses and disabled, the Group makes appropriate formal and informal systems of and reasonable adjustments to their work employees is to have a culture communication and consultation.
Each of customer focused continuous environment and or duties, endeavouring of our main operating sites have display to maintain their employment provided improvement, driven by teamwork, boards which set out our continuous effective communication and personal there are duties they can perform.
improvement strategy and include KPIs development.
Our core values are hard work, honesty, trust and integrity and maintaining a working environment based on mutual respect.
Polypipe is committed to providing the appropriate skills and technical training that allow employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
As part of our ongoing commitment to customer service excellence, all our new starters in front-line service areas receive The Institute of Customer Service training on joining the Group, resulting in over 200 of our employees benefiting from this programme in the last four years.
Girls from the Eskdale School at The Big Bang Fair Knowledge sharing Polypipe has consistently provided apprenticeships to the communities around our businesses by supporting CASE STUDY SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT enthusiastic, highly motivated people who are keen to learn a trade.
We The Big Bang Fair is an annual event designed to inspire students to take up a career in have an outstanding record of retaining Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM.
apprentices in ongoing, long-term, As a major Doncaster employer with a huge variety of career options, Polypipe was full-time employment: indeed, many of delighted to meet young visitors at the Doncaster Big Bang Science Fair and tell them our management team started with the all about the career options that are open to them, with staff from human resources, business as apprentices.
We consider it manufacturing and supply chain on hand to answer their questions.
an essential part of finding and retaining people with the sector specific skills that We also challenged students to see who could fit together PolyMax push-fit in the we need.
quickest time, with the winners taking home prize bundles from our charity partner Help for Heroes, which included hoodies, teddies, pens, and mugs.
35 35 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Groups split between male and reports resulting in improvement projects THE ENVIRONMENT AND female employees at 31 December 2017 being delivered across the Group which GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS is shown below: in turn enhanced employee working We aim to minimise the lasting impact environment safety.
of our operations on the environment, Female Male Total and sustainability is a key feature of Accident frequency performance and Directors & Officers 2 5 7 our products and their impact on the details of all significant incidents are environment.
See pages 15 to 21 reviewed during the weekly executive Senior Managers 44 177 221 for further details of our sustainable meeting attended by the Executive Employees 628 2,200 2,828 solutions for the environment.
Directors and certain senior managers.
Total 674 2,382 3,056 Our modern and efficient injection The table below sets out the KPIs used moulding and extrusion operations use by the Group to monitor accident HEALTH AND SAFETY significant amounts of electricity.
We performance: The Group aims to continuously improve monitor very closely our electricity usage, the quality and safety of the working 2015 2016 2017 even at a machine level, and take a environment for all employees.
The proactive approach to improve energy Frequency per Group has a published Health, Safety efficiency.
The Group collects electricity 100,000 hours and Environment policy that sets out the and natural gas usage information from worked overriding principles of health and safety each business unit on a monthly basis.
The business units all accidents 8.24 6.43 5.93 operate to externally accredited ISO RIDDORS 0.65 0.65 0.53 OHSAS standards.
RIDDORS HSE reportable accidents and Health and Safety achievements in dangerous occurrences based on the current the year included: seven-day absence from work reporting Following five consecutive RoSPA requirement in the UK and although there is no Gold Awards, the Group achieved the direct equivalent in Mainland Europe and the Middle East, the same definition is applied.
Gold Medal Award for exceptional performance and dedicated support for health and safety within the organisation.
Polypipes tool making and repair business, Mason Pinder, based in Thorne, achieved over 3,400 days without a lost time accident.
This is an outstanding achievement and a significant milestone, of which everyone at Mason Pinder can be proud.
These safety achievements have resulted in donations to the Childrens Heart Surgery Fund under the Charity Award for Safety and Health CASE STUDY HELP FOR HEROES CASH scheme of over 3,600.
The Group continued the implementation The Polypipe Regatta has become a popular event in of a focused formalised safety the industry calendar, raising Polypipes profile and tour programme for management.
offering a great way for staff to engage with existing and These safety tours, undertaken new customers, while raising much-needed funds for by Executive Directors through to worthwhile causes, which for 2017 included Polypipes department managers, engage staff new charity partner, Help for Heroes.
and further encourage health, safety As well as organising charitable events such as the and environmental discussion and Regatta, Polypipe will sponsor ex-servicemen and women improvement.
through a British Plumbing Employers Council BPEC course at the Polypipe Professional Development centre in The Group operates a formal system for Doncaster.
Those who are looking to embark on a career reporting and recording hazards and in plumbing can attend taster courses, with Polypipe near misses.
The See it, Sort it, Report it facilitating work experience and vocation experiences scheme encourages individuals across the for veterans who show an interest in a career in plumbing business at all levels to report hazards, and groundworks, supporting the long-standing suggest solutions and allows trends to be connection between the British Armed Forces and the analysed.
In 2017, the number of such UK construction industry.
reports reached record levels at 5,321 36 36 polypipe.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Greenhouse gas GHG emissions for We stay close to our existing and the Group during 2017, in tonnes of potential customers and distributors and carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, were strive to meet their needs.
Our businesses 2 as follows: are focused on achieving market leading delivery service levels for our customers tCO e % 2 and to respond quickly to their emerging requirements.
Source fuel combustion POLYPIPE AND THE LOCAL stationary 2,328 4 COMMUNITY Each operation is aware of its role fuel combustion within its local community.
Wherever mobile 13,761 24 possible they seek to recruit locally and fugitive emissions retain a skilled local workforce.
They F-gas 432 1 are encouraged to build relationships with local community organisations and purchase electricity 40,550 71 to support charitable initiatives.
These 57,071 100 activities range from the organisation of our Annual Charity Sailing Regatta Our GHG emissions annual comparison in which over 700 people from our and intensity were as follows: customers and associates participated, marathon running, through to quiz 2016 2017 change nights, cake sales and summer gala days.
tCO e 2 Our employees raised over 30,000 2016: 38,000 for worthwhile causes Total emissions 62,524 57,071 8.7 % during the year from these activities.
Emissions Charitable donations by Group intensity 0.39 0.36 9.0 % companies during the year were 27,000 Expressed in tCO e per tonne of output.
Our GHG emissions were calculated ANTI-BRIBERY AND using the methodology set out in the CORRUPTION POLICY updated GHG reporting guidance issued The Group seeks to prohibit all forms in June 2013 by the Department for of bribery and corruption within Environment, Food and Rural Affairs its business and complies with the CASE STUDY APPRENTICES DEFRA.
Emission factors were taken requirements of all applicable anti-bribery from the Department for Business, Energy Rob Bell received recognition at the and corruption laws.
and Industrial Strategy DEFRAs 2017 National EEF Awards, as Highly update of GHG Conversion Factors for The Group requires all relevant employees Commended for Business Apprentice Company Reporting, with the exception and agents to confirm each year that Final Year.
of international electricity which were they remain in compliance with the taken from the International Energy Rob started his 2-year Advanced Groups Anti-Bribery policy.
Apprenticeship with Polypipe Civils Agencys 2017 update.
Approved by the Board and signed on in Loughborough in January 2015, RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR its behalf.
Rob CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS completed the academic element of his apprenticeship in July 2017, and has been Suppliers are key to our business and Martin Payne working as a Quality & Process we endeavour to build long-term Chief Executive Officer Technician since.
relationships with them based on trust.
20 March 2018 We will seek to extend our supplier base Polypipe has operated and grown its if risks of undercapacity or resilience apprenticeship scheme since the 80s and arise in our supply chain.
Polypipe has has seen a 14% increase in apprentice no significant suppliers who are wholly numbers across the Group between 2016 and 2017, with the first female dependent on the Groups business.
engineering apprentices joining Suppliers are paid in line with contractual at both the Civils and Building obligations.
37 37 OUR SOLUTIONS The developer chose to include Polypipe This luxury lodge is made from Canadian underfloor heating in pine and is the first of its kind to this prestigious project be imported from Canada to the UK Located in a picturesque forest in South Lanarkshire, and on the site of a prestigious golf club, this lodge is intended to be a flagship holiday let home.
Underfloor heating was the perfect solution for this green development, as the pipes are entirely underfoot and out of sight, maximising space and leaving walls available for furniture or artwork, rather than being lost to wall mounted radiators.
Underfloor heating is also a sustainable heating option as it operates at a much lower water temperature than a radiator system, so the heat source is working more efficiently and consuming less energy to generate the warm water required to heat the space.
Freedom Joinery chose Polypipe underfloor heating to bolster its green credentials and maximise available living space.
ENABLING SUSTAINABLE BUILDING TECHNOLOGY SUBSTITUTING LEGACY MATERIALS 38
