Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION With an increase in urbanisation across the globe, and the challenges that increased population density places on resources, national and regional governments are increasingly aware of the issues surrounding sustainability and the need for urban centres to be resilient to extreme events such as flooding and overheating.
Our expertise and product range make us the ideal partner to help manage the movement of water and provide engineered solutions that enable the reduction of carbon in these environments, providing a truly global opportunity to deliver a sustainable and resilient built environment in established and growing markets around the world.
WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS As cities become more populated and as weather events become more extreme more frequently, no single technical solution can claim to resolve these issues by itself.
Nevertheless, steps can be taken to mitigate the potential impact.
Polypipes extensive range of Water Management solutions are designed to reduce or intercept the potential impact of extreme flooding and to help cities recover more quickly.
In fact, to help cities become ever more resilient, Polypipe has developed systems to manage surface water, flooding, rainwater harvesting and treatment as well as recycling for reuse.
BREADTH AND DEPTH OF PRODUCT SOLUTIONS SMARTER THINKING BETTER SOLUTIONS CASE STUDY GLASGOW HOUSING ASSOCIATION Client: Glasgow Housing Association GHA Application: Plumbing and above ground drainage Part of major regeneration works by Transforming Communities Glasgow, the project saw the creation of 141 new homes for social rent in Sighthill, plus a further 157 new homes being built on the site of a former primary school.
Polypipes solutions were selected for their light weight, durability and ease of installation, allowing new tenants to move into their homes as quickly as possible.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT LEADERSHIP IN WATER MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Permavoid and Permafilter geotextile have been installed beneath permeable paving to manage stormwater on a busy residential street CASE STUDY MELINA ROAD, LONDON Project: Counters Creek Flood Alleviation Scheme, Thames Water Application: Source control, attenuation and irrigation for rain gardens Product: Permavoid, Permafoam and Permatex Geotextile Melina Road is part of a three-street scheme designed to alleviate flood risk in streets built over the Counters Creek river system in London.
In order to compensate for the loss of permeable green space that would have alleviated the risks of excess stormwater, Polypipe was able to supply a unique SuDS geocellular solution at INDUSTRY AUTHORITY this busy residential street in Hammersmith, which includes a local school and a public open space.
2,345 Permavoid cells were installed to provide 88m of rainwater storage and irrigation, in four separate SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS storage tanks beneath the new rain gardens.
AND PRACTICES 19 19 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 OUR SUSTAINABLE JOURNEY IN ACTION CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS As with our Water Management solutions, Polypipes Climate Management solutions satisfy the most stringent of Government legislation.
We continue to invest in developing products and systems that enable and control heating, ventilation and cooling.
Such solutions make built environments more energy efficient, cleaner and more comfortable to live in.
This results in a more sustainable and resilient built environment, not just for the benefit of Governments, but for everyone.
INTELLIGENT ENGINEERED SOLUTIONS Nuaire Boxer Packaged Solutions BPS air handling unit MARKET LEADERSHIP Nuaire Aire-Volve AVT twin fan Direct Expansion DX reverse cycle coils CASE STUDY Specsavers Project: Glazing Services and Lens Online Distribution Centre, Kidderminster, West Midlands Client: Specsavers International OUR SOLUTIONS M&E Consultants: KGF Cox Ltd, Greenways & Partners Ltd. Specsavers employees moving Nuaire supplied four Boxer Packaged Solutions BPS air handling into the new manufacturing units to provide balanced ventilation with heat recovery and cooling to the warehouse and office facilities.
and distribution centre in Kidderminster are now enjoying Employed directly by Specsavers, building services consultancy KGF optimum indoor air quality Cox Ltd designed the mechanical and electrical services for the Lens Online warehouse, while also overseeing the design of the office and a comfortable working services delivered by Greenways.
environment created by Nuaires Nuaires BPS units were specified with Condenser Direct Expansion BPS air handling units.
DX reverse cycle coils, which are capable of providing heating and cooling.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT LEADERSHIP IN CLIMATE MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS Underfloor heating installed across the whole floor produces a consistent and ambient heat throughout the entire room CASE STUDY WINDMILL OVERLAY UFH Project: The Windmill, Doncaster Application: Underfloor heating Products: Polypipes Overlay system The very tall layout of the building meant that the heating system had to be installed to avoid the heat rising only along the wall, leaving the middle of the room cold.
Polypipes Overlay system is only 18mm in depth, and so does not raise the floor to an unacceptable level, removing the need for messy and expensive excavation.
With the room being completely round, it was impossible to locate radiators to fit the curve of the wall.
POLYPIPE BRAND Underfloor heating resolved this issue completely, with no large wall mounted equipment required, and so provided the optimal retrofit solution.
