Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Sustainable development WHAT WE ARE CONSTRUCTING Shaft construction will utilise proven Industry-leading design and shaft sinking methodologies.
A construction techniques are being detailed hydrogeological and deployed to develop the largest mine geotechnical ground investigation of its type anywhere in the world.
The has been completed at the low impact design coupled with an Woodsmith Mine site to characterise innovative ore delivery system is the nature of the geology which will setting a new standard for be encountered during shaft sustainable mine development.
The extensive ground investigation programme has also Shafts informed the design of the permanent shaft lining.
At the Woodsmith Mine site, two deep shafts are being constructed to access To achieve full 20 Mtpa capacity, the the polyhalite in the centre of the MTS shaft at the Woodsmith Mine will mineral reserve: the production shaft require further deepening from the reaching a depth of 1,594 metres and 360m level to the polyhalite mining the service shaft reaching a depth of horizon.
Once constructed the production shaft will be fitted out with two Blair multi-rope winders, each capable of hoisting 6.7Mtpa of polyhalite ore for a combined capacity of 13 Mtpa.
Athird shaft, the Mineral Construction underway at the Woodsmith Transport System MTS access shaft Minesite will also beconstructed.
The MTS access shaft is being constructed to facilitate construction of the MTS.
Shaft construction will utilise proven shaft sinking methodologies.
10 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1 1 0 6 5 4 5 4 Average depth 250m 250m 3 3 Redcar Mudstone 500m Product conveyor Safe haven Maintenance vehicle 800m Bunter Sandstone 1050m Sylvinite 1300m Salt The low impact design 1500m 2 6 coupled with an innovative Up to Polyhalite 70m thick ore delivery system is setting a new standard for sustainable Not to scale mine development.
1 Woodsmith Mine 2 Polyhalite 3 Mineral Transport System MTS 4 Lockwood Beck 5 Materials Handling Facility MHF 6 Bran Sands Harbour Facility 11 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Sustainable development continued 20 Mtpa capacity 4.3 metre diameter 37 kilometres long The MTS incorporates industry standard equipment, providing atransport system that is reliable, low-maintenance and low-cost.
12 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STATE-OF-THE-ART UNLOCKING MAXIMUM VALUE The polyhalite ore will undergo a Mineral Transport System Harbour Facility simple process of crushing, grinding, granulation, screening and drying to The MTS will carry mined polyhalite The Project benefits from produce the finished POLY4 granular ore 37km underground from being close to a port, relative product.
the Woodsmith Mine to the MHF to other fertilizer producers.
AhighThe Bran Sands site on the capacity conveyor will transport River Tees is ideally located Crushing mined ore within a 4.3 metre for the bulk export of POLY4.
Run of mine ore is nominally diameter, concrete-lined tunnel.
crushed to below 50mm The MTS incorporates industry Finished product will be standard equipment, providing a transported approximately transport system that is reliable, 3.5kmfrom the MHF on a covered Grinding low-maintenance and low-cost.
overland conveyor to a new quay Crushed ore ground to The MTS is being constructed to which will be constructed on the pass0.2mm operate at 20 Mtpa capacity.
Long-travel, wide-span ship loaders will transfer finished The MTS will be constructed using product into a ships hold at Granulation three tunnel boring machines 5,000 tonnes per hour.
Binder and water added to TBMs.
TBMs are a widely used polyhalite powder and granulated tunnel construction methodology to form POLY4 granules Expansion to facilitate an increase designed for safe and efficient in production to 13 Mtpa and operation.
TBMs will be launched then to 20 Mtpa will require the Screening from the Woodsmith Mine site, the installation of a second berth POLY4 granules screened.
Oversize MHF and from an intermediate site and a second ship loader.
and undersize removed for reprocessing along the route of the tunnel at The Bran Sands site has the Lockwood Beck.
The MTS is being capacity to accommodate constructed within the Redcar any future expansion.
Drying Mudstone, a geological formation POLY4 granules dried to final which can be excavated efficiently moisture content, ready for storage and delivery but has the structural integrity to accommodate a tunnel.
The MHF will have an initial phase 1 Materials Handling Facility production capacity of 10 Mtpa and Located at Teesside on the Wilton a footprint that will enable an increase International site, the MHF will consist in capacity to 20 Mtpa.
TheMHF is of the plant and equipment large enough to accommodate the necessary for a simple and costnecessary storage requirement for up effective granulation process to to 20 Mtpa of POLY4 and sufficient produce bulkvolumes of POLY4.
operating capacity to transfer finished product from the MHF to the harbour facility for efficient ship loading.
Sirius Minerals proposed Bran Sands harbour development 13 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
