Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Responsible business ACTING RESPONSIBLY COMMITTED TO SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBILITY PRIORITIES FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE PAGES 40-41 Food security FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE PAGES 42-43 Community FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE PAGES 44-45 Environment FOR MORE INFORMATION SEE PAGES 46-47 People 38 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 39 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Responsible business continued SUSTAINABLE CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL FOOD SECURITY The worlds population Global food security Promoting sustainable isset to increase by a Over the next 35 years more food agricultural practices needs to be produced than has The conventional wisdom that third by 2050 and the been to date in human history.
more fertilizer brings more yield has demand for food resulted in the over-application At the same time, the land available of the wrong fertilizers in many production is forecasted for farming is decreasing and soils regions, resulting in soil erosion have widespread deficiencies in the to increase by 60%.
and degradation that hasled to nutrients that plants need to grow.
pollution, increased land conversion Food production rates are already and habitat loss.
struggling to keep up, yet the global agricultural system is required to What is required is for farmers and produce more in the future.
food producers to use balanced fertilization to increase yields and improve soil health.
POLY4 has the lowest CO e 1 2 CO equivalent emissions of common fertilizers 2 emissions compared to other kg t-1 of fertilizer fertilizer products.
Conventional High energy POLY4 2300 demanding chemical The lower CO e emissions N sources 2 fertilizers associated with POLY4 are due to its environmentally friendly and sustainable method of production.
2000 1800 840 766 800 500 350 200 200 40.8 51 POLY4 POLY4 SSP TSP MOP MAP SOP DAP AS Urea CAN AN 2 mitigated Notes: 1 SSP Single Super Phosphate, TSP Triple Super Phosphate, MOP Muriate of Potash, SOP Sulphate of Potash, MAP Monoammonium Phosphate, DAP Diammonium Phosphate, AS Ammonium Sulphate, CAN Calcified Ammonium Nitrate, AN Ammonium Nitrate 2 10% mitigation from renewable energy sources and 10% from tree planting offset.
Sources: Sirius Minerals, Ricardo-AEA Ltd. 2014.
40 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Company is committed to supporting the best and most sustainable fertilizer application practices through its ongoing research and development programme.
To date this has involvedover 260 trials, on 32 crops, in 17 countries.
The programme consistently demonstrates that POLY4improves crop yield and qualityand has positive environmental characteristics.
POLY4 is certified for organic use and has no requirement for chemical processing.
As a result, it has a lower carbon footprint compared to other fertilizers.
Furthermore, POLY4 has also been shown to improve soil strength, structure, nutrient legacy and reduce agricultures impact by improving fertilizer use efficiency ensuring more fertilizer is taken up by the plant and not lost into the environment.
Good nutrient stewardship ensuring nutrients are applied at the correct rate, time and place is a critical element of a more sustainable approach.
The Company is working with a range of stakeholders to promote these more sustainable practices in key agricultural markets.
Fertilizers are identified as a significant source of greenhouse gases GHG.
The estimated value of the global warming potential GWP of POLY4 is 0.051 kg CO e per kg of product.
This 2 islow compared with other fertilizers andconsiderably lower than other potassium K source fertilizers such asMOP: 0.13-0.265 kg CO e kg and 2 common sulphur S source fertilizers such as ammonium sulphate 0.58 kg CO e kg.
2 41 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Responsible business continued OUR COMMITMENT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT The Group takes its Education and skills Sirius Minerals Foundation responsibility to the Sirius believes in supporting young The Sirius Minerals Foundation people to fulfil their potential from has been established as an local area very seriously an early age and continues to independent charity to support deliver its extensive education community projects that benefit the and is committed to outreach programme.
taking an active and A key aspect of this is to broaden During operations, Sirius Minerals will positive role in the local aspirations and raise awareness of contribute an annual royalty of 0.5% community.
science, technology, engineering of revenue to the Foundation.
and maths STEM related careers.
For the construction period, Sirius has In 2017 alone the Company has taken made an initial payment of 2 million part in 35 education events and to the Foundation.
Earlier this year, activities with primary and secondary the first funding round was opened school students in North Yorkshire and to support community projects, Tees Valley.
People from across the awarding grants of between 500 Sirius team have been encouraged and 5,000.
In December, 80 projects to get involved, particularly younger were awarded a total of around 2 million team members, to talk to students 300,000 across the local area.
about their role at Sirius Minerals initial payment made to the Sirius and how they got involved.
The activities funded include: Minerals Foundation improving community facilities and The Company is proud to have restoration works, new equipment, been the headline sponsor of supporting families and vulnerable Scarborough Engineering Week people, environmental enhancements, for the last six consecutive years.
Work also started on a 1 million 35 programme in Tees Valley and education events and activities that the North Yorkshire to support the STEM Company took part in during 2017 curriculum over the next ten years.
Sirius continues to provide opportunities for young people across the area, including PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE apprenticeships, work placements .
CO. UK and taking on new graduates.
42 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Community engagement The Group continues to keep thecommunity updated on the development of the Project.
Over the last year, the Company has held four public drop-in events, attended 20 Parish and town council meetings, and given presentations to a number of local interest groups.
Site visits have been held for elected representatives at the Woodsmith Mine site and the intermediate shaft location at Lockwood Beck.
In addition, the Liaison Group Forum which was established to update local councillors and other local stakeholders about the Project met three times in 2017.
These meetings are open for the public to attend.
The Company also produces regular newsletters, social media updates and has a 24-hour community helpline.
The Sirius Minerals team building a footpath with the North York Moors National Park Volunteer Service 43 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Responsible business continued ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION From the outset, the Sustainable design Carbon emissions Company has been Sirius is proud of the design The Company is always looking at choices it has made throughout ways to be more energy efficient committed to limiting the Projects evolution, to ensure during the intensive construction that it has the lowest impact period in order to minimise its the environmental possible on the surrounding area.
impact of the Project Woodsmith Mine is located in North In line with regulatory requirements asmuch as possible.
York Moors National Park and the the Companys Greenhouse Gas This is reflected in the Company has set a new standard GHG performance is calculated in sustainable design in recognition using the latest Greenhouse Gas low-impact design, of this.
The number and size of the Protocol and set out in the table buildings has been reduced to below.
This includes direct GHG operational philosophy a minimum, which together with emissions from the combustion of and approach to extensive landscaping and planting, fuels Scope 1 and indirect GHG will ensure the site is screened and emissions from the consumption construction.
blends with the surrounding area.
of purchased electricity, steam or other sources of energy Scope 2.
This section summarises the Mined ore will be transported As reporting procedures mature, Companys approach to sustainable underground, in recognition of the the Company will look to include development, which is covered in sensitivity of the area, to the MHF other indirect GHG emissions more detail in the 2017 Corporate at Wilton International in Teesside.
In 2017 emissions Responsibility Report, available on our To produce POLY4 involves a simple totalled 2,063 tonnes of CO e. Company website.
2 granulation process which does tCO e 2 not require chemical processing Scope 1 emissions 1,943 and has no waste products.
Scope 2 emissions 120 Gross carbon emissions 2,063 Intensity metric: per10 millionspend 129 The Company is providing Within the constraints of a large significant funding, through construction project the Company its Section 106 agreements, is working, together with its contractors, to proactively reduce to safeguard and enhance carbon emissions.
Measures include using low emission fuels the local landscape and to for site plant, reducing the reliance on diesel generated power and offset carbon emissions.
implementing a travel plan to restrict the number of vehicle movements associated with the Project.
44 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Construction The Company is working closely with the relevant authorities, statutory bodies and contractors toimplement environmental and mitigation plans for each phase ofconstruction.
These ensure that the stringent planning conditions are adhered to and that impacts are limited across arange of matters including lighting, noise, visual and landscape, wildlife and ecology, hydrology and air quality.
In addition, the Company is providing significant funding, through its Section 106 agreements, to safeguard and enhance the local landscape and to offset carbon emissions.
This will amount to a total of 130 million over the lifetime of the Project.
During 2017, first payments of 122,500 for the landscape and ecology contribution and 85,000 for tree planting were made to North York Moors National Park Authority.
PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE SIRIUSMINERALS.
COM Credit: Ebor images North York Moors National Park 45 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Responsible business continued OUR PEOPLE DELIVERING Building a more diverse and inclusive We strive to promote an open and 2017 was an exciting workforce is critical to developing a honest working environment, in year of growth for the whicheveryone has a voice and sustainable and successful business.
feelsconfident to share their ideas.
Sirius team, which saw us InDecember, a new independent Our ambition is to attract, develop disclosure line was introduced called double our headcount and retain talented individuals who the Speak-Up Line which allows the reflect the communities where we with 116 people now workforce to report matters of dobusiness, supporting the local concern confidentially.
This further community to benefit from the directly employed reinforces our commitment to safety opportunities that Sirius can provide.
bytheGroup, an and invites everyone to take responsibility to ensure that we can We continue to be successful in hiring impressive year-on-year move forward at pace by respecting local people to join our expanding the safety and security of others, increase of111%.
workforce: 69% of total employees ourselves and our environment.
have been sourced from the Yorkshire We welcomed new members into region, reinforcing our commitment to thebusiness, predominantly in Growing our people the community in which we operate.
Scarborough but also into London In addition to ongoing professional and further afield, strengthening skills development, staff regularly Empowering our people ourpresence and key business have the opportunity to engage in relationships in North America, Our people are critical to the wider community events.
LatinAmerica and South East Asia.
success of this project and we striveto empower, motivate and The Company has participated in encourage everyone to contribute.
education outreach events, local careers fairs as well as presenting at During 2017, we have been promoting national conferences: all of which has 69% of total the behaviours and values that have supported the personal development contributed to the many achievements of team members as well as employees have to date.
promoting good relationships in the region and markets in which we been sourced We are one team focused on one clear operate.
During 2017 Sirius has goal and during the year we have supported various charity activities fromthe Yorkshire both on an individual and group introduced various development and basis, raising over 9,000. region.
performance management activities to encourage everyone to play their part in delivering the 2021 first production targets.
Recruitment of new colleagues now looks at the way people work as well as their technical capabilities.
Weve designed a new induction programme, established a process for clear goal setting, launched values alignment sessions and a monthly values recognition scheme.
46 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Resolution House In September, the Company was excited to move into Resolution House, our new headquarters.
The open plan office boasts space, technology and a fresh environment transforming the way that people collaborate and integrate.
Resolution House is an inspirational workplace not only for our existing staff but for those that aspire to be part of the team.
The London office also completed arefurbishment in 2017 and both locations now have the facilities andtechnology that represents a workplace fit for the future.
Looking forward 2018 will be another year of steady hiring to expand our workforce and introduce key talent predominantly into the construction team.
We will continue to strengthen the building blocks required to lead and develop a growing workforce and ensure that everyone can contribute to the delivery of the business priorities.
Positive reinforcement of our unique culture and investment in development activities to drive our health and safety agenda is also a top priority for 2018.
Sirius team at Resolution House Credit: Richard Ponter, Scarborough News 47 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
