Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Poppy Day on Covent Garden West Piazza It is important to us that we conduct our business in a responsible way.
Our programme of Corporate Responsibility CR initiatives sits at the core of Capcos business, with a focus on threecore themes: people, community and environment, underpinned by a commitment to the highest standards of business practices.
Although Capco owns assets totalling 3.5 billion, the Company is managed by a relatively small team of people.
Our employees are therefore key to the success of our business and we provide a range of support and training opportunities that enable us to develop the right talent to implement our strategy and help individuals to maximise their potential.
As long-term stewards of two major London estates we support initiatives that aim to address social problems faced by the communities in which our estates are located.
Our work with these communities focuses on initiatives that maximise opportunities for young people, address homelessness and support ex-military and emergency services personnel.
We are committed to minimising the impact of our operations on the environment, employing a forward-looking approach to air quality, environmental and sustainability issues, and implementing initiatives which improve the quality of the environment for all, such as pedestrianisation and increasing greenery at Covent Garden.
We target the highest standards of health and safety and ethical practices in areas such as modern slavery, tax evasion and bribery and corruption, and expect the same standards from our suppliers.
Community and environmental initiatives across the business are managed by our asset teams and overseen by the CR Executive Committee.
This report provides updates on the progress made against our 2017 CR targets, and explains more about our activities in each of our areas offocus.
com 45 Corporate responsibility continued It is our intention to benefit the communities in which our assets MATERIALITY are located, providing development opportunities to our talented We monitor and assess the effectiveness of our CR strategy and people and respecting the environment.
measure impact in three fundamental areas: people, community and environment.
In addition we monitor health and safety standards across the Group.
See pages 47 & 48 See pages 49 & 50 See pages 51 & 52 PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT TALENT SUPPORTING LOCAL ENERGY & CARBON Our teams of highly skilled and motivated ECONOMIES MANAGEMENT peopleare critical to the successful delivery We work hand-in-hand with the We are committed to improving the energy of our business plan.
We aim to develop communities in the areas of London in efficiency of our portfolio and to lowering careers within the Company and promote which we invest, and have bespoke our carbon emissions.
We have continued from within whenever possible.
programmes centred on young people, to improve the monitoring of energy the homeless and ex-services personnel.
consumption, carried out energy assessments and identified opportunities to install energy REWARD efficient equipment across the portfolio.
We reward performance against objectives EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES set through competitive salaries, We deliver an education programme to discretionary bonus and share awards.
We primary and secondary schools in Covent RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT benchmark our remuneration and aim to Garden and Earls Court, designed to We are committed to integrating be within the upper quartile in our sector.
introduce children of school age to specific responsible and sustainable practices into issues affecting their areas of London.
the delivery of projects and development.
We progressed further with our aim to CULTURE achieve sustainability building certification With constant momentum, the business is CHARITY PROGRAMMES and were awarded BREEAM Very Good for both fast-moving and entrepreneurial.
We We have long-standing relationships the refurbishment of Carriage Hall and have a high-performance culture in which with selected charities which are aligned achieved a SKa Silver rating for our Covent innovation and creativity are encouraged.
We remain focused Garden office refurbishment.
on benefiting young people, ex-services personnel and the homeless.
GIVING BACK SUSTAINABILITY INDICES We aim to make a difference in the We continue to monitor and report communities in which our assets are located performance in line with industry and have well-established associations with sustainability reporting benchmarks.
In our volunteer organisations and chosen 2017 we improved our performance in the charities.
We make every effort to Carbon Disclosure Project CDP climate identifyvolunteering opportunities for our change programme and Global Real Estate employees and we are proud of their Sustainability Benchmark GRESB, we commitment and engagement with our remained a participant of the FTSE4Good CR programme.
Index and, for the first time, received a European Public Real Estate EPRA Silver award for sustainability reporting.
See page 53 HEALTH & SAFETY We continue to strive for health and safety excellence across all of our property activities in order to offer the highest levels of protection for our employees, supply chain partners and the members of the public who interact with our business operations.
WE ENCOURAGE OUR EMPLOYEES WE SUPPORT INITIATIVES THAT ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES AT TO PARTICIPATE IN OUR CR PROMOTE EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING COVENT GARDEN ACTIVITIES Capco is installing LED lighting across The winning team from Capcos Capco employees volunteered at the RHS the Covent Garden estate 10,000 steps challenge Chelsea Flower Show garden sponsored by Capco 46 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements PEOPLE 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS People are the key to our success and we are Well-being Capco employees participated in a 10,000 steps challenge, proud of our high-performance and resultsencouraging employees to get fit and healthy.
Leadership development As effective line management is a key component of business We aim to develop careers by promoting talented success, we ran a series of manager sessions focusing on mental individuals to positions of leadership.
health awareness and diversity and behaviours, which received positive feedback across the business.
Graduate intake TALENT We continue to hand pick top graduates who enjoy the challenge Our aim is to manage talent effectively and ensure that we have of early responsibility to join our development programme.
sufficient capability to realise our ambitious strategy.
We regularly undertake succession planning exercises to review the talent pipeline and progress individuals according to capability.
We have a graduate recruitment programme for top graduates who pursue an internal programme of training and mentoring, OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2018 which will ensure they are well prepared for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Assessment of Professional Performance Competence APC.
Each graduate is assigned an experienced Recognising that our people are our most valuable asset, in Capco counsellor and supervisor who guide them through the 2018 we will seek to further improve employee performance APC process.
and professional standards across the Company.
New opportunities that arise in the business are advertised Leadership capability internally and we aim to promote internal candidates in order We will further enhance the capability of the leadership to enhance career development and encourage mobility across team through coaching and a series of internally delivered the Company.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Diversity and inclusion Capco training and development programmes are designed We will support initiatives that aim to increase diversity and to augment the bench strength of our teams and challenge inclusion within the property industry and strengthen the aspiring leaders.
Individual training and development needs are identified and discussed at performance review meetings with line managers.
During 2017, our employees recorded 493hours of training activity.
BENEFITS Through our sponsorship of individuals undertaking further In addition to core elements, we reward people with an attractive professional qualifications, we encourage continuous learning, package of additional benefits, which includes private medical reflecting our intention to create a knowledgeable environment.
The Company contributes up to 10 per cent of salary into the MyCapco pension scheme.
We recognise that coaching and mentoring can have significant impact on behaviours and key employees continue to benefit Our policy is to enable employees to take their full annual leave from bespoke coaching programmes.
entitlement of 28 days per annum, rising to 30 days after four years service.
PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Annual performance objectives for individuals are agreed at LIFESTYLE PROGRAMME performance review meetings, which take place at the beginning In 2017 our lifestyle programme focused on work-life balance and of the calendar year.
Performance is measured against objectives financial matters such as mortgages and retirement planning.
set for the previous year and individual performance ratings underpin discretionary bonus awards, which are paid in April of each year.
We regard the giving of regular and direct feedback as a core competency of effective leadership and encourage line managers to appraise performance regularly during the year.
CULTURE The high-performance culture at Capco is reflective of our ambitious and innovative business strategy.
Typically, Capco people are results-driven and brave in their approach to new ideas.
Many of our people are in new roles and have assumed increased levels of responsibility since joining Capco.
We have a good track record of supporting employee development and promoting fromwithin the business.
We aim to fill vacancies from our existing people where possible.
We support new parents returning to the workplace and encourage our people to adopt a healthy attitude to work-life balance.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued REWARD The aim of our reward strategy is to compensate people for WE ENCOURAGE PARTICIPATION IN FUNDRAISING high performance and to incentivise them to strive to improve.
ACTIVITIES WITHIN AND ACROSS TEAMS Core compensation packages at Capco comprise three elements of base salary, discretionary performance bonus and discretionary share awards.
We regularly benchmark our approach to reward to ensure that we are competitive in the market and we aim to remain within the upper quartile range of our sector.
Awards are made in April of each year and take account of performance ratings discussed at performance review meetings in January.
All Capco employees are eligible to receive share awards so that everyone can participate in the success of the Company.
These awards have a three-year performance period and are subject to corporate performance conditions.
DIVERSITY A number of Capco employees completed We believe that every person in the Company has a part to play in a CBRE UK charity bike ride generating value and we understand fully the benefits of a diverse workforce.
Diversity is considered when making appointments at all levels.
As a sign of our commitment to diversity in the work Gender diversity % place our Chief Executive, Ian Hawksworth, is supporting the CEO Commitments for Diversity, an initiative spearheaded by 100 1 8 59 Real Estate Balance.
9 We are keen to develop female talent across the business and 75 provide executive coaching to our senior leadership team.
There is strong female representation across the business.
A summary of gender diversity across the Company is set out to the right.
50 8 47 We support a number of initiatives which aim to increase diversity within the property industry, including being a signatory to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark, a member of the Employers 25 Network for Equality and Inclusion ENEI, a member of Real Estate Balance, a sponsor of the Reading Real Estate Foundation 0 Board Senior All and supporting the Pathways to Property work experience management employees programme.
excluding Directors HUMAN RIGHTS Male Female This report does not contain specific information on human rights issues as this is not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position of the Companys business.
However, Capco has adopted a CR policy and a supply chain policy which reflect a responsible approach to human rights.
WE ENCOURAGE OUR EMPLOYEES TO SUPPORT OUR CR ACTIVITIES MODERN SLAVERY In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Board has approved a Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, which has been published on our website.
The statement details the steps we take to avoid slavery and human trafficking in our own operations and in our supply chain.
We believe that our own operations present minimal risk, but recognise that a higher level of risk is posed by the suppliers we engage with to provide goods and services.
During 2017 we undertook an extensive assessment of a major development site within the Capco portfolio in conjunction with the contractor with the objective of better understanding whether the policies and procedures in place are sufficient to mitigate the risks of modern slavery in the supply chain.
The assessment included interviews with management personnel from the contractor and also sub-contractor site workers.
A follow-up meeting was held with the contractor to discuss findings and recommendations from the assessment.
We also delivered bespoke training on modern slavery and human trafficking to relevant employees and incorporated further information on Capcos expectations in relation to modern slavery into our procurement processes and policies.
In the year ahead we plan to provide further guidance to our employees and continue our ongoing engagement A number of Capco employees joined days arranged for with our suppliers.
families affected by the Grenfell Tower disaster 48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements COMMUNITY 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS During 2017, Capco continued to work to benefit Local initiatives We have delivered a range of local community and education the communities in which we operate and projects on our estates that have benefited people of all ages.
to support our chosen charities.
Capco employees Charitable donations committed over 500hours to CR-related activity This year we have developed close ties with our chosen and volunteered to help with CR projects, meeting charities which align with our overarching CR strategy, and have provided 150,000 of support to charitable causes.
Employee CR engagement Benefiting the communities in which our assets Capco staff remain committed to participating in CR-related activities and undertook over 500 hours of CR related activity are located is the cornerstone of the stewardship during the year.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2018 SUPPORTING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY Community events Education programme Capco continues to support a range of community events at Covent We will extend the number of schools that participate in Garden and a number of employees volunteered to help run the the Capco Education Programme in collaboration with our events.
In 2017 these included: education partners, building further on our success with a lunch for blind veterans, organised in association with the schoolchildren of all ages.
Blind Veterans Association and the Sir Simon Milton Foundation Charitable work a Christmas lunch held at Little Italy restaurant in Soho for older We will promote a volunteering programme with the local residents, organised in association with the West End Construction Youth Trust, Air Ambulance and Urban Land Community Association Institute.
sponsorship of the Covent Garden Community Association Community facility Christmas Carol concert held in St. Pauls Church We will make community space available at Lillie Road for use by local groups as part of the meanwhile uses provided at EarlsCourt.
Employee CR engagement We will encourage employees to engage in CR initiatives EARLS COURT COMMUNITY OPEN DAY and contribute 500 employee hours to supporting CR-related projects.
Earls Court community engagement includes regular community events at the Earls Court Project Room.
Families are able to participate in a range of activities, view models and presentations on the Earls Court development and ask questions of Capco representatives.
Activities in 2017 included bird-box making, a Lego construction site, a summer barbecue with live music and a Christmas open day with a wreath-making workshop.
Throughout 2017, we promoted a volunteering programme with Bishop Creighton House, a community-based charity in Earls Court working with disadvantaged people of all ages.
A number of employees volunteered to spend time with elderly residents.
District stewardship Capco continues to fund additional security for the Covent Garden estate following an increase in the national security threat level.
This includes 24-hour monitoring of CCTV and extensive patrolling of the estate throughout the day and night.
A number of the Covent Garden team volunteered their time to Bird-box making at an Earls Court community open day help clean up the church gardens of St. Pauls Church.
com 49 Corporate responsibility continued CHARITABLE SUPPORT Poppy appeal RHS CHELSEA FLOWER SHOW Capco continued its sponsorship of the Poppy Day activities held annually on the Covent Garden Piazza.
Over 4,000 was raised on the day and visitors were entertained by military choirs and other related activities.
Chelsea Flower Show Capco partnered with the Sir Simon Milton Foundation to sponsor a show garden at RHS Chelsea Flower Show, entitled 500 years of Covent Garden.
BBC Children in Need Capco partnered with BBC Children in Need for the official switching on of the 2017 Covent Garden Christmas lights, which raised 10,000 for BBC Children in Need.
London Community Foundation In collaboration with the London Community Foundation, we have donated 45,000 to provide grants to support the community activity in the Earls Court area.
Through this programme, we support groups which deliver activities and services that benefit residents and the community.
The projects fall under one of the three criteria of Get fit, Get Capco partnered with the Sir Simon Milton Foundation support and Get involved.
This year we have supported a number of to sponsor a garden at the RHS Chelsea Flower Show youth projects, computer coding classes, homework clubs, creative writing classes, boxing classes, nutrition and well-being projects and trips for older people.
Lifelites Capco raised 12,500 for the locally based charity Lifelites through APPLE MARKET CHALLENGE a golf day held in September.
Draw a Line The Draw a Line campaign, which highlights violence against women, launched an awareness programme on the Covent Garden Piazza by laying a yellow line along the length of the North Piazza.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES Apple Market Challenge The hugely successful Apple Market Challenge entered its 11th year and has involved over 6,500 children since its inception in 2006.
This is run in conjunction with the sixth form students at a Business Enterprise School, Ursuline High School Wimbledon.
Teenagers from ten schools, including both the Covent Garden primary schools, presented products that could be sold from the Apple Market in the Covent Garden Market Building.
Employees from the Covent Garden office participated in the Apple Market Challenge with pupils from local schools Newsround project Employees from the Covent Garden office actively engaged in a Newsround project with children from both Covent Garden primary schools.
Teams from both schools prepared news-based videos relating to topics relevant to schoolchildren in Covent Garden, such as antisocial behaviour and safety.
COVENT GARDEN CHRISTMAS LIGHTS Earls Court During the year Capco worked with children from four primary schools in the Earls Court area on a range of educational projects focused on Earls Court.
The projects included researching the history of the Earls Court area, exploring the changing nature of urban landscapes and what makes a great place, learning about the demolition and construction processes being followed at Earls Court, visits to the Earls Court Project Room and Lillie Square construction site, and viewing the heavy lifting crane.
Urban Plan Project We collaborated with the Urban Land Institute on their Urban Plan Project.
This programme helps young people understand the role the real estate industry plays in reviving and regenerating urban areas and brings to life the urban environment through a series of interactive workshops and team challenges.
Two projects for Year 12 students were run at Chelsea Academy during 2017.
Capco partnered with BBC Children in Need for the Covent Garden Christmas lights switch on 50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ENVIRONMENT 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS Reduced energy use by six per cent compared with 2016 on a Capco aims to minimise the impact of our like-for-like basis, exceeding our three per cent reduction target.
We apply Awarded BREEAM Very Good certification for the a responsible and forward-looking approach refurbishment of Carriage Hall and Level 4 Code for to environmental issues and the principles Sustainable Homes certification for Phase 1 of Lillie Square.
Installed a vibrant living wall in Covent Garden covering 1,500 square feet and containing 8,000 plants.
Diverted 99 per cent of non-hazardous demolition waste from landfill at Earls Court with nearly two thirds of ENERGY & CARBON MANAGEMENT demolition material being re-used either on-site or on other In 2017, we reduced our energy use and carbon emissions by six per construction projects.
cent and seven per cent respectively on a like-for-like basis Achieved a Silver and Most Improved award in the EPRA compared with 2016, exceeding our reduction target of three per Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations for reporting cent.
Steps to improve the energy efficiency of our assets remained awards and upgraded our performance in the CDP and a key focus and, as part of major refurbishment works, we have GRESB benchmarks.
installed more efficient boilers, lighting and improved heating and cooling controls.
At Covent Garden the roll-out of LED lighting continues across the estate, solar panels were installed at Carriage Hall and we continue to purchase electricity via green energy tariffs to further reduce our OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2018 carbon footprint.
Throughout the year we have closely monitored the Energy Energy & carbon management Performance Certificate EPC ratings of our assets and have Continue our efforts to lower energy use and carbon emissions taken action to increase the number of assets with an EPC rating and maintain a target of three per cent energy reduction for of at least an E. For Phase 1 of Lillie Square we achieved our target managed assets on a like-for-like basis compared with 2017. of all apartments achieving at least an EPC C rating.
In 2018, with Waste & water management the introduction of the governments Minimum Energy Efficiency Continue to pursue the goal of waste consolidation and Standards MEES, our activities to upgrade assets with an EPC improve recycling rates across our estates, working in rating lower than an E will continue.
partnership with our tenants and contractors.
AIR QUALITY Identify opportunities to reduce water consumption for In 2017, we sought to gain an improved understanding of air quality managed assets.
within Covent Garden and funded the repair of an air quality monitor located in Covent Garden.
The air quality is monitored Responsible development via an application called London Air which is run in conjunction Continue to embed sustainability into the delivery of our with Kings College London.
Covent Garden regularly records the projects and work towards a minimum rating of BREEAM lowest level of air pollution measured by the application.
Very Good on major construction projects and, where existing planning conditions apply, Code for Sustainable Homes Level In 2017 the GLA designated Covent Garden and our neighbours 4 certification.
the Northbank Business Improvement District as one of only two Business Low Emission Neighbourhoods in Westminster.
We continue to work collaboratively to further enhance air quality in the district.
WASTE & WATER MANAGEMENT Minimising the amount of waste sent to landfill and improving recycling rates are ongoing priorities across our estates.
Within our offices we have continued to promote recycling by sharing recycling statistics via the intranet, and continue to divert all waste from landfill.
As part of the waste consolidation strategy at Covent Garden, we have engaged with tenants to raise awareness of the importance of recycling and the waste collections services available.
Over a third of estate waste was recycled, with the remaining waste being sent to an energy from waste plant that helped to generate 185 megawatts of energy.
We are actively monitoring water consumption and identifying opportunities to reduce usage.
Rainwater harvesting has been installed to help supply the irrigation to the Covent Garden living wall and water efficient fittings are being installed as part of refurbishment works.
com 51 Corporate responsibility continued GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, Capco continues to monitor and report on the greenhouse gas emissions associated with its operations.
We have used DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions.
We have adopted the operational control consolidation method, as this reflects where we have the ability to influence energy use, and we have set a materiality threshold of five per cent for greenhouse gas reporting purposes.
Capco has engaged with Carbon Credentials Energy Services Limited to provide independent verification of the 2017 greenhouse gas emissions assertion in accordance with industry recognised standard ISO 14064-3.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 2017 Market-based method Location-based method 1 2 tCO2 tCO2e Emission source 2017 2016 2017 2016 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions including fuel combustion in owned or controlled boilers and vehicles Not reported 752 1,289 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions released into the atmosphere including purchased electricity 641 277 1,979 4,645 Total annual scope 1 and 2 emissions: Not reported 2,731 5,934 Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of Net Assets 0.88 1.87 2 1.
The market-based method reports emissions as tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO2.
Factors such as the addition of new electricity supplies for Lillie Square Phase 1, higher supplier emission factors and changes of supplier have led to an increase in market-based emissions.
The location-based method reports emissions as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO2e.
The sale of Olympia London in April 2017 caused a notable reduction in location-based emissions.
RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT Capco is committed to integrating responsible and sustainable INTRODUCING PLANTING AND GREENERY practices into the delivery of our projects and development.
Efforts to certify our major construction projects to industry sustainability standards continue with the refurbishment of Regal House receiving our first Ska rating of Silver, Carriage Hall achieving BREEAM Very Good status and Phase 1 of Lillie Square attaining Code for Sustainable Homes Level 4 certification.
At Earls Court the responsible management of demolition waste has been a key priority.
By identifying opportunities to re-use material on site and carefully segregating waste streams for recycling, we have diverted 99 per cent of non-hazardous waste from landfill.
In 2017, we also focused on introducing more planting and greenery across our portfolio.
At Covent Garden we installed a living wall covering over 1,500 square feet and containing over 8,000 plants to refine the quality of the air, increase the areas biodiversity and capture pollution particles.
We also introduced Living wall at Covent Garden further flower crates and barrows across the estate.
At Lillie Square, we introduced a series of new gardens, created by award-winning landscape designer Andy Sturgeon.
The contemporary gardens introduced 95 new trees, over 100 different species of plants and bird, bat and hedgehog boxes to the area.
Capco remains an active member of the UK Green Building Council.
SUSTAINABILITY INDICES We monitor and report our performance in line with industry sustainability benchmarks.
In 2017 we remained a participant in the FTSE4Good Index, responded to the CDP climate change programme, achieving an A rating, and achieved four green stars in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark.
Following our incorporation of the EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations for reporting, we achieved our first Silver award and a Most Improved award.
For more information on our reporting visit www.
52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements HEALTH AND SAFETY 2017 ACHIEVEMENTS Successful completion of the portal beams removal at Earls We are committed to providing the highest Court, with a good health and safety performance.
standards of health and safety at our assets to Enhanced compliance by completing the delivery of both minimise the risk to our employees, contractors, bespoke health and safety training for senior employees consultants and visitors.
We expect our supply and an IOSH Institution of Occupational Safety and Health Managing Safely course to property and project chain to support us in achieving this commitment management teams.
by applying a responsible risk-based approach A successful internal audit of design and operational to the management of health and safety.
effectiveness of key health and safety controls across the Covent Garden asset.
A downward trend in RIDDOR incidents across the Group.
MILESTONES We continued to embed the enhanced governance and During 2017 a number of key projects were safely completed in reporting framework across the business.
These included the complex removal of the 61 concrete portal beams that sat above the London Underground lines at Earls Court and supported the weight of the former Exhibition Centre, the practical completion of the first phase of residential development at Lillie Square and commencement of sub-structure and frame works for the second phase of the scheme, OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2018 and the completion of the 11 Floral Street development project.
In addition, Capco became a Client Partner of the Considerate Engagement with contractors Constructors Scheme the Scheme, reflecting the Companys Improve health and safety performance on our development commitment to ensuring that our contractors provide the highest project sites through engagement and sponsorship of standards of health and safety on Group construction projects.
As a initiatives with our contractors.
Client Partner, Capco encourages the contractors we engage to be Training registered with the Scheme.
We expect compliance with all aspects Complete delivery of IOSH Managing Safely training to of the Schemes Code on our registered sites.
GOVERNANCE Measuring performance At a Group level the governance and reporting framework Set key criteria for health and safety measurement across the implemented during 2016 is now fully embedded across the Group and embrace technology to deliver this.
The Sector Safety Leadership Teams SSLTs met regularly during the year to consider health and safety matters for Health and safety governance each asset and to implement the Groups Occupational Health and Continue to enhance and embed health and safety practices, Safety Management System OH&SMS at operational level.
policies and procedures across the business.
The SSLTs are overseen by the Group Safety Leadership Team GSLT, which is chaired by our General Counsel & Director of Corporate Services and championed by the Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer, who is responsible for health and safety at TRAINING Board level.
The GSLT reviews health and safety performance across Bespoke health and safety training was delivered to senior employees the Group regularly throughout the year, and facilitates the sharing during the year.
In addition, members of operational management of lessons learnt and best practice across the management team.
attended an IOSH Directing Safely course, and an IOSH Managing Safely course was delivered to the property and project management Health and safety is a standing item on the Boards agenda and the teams.
Further training was attended by our first-aiders.
Board receives regular formal reports on health and safety, summarising health and safety performance, risks and achievements across the Group.
In line with our OHSAS 18001 compliant OH&SMS a detailed health and safety management review was undertaken during the year to ensure that the system remained appropriate and continued to operate effectively.
A detailed review of fire safety issues, including fire protection measures across the Groups assets, was also undertaken and no areas of concern were identified.
The sections of the Annual Report which make up the Strategic Capcos Group-wide business continuity and major incident Report are set out on page 87.
The Strategic Report has been response plans were tested and refreshed during 2017, using approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2018. scenario-based desktop exercises focused on each asset.
REPORTING On behalf of the Board No work-related employee fatalities were recorded in 2017 or since Capcos inception.
There was a total of six RIDDOR incidents reported across the Group during 2017, comprising one RIDDOR on the Covent Garden estate and five RIDDOR incidents recorded involving employees of our contractors working on our development Ian Hawksworth projects.
The Accident Frequency Rate AFR for Capco Chief Executive development projects at the end of 2017 stood at 0.34.
We benchmark our development projects AFR against the Health and Safety Executive HSE Construction Industry Standard of 0.77.
Capcos Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR for 2017 was 0.48. www.
