Corporate Social Responsibility OUR Purpose PageGroup Changes Lives for People through creating Opportunity to reach Potential OUR Values We make a Difference We Enjoy what we do We value Determination We work as a Team We are Passionate 25 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Commitment to our Stakeholders Our people Make PageGroup a great place to work creating opportunity for people to reach potential A diverse and inclusive team Focused on wellbeing and flexibility Candidates Society Clients Suppliers Minimise and mitigate our environmental footprint Changing peoples lives Provide responsible through creating opportunity Our global citizenship and business practices Highest ethical standards stakeholder commitments Communities Shareholders Contribute positively Maintain the highest standards to the communities we serve of corporate governance In a video message to employees We listen to what our people tell us and Our People across the world, Steve Ingham said: use that feedback to drive improvement.
People are at the heart In our bi-annual Have Your Say Weve talked about our purpose of our business.
Our employee survey in September 2017, about changing peoples lives.
purpose is to change lives for people 81% of our people completed the PageGroup does that.
It changes through creating opportunity to reach survey worldwide up from 77% in 2015 our candidates lives by placing potential.
That starts with our own with a positive engagement score of them in better jobs.
Our organic business model 83% up from 81% in 2015.
Using our clients lives by helping them promotes from within based on merit the feedback from the survey, we are to improve and grow, but most and has always been at the heart developing action plans to improve our importantly it changes our lives of our success, with the majority business and make PageGroup an even by helping us develop, get promoted, of our Executive Board starting here better place to work.
The next survey is and move in many cases.
as consultants, including CEO planned for 2019.
Strategic Report | 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Public recognition: UK Best Places to 100 Best Companies Winner of the Diversity PageGroup CEO, Steve Ingham ranked Work 2017 to Work For & Inclusion award seventh in the Highest Rated CEOs Glassdoor Employees Choice Awards The Sunday Times HR Excellence Awards 2017 Glassdoor Employees Choice Awards APAC EUROPE USA Top Employer Europe: Germany, France, Switzerland, Poland, Spain, 7 Netherlands, Belgium and Italy Liepin Extraordinary Hunter 2017 Award: Michael Page China Forum for Expatriate Management Awards Winner in the Best Redesign LATAM GLOBAL of Global Mobility Strategy PageGroup named Michael Page Brazil recognised by Runner-up in the Global winner of the Most Gesto & RH Magazine as one of the Mobility Team of the Year Socially Engaged Top 10 HR Providers and Top 25 Recruitment Most Admired HR Partners In The Company on LinkedIn Country 27 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Employee Value Proposition Passionate about your progress Enjoying rewards and wellbeing Gender diversity We have a clear and transparent career During the year we embedded our path with international opportunities, performance management toolbox, As at 31 December 2017 supported by our industry-renowned providing a consistent framework for training and development.
managing and rewarding our people.
We continued to introduce initiatives supporting more flexible ways of Board working and flexible benefits to suit our 5 56% 4 44% Directors peoples lifestyles.
2,010Global A team thats diverse Senior promotions in 2017 310 77% 90 23% Management Our diverse, global team continues to bring different perspectives and insight Other to our business, generating creativity, 3,224 46% 3,805 54% employees problem-solving capability and sustainability that would not otherwise 98International be possible.
moves in 2017 As at 31 December 2016 We want our people to reflect the communities in which we work, and to create an inclusive culture of trust and support where people can achieve their Determined to learn potential and feel comfortable being Board In 2017 we rolled out our innovative themselves.
5 62% 3 38% Directors online learning system Boost!
across all OpenPage our commitment to regions.
Supporting our existing training inclusivity and diversity includes a Senior 70 19% and development framework, Boost!
293 81% broad range of support materials, Management provides online learning modules, the activities, networks and memberships.
ability to request and track training, and We are continuing to globalise Other 2,867 47% self-help materials.
All designed to help 3,232 53% their impact by extending support employees our people continuously develop and throughout all regions and through improve their skills and abilities.
worldwide communication campaigns, for example supporting International Womens Day, Pride Month and World Mental Health Day.
Strategic Report | 28 Corporate Social Responsibility we raised funds which will be used to CEO, remains a serving Board member The communities build homes for victims of the earthquake.
of Great Ormond Street Hospital as well we serve Other ways of using our combined talents as supporting and taking part in our to give back to society included providing PageGroup charitable activities.
Making a and serving meals to people in need in difference multiple countries.
Our association with Our PageTalent Mencap in the UK saw us raise funds and programme helps Our commitment to changing peoples help people with learning disabilities into students looking lives extends to the communities in which the workplace through sharing practical for internships, we live and work.
Giving back to others skills and advice.
apprenticeships and is in our DNA and we actively encourage advice.
It helps connect them with our people to get involved in a huge We continue to promote our payrollemployers who are able to advertise variety of ways.
based donation scheme with fundtheir opportunities at no cost.
We encourage our people to During 2017, we saw our people involved the UK alone there are currently take a volunteer day annually, using their with fundraising through sport, bake sales 212 companies involved including time to support good causes often and joining major events such as the Barclays, Nike, Lloyds Bank and coming together in teams to help make Three Peaks Challenge in the UK and the Bosch.
Steve Ingham, our Light the Night walk in Boston.
In Mexico UK Yorkshire 3 peaks challenge Australia giving Christmas presents to under-privileged children UK Mencap workshop France AFM Telethon Belgium Red Cross blood donation Mexico Belgium Aldeas UAE Smart Life Foundation Red Cross Infantiles feeding workers in a Dubai Christmas childrens labour camp during Ramadan donation villages North America Dress for Success and A New Suit, a New Start Boston Light the Night Houston Food Walk to support Leukemia & Bank Raised and Lymphoma Society Canada raising funds and Served 12,068 distributing breakfasts to schools Meals 29 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION All our offices are rented or serviced and We expect the same high standards Society we continue to seek premises which are from our suppliers and our supplier code As a service based energy efficient and where the landlords of conduct is now an integral part of all organisation, our are able to provide us with data to our procurement activities.
environmental impacts support that aim.
During 2017 we formalised our approach are small compared to modern slavery and continued to with many other businesses.
Our commitment we are committed to managing and Our candidates: to that policy is published on our minimising the impacts resulting from corporate website www.
clients: suppliers: We constantly review our communication We have processes in place to monitor shareholders and engagement with our shareholders, and report on our greenhouse gas and will continue to hold our successful 1.
Our impact is predominantly investor relations events which give the through energy consumption and PageGroup is a leading global recruiter, opportunity to meet our Directors and business travel.
See page 23 for GHG with strong brands and a reputation for regional leadership teams.
We continue to reinforce that 2.
Highest standards of corporate position by building trust and loyalty with Further mitigation of our impacts during governance all our stakeholders.
2017 included: At PageGroup we believe high standards The way we do business is as important Implementing our managed print of governance underpin sustainable as what we do.
We encourage a culture solution in the UK with further performance.
The Board is collectively which puts our customers first and roll-out planned: responsible for the Groups financial empowers our people to make the right and operational performance as well as Routinely replacing light fittings with decisions.
We continuously look for promoting the success of the business.
environmentally friendly alternatives ways to improve and involve our people The Board fulfils its responsibilities by during refurbishment: in that process.
directing and supervising the Groups Continuing to work with our landlords Our independently hosted whistleblowing strategies and policies.
and co-tenants to make changes facility gives our employees the ability The Corporate Governance section to HVAC systems, reducing energy to easily and anonymously report of this report sets out details of the consumption: and any perceived wrongdoing.
For more activities undertaken by the Board information see the Audit Committee Replacing franking machines with and its Standing Committees Report in the governance section of this pre-printed envelopes to reduce ink during 2017. report were pleased that in 2017, once and label use.
again, we had no reportable issues.
One of the key aspects of our partnership with PageGroup is the opportunity it gives people with a learning disability to benefit from the expertise of their recruitment consultants.
Mark Capper, Business Development Manager at Mencap Strategic Report | 30
