Our business ethics and social responsibility Our goal is to build a sustainable and viable business.
As part of that, the Group seeks to conduct all of its operating and business activities in an honest, ethical and socially responsible manner and these values underpin our business model and strategy.
We are committed to acting professionally, fairly biotechnology sectors, are developing solutions to and with integrity in all our business dealings and some of the most significant social, environmental relationships with consideration for the needs of all and health challenges faced in the world today.
of our stakeholders including university partners, Consequently, the Group recognises the importance investors, suppliers, employees, and the businesses in of ensuring that the businesses it establishes and which the Group has holdings.
nurtures comply with all applicable environmental, ethical and social legislation.
Further, our direct IP Group pioneered the concept of the long-term involvement in these companies allows greater partnership model and has arrangements covering scope to engage with their management teams and 18 of the UKs leading universities, 9 of Australasias offer guidance.
and 5 leading universities in the US.
Our New Business & Partnerships team and sector teams IP Group aims to conduct its business in a socially work closely with the universities to identify exciting responsible manner, to contribute to the communities opportunities and to ensure these partnerships are in which it operates and to respect the needs of its mutually beneficial.
We believe that our approach employees and all of its stakeholders.
The Group is to providing executive and administrative support, committed to growing the business while ensuring a where appropriate, to portfolio companies gives safe environment for employees as well as minimising their founders the best possible chance of building the overall impact on the environment.
Our support of early-stage endeavours to conduct its business in accordance businesses demonstrates our alignment with with established best practice, to be a responsible government initiatives in science and innovation employer and to adopt values and standards and contributes to employment growth in designed to help guide staff in their conduct and the communities in which our portfolio business relationships.
The Group works with a variety of suppliers and seeks In addition to the support they receive from to ensure that there is diversity in the supply chain, the Group, our portfolio businesses often seek working with SMEs as well as larger organisations.
funding from other sources, both public such as Where possible, we work with local suppliers government-backed grant funding and private therefore impacting positively on the communities from sources ranging from angel investors and where we operate.
The Group is a signatory to the small privately-owned funds to large institutional Prompt Payment Code.
investors, and the Group will often assist in gaining The Group seeks to operate as a responsible access to this financial capital.
The Group complies employer and has adopted standards which with all applicable legislation in this respect and promote corporate values designed to help and communicates with its co-investors in an appropriate guide employees in their conduct and business and transparent manner.
As a publicly traded entity, relationships.
The Group seeks to comply with all IP Group actively seeks to engage and maintain laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business an open dialogue with both institutional and and to conduct the business in line with applicable private shareholders through its investor relations established best practice.
We take a zero tolerance programme.
approach to bribery and corruption and implement The Groups day-to-day activities have limited and enforce effective systems.
The Group is bound adverse social and environmental impact.
There can, by the laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act however, be a more significant impact indirectly 2010, and has implemented policies and procedures through the nature and operations of the companies based on such laws.
All employees who are involved that we support with financial and human capital.
with the regulated business of managing investment Our portfolio companies, which are primarily focused transactions receive compliance and anti-money on the healthcare, technology, clean technology and laundering training, with periodic refresher courses.
54 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business ethics HIGHLIGHTS Employee diversity and employment policies Internship between Summer 2011 Diversity is key to how we work and we believe and Summer 2017, that great ideas can come from anyone.
As such, we believe in equal opportunity for all people 69 interns have taken part in when it comes to recruitment, selection and career the programme development.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the Group employed an average of 118 employees and had five non-executive directors.
A breakdown of our We have long-term partnerships with people by gender can be seen in the table above.
IP 17 of the UKs leading universities Group supports the rights of all people as set out in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, insofar as it is able to, ensures that all transactions the Group enters into uphold these principles.
To this end, we encourage employees to build very 1 Total Staff 151 Male Female strong relationships with all their colleagues by 2 keeping everyone updated regularly and often in Board 70% 30% person on the Groups objectives and progress.
3 Senior Leadership Team 82% 18% We also believe that exceptional people doing Senior managers partners 76% 24% exceptional things should be well-rewarded for All Employees 51% 49% achieving exceptional results.
While heavily weighted to successful performance over the medium to long- 1 Excludes NEDs 5 term, we consider that the Group offers an attractive 2 Includes Company Secretary overall remuneration package to all our employees 3 Includes EDs, Company Secretary, and direct reports to CEO with both short and longer-term components.
We benchmark remuneration and benefits regularly People management against industry peers.
Our remuneration and benefits Our mantra is to recruit exceptional people to do package focusses on supporting health through exceptional things and we believe our unique culture private medical and Ride-to-Work and family is important in attracting and retaining the best talent.
insurance and through inclusion of families in some Our values passionate, principled, pioneering of our other benefit options and Childcare Vouchers describe how we want our staff to feel when working while also offering opportunities for investment and in IP Group.
We give our people a high degree of saving through certain schemes.
freedom and authority to accomplish the extraordinary things we do and we are necessarily highly supportive Internship programme of flexible working.
We consider these to be Touchstone Innovations has run a regular paid important in our approach to turning ground-breaking internship programme for six years, with the majority science into world-changing businesses.
of those recruited working in the Technology Transfer business, Imperial Innovations.
Between summer Because we operate in a highly specialised segment 2011 and summer 2017, 69 interns have taken part of our industry, we endeavour to recruit people with in the programme, playing a vital role in providing a combination of rare skills such as scientists with market analyses, patent management and contract commercial and entrepreneurial backgrounds, who administration, among other things.
This internship can operate with equal confidence in both academia programme recruits heavily from Imperial College and fast-paced start-ups while speaking the language London and other leading UK universities, and many of the City.
Our people gain significant experience candidates have PhDs or experience with postfrom working with a significant number of start-up doctoral research.
The internship programme offers enterprises and seeing first-hand what works and valuable experience of the commercial aspects of what doesnt.
Sharing knowledge and discussing science and research.
Interns who have completed these experiences as well as structured training is key the programme have gone on to work as patent to leveraging this learning across the Group.
attorneys, technology transfer executives, and in research positions at start-ups, as well as starting their own ventures.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our business ethics and social responsibility CONTINUED Health and Safety All our people are responsible for the promotion of, and adherence to, health and safety measures in the workplace.
The Chief Operating Officer has overall responsibility for the implementation of the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
The primary purpose of the Groups health and safety policy is to enable all of the Groups people to go about their everyday business at work in the expectation that they can do so safely and without risk to their health.
During the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, no reportable accidents occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations.
Copies of the Groups policies in relation to equal opportunities and diversity, health and safety and anti-corruption and bribery can be found on the Groups website: www.
com Community engagement The new year 10 pupils, called Junior Genius, The Group seeks to have a positive impact on the attended chemistry masterclasses at LOreal Young communities in which it operates and one of the ways Scientist Centre and Maths Masterclasses with Think in which it achieves this is through charitable support Maths during the October halfterm.
Year 10 students at both a Group level and by staff.
In 2017 the Group took part in a colour chemistry session, working changed the approach to charity donations and together to extract a natural dye from pomegranate signed a 3-year strategic partnership with a charity and producing a synthetic dye - Para-red - through closely aligned to the Groups values.
In addition, the donation from Genius, set up to support talented young people IP Group helped support the sixth form programme from disadvantaged backgrounds to help realise Uni Genius with Year 13 students intending to apply their potential in STEM subjects science, technology, to Oxbridge or to highly selective universities across engineering and maths received a 33,333 donation the country receiving expert advice from university from IP Group in 2017.
Generating Genius used the admissions staff.
Generating Genius was supported first tranche of funding to help support 50 newly by staff from the University of Bath, Imperial College recruited students in Year 10 from a range of schools London and the independent school sector to deliver across London, all with a passion for science: this programme.
Support was also provided to y 60% of the new cohort is female students to help them make informed choices with a session on Alternatives to Medicine, supported y 64% have previously are currently claiming free by Queen Mary, University of London.
Students school meals were challenged to think beyond medicine and y 38% will be the first in their family to go to learned about other diverse university disciplines university related to science and engineering, led by a Student y 28% come from local areas with the lowest Ambassador.
A list of the other charities that IP participation in higher education.
Group has supported to date can be found on the Groups website: www.
56 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business ethics Social and Governance ESG practices.
The Environmental policy FTSE4Good indices are used by a wide variety of While we believe the direct environmental impact market participants to create and assess responsible of IP Group plc and its subsidiary companies is investment funds and other products.
relatively small, the Group is committed to ensuring the environmental impacts of our business operations GHG reporting remain as low as possible.
We recognise our The section below includes our mandatory reporting responsibility to ensure that the business operates of greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting period is in an environmentally responsible and sustainable the same as the Groups financial year.
Employees are encouraged to reduce their impact on the environment by hosting meetings Organisation boundary and via video conference where possible, thereby only scope of emissions engaging in business travel when necessary, using public transport and by minimising the usage of We have reported on all of the emission sources paper by using the recycling facilities provided in required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic our offices.
While the Board as a whole has primary Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. responsibility for environmental issues, it has These sources fall within our consolidated financial allocated day-to-day responsibility for the review of statement.
environmental and social issues to the Chief Financial An operational control approach has been used in Officer, Greg Smith.
order to define our organisational boundary.
This In addition, major investment themes for IP Group have is the basis for determining the Scope 1, 2 and 3 included, and will continue to include, areas which have emissions for which the Group is responsible.
the potential to develop technologies which could For avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions result in significant environmental benefits.
from our investment subsidiary companies.
Management believes the approach taken best Organisation boundary and captures the emissions for which the Group is directly scope of emissions responsible and has control over.
The following section includes our mandatory Methodology reporting of greenhouse gas emissions.
The reporting period is the same as the Groups financial year.
We The Group has employed the services of a specialist have reported on all of the emission sources required adviser, Verco, to quantify the GHG emissions under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and associated with the Groups operations.
These sources The following methodology was applied by Verco in fall within our consolidated financial statement.
An the preparation and presentation of this data: operational control approach has been used in order to define our organisational boundary.
This is the y use of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol published basis for determining the Scope 1 and 2 emissions for by the World Business Council for Sustainable which the Group is responsible.
Development and the World Resources Institute the WBCSD WRI GHG Protocol : For avoidance of doubt, this excludes any emissions y application of Defra emission factors to the from our investment subsidiary companies.
Groups activities to calculate GHG emissions: Management believe the approach taken best captures the emissions for which the Group is directly y application of location-based and market-based responsible and has control over.
Scope 2 emissions factors for electricity supplies: y inclusion of all the applicable Kyoto gases, FTSE Russell the trading name of FTSE International 2 expressed in carbon dioxide equivalents, or CO e: Limited and Frank Russell Company confirms that IP Group Plc has been independently assessed y presentation of gross emissions as the Group does according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has not purchase carbon credits or equivalents.
satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index provider FTSE Russell, the FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies demonstrating strong Environmental, 57 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Our business ethics and social responsibility CONTINUED Absolute emissions Intensity ratio The total greenhouse emissions from IP Group plcs As well as reporting the absolute emissions, the operations in the financial year 2017 year ending Groups GHG emissions are reported below on the 31 December 2017 were: metric of tonnes per square metre of occupied office space.
This is considered the most appropriate metric Location-based: given that the majority of emissions result from the 1,275.1 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e 2 2 operation of the Groups offices and the day-to-day activities of the employees.
Market-based: 1,249.8 tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e 2 2 Target and baselines There were significant changes to the companys Given the comparatively low GHG impact of the operations since 2016.
The Group acquired Parkwalk Groups operations, the Groups objective is to Advisors and Touchstone Innovations during 2017. maintain or reduce its GHG per square metre of office The Group changed office locations in London, space each year and will report each year whether it Sheffield and the US.
The head office in London was has been successful in this regard.
based at two locations for four months of the year.
There has been an increase in Scope 1 emissions For 2017, the intensity metric using the location-based 2 due to natural gas use.
Scope 2 emissions have also method has decreased from 0.09 tCO e per m to 2 2 increased, although there has been a reduction in 0.04 tCO e per m. The main source of this decrease 2 district heating due to the Sheffield office move.
The is from Scope 2 emissions.
This is due to a reduction most significant change was a reduction in Scope 3 in the carbon intensity of the electricity grid in the emissions due to changes in business travel and also United Kingdom.
There was also an increase in The 2017 intensity metric using the market-based emissions from employee commuting.
2 method decreased slightly from 0.04 tCO e per m to 2 2 0.03 tCO e per m. 2 Key figures IP Group emissions by scope tC0 e 2 22.0 134.7 1,093.0 2017 market-based 22.0 160.0 1,093.0 2017 location-based 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 58 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business ethics 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes CO e CO e CO e CO e CO e CO e 2 2 2 2 2 2 GHG emissions 1 Scope 1 22 4.7 127.7 0.00 0.01 0.15 2 Scope 2 location-based 160 74.9 97.7 0.03 0.09 0.12 2 Scope 2 market-based 135 24.6 0.03 0.03 Subtotal location-based 182.1 79.7 225.3 0.04 0.09 0.27 Subtotal market-based 156.8 29.4 0.03 0.04 3 Scope 3 1,093.0 3,093.5 235.2 Total GHG emissions Location-based Scope 2 1,275.1 3,173.2 460.5 Total GHG emissions Marketbased Scope 2 1,249.8 3,122.9 1 Scope 1 being emissions from the Groups combustion of fuel and operation of facilities.
2 Scope 2 being electricity from location-based calculations, heat, steam and cooling purchased for the Groups own use.
3 Scope 3 being all indirect emissions not in scope 2 that occur in the value chain of the reporting company, including both upstream and 2 downstream emissions 2017 114 employees & 4,706 m office space 2017 2016 2015 Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes Waste production Landfill waste 0.6 1.2 6.7 Recycled waste 2.1 2.1 2.1 Total Waste 2.7 3.3 8.8 Board approval The Strategic Report as set out on pages 7 to 59 has been approved by the Board.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD MIKE HUMPHREY 29 March 2018 59 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Develop To develop and support these opportunities into a diversified portfolio of robust businesses 60 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine OUR GOVERNANCE Overview Board of directors 62 Corporate governance statement 64 Committee reports Directors remuneration report 80 Report of the audit and risk committee 100 Other statutory Directors report 105 Statement of directors responsibilities 107 61 Stock Code: IPO www.
