Corporate and social responsibility Hansteen continues to support the interns from previous years intakes who secured permanent jobs as Graduate Surveyors.
comprehensive view of asset management Environment so that their learning experience as well as In line with Hansteens policy of being their employability after graduation is environmentally and sociably responsible, enhanced.
environmental legislation and relevant Record number codes of practice are adhered to.
Where In 2017, we utilised a variety of recruitment possible, Hansteen seeks to reduce sources so that we could widen our appeal offemale emissions and pollution.
Details of our to female applicants and this resulted in a Greenhouse Gas emissions are detailed record number of female interns.
inthe Directors Report on page 51.
Hansteen continues to support the interns Community from previous years intakes who secured permanent jobs as Graduate Surveyors.
By Hansteen continues to support local and sponsoring their development, Hansteen national charities.
Regular events are held has helped four people to successfully ineach office to support charitable causes.
complete their Assessment of Professional We will support staff who voluntarily give Competence APC.
The APC gives the uptheir time to participate in charitable interns the practical training and experience programmes during working hours.
which, when combined with academic Wecontinue to offer work experience qualifications leads to full RICS membership.
opportunities to local schools in London.
This sponsorship involves providing the interns with peer-to-peer learning, People workshops, senior mentorship and mock The present and future success of Hansteen interview panels.
We expect a further five is dependent upon its ability to recruit, staff to qualify in 2018. motivate, manage and retain appropriately qualified staff.
We continue to seek new and innovative ways to enhance our support of the regional This year our summer internship universities.
We have conducted student programme provided opportunities for a workshops designed and led by our Asset number of students to join the teams in Managers and for the past three years we ourregional offices and gain hands-on have joined course leaders on judging panels experience in many aspects of Asset to formally assess student presentations.
Hansteen recruited six paid providing direct and constructive feedback, interns across the United Kingdom offering we aim to support and stretch the students them the chance to work closely with our personal and professional development in experienced members of staff.
The scheme board room and interview scenarios.
is designed to offer the interns a Underpinned by our values Trust Entrepreneurship Excellence Teamwork We are We forge We strive Our people are honest, opportunities for excellence at the heart of open and by considering in everything our success direct in our investment that we do dealings prospects from multiple angles 16 Hansteen Holdings PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial statements Equality and Diversity Hansteen has a diverse workforce and As at 31 December 2017, the composition of Hansteens employees, including both commitment to being an equal Executive and Non-Executive Directors, was as follows: opportunities employer.
We understand Number Percentage that the performance and engagement of Male Female Male Female our employees is critical to our business success.
We hire people from a multitude Directors including Non-Executive Directors 5 2 71 29 ofbackgrounds and our training takes a Senior managers 4 2 69 31 comprehensive and personal approach All other sta 37 33 53 47 allowing us to focus on matching the right people to the right roles.
Our employment policies and practices reect a culture where decisions are made solely on the basis of treats individuals with dignity and allows individual capability and potential in relation freedom of association.
We value the to the needs of the business.
contribution of each and every one of our employees and together we have created We are committed to providing equal aninspiring working environment where opportunities and an entirely noneveryone is engaged, motivated and safe discriminatory working environment.
from discrimination so they can full Ourdiversity policy aims to ensure that theirpotential.
noj ob applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment because of gender, All employees are eligible to participate in marital status, race, age, sexual preference, career development and promotion religion, belief or disability.
Support also exists for arebased on the merits of the individual employees who become disabled to concerned.
The Group is dedicated to continue in their employment or to be undertaking its business operations in a retrained for other suitable roles.
waywhich respects individual human rights, 17
