CEO Overview of the Year continued In January 2017 we completed We made four bolt-on acquisitions Enhancing the quality of the the Allworld acquisition, which during 2017 for 13.6m as detailed Events portfolio further strengthened our on page 43.
The pipeline for Central to the Events First strategy market-leading position in Asia and has further acquisitions remains good, and since and to delivering the strategic secured a leadership position in the the year-end we have completed two objectives, is a focus on enhancing the high-growth ASEAN region.
Right across acquisitions, Creativity in China and Canal quality of the portfolio: organically Asia and India the key macro driver of Energia in Brazil, for a combined initial through improving performance, growth is an expanding and increasingly consideration of 9.6m.
inorganically through acquisition and affluent middle class and it is this that 2017 was the final year of the by rationalising and or disposing of provides a platform for long-term growth three-year programme to dispose underperforming events and nonfor the business in Asia.
of or rationalise smaller, loweraligned OMS activities.
Allworld's portfolio of large, marketmargin, lower-growth events and OMS UBM's growth reflects, in large part, the leading events improved the overall activities that are not well-aligned health of the sectors we serve.
We focus growth and margin profile of the Group to Events.
on maximizing the growth performance and the high level of geographic and During the year we rationalised or disposed of individual events or groups of events sectoral complementarity will allow strong of 37 events and various OMS activities also known as Brands and on improving revenue synergy generation, starting in which had generated 21.5m of Events the growth potential of the portfolio by 2018.
The integration is progressing well revenue and 18.5m of OMS revenue in acquiring events in higher-growth sectors with performance ahead of the business 2016.
This rationalisation programme has with a bias in favour of higher-growth case.
The Return on Investment ROI enhanced the Group operating margin geographies.
See Market Context on of 6.3% in 2017 is slightly ahead of our and contributed to Group operating profit.
pages 69. expectations and we are confident of Since year-end we have disposed of a delivering on ROI greater than the risknumber of small media assets serving the adjusted WACC in 2019, as set out when US Fashion and UK Construction sectors.
In 2017 these contributed 7.5m of revenue to OMS and 0.9m to Events.
Going forward, while we shall continue to review the portfolio to optimize it, we expect the level of rationalization to be lower and for it to reflect normal cycling of events.
As such, we will no longer publish an adjusted underlying growth rate and focus on the underlying growth rate.
HOFEX Growth Exemplifies Benefits of Allworld Acquisition HOFEX, Asias leading food and hospitality biennial tradeshow, has been bringing delicacies from all over the world to Asia for 30 years.
HOFEX 2017 broke all previous records welcoming more than 2,650 exhibitors from 72 countries and regions.
It also expanded to debut ProWine Asia the leading international trade fair for wine and spirits.
In aggregate HOFEX attracted more than 39,000 trade buyers including c. 56% growth in buyers from South China which we had targeted, with support from UBM Sinoexpo.
Overseas buyers grew by more than 17% with strong growth from Macao, Allworld has Taiwan, Philippines and Korea.
improved the overall profile of the Group UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements During 2017 we continued to This detail-driven approach now Events Adjusted address performance at the extends to our event launches KPI Underlying Growth individual event and Brand level.
and in 2017 a more structured Events where growth rates are below launch process was implemented.
acceptable levels are now held in the During the year we launched 21 new 5.3% spotlight with incentives for those events, the largest being CPhI North 2016: 3.1% responsible more closely aligned to their America which, exceptionally, reached improvement.
Overall, the performance Platinum status 5m p. a. in its of these spotlight events improved first year.
KPI acquisitions Overall 'Major' events 1m p. a.
Events in the Fashion sector, which generated 89% of Annual represents c. 17% of the portfolio Events revenues.
13.6m proforma for Allworld and including all We focus on 'Major' events because 2016: 82.7m biennials, contracted by approximately they tend to grow faster, deliver higher 4.9% reflecting structural change in the margins and are more resilient.
In 2017 supply chain, away from wholesale to both the adjusted and underlying Revenues rationalised e-commerce transactions.
revenue growth of these 'Major' events KPI or disposed The second iteration of our was 6% compared with portfolio average Event Plan process, by which all of 5.3% and 3.6% respectively.
Major events delivering 1m 40.0m revenue p. a. establish a strategy for 2016: 19.8m investment, growth and profitability over the next three years, was further developed.
Financial plans are a part of Annual Events revenue the Event Plan so that commitments can KPI from Major events be tracked.
At a divisional and Group senior management level an element of long- 89% term incentives are attached to the 2016: 86% revenue performance derived from the Event Plans.
CPhl North America Launch CPhI is the leading marketplace for end-to-end pharmaceutical manufacturing and the Brand is already very well established, serving 100,000 professionals at events in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East.
The extension into North America in 2017 was part of a geographic expansion strategy for the brand that has also seen launches in China, India, Korea and Japan.
The strategy was to leverage audience from a much smaller event in an adjacent part of the market Infomex, bringing the trusted CPHI brand to the North American market.
Data, expertise and customer insight was drawn from the existing CPhI business and from the Life Sciences and Advanced Manufacturing brands which are strong in North America.
Key results: 7,500 visitors versus goal of 6,000 2,400 pre-scheduled meetings Sold out show floor with 630 exhibitors 75% of total exhibitor sales revenue was rebooked on-site for 2018 edition UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 CEO Overview of the Year continued These post show surveys are Since Improving the operational complemented by additional engagement introducing performance of the business with the industries we serve including Events First We continued work on improving topic specific surveys, focus groups and we have prioritised the Sales Excellence the operational performance of advisory boards.
This allows us to innovate SX programme.
During the year, we the business.
and enhance the customer experience extended the adoption of our standard and relevance of the event in a way which sales model piloted and proven in EMEA Significant improvement initiatives are meets customers' needs for example to Asia and planned for the roll-out in the often multi-dimensional in nature and as we have done with our Fashion events, Americas in 2018. connect the different strategic priorities detailed below.
identified when the Events First The SX programme comprises a strategy was launched annotated using We also use reorganisation of the sales function, the icons.
customer insight to standardised training in line with a price more effectively.
standard sales model, as well as the Customer insight, particularly Our approach to Value Based Pricing is roll-out of a common Salesforce post show surveys which derived from an in-depth six-plus month CRM platform.
measure Net Promoter Scores insight process, which identifies the price NPS and Customer Satisfaction CSAT In 2017 a further 137 people in EMEA elasticity of customers for the products scores, are conducted at the end of every and in Asia joined the SX programme, as and services we provide.
In 2017 we event and aggregated at the Brand, we extended the delivery of the model implemented it at Black Hat, the first time regional and Group level.
As well as in EMEA and rolled-out in Turkey, Hong for an attendee based revenue stream.
providing insight to the event leaders as Kong and Guangzhou.
they revise their Events Plans it provides an early warning for 'spotlight' events which might need greater management oversight.
The NPS and CSAT scores in aggregate improved in 2017 as illustrated in the figures to the right.
Expansion of Fashion into Lifestyle Products Traditional, large format, brick-and-mortar retail in the US is facing challenges.
In response to this, the Fashion team identified that retailers are extending their offerings beyond apparel into a broader Lifestyle offering.
Accordingly the Fashion team now sells a 'Lifestyle' option a branded experience including home goods, technology, and beauty products.
In the face of market change, and to help customers respond, UBMs Fashion events have innovated aggressively, using partnerships to shift fast.
The Project Womens event in Las Vegas, August 2017, included a 3,000-square foot marketplace featuring between 20 and 30 brands focused around apothecary, home, tech accessories and giftable items.
The new area, from partner Coeur, helped educate retailers on whats available and how to incorporate new product categories into their ready-to-wear and accessory lines.
We also launched an educational series, in 2017 we introduced Value Based SWIMLESSONS, which has expanded its reach Pricing at Black Hat using live video streaming.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Now 28% of Asia event revenues are The proportion of learning and KPI Uplift in NPS Visitors on the common CRM platform and this development training directed to will grow in 2018 as it rolls out further in improving capability in sales and Asia and the Americas.
Detailed below marketing remains high at 69% 3.9pts you can see that in the EMEA business commensurate with the focus on the 2016: 2.4pts we are now seeing improvements in sales SX and MX programmes.
In parallel Uplift in NPS Exhibitors KPI As part of the SX programme, in EMEA with these the sales organisation structure has been two projects changed to increase sales specialisation, we launched the Data Excellence DX 5.2pts improve sales leadership, to increase the programme.
The aim is to significantly 2016: 21.3pts span of control and reduce the number of enhance the quality of the data we hold, organisational layers.
which is the foundation of the actionable insight upon which our Events A similar Uplift in CSAT scores business relies.
approach is KPI Visitors being adopted The DX team are focusing on enhancing to enhance marketing performance.
the processes for collecting, storing, cleansing, connecting and enriching our 3.2% During 2017 we completed the planning data while respecting regulations and 2016: 1.8% for Marketing Excellence MX including privacy, including GDPR.
a standard marketing model and selected Eloqua as the enabling technology.
Uplift in CSAT scores In 2018 the roll-out of the marketing Exhibitors KPI model and the automation technology will begin in EMEA and Americas.
2.3% 2016: 4.1% Sales Excellence and Outcomes to Date The SX operating model establishes best-in-class standards across the global Group providing a platform for growth at scale.
The success of the Sales Excellence model is already evident in EMEA, which began its transition in 2016 under Nina Wright, with accelerated organic growth, a reduced cost of sales and record new business generation.
Since launch there has been a 15% improvement in efficiency for EMEA events on the platform As an example - for a specific show we saw: 11% improvement in average monthly new business revenue year-on-year 9% improvement in average monthly conversion rate year-on-year Following on from the recent successes in EMEA, where we are seeing signs of growth, we expect to see improvement across the business as we normalise and build expertise in new ways of selling, says Richard OConnor, who leads the effort globally.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 CEO Overview of the Year continued During the year the Board We have continued Additional people joined the approved a new technology to capitalise on the KPI SX programme strategy based on common benefits of the single standard platforms, partnering for Oracle ERP system.
Business partnering non-critical applications and a shift with the finance function has improved 137 in the proportion of spend towards with greater access to real-time event technology.
Building on the common platforms, the Asia Event revenues now running We have begun rolling-out the use of shared services has extended and, on common CRM platform KPI information technology target operating alongside the Allworld integration, a model to service and support the shared services centre for Asia was organization in a more effective and established in 2017.
This will improve 28% customer facing way.
A new leadership the financial control in the region.
2016: 0% structure has been established and changes to the technology organisation The procurement programme are now being implemented.
The first generated further savings and UBM Americas Event websites on outsourcing project will complete in 2018. secured another 3.7m of common CMS platform annualised savings during 2017 to bring We have continued to extend the total procurement savings including use of technology at the event synergies to 10.3m per annum.
level and to standardise and 89% Particular areas of focus include IT integrate it into business systems as 2016: 81% procurement and venue contracts.
Use of Supplier Finder, Orbit, We have renegotiated 43 venue contracts Touchplan and other tools help improve during the year which delivered enhanced the customer experience whilst Annualised procurement savings value and improved risk positions.
simultaneously providing our teams with valuable insights.
In order to focus investment on growth at the event level, zero cost budgeting 10.3m During 2017 the migration of our event across a number of events has proved 2016: 6.6m websites onto the UBM standard platform effective in ensuring value is delivered has continued, generating cost savings for customers and shareholders.
Growth in Mature Events: A Sleep Case Study Already a decade old, The Sleep team has made a science of crafting unique marketing opportunities for clients that also improve the customer experience.
At this years event, Moscows Studio Sundukovy Sisters, known for their trendsetting bars and restaurants, made a glamorous splash with this years Sleeper Bar raising their profile while keeping the crowds of attendees happy.
It can sometimes be hard to draw attention to new features at the show given the regularity of visitors who have the added distraction of mobiles and the melee of meetings that typify a tradeshow.
Working with UBMs experts, Modulex conceived and delivered a theme around awaken: awaken your mindat the conference, awaken your senses at the bar, awaken your curiosity at the exhibition, and awaken your imagination at the annual design competition.
Less is more the team reduced the amount of signage, using the text to disrupt and wake the visitor.
Through such creative product development and partnering and the rich understanding of the audience Sleep keeps growing.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Throughout the period since 2014 the Strategic investment People and Sustainability returns from acquisitions have delivered yielding returns A high-performing, engaged and in line or ahead of their acquisition cases.
diverse team of people is key to The good returns on the Events First delivering the Events First strategy.
The 2017 ROI on bolt-on acquisitions investment reflects the opportunity made in each of 2015, 2016, 2017 was for improvement.
As illustrated in our business model on 11.3%, 13.9% and 9.4% respectively.
pages 1011 one of UBM's key assets are When announced in 2014, the Events the skills and endeavours of our people.
The return in 2017 on the Advanstar First investment was originally estimated acquisition was 9.5%, a reduction on at 30m35m split between strategic Our 2017 results reflect, in large part, the 10.7% return delivered in 2016, opex and capital expenditure over the the hard work, dedication and enthusiasm as the pressures on the Fashion and period 2015 to 2017, with overall savings of UBMers around the world, for which Life Sciences sectors fed through into expected to be 10m p. a. building I want to say a huge thank you.
During 2017 we have made further On Allworld, which is performing ahead However, the savings have been realised progress in developing a High of the business case, the ROI in 2017 was significantly faster than was originally Performing Culture.
We remain confident of a return expected and the opportunity for savings We improved the organisational capability exceeding the risk adjusted cost of capital was greater than had been originally within the Group, providing specialist by the third year of ownership 2019. foreseen.
Accordingly, the investment skills training particularly in sales and was increased to 40m45m with marketing and a much stronger focus targeted savings of 20m by the end of on performance management.
At the end of 2017, total Events First programme spend of 34.3m has Incentives continue to be adjusted delivered cumulative savings of 15.8m, to be more weighted towards the at an annualised run rate of 17.0m.
financial performance of the business.
Senior leadership within the business is empowered and expected to be bolder and to innovate and is now rewarded for outstanding performance.
Gamifying Sustainability to Engage Employees UBM staff believe in the importance of sustainability and are regular volunteers in the communities in which they live and work.
This is actively supported by the sustainability team in UBM who, in addition to driving environmental initiatives, are tasked with improving the role of community engagement across our events.
Community work can sometimes still seem quite separate from the day-to-day and its not easy for everyone to participate ie home workers or those in roles less directly tied to a specific event.
To help embed the sustainability ethos throughout the organisation in 2017, we experimented with gamification.
Our intranet, The Hub, already grants employees points based on their sharing and engagement in the business.
A high-profile, business-wide leaderboard shows who has the most points.
Employees were invited to donate their points to one of three, staffselected not-for-profit organisations.
At the end of the process Orbis, E-Nable and IMC each received a share of the 25k donation from UBM based on the points donated see page 26.
The idea was to reinforce the mental shift from Hub points status to generosity whilst having some fun!
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19
