Corporate social responsibility Alfas commitment to the market, our stakeholders and our communities Our CSR agenda underpins a business imperative that supports customer loyalty and Alfas competitive advantage Our team Our diversity Our training We appreciate diversity We invest in our people, and treat everyone equally throughout their careers We have embedded Over the coming months we The Alfa team are This is not just about programmes to support and are building on our Women remunerated well, enjoy an expanding technical promote all diversity across in Tech initiatives.
Our excellent benefits package, knowledge as there is an the whole Company.
We are a inclusion group also runs a and are supported to develop equal focus on soft skills and proud member of Stonewall, number of talks each year to the career they want.
the LGBT rights charity, have raise awareness, challenge We have held the Investors a 33% female representation perceptions and encourage In People award continuously at Board level and 29% on our healthy debate on diversity since 1994.
topics that impact our people and our communities.
Our culture Our internal communication Our culture and heritage Engagement and alignment with are very important to us core goals for all Alfa staff are key As demonstrated in our 95% Our culture is inspired by Our global quarterly Company We also hold numerous retention rate, we take pride collaboration and the sharing meetings give the opportunity team and Company events in creating a great place to of ideas, knowledge, expertise for transparent and clear throughout the year.
An environment where and networks.
communications, from the Hackathons are great the whole Alfa team can be senior management but also examples of inspirational themselves and can achieve for the entire Alfa team to events that encourage their best work.
share their views and ideas.
44 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Turn over to read in more detail how we put this into practice Our community Our customers Our suppliers Our customers Mutual trust is at the heart are our top priority of our supplier relationships Innovation is embedded in We actively listen to feedback, We source ethically and focus We insist on integrity, honesty our culture and we take pride react and respond to it and on working with suppliers who and fairness in all aspects of in using this focus to help our always follow through on we can trust to do as we do.
our business and we expect customers excel.
It is important A genuine relationship built our suppliers to be as diligent.
that we understand the same on respect is essential for us We achieve this by working Maintaining a sustainable values as our customers values to proceed with shared in partnership with them, business is also important and and that we grow and evolve business activities.
collaborating at every level, we work with suppliers who with them.
including, and especially, on We are committed to working also wish to carry out business the smaller details.
with suppliers who source in an environmentally and ethically and whom we can social responsible manner.
trust to continue to do so.
Our next generation Our charities We actively encourage next generation growth Our support is not just monetary as we are in our industry to make the world better, open committed to a continuing provision of our and more connected teams time and expertise.
Our endorsement of the Through the programme We support a number of for the local environments Leasing Foundations young we offer support, advice charitable causes by offering we operate in but also gives professional initiative, and importantly connections our time and expertise as well the Alfa team the chance to including our CEOs significant to young people who are as financial donations.
engage with the community ongoing involvement, just starting out in the and feel like we can and are We believe that supporting demonstrates our focus business world.
charities locally not only on the importance of the provides crucial resource next generation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 45 Corporate social responsibility continued We believe that our activities should positively impact the lives of the wider community Our key Our values Our people Our focus is always on delivering the Ethical conduct stakeholders highest value to customers.
How we We launched a revised code of in 2017 are: achieve this is very much about how we conduct in 2017 to address the treat each other, our customers and our changing landscape and also to Our customers wider stakeholders.
To be excellent in educate our team on unlawful and our industry you need to combine high unethical conduct.
We have a zero Our people standards of service with a responsible tolerance for corrupt behaviour and respectful approach to delivery and among our employees.
We aim to fulfil this in whistleblowing team provides a numerous ways: safe environment to report concerns Our communities regarding unethical behaviour and we We strive to do the right thing and encourage employees to do so in we pride ourselves on building trusted good faith.
Since launch of the team relationships.
We are always happy Staff retention rate and the reporting line, we have had to hear from our customers and we no reports.
remain committed to finding the right 95% solution if things dont go smoothly.
Building skills and promoting creativity and innovation Its important that we use our voice Creating the next Alfa Leadership to drive improvements in the industry, Amounts donated team is key to our ongoing success including transparency around and during 2017 we have taken steps inclusion and diversity.
We aim to be to develop our team members with clear, forthright and proactive in this 74,000 leadership potential, devise a plan area.
Our CEO actively champions for succession of key roles and also inclusion, particularly in his directorial reinvigorate our internal learning and role at the Leasing Foundation.
In 2018, profiled the topic at many industry we expect to launch a new learning forums and events.
and development platform which Constantly innovating and developing will provide individual Alfa team our technology is also a fundamental members with a tailored learning part of our value infrastructure.
ensures we continue to serve our customers and the market well.
Listening to our people Our quarterly internal survey Our charitable activities and donations allows formal feedback and we raised over 74,000 in 2017.
All funds have a dedicated team who raised have helped make a difference review and assess the results to peoples lives and wellbeing.
We are before responding and acting on also looking to expand our CSR agenda the feedback received.
Additionally, internationally as we increase our our internal leadership blogs and global footprint.
comments provide a valuable realtime communication channel.
46 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information A lfa US Hackathon, September 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Inclusion, diversity and collaboration We recognise that innovation comes Weve grown from a Our Diversity Policy is stated on page 62 from teams where diversity and small operation to to this Annual Report and has been rolled individual strengths are celebrated, down throughout the organisation.
therefore we continue to support and become a global player, We remain committed to recruiting the aim to develop each and every Alfa team but have kept our focus right person for each role, regardless of member, understanding and recognising gender, ethnicity or background.
the individual strengths they bring to on the contribution and the larger Alfa team.
During 2017 the diversity of the Alfa development of each global workforce increased, with women Our investors individual on the team.
now representing 25% of the workforce Subsequent to Admission, we have 2016: 24%.
At Board level, women embarked on a journey to get to know Establishment of CSR teams globally make up 33% and on the Executive our investors and to help them fully 2017 saw the continuation of our CSR Committee, 29%.
To achieve initiative in the UK.
The US team also this we have welcomed a number of our Gender pay gap established a team in 2017, with the aim investor teams to our head office in The Alfa gender mean pay gap for 2017 of establishing stronger links with the London, all of whom have had a chance stands at 19%.
This is largely on par with communities in which they work.
to see our development centre at work the UKs national average and exists and meet with the senior leadership Total reward due to the lower number of women at team.
This has provided an insight into Our bonus structure is developed to be senior levels.
Excluding the impacts of how we operate and we welcome any equitable, recognising that each and demographics the mean pay gap would other teams who want to see first-hand every one of our team contributes to the have been 2%.
Additionally in 2018, we Therefore we are committed to will launch our programme of Long-Term continued support of women returning Incentive Plans and share savings plans, to work after maternity leave, shared with the goal of increasing employee parental leave, flexible working and shareholding, and therefore increasing family days to ensure we continue to employee engagement.
support the concept of the Alfa family in our culture.
48 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our communities Reducing the amount of waste All employees are Supporting the next generation generated by employees.
For instance encouraged to take It is very important to us to continue we have just introduced A Lunch Box encouraging and supporting the next initiative whereby team members use an active part in the generation and we have a long and an Alfa-supplied lunch container when schemes we offer, deep relationship with Women in Tech, buying hot food for lunch.
The an organisation which provides guidance container is then washed and and volunteers range and support to women either seeking re-used the next day, eliminating in seniority from Junior to enter or operating in the the waste of one-use packaging technology sector.
Increasing the air quality of the office We also support our local schools through having a greater number and Gillian Bray through donations to or participation variety of plants.
Head of HR in events and programmes run by organisations such as the Diana Awards, Greenhouse Gas Emissions the Literacy Trust and the Computers The Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG to Schools programme.
disclosures for the Group have been shown for the year ended 31 December Reducing the impact we have an average consumption for the property 2017, which is the first year they are on the environment type and area leased.
We do not select or presented.
The calculation of the We all have a role to play in reducing control the provision of electricity.
We disclosures has been performed in our impact on the environment and have chosen to show the intensity ratio accordance with the Greenhouse Gas while we believe our carbon footprint measured as tonnes of CO equivalent Protocol Corporate Standard and using 2 is relatively small as a company in the per million of revenue as it reflects the the UK Governments DEFRA conversion technology sector, we know that it is impact of the growth of the business on factor guidance in relation to 2017. small things which will protect the health the immediate surroundings.
of the environment in which we live.
We The Alfa operations that primarily are committed to reducing, reusing and release GHG include the usage of 2017 recycling as much as possible in our tCO E electricity at our leased offices and 2 offices across the world.
As this is the first time Usage of fuel and operation of buildings 140 that Alfa has reported on its GHG Our green focus in the coming year emissions, we are continuing to develop Electricity purchased will be on: for own use the GHG data gathering capabilities.
Increasing the percentage of waste Therefore, the 2017 data covers our Air travel 550 that is recycled within Alfa.
leased headquarters in London assuming Total 690 Intensity ratio tCO e per 2 million of revenue 7.9 Giving back Over 2017 the Alfa team participated in a number of giving back schemes, from donating to Christmas foodbanks to Macmillan Cancer bake sales to sponsorship for sporting events.
We have donated and matched funds in excess of 50,000 and have just implemented a payroll giving scheme, available to all Alfa team members.
Modern slavery assessment During 2017 we have undertaken an assessment of our suppliers to ensure that we contract and work with ethical providers.
We have trained our key procurement team in relation to the relevant requirements and regulations and also developed an ethical procurement policy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Alfa Financial Software Holdings PLC 49
