STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At GKN, we aim to have a positive effect on all the many stakeholders and communities with which we interact.
Our people are our source of success and it is through them that our relationships are forged.
Their activity creates many different interactions every year on every level: international and local: customer and supplier: technical and commercial.
In a world where supply chains are long and complex, and distractions are many, this is never easy.
At its heart, our collective behaviour relies on GKN people doing the right thing.
In Lean Doing the right thing manufacturing we have already seen success, but there will always be more to do and we Our core value can be summed up in one are in the process of developing initiatives simple phrase: doing the right thing.
to accelerate it throughout all our facilities.
By our people All this takes new skills.
But it also relies on We believe in: all GKN people taking responsibility for their providing a safe working environment actions and being accountable for the respecting the rights of others outcomes.
And it is in this regard that we have developing our people work to do to ensure that this is engrained at speaking up when we see behaviour every level of our organisation.
During 2018, Anne Stevens which is wrong.
we will be conducting a cultural review, linked Chief Executive to employee engagement, which will identify See pages 42 to 46 about how we do the right thing by our people where we need to focus cultural change.
Since joining the GKN Board in 2016, I have This will involve speaking to employees across visited many locations and spoken with many the business to highlight issues of concern.
As a business of our people, and have been impressed by We will then create an action plan based on their skill, diligence and attitude.
The right the results to make improvements.
We believe in: processes and systems often help them creating a high performance business Creating a culture where people take succeed but, in some cases, we need to better honest and proper conduct.
ownership of results, where people are embed these into our ways of working.
accountable for how these are delivered and See pages 47 and 48 about how we do the right thing as a business Looking forward, and as part of our new where pace and quality are a way of life is strategy, our operations need to be more central to the success of Project Boost, and efficient.
We must eliminate waste, build therefore to the success of our business.
In our world capability and strengthen business processes This starts at the top and I know that the for sustainable, consistent long term results.
We believe in: Executive team and their senior teams will This is the starting point to help us create helping to protect the environment provide the sort of inspirational leadership a sustainable successful business culture.
supporting local communities we need to get this done.
Supporting this, we constantly need to upgrade capabilities and skills.
The world is changing and See pages 49 to 51 about how we do the right we need to be able to exploit these changes for thing in our world the benefit of stakeholders.
Of course, a big element of this is becoming leaders in Industry 4.0, increasing our level of automation and growing our use of analytical data to make gkn.
com 41 Sustainability report continued Our people At GKN, our policy of doing the right thing by our people means promoting a safe working environment, respecting the rights of others, developing our employees, encouraging a diverse workforce and building an environment where people feel comfortable speaking up if they see behaviour which is wrong.
This approach helps GKN develop an outstanding team recruiting the very best talent and creating a workforce of engaged colleagues around the world.
Providing a safe working environment The health and safety of our people is our 2017 performance 2018 priorities number one priority.
We are committed to A fatal accident occurred in one of our Continue development and deployment providing a safe working environment and our plants in Italy.
of our behavioural safety programmes goal is zero preventable accidents.
we regret that a fatal accident occurred during Group health and safety performance 2017.
An employee at the GKN Wheels plant declined when compared with 2016.
Implement our Design for Safety in Italy suffered a fatal crush injury resulting programme for manufacturing Continued focus on proactive near miss from a fall of material.
We deeply regret this engineering.
reporting showed a 23% increase loss of life and have provided support to all year-on-year.
Deploy ISO 45001 those involved with the incident and the family replacing OHSAS 18001. of the deceased.
A full investigation has been 59 independent health, safety and carried out and lessons learnt have been environment audits globally.
Fully deploy the global contractor incorporated into our processes and systems accreditation programme.
Continued deployment of our global safety Group-wide.
programme to Both our accident frequency rate AFR and incorporate latest e-learning techniques Group preparation for ISO 45001 our accident severity rate ASR increased to further enhance employee engagement international standard for occupational slightly during 2017 7% and 5% respectively and interaction.
when compared with 2016 the 2016 base line has been adjusted to include Fokker which is Our global contractor accreditation now fully incorporated into GKN health, safety programme successfully piloted in India and environmental HSE reporting.
We have with plans to roll out globally in 2018. continually reduced AFR and ASR for a Our catastrophic risk reduction programme number of years and, while this reversal in BowTie further strengthened risk progress is disappointing, the reasons can prevention and mitigation at relevant sites.
be isolated to specific businesses where the underlying factors are well understood and A small number of health and safety have been addressed.
We are confident we enforcement actions were recorded in the can re-establish progress in 2018.
During year incurring total penalties of 30,600.
2017, we continued to focus on proactive measures such as near miss incident reporting, with 27,900 near misses reported this year 2016: 22,600.
These are a key leading indicator of potential incidents and reporting 42 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION is vital in allowing us to avoid future accidents.
catastrophic risk management programme We will further enhance this programme based on the BowTie model with further during 2018 to incorporate next level reporting site-based training, increasing the number 7% of hazards identified.
of risk assessments and implementing appropriate corrective actions.
is the Increase in AFR to 1.15 2016: 1.07 cornerstone of our approach to collectively Virtually all our manufacturing sites continue engage all employees in the improvement to be certified to the health and safety of health and safety across the Group.
standard OHSAS 18001 or equivalent, and thinkSAFE!
covers key health and safety having started preparations during 2017, will 5% topics that are highlighted from constant see the progression towards certification to Increase in ASR to 21 2016: 20 analysis of all incidents across the Group.
the new ISO 45001 standard during 2018.
In 2017 this resulted in the development of new ebrochures to raise awareness of Dont WALK BY!, hazards to health, fall of material, slips, trips and falls, plus an 27,900 environmental ebrochure on water usage.
A further refinement in 2018 will enable Near misses reported 2016: 22,600 divisions to tailor elements of this programme to their specific needs by selecting focus topics aligned to local priorities.
Our Group HSE Audit programme is a key independent check in maintaining safety standards.
In 2017, we carried out 59 HSE audits.
Analysis has shown that GKNs risk profile has reduced since implementing the audit programme, including a significant reduction in the number of high risk items being identified.
The 2018 schedule will focus on management responsibility in addition to aligning the HSE audit action closure process with those of other audit functions within the Group.
We continue to strengthen our gkn.
com 43 Sustainability report continued Respecting the rights of others 2017 performance Diversity and inclusion UK gender pay gap Based on the UK Governments methodology, 100% of leaders completed our We are committed to creating an inclusive we have a median gender pay gap of 6.9% Leadership Assurance process.
workplace, free from discrimination, where across all GKN employees in the UK.
We need people of of this data indicates that the difference in Introduction of a global maternity leave different backgrounds, with different skills median pay is due to proportionally more men policy, with a minimum standard of eight and perspectives, and a balance of cultures, being in operational roles that attract shift weeks leave at 100% pay and flexible ethnicities and genders to help us succeed.
We have a variety of mechanisms working arrangements.
We aim to ensure that our workforce is to promote consistency in reward between Embedded diversity and inclusion representative of the countries and markets men and women on the same job grade or principles into centralised resourcing in which we operate and the communities doing the same work.
These include fixed union activities and succession planning process, in which we are located, including an negotiated spot rates in our manufacturing as well as into a global onboarding appropriate mix of gender and other sites and a structured approach to job sizing programme and learning and development under-represented groups.
and pay determination in other areas of process to be launched in 2018. the business.
As at 31 December 2017 Men Women 1 GKN plc Board 6 2 2018 priorities GKN Code 2 Senior managers 319 37 Introduce 50:50 gender hiring in 3 Total employees 42,600 8,517 The GKN Code describes how we act and graduate programmes.
what we expect of our employees and Board 1 Excludes Nigel Stein who retired from the Board on Review appointment policy with the members.
It applies to each of us and aims 31 December 2017. objective of having women on every 2 Comprises GKN senior executives and, as required by to ensure a long-term, sustainable future for s414C of the Companies Act 2006, GKN subsidiary management team, including plant GKN.
It requires that our business is run in company directors.
an ethical and socially responsible manner.
In return for the commitment made by In 2015, we set a goal for 2020 that 20% of employees to behave according to the Code, GKNs leadership should be women and, in all Group companies commit to treat employees time, 20% be from under-represented groups.
fairly and with respect, recognising their As of 31 December 2017, women made up abilities, differences and achievements.
The 13% of leaders, slightly down on last year due Code sets out our values as a Group, which to restructuring in management grades where guide us in the way we do business, and the we have fewer females.
Under-represented standards of behaviour expected from our groups accounted for 12% of leaders in 2017, people in support of these values.
Each year, slightly up from 2016. all GKN leaders are required to confirm that they understand the values and behaviours Overall, women currently represent 17% of expected of them as leaders in promoting the our global employees and under-represented right behaviours within GKN.
This year, as in groups represent 25%.
We are committed to previous years, all our leaders certified they increasing the diversity of our people through had done so.
D&I training, reviewing recruitment processes and sharing learning from our plants that employ a more diverse workforce.
44 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Developing our people We are committed to helping all our 2017 performance 2018 priorities employees succeed in developing their careers Integrated the GKN DNA and Leadership Roll out training to all managers on and achieving their potential.
Providing support Behaviours into our recruitment processes, employee engagement.
and opportunities for our employees to grow is and aligned with our performance integral to the GKN DNA.
A clear understanding Launch a pulse survey tool to measure evaluation and objective setting process.
of how we are each performing is an important team engagement alongside annual part of this and further changes to the GKN Updated the criteria used to assess the EngageMe surveys.
performance management criteria have performance of all employees to make Launch a global onboarding programme improved how this happens.
The calibration them simpler and easier to understand.
of performance and potential ratings ensures Rolled out training on performance a consistent view across teams and divisions, Implement a single talent framework management, with more than 3,300 and balanced treatment of both what the across GKN with a clear and simple managers completing the training in 2017. results are and how they have been achieved.
approach that translates across Linked rewards for the management different cultures.
To further align all activities on talent population to their performance.
management, leadership development and Launch a new Group-wide Learning and competency management to our DNA and Conducted a second global employee Development methodology including talent business strategy we have developed a new engagement survey.
management, leadership development and learning and development L&D methodology competency management.
Launched central resourcing centres in to be launched in 2018.
We aim to have a the US and UK to improve recruitment.
Conduct the third EngageMe survey, focus simple L&D framework that is attractive to every on building HR and manager capability to generation and makes GKN more competitive.
continuously improve team engagement The Group has an organisation-wide succession and performance.
planning and development programme to help our people develop the capabilities required to deliver our business plan.
In 2017, the Group internal recruitment rate for management roles was 71% 2016: 70%.
Voluntary turnover of management employees, which excludes compulsory redundancies, terminations and retirements, was 6.5% 2016: 6.0%, falling outside our target range of less than 5.0%.
com 45 Sustainability report continued Speaking up when we see behaviour which is wrong GKN DNA and Leadership Behaviours Employee engagement 2017 performance Received and investigated 171 calls The GKN DNA is a simple set of principles that The global employee engagement survey, through our employee disclosure hotline.
summarises our culture and describes GKN at which launched in 2016 to help make GKN our best.
These principles are supported by a better place to work and help build a the GKN Leadership Behaviours which make high-performance culture, was conducted for 2018 priorities clear what is expected of all our people to the second time in 2017.
In partnership with an Continued focus on speaking up and ensure we live the GKN DNA every day.
external provider, it enables us to benchmark promoting open and honest communication In 2017, our performance and career against other organisations and prioritise throughout GKN every day.
management system has been aligned with actions that will ultimately improve the day-tothe GKN DNA and Leadership Behaviours.
day experience for all our people, so that they Going forward, we will ensure that all actions can be at their best, every day.
We believe in speaking up when we see throughout the employee lifecycle are In 2017, more than 41,000 86% employees behaviour which is wrong.
We want all anchored to the GKN DNA.
took part in the survey that asked them to employees to feel able to ask questions anonymously tell us how they feel about or raise concerns about behaviour which Graduates and apprentices working for GKN.
Feedback reports were is inconsistent with the GKN Code in the provided to teams in every location and action knowledge that their concerns will be listened In 2017, we continued to run both Group-wide plans to further improve engagement and to, investigated and dealt with properly and and divisional graduate programmes to attract performance are now under way.
sensitively without fear of reprisal or high-quality graduates.
The overall results, which were a small International Graduate Programme IGP attracts improvement on 2016, showed that We continue to actively promote the graduates from China, the US, India, Sweden engaged employees often lead to higher importance of our confidential employee and the UK.
Each participant undertakes a series levels of safety, quality and productivity disclosure hotline, available to all employees of work placements, providing experience across our operations.
who can raise concerns in their own language, across a range of divisions, functions and anonymously if they prefer.
cultures, developing potential future leaders Additionally, and in support of this annual for GKN.
In total during the year, across the survey, we are changing the way we run It is hosted by an external, independent IGP and divisional programmes, GKN recruited Positive Climate Index PCI sessions to a company and is available 24 hours a day, 58 graduates, including 15 women.
In addition team-based, rather than site-based, approach.
In 2017, there were 171 to this, we recruited a further 119 direct-entry We recognise that engagement happens at calls to the hotline, down 9% from 187 calls graduates across the Group.
a team level and this gives us the opportunity in 2016.
Matters reported are independently to drive ownership of meaningful actions and investigated and feedback is always provided GKN also has a strong apprenticeship continuous improvement within teams, while to the caller.
programme, which combines practical skills also helping to track real improvements and with classroom learning.
At the end of the demonstrating best practice.
year, there were 926 apprentices across the Group.
171 Calls to employee disclosure hotline in 2017 2016: 187 An apprentice at GKN Driveline, Birmingham, UK.
46 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our business We believe in building a high performance business and are committed to delivering safe, high quality products and services.
We also believe in creating a culture of continuous improvement across GKN, applying the Lean Enterprise model to everything that we do.
While we want to win in business, we must do so fairly, and the GKN Code requires honest and proper conduct from all GKN employees.
We also expect the same from our suppliers and other business partners.
Our policies in these areas are set out below.
Creating a high performance business Continuous improvement CI Quality 2017 performance Continued to drive standardisation across We are committed to a culture of zero defects We are committed to supplying safe and high the Group through a series of Group-wide and continuous improvement, and GKNs Lean quality products and services, judging our health checks of our key quality and Enterprise model provides a well-established performance from the point of view of our programme management processes.
framework for CI across the Group.
Robust quality management from office, factory floor and executive levels systems are in place across all divisions, with Team working, our lean initiative to enable are trained to identify value for customers and relevant industry standards held across the multiple businesses to collaborate on CI shareholders: to eliminate waste: to remove Group.
The Voice of the Customer initiative, initiatives continues to benefit pace and barriers: and to develop skills in coaching and which tracks online customer scoring of our scale of achievement for the sites involved problem solving.
Over 310 leaders received performance, is firmly established in the as well as strengthening participants skills.
GKN Lean training during the year delivered monthly divisional operational review process, Assessment completed and structure put by GKNs own Lean experts.
and we judge ourselves using our customers in place to build cross-functional strengths quality data on our performance.
In 2017, 2017 saw a further increase in the level and collaboration in order to exploit the a quality control checklist was implemented of Business Process Excellence training advantages of Industry 4.0. and completed across all divisions.
Also a reflecting the importance placed on applying process of peer audits was introduced within Our cobot collaborative robot initiative Lean principles across the whole business, each division, with the start of cross divisional continues to grow with projects in place not just the shop floor.
audits scheduled for 2018. and delivering benefits across the Group.
2018 priorities Strengthening accountability and 310 responsibility by tracking actions, changing management reporting systems leaders trained in Lean principles in 2017 and introducing a new balance scorecard to measure financial and non-financial metrics.
com 47 Sustainability report continued Honest and proper conduct programmes, and this year we extended the 2017 performance target audience for anti-bribery and corruption Rolled out an anti-bribery and corruption training by over 2,000 people.
Of those targeted, 92% completed anti-bribery Updated the GKN Governance Handbook of target employees completed online and corruption training, 96% completed compliance training to include new requirements around competition law training and 95% completed Health and Safety, Quality and Trade export control and online IT security training.
All new starters are required to complete the online courses appropriate to their role, which are supplemented by face-to-face training for 2018 priorities individuals with higher potential to be exposed key tool in communicating what we expect Conduct a cultural review to address to risks in these areas.
from our suppliers in relation to health, safety issues identified in North America and and environmental standards, internationally establish a delivery culture.
Suppliers accepted standards of workers rights, use Build a culture in which employees feel of child and forced labour, ethical standards, confident to raise concerns at the earliest Our suppliers are integral to the sustainability anti-bribery and corruption, and compliance opportunity enabling prompt resolution.
of our businesses and it is essential that they with relevant laws and regulations.
The Code operate their business in a way that supports of Conduct is enforced by our contractual our commitment to the highest ethical terms and conditions.
We are committed to treating all We have continued to emphasise compliance our suppliers and partners with fairness and with global standards to ensure that conflict The GKN Governance Handbook was integrity.
Our supply chain management policy minerals are kept out of the supply chain, and launched in 2016, and updated in early 2017. sets out the principles and procedures each to ensure compliance with European REACH It provides our people with transparent and GKN company should follow when dealing guidance on the use of chemicals within easy access to our core Group policies and with suppliers and potential suppliers.
procedures and helps ensure all our Supplier Code of Conduct continues to be our businesses are aware of what is expected of them in respect of those policies.
Human rights A respect for human rights is implicit in our values and the policies which underpin them.
We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and do not tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour.
We first completed a Modern Slavery risk assessment within our supply chain during 2016 and have continued to strengthen our processes in this area during 2017 with the roll out of a risk-based approach to screening our suppliers and customers for past human rights convictions.
Anti-bribery and corruption We do not believe in bribery and have a policy of zero tolerance of bribery and corruption.
Our online compliance training modules continue to be an important element of our overall compliance programmes.
We target training to employees whose roles require it and periodically update our materials and audiences in order to align them with our risks.
Following our 2016 refresher programme on competition and antitrust laws, in 2017 we rolled out a refresher programme on anti-bribery and corruption.
We continually re-evaluate our audiences for these training GKN Powder Metallurgy employee calibrating a cobot on a quality assurance line.
48 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our world Our policy is to reduce the impact that both our operations and our customers have on the environment.
Our products are designed to perform better than their predecessors, be that lighter, more efficient or resulting in less waste.
Around the world, our sites and employees work hard to support the communities in which they operate.
As a company, GKN contributes by building partnerships with schools and academic institutions, and inspiring future engineers.
Our relationships are conducted with open and honest communication.
Helping to protect the environment 2017 performance 2018 priorities 2% improvement in energy efficiency.
Roll out the new Environmental Strategy 2% to all locations.
No change in total greenhouse gas emissions.
environmental training improvement in energy efficiency to 440kWh per 000 sales to all employees.
Continued progress on energy 2016: 449kWh per 000 sales management first US site certified to Continue to certify sites to ISO 50001 ISO 50001, bringing total number of all European sites to be certified by 2019 GKN sites certified to 26. and other sites by 2020.
Trained our site-level energy experts on Do a deep dive into the effects of climate the effective use of our online energy change on our business and develop monitoring system.
appropriate strategies to minimise GKNs impact on climate change.
Over 50,000 employees were engaged on the subject of water Making Every Drop Count.
In 2017, our energy efficiency improved by 2% to 440kWh per 000 sales Significant improvement in reducing 2016: 449kWh.
We continue to make waste to landfill by increasing recycling good use of our online energy monitoring in all divisions.
system by identifying significant energy GKN Aerospace Sweden recognised by consumers, driving down our base load Pratt & Whitney with its 2017 Supplier of energy consumption, and accurately Sustainability Award.
evaluating the effects of energy efficiency improvement projects.
There were six environmental enforcement actions in 2017 resulting ISO 14001 is our mandated environmental in penalties of 2,965. management system and the majority of our manufacturing sites are certified.
A small Created a new GKN Environmental number are working towards certification.
Strategy, pointing the way to future We will also certify all major manufacturing environmental improvements.
locations to ISO 50001, the Energy Management System standard.
com 49 Sustainability report continued Greenhouse gas emissions methodology GKN calculates greenhouse gas emissions using the Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a guide and refers to the No change -4% greenhouse gas intensity of the Group i. e. operations Total greenhouse gas emissions Total emissions per included in the consolidated financial statements.
location method million sales Our Scope 1 estimates include emissions from fuel tonnes CO equivalent tonnes CO equivalent 2 2 used on premises, transport emissions from owned or 1 1,294,000 156 controlled vehicles, losses of refrigerant, and process 2 1,309,000 163 and fugitive emissions.
1 1,292,000 2 1,210,000 Scope 2 emissions are those from electricity and heat purchased by GKN.
Scope 2 emissions, and total No change greenhouse gas emissions, are calculated using both 3% Scope 2: electricity and heat 1 2 Location and Market based methods.
tonnes CO equivalent 2 Scope 1: combustion of fuel 1 2017 tonnes CO equivalent 1,003,000 2 2 2016 1,018,000 1 290 1,005,000 2 281 922,000 Environmental performance Energy consumption CO emissions per Water consumption Waste generation Recycled 2 per unit of production unit of production per unit of production per unit of production waste kWh tonne kg tonne m3 tonne kg tonne % of total waste GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace GKN Aerospace 187 56 0.41 5.9 86 243 79 0.54 7.2 69 GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline GKN Driveline 1,176 440 1.28 144 97 1,208 461 1.26 147 94 GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy GKN Powder Metallurgy 2,374 861 2.36 91 94 2,459 910 2.24 90 92 GKN Wheels & Structures GKN Wheels & Structures GKN Wheels & Structures GKN Wheels & Structures GKN Wheels & Structures 1,114 322 2.59 244 99 338 2.64 99 1,177 260 GKN OHighway Powertrain GKN OHighway Powertrain GKN OHighway Powertrain GKN OHighway Powertrain GKN OHighway Powertrain 1,141 325 9.76 141 98 1,197 342 11.43 136 97 When Group environmental data is expressed on the basis of sales, it is calculated at constant currency in GKN Aerospace performance expressed per 000 sales.
order to facilitate direct year-on-year comparison.
Building on the Companys electrification expertise and rich motorsport heritage, GKN is proud to have agreed a multi-year partnership with Panasonic Jaguar Racing, which will see the business provide design, manufacturing and engineering services to the Formula E team.
Expertise from across GKN will provide technical consultancy and new technology, from driveshafts and differentials to the use of additive manufacturing, for the teams Formula E race car the Jaguar I-TYPE.
GKN Drivelines considerable experience in delivering state-of-the-art electric vehicle systems means it will also advise on the development of the I-TYPEs all-electric powertrain.
50 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Supporting local communities Open and honest communication Most GKN sites are actively involved in a huge 2017 performance variety of different projects, supporting their Invested more than 500,000 in over local communities, donating time to good 2017 performance 360 projects aimed at supporting young causes and raising money for charitable people as part of our global Hearts of Gold Increased publication of information and projects around the world.
news, and enhanced social media presence.
are corporate initiatives, but in many cases projects and initiatives are instigated by A second livestream of Formula Student Expanded communications and employees.
GKN calls this outstanding UK provided support for young engineers understanding of key Group-wide community involvement Hearts of Gold, and competing in the event.
technologies, such as additive awards are given out every year to employees manufacturing.
Continued participation in See Inside GKN to celebrate the most inspiring examples, and where school children visit GKN locations to encourage others to follow their lead.
and Take Your Child to Work initiative to 2018 priorities Support for young people is central to our promote STEM education for young Maintain the flow of news and information Hearts of Gold activity.
This includes inspiring people around the world.
about GKN and ensure it reaches internal children and young adults to study science and Outstanding community involvement and external audiences.
maths and consider a career in engineering recognised through our annual Hearts through work experience and apprenticeships: of Gold awards.
and sponsoring education, technology institutions and events.
In 2017, GKN hosted We aim to help our shareholders and external Launch of Young Hearts funding initiative nearly 50 school visits via our See Inside GKN audiences understand our business through to support employees around the world initiative, in which 1,800 children from nine honest communication which is easy to access on community projects relating to young countries visited our facilities.
In 2017, we incorporated the people and education.
separate divisional websites into the corporate In total during the year, GKN invested over website which launched at the end of 2016 1 million in 300 significant projects aimed 2018 priorities and continued to promote community at supporting young people.
We continued to use social Continue to promote other local Hearts of touched the lives of almost 60,000 young media channels to reach and interact with Gold activities.
Continue to promote Young Hearts initiative.
More than 55,000 has been granted to 30 applicants from 12 countries as part of GKNs Young Hearts campaign which launched earlier this year.
Sustainability how we manage principal risks Below we set out the principal risks see pages 30 to 39 relating to the matters referred to in this sustainability report and how we manage them through our non-financial KPIs pages 18 and 19 and other methods described in the relevant section of the report.
Principal risk Non-financial KPIs Other Our people People capability Apprentices Gender pay gap analysis Health and safety Management turnover ISO 45001 certification Diversity Accident frequency rate accident severity rate Our business Laws, regulations and corporate Compliance training Management of modern slavery risks reputation see Modern Slavery Act statement Employee disclosure on gkn.
com Supply chain Our world Laws, regulations and corporate Energy efficiency ISO 50001 certification reputation gkn.
