Stakeholder engagement Our key stakeholders are those who most materially impact our strategy, or are directly impacted by it.
Engagement with stakeholders is essential for us, as a security business, with our role in society, the global nature of our business and substantial workforce.
SOCIETY Key stakeholders How we engage Operations which promote secure and stable Our employees touch the lives communities of others every day, providing CSR Materiality Review with key stakeholders crucial services to help keep see page 83 society safe and secure.
Community-engagement programmes Tax and economic contributions Government relationships and parliamentary engagement NGO and UN agency engagement Industry forums CUSTOMERS Relationship management Through understanding our customers needs we can c150,000 customers offer valueadded, innovative, Bidding processes costeffective security Customer service solutions and build enduring Net promoter score relationships.
SHAREHOLDERS One-on-one meetings between management and The company actively seeks shareholders to engage with shareholders Group investor meetings hosted by management on a regular basis.
Results announcements and trading updates Participation in investor relations association and best practice events Annual governance meetings with the Chairman CSR updates with the Chair of the CSR committee Annual General Meeting EMPLOYEES HR core standards set the framework for employee With around 570,000 engagement.
colleagues, G4S is one of the On-boarding, induction and refresher training worlds largest private sector employers.
Our success is Biennial global all-employee and senior management engagement surveys underpinned by the way we lead and engage with Works councils and employee representative forums, including through UNI, the global union, with whom our people.
G4S signed a global Ethical Employment Partnership in 2008 Newsletters, videos, employee self-service portals, and intranets Specific campaigns on health & safety, values and Speak Out whistleblowing arrangements Values recognition schemes SUPPLIERS 55,000 suppliers We have a responsible purchasing policy consistent Contract and relationship management with our business ethics.
Supplier Code of Conduct Purchase to Pay process 12 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Strategic report Links to policies and case studies: Understanding stakeholders interests helps us define our strategic priorities and guide our initiatives.
We run a formal Business Ethics Policy: exercise every two years to identify and prioritise our material g4s.
com ethicspolicy CSR issues see page 83.
com environmentalpolicy Key areas of interest Our response and KPIs Ethical Employment Partnership: People and Values g4s.
com EEP Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Ethical and sustainable UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Human Rights Policy: business practice: including: Global employee-engagement survey see page 19 g4s.
com humanrightspolicy Health & safety Engagement with Parliamentary committees HR core standards: Human rights Industry forums including: International Security Ligue, g4s.
com hrstandards Anti-bribery & Corruption British Security Industry Association, Confederation Slavery and Human of British Industry Employee standards and Trafficking Statement: MP surveys and site visits, especially to detention behaviour g4s.
com modernslavery facilities Supplier Code of Conduct: g4s.
com suppliercode Quality and price of service 3.2% revenue growth from core businesses in 2017 Tax Strategy: Expertise Customer retention is on average around 90% g4s.
com taxstrategy Innovation 24,000 customers surveyed using net promoter Whistleblowing Policy: score in 2017, with improvement in most regions Health & safety g4s.
com whistleblowingpolicy Feedback from unsuccessful contract bids Business ethics Business for Peace Case Study: g4s.
com b4p Financial performance CEO and CFO met with shareholders representing Please see examples online on over 65% of the share register and 205 institutions Strategic direction and g4s.
com see page 79 for more information coherence 3.2% revenue growth from core businesses in 2017 Governance and risk management 5.7% adjusted earnings growth from core businesses in 2017 527 million operating cash flow from core businesses in 2017 Final dividend increased 5% in 2017 Company performance and Feedback from 428,000 employees in 2017 plans Access to survey extended through mobile Compensation and benefits technology and number of languages available Training and career Increase in overall favourable responses from 82% development 2015 to 84% 2017 Health & safety Feedback from consultation committees and works councils Values, CSR and recognition Nominations for employee recognition awards Reduction in staff turnover from 27.6% in 2016 to 25.3% in 2017 Link to strategy Fatalities, serious injuries and road traffic incidents down around 30-50% since focus was applied and People and values investment was made in these areas Customers and service excellence Technology and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline Supplier performance Rationalised suppliers service delivery and product Commitment to the UK Prompt Payment Code quality Member of the UK Government Contract Finder Payment terms Please see page 12 to 35 for portal to promote use of SME businesses SME engagement more details.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 13
