50 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Corporate Social Responsibility Strategic Report 51 Melrose supports and monitors the corporate social responsibility policies, practices and initiatives across its businesses.
Reflecting the decentralised nature of the Group, responsibility for the adoption of policies, practices and initiatives sits at a divisional unit level.
This ensures that rigorous and targeted policies and procedures are implemented that meet local regulatory requirements and guidance, whilst also taking into account the size and nature of the business.
The information set out in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report focuses on the initiatives taken during 2017 by each of the four divisions that now make up the Melrose Group.
The policies, practices and initiatives set out in this report are indicative of the approach taken with any new business Melrose acquires.
01 02 Employment matters Charitable achievements p. 52 p. 53 03 04 Gender diversity The environment p. 54 p. 54 05 06 Health and safety Supply chain assurance p. 56 p. 57 07 Human rights and ethical standards p. 57 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued the Business Disability Forum, a not-forsubmissions, with five resulting in patent profit member organisation that works with applications including one design the business community to understand patent issued from efforts by SSTs the changes required in the workplace in engineering team in Shenzhen.
Several order that disabled persons are treated submissions have also resulted in new 01 fairly, so that they can contribute to products and product improvements.
business success, to society and to The Patent Committee meets monthly economic growth.
to review employee submissions, Employment matters the committee consisting of inside Employee involvement, counsel, outside patent counsel, consultation and development The Group recognises its senior engineering leadership from all The Group places great importance offices, and the inventors themselves.
responsibilities for the fair on good labour relations, employee Incentives are in place for employees engagement and employee development.
treatment of all its current to submit, including financial incentives The responsibility for the implementation if submission results in applications and potential employees, in and management of employment practices filed and patents granted.
rests with local management, in a manner accordance with legislation Within our Ergonomics division, appropriate to each business.
applicable to the territories Ergotron has conducted over 20 training A culture of clear communication and programmes globally with over 1,700 within which it operates, employee consultation and engagement employees participating.
Topics together with relevant is inherent across the Group.
Employee included leadership and management briefing sessions with employee skills training, technical and quality guidance on good practice representatives are held on a regular basis training, product and marketing training, where appropriate.
to communicate strategy, key changes, system and process training in addition financial results, achievements and other to wellness and benefits training.
important issues to employees, and to Ergotron also has global programmes Employment policies receive feedback from them on these that provide employees opportunities As part of the Groups decentralised issues.
Regular appraisals, employee to enhance their education through approach, each of Melroses businesses surveys, notice boards, team meetings, educational reimbursement.
is responsible for setting and measuring suggestion boxes and newsletters are also Brush continues to take the health its own employment and employee used to communicate and engage with and well-being of its employees related KPIs and, as such, these can vary employees, and to solicit their feedback seriously and its Occupational Health throughout the Group.
However, such on issues of concern to them.
Service is available to employees four measurements will generally include days a week.
The service can make absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and Extensive training is available to all staff referrals to doctors, physiotherapists employee relations issues.
Any concerns and is actively encouraged to ensure that or counselling services, as required, or adverse trends are responded to in a high standards of skills are maintained ensuring that the business supports timely manner.
Inter-departmental its employees throughout any periods training programmes are also put in place Equal opportunities for appropriate training, of absence or illness.
Health promotion across the Group to ensure that skills career development and promotion are is a key feature of the service, which are shared between operations.
The available to all employees within the Group is continually developing through importance of training extends beyond regardless of any disability, gender, religion, awareness campaigns and has on-the-job training and also focuses on race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
had a positive impact on both the enhancing personal development.
In employees and the business as a Applications for employment by disabled addition, apprenticeship programmes help whole.
During 2017, Brush GMS, based persons are always fully and fairly to assist with training a new generation of in Pittsburgh, promoted employee considered by the Group and are employees and to ensure knowledge is engagement by supporting employee considered on merit, with regard only to the retained within the businesses.
Employees leisure and community charitable job-specific requirements and the relevant across the Group are encouraged to think activities such as summer games, applicants aptitude and ability to carry innovatively and to have regard for both family parties and community outreach out the role.
Furthermore, as a Group-wide financial and economic factors affecting activities.
It has also increased policy and so far as particular disabilities the Group.
permit, Melrose and each of its businesses The Group regards employee training will, where practicable, make every effort 165 employees attended the first Air and advancement as an essential element to provide continued employment in the Management Leadership Bootcamp of industrial relations.
same role for employees who are disabled in Itasca, Illinois in April 2017.
The during their period of employment or, where Leadership Bootcamp reinforced the Employee initiatives necessary, provide such employees with Air Management mission and values During 2017, a range of employee a suitable alternative role, together with and key business objectives for 2017. related initiatives were implemented appropriate training.
Over the three days, leaders actively across the Group: engaged in seminars to equip them It is the Groups policy that in recruitment, The SST division continued its with specific skills and business tools training, career development and emphasis on improving its products and to support a performance driven promotion, the treatment of disabled services through the employee invention culture.
Outside business experts persons should, as far as possible, process.
Three of 2016s employee led employees through topics such be identical to that of other employees.
submissions have resulted in the grant as financial management, team Melrose is proud to be a member of of patents, and 2017 saw another 36 dynamics, and plan execution tools.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 53 02 Charitable achievements Hurricane relief Heart walks March of Dimes NSC held a drive to help the victims Since 2012, Ergotron has made a HVAC was once again named one of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and commitment to sponsor and participate of the top 40 giving companies in West shipped 13 large boxes filled with items in the American Heart Associations AHA Tennessee for its commitment to investing such as canned goods, toiletries and Heart Walks throughout the US.
One of the excellent clothes to San Juan, Puerto Rico.
NSC an organisation whose mission is to causes HVAC supported was March of also used cash donations to buy supplies improve the lives of all Americans and Dimes, a US non-profit organisation that of food and collected containers of help people understand the importance works to improve the health of mothers pet supplies for local animal shelters of healthy lifestyle choices, which aligns and babies by preventing birth defects, who were taking in dogs rescued from with the Ergotron mission of promoting premature birth and infant mortality.
a healthy environment for life and work.
Approximately 20 employees participated Teams from the businesss Twin Cities, in the walk, which was held in Dyer Phoenix and Tualatin offices have raised County, Tennessee in October 2017 and over $130,000 and look forward to the raised $5,000.
fundraising activities and the Heart Walk every year.
Employees of the Group have supported a number of worthwhile charities during 2017.
Here are a few examples of the great contributions that have been made.
Christmas for children United Way On 19 December 2017, HVAC supported Broan supported United Way of a group of local, under-privileged children Washington County 2017 Campaign, a by donating presents that the children non-profit organisation who are dedicated had wished for in their letters to Santa.
to improving community conditions HVAC employees, along with Santa, through support in education, health attended the surprise Christmas party and financial stability.
Broan raised a at their school.
total of $105,000 through events such as Dunk Tank, Chilli Cook Off and School Supplies for Boys and Girls Club.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued Total Group employees Men 7,645 Women 3,706 03 11,351 Gender diversity The charts opposite show SST the total number of males and females working Men 1,115 Women 1,323 within the Group as at 31 December 2017.
2,438 04 Melrose is a meritocracy and individual The environment performance is the key determinant in any appointment, irrespective of ethnicity, HVAC gender or other characteristic, trait or The Melrose Board fully orientation.
The Board recognises the understands the importance Men 3,023 importance of diversity throughout the Women 664 workforce and the Board is committed to of the Groups environmental equality of opportunity for all employees.
responsibilities and is 3,687 The Group currently takes into account committed to ensuring that a variety of factors before determining suitability for vacancies, including relevant operations have the skills to perform the role, experience and minimum possible adverse knowledge.
The most important priority, effect on the environment.
however, has been and will continue to AQH be ensuring that the best candidate is selected.
Men 1,278 Women 893 Although there are no standardised Melrose notes the recommendations of environmental KPIs currently used within Lord Davies review, Women on Boards 2,171 the Group, the Group ensures businesses and continues to encourage gender understand the importance of monitoring diversity throughout the Group.
Although the impact of their operations on the not appropriate to set specific gender environment.
A range of KPIs are used as diversity targets at Board level and environmental measures, including energy throughout the Groups workforce due to consumption, CO emissions, water Melroses strategic business model and 2 Ergotron consumption, water contamination, waste frequent turnover of businesses, Melrose disposal, solid and liquid waste generation, is actively engaged in finding ways to Men 727 recycling and volatile organic compound increase the Groups diversity.
These KPIs are then used to plan for ongoing improvements.
1,347 During the year, the Company continued to comply with the ongoing annual reporting requirements of the UKs Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Brush Men 1,479 Women 195 1,674 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 55 Environmental initiatives The Air Management division rolled The GHG reporting period is aligned to During 2017, a range of environmental out an environmental inspection the Companys financial reporting year.
initiatives were implemented within the process at facility level which will be The data has been prepared in Groups divisions.
Some of these are audited in early 2018.
In 2017, the Air accordance with the principles and listed below: Management division worked closely requirements of the Greenhouse Gas with insurers to successfully address SST continues to make its Protocol, Corporate Accounting and employee related inspection items environmental awareness and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004 with 22 items being addressed.
compliance one of its highest priorities.
for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and Brush continued its focus on making The various sites continue to evaluate the Department for Environment, Food & further energy savings, including in gas their operations and strive to make Rural Affairs DEFRA guidance on how to and electricity consumption.
Through improvements to reduce their measure and report on greenhouse gas more effective energy management environmental global footprint.
The emissions, as first published in 2013 and and greater employee engagement, manufacturing site located in China subsequently updated.
electricity consumption for lighting at completed seven energy and emissions We have reported on all emission sources its Czech operations was reduced by reduction projects, as well as adding required under the Companies Act 2006 5%, whilst heating consumption was exhaust filtration and tin slag recovery Strategic Report and Directors Reports the lowest in the locations history systems.
Continued improvements in Regulations 2013. again.
Lighting initiatives across the cardboard, pallets, paper and universal Loughborough site continue with waste systems have been implemented All material emissions from within the ad hoc upgrades which continue to throughout the continental US.
SSTs organisational and operational scope and generate savings for the business.
Chinese sites efforts resulted in a 4% boundaries of the Group are reported.
The The Loughborough site is also working reduction in electrical consumption emissions from owned vehicle transport towards environmental management and a 2% drop in paper consumption.
i. e. Group owned cars and vans, lorries and standard ISO 14001:2015 transition.
Continued improvements are planned fork lift trucks and the emissions associated The site is also in the process of for 2018 including the review and with refrigeration have been excluded from replacing existing lighting with LED reduction of the hazardous material the report on a fide minimis basis.
luminaires which will deliver an annual quantities hazard level as directed by Given that the Melrose business model is reduction of 83.5 tonnes of CO ISO 14001 standard, improving and 2 to acquire and divest businesses over a and 35.04kw reduction of light load.
increasing waste recycling systems, three to five-year time frame, there may and reducing their carbon footprint.
Greenhouse gas emissions be significant year-on-year changes in the Ergotron maintained the environmental The Group is required to measure and reported emissions data which may not certification ISO 14001:2004 in its report its direct and indirect greenhouse reflect the underlying GHG performance locations in Eagan, Minnesota, EMEA, gas GHG emissions pursuant to the of the Groups businesses.
and Asia Pacific and added ISO Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report 14001:2015 in Asia Pacific.
The division and Directors Reports Regulations focused throughout the year on 2013.
The emissions associated with the reducing its impact on the environment, purchase of the Nortek Group in 2016 resulting in 95% of waste materials at its have been included in the report for the EMEA, Eagan and Minnesota locations first time and account for the significant being recycled.
The Asia Pacific sites year-on-year increase in emissions.
have decreased the loss of main raw However, the intensity measure decreased material scrap rate 0.2% maximum by over 60% year on year.
The year-on-year and decreased the electricity wasted like-for-like emissions, removing the by 3% compared with 2016.
Nortek group emissions, decreased by approximately 20% due to a significant reduction in gas and electricity usage.
Global GHG emissions data for period 1 January 2017 31 December 2017 1 tonnes CO e unless stated 2 2 Emissions sources: 2017 2016 Change Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities 23,680 7,122 232% UK electricity 3,236 3,717 -13% Overseas electricity 33,273 9,008 269% Total purchased electricity 36,509 10,689 242% Other purchased energy 2,027 2,035 -0.4% Companys chosen intensity measurement: 0.030 0.081 -63% Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes per 1,000 turnover 1 CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
2 2 The 2016 emissions data does not include the Nortek businesses as they were acquired part way through that year.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Continued For more information on the Groups health with DEKRA to further develop a safety and safety KPIs, see the key performance driven culture.
All locations will be indicators section on pages 18 to 19 of the evaluated to determine the level of Strategic Report.
understanding and status of leadership involvement.
These evaluations will 05 A number of sites within the Group hold lead to future tasks and plans to grow the ISO 18001 certification, the internationally awareness and develop a safety recognised assessment standard for driven culture.
Health and safety occupational health and safety management Brushs behavioural safety programme systems, including Brushs manufacturing is designed to improve the strong health locations in the UK and the Czech Republic The Board is committed to and safety culture within the business.
and Ergotrons Asia Pacific sites.
GBIS The programme focuses on developing minimising the health and Huizhou China is also ISO 14001 registered.
a proactive approach among Brush safety risks that each Group The Air Management divisions Tualatin employees so that they increase facility earned its fifth year SHARP Award responsibility and accountability for employee is exposed to Safety & Health Achievement Recognition their own and their working groups by promoting the effective Programme.
SHARP is an intensive, actions while ensuring they intervene five-year safety programme and the site use and management of at the earliest opportunity to stop was presented with its certificate in January hazardous acts or correct any unsafe business-specific policies 2018.
The site will be pursuing the Voluntary conditions.
It is intended to refresh the Protection Programme the next step up and procedures.
behavioural safety programme during in safety excellence after SHARP which 2018.
At Brush Electrical Machines is a federally recognised OSHA safety in Loughborough there has been programme that continues to build increased focus on accident prevention The Group has a policy to ensure that the effective, world class safety culture by issuing Safety Alerts, implementing Directors are made aware of any serious and performance.
management walk-abouts to hazard health and safety incidents, wherever they hot-spots and improved, more Brush GMS is ISO 9001:2008 quality occur in the world, without delay, to ensure efficient reporting and closing of management system accredited and that suitable investigations and corrective incidents.
The result was a significant will be transitioning to ISO 9001:2015 action can be organised.
Current events decrease in the number of lost days during 2018.
SSTs Carlsbad and and issues relating to health and safety in 2017.
Shenzhen sites are both ISO 9001 matters are also discussed within the Quality Management and 13485 Quality Group at quarterly Board meetings of Following these initiatives, among others, Management for medical devices certified.
the Group has recognised the benefits of a workforce engaged in matters of health and During 2017, a range of health and safety Each division is responsible for setting its safety, management teams committed to initiatives were implemented across the own detailed arrangements concerning the continuous improvement of health and Group including Safety Councils, 190 health and safety policies and procedures, safety standards throughout the Groups certifications and wellness programmes, in accordance with local health and safety businesses and a recognition that a strong designed to promote a strong health and legislation.
As a general rule, they strive health and safety focus can have a positive safety catalogue at local levels, some of to achieve best practice in terms of what impact on growth and brand value.
which are listed below: is suitable and practical for the size and nature of their operations.
Defined and HVAC rolled out their Safety Council business-specific health and safety key early in 2017.
The team worked on performance indicators are also used.
facility communication across all Reports detailing each divisions locations, harmonising policies, and performance in relation to three health developing or sharing best practices.
and safety KPIs major accident frequency As a result of these actions, they rate, accident frequency rate and accident had great success in reducing the severity rate are presented to the Melrose recordable injury rate by 16% over the Board and reviewed at each quarterly year.
During 2018 HVAC, along with Board meeting.
all of Air Management, will engage There were no material issues or concerns identified by the Board during 2017.
While no corrective measures were deemed necessary, the Board continues to encourage management to remain vigilant where employee and third party safety is concerned.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report 57 06 Supply chain assurance Each of the businesses is responsible for the management of its supplier base, including the application of the appropriate policy, which best suits the geographical and operational diversity In addition to the Melrose Code of Ethics, of the Group.
each Group business is expected to have its own code of ethics dealing with matters 07 such as human rights.
All business-specific employee policies are prepared locally The security, assurance and ethical within each business in order to ensure compliance of business supply chains Human rights and compliance with local laws and standards are very important to Melrose and its ethical standards as a minimum.
Responsibility for the communication and implementation of implementation and management of all such policies rests with the relevant senior supplier-related policies rests with local Sound business ethics and managers within the Groups businesses.
Such policies are used in integrity are core to the a manner appropriate to the size and Finally, the Company produced its first complexity of the business and also take Groups values and a high Modern Slavery Statement in June 2017 into account the nature and geographical in accordance with the Modern Slavery importance is placed on representation of key suppliers.
A supplier Act 2015 which is available at: www.
approval process exists within all business dealings with all employees, melroseplc.
divisions, which is linked to specific and customers, suppliers and pdf.
The Group has taken steps to tailored supplier assessments and due implement effective and proportionate other stakeholders.
diligence requirements utilising third party procedures to ensure that there are no forms resources and the implementation of of modern slavery in the Groups business appropriate terms and conditions for or supply chains.
This has included the roll the protection of the Group.
The decentralised nature of the Group out of a new policy regarding the prevention means there is no over-arching policy of modern slavery and human trafficking currently in place with regard to human to all businesses and online training rights, however Melrose is committed to for employees.
good practice in respect of human rights.
Employees across the Group are required, at all times, to exhibit the highest levels of integrity and to maintain the highest ethical standards in business affairs.
The full text of the Melrose Code of Ethics, which all employees of the Group are required to familiarise themselves with, can be found The Strategic Report, as set out on on the Companys website at: www.
pages 2 to 57, has been approved melroseplc.
net about-us code-of-ethics by the Board On behalf of the Board Simon Peckham Chief Executive 20 February 2018 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
