44 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY IN ACTION Merlin defines its values not just by the passionate way we do business but also by how we treat our visitors, our people, our suppliers, our planet, our animals, and how we contribute to the communities where our attractions operate.
We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and design our governance structures and operate our businesses in this regard.
Over and above this we are committed to Being a Force for Good and making a positive impact on both the planet and people.
We focus on making a difference through our two charities: Merlins Magic Wand and the SEA LIFE Trust.
Robust governance Caring for people Merlin has robust governance standards and We harness the enthusiasm of our employees practices that extend throughout the business.
todemonstrate and reinforce our core This starts at the top with an experienced MerlinWay values, especially how We Care.
Board that is structured in line with best We make no differentiation between able practice and supported by appropriately bodied and disabled persons in terms of rigorous Board Committees.
The reports recruitment, training and career progression, on the activities of these Committees in and will make every effort to continue the the year can be found on pages 58 to 87. employment and training of those persons who This approach includes how we identify and become disabled while employed by the Group.
manage the principal risks that could affect Our policy on Human Rights is guided by the our business as set out on pages 37 to 39. International Labour Organisation Declaration Specifically, we manage Health, Safety and on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work Security risks to ensure we operate our together with the OECD Guidelines for businesses with a constant focus on keeping our Multinational Enterprises.
It is set out in full on guests, employees, other visitors and animals our website.
safe and secure see more on pages 46 to 47.
The heart of communities Strong social conscience Our businesses sit at the heart of communities At Merlin we care.
Our strong social around the world and our teams are conscience informs how we address the proud to be part of and to support those impact of our business activities on the communities in a wide variety of ways.
planet, people and creatures connected to As well as many local initiatives, we harness our business: this is exemplified by areas such the influence of our two partner charities as our ethical animal husbandry activities, to have an impact in two main areas: and our approach to procurement.
Our partner charity Merlins Magic Wand We recognise the impact that our operations delivers memorable experiences to children have on the environment and effectively facing challenges of serious illness, disability managing this is essential for sustainable business and adversity see more on page 48. success.
See more about our approach to sustainability, including our mandatory Our marine conservation charity partner the greenhouse gas reporting, on page 47.
SEA LIFE Trust protects our oceans through campaigns and fundraising see more on We have a responsibility to the workers page 49. in our supply chain and seek to ensure our products are made in an appropriate Our policies and further guidance on our environment and the products we source are approach, together with answers to frequently produced in accordance with international asked questions, canbefound on our website laws and legislation.
area are available on our website.
ACCESSIBILITY At Merlin we care about creating memorable experiences for all of our guests, including the many guests with disabilities who choose to visit us each year.
Over recent years the number of guests with increasingly diverse disabilities has grown significantly.
In order to ensure that we continue to meet their needs we are committed to reviewing our facilities to make them better for everyone and to provide safe and welcoming experiences.
This can include making necessary reasonable adjustments to those facilities, as well as how we operate at our attractions.
As part of this review process we consider all feedback from our guests and in 2017 we also sent out a survey to over 30,000 guests who had used our Ride Access Pass system to hear their thoughts.
Each area of the business works hard to make continual improvements: just one example from 2017 is the launch of Changing Places toilets at Alton Towers Resort.
These new facilities make a real difference to guests who require more than a standard accessible toilet.
46 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Security international terrorism continues to be a major global concern and Merlin hasresponded by introducing a number of additional precautionary measures including HEALTH, SAFETY bag guest searches, upgraded covert security operations, hostile vehicle mitigation at our resorts and enhanced CCTV.
All employees AND SECURITY are trained to be vigilant and understand how to respond in emergency situations.
Weather in recent years, the world has witnessed a number of extreme weather events such as hurricanes and heatwaves.
Merlins approach to managing these events combines understanding contextual factors, Fire safety this topic has always been one Merlin is dedicated to delivering best in class strategic thinking, collaboration and good of Merlins core priorities.
Following the Health, Safety and Security HSS standards communication with effective response Grenfell Tower tragedy in June 2017, all thatare clearly understood and implemented planning.
Merlins hotels have taken the opportunity toreview their fire procedures and ensure How we monitor HSS performance What we do they are robust.
HSS performance, including near-miss and Training rigorous training and instruction incident reporting, is regularly reviewed by isfundamental to Merlins approach to HSS Food safety we adopt the Hazard Analysis eachattraction, each Operating Groups Senior across the business, with mandatory new and Critical Control Point HACCP system: Leadership Team and the HSS Committee, with starter training for all employees.
the globally recognised best practice best practice learning shared throughout the approach.
Merlin ensures full traceability and HSS management community.
All attractions Maintenance robust maintenance systems assurance over food products sourced via undergo three types of routine health and safety and procedures comprise daily, weekly, our supplier approval programmes.
reviews annual self-audits, independent internal monthly and annual maintenance audits and periodic independent external programmes across Merlins rides, buildings, Communication Merlins dedicated audits, in addition to pre-opening assessments facilities and estate.
In 2017 a new level of communication programme Protecting the and tactical ad-hoc audits.
A comprehensive risk assessment was introduced at the design Magic sustains HSS awareness, drives staff food safety audit programme is also undertaken stage of all new attractions.
Additionally, our engagement and upholds a positive safety by third party specialists.
investment in a new global Enterprise Asset culture, focusing on our golden HSS rules Management EAM system from INFOR will called Six Spells for Safety.
We have two types of performance metric improve asset performance.
thatwe report on below: Employee engagement in May 2017, Leading indicators these monitor the Construction best in class standards Merlins attractions and offices joined forces activities we undertake as part of our HSS aremaintained across all Merlins global around the world for a week to put the governance and monitoring processes.
The LEGOLAND spotlight firmly on Health, Safety and Ourapproach includes arrangements by park in Japan opened this year in April Security.
Attractions and corporate offices attractions for near-miss unsafe condition andthe team worked closely with other immersed themselves in Protecting the reporting, trend analysis and corrective LEGOLAND resorts in order to share best Magic by engaging with activities and events action management.
practice and secure a smooth opening and directly promoting HSS aligned with our rigorous safety standards.
Lagging indicators these capture incident rates for both guests and employees.
1 S afety Inspection Certificates are issued annually by 5 T hrough the HSS Committee the Board provides strategic Leading indicators independent ride examiners following the thorough inspection direction and performance scrutiny of HSS matters within the and testing of every theme park ride in Merlin.
Additionally, each Operating Group also has their Safety Inspection Certificates 100% 1 indicates the percentage of rides that have Safety Inspection own HSS Steering Committee.
These forums are intended to Rides Certificates issued.
meet quarterly and this % score indicates compliance with 2 Safe Operating Procedures Rides 100% 2 E ach theme park ride in operation in Merlin must have this expectation.
SafeOperating Procedures in place covering the ongoing use 6 A M edical Treatment Case MTC is defined as an injury 3 Food Safety Audits 97% of the ride.
These procedures must state what the necessary which requires external medical treatment i. e. ambulance 4 risk controls are for each ride.
This % score indicates the attendance to site or hospital visit directly from the site.
The Safety Culture Survey Results 89% percentage of rides that have Safe Operating Procedures rates referenced are the number of MTCs relative to either 5 HSS Committee Meetings 100% inplace.
10,000 guest visitations or 10,000 employee hours worked.
3 M erlin commissions an independent specialist to audit The MTC rate for employees has risen marginally due to Lagging indicators attractions for compliance with its Food Safety Manual.
greater data accuracy in 2017 following the initial adoption This% represents the average compliance score.
The audit Medical Treatment Case Rate 0.04 ofthese new metrics during 2016 and accounting for the 6 proforma was redeveloped for 2017 and additional 12month rolling data calculation.
Guests examination lines included compared to prior years.
Where Medical Treatment Case Rate 0.09 opportunities for improvement to local practices have been 6 Employees identified such as stock management or cleaning records, these are discussed with local management and plans implemented to address them.
4 M erlins annual The Wizard Wants to Know staff survey features a series of questions relating to health and safety and this % represents the overall safety engagement score.
The questions were developed in 2017 to examine new aspects of employee safety engagement.
These greater insights are providing further opportunity for the refinement of the Companys safety management system, cultural practices and employee engagement activities.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 47 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Strategy and governance Merlin manages resources responsibly.
We recognise that our operations impact upon the environment and effectively managing this is essential for sustainable business success.
We are committed to regular monitoring, auditing and review of our activities and identifying opportunities for sustainable environmental improvement, in line with our We Care about our Planet Protecting the Magic strategic business goals and in order to minimise Our attractions participated again in our annual Merlins innovative Protecting the Magic the potentially harmful effects of such activity.
We Care about our Planet event to support website contains more information on Ultimate responsibility for this strategy rests Merlins commitment to sustainability.
how we manage HSS across the Group.
with the CEO, with management teams Itincludes the comprehensive Guests A wide range of activities were undertaken by responsible for implementation at local and Guide to Safety which covers all areas of our staff including beach cleans, collecting regional levels.
More details can be found on the HSS: our employee and contractor safety plastics and other waste: staff cycling, walking sustainability page on our website.
handbooks: and Merlins Six Spells for and even skateboarding to work and around our Safety aide-memoire.
Environment and energy management We participate in the UK Carbon Reduction Greenhouse gas GHG reporting See more: www.
com Commitment CRC energy efficiency scheme, The Company is required to report each year EU Energy Efficiency Directives and other on its carbon dioxide emissions, which are set applicable environmental regulations globally.
Specific budgets are made available each The reported emissions intensity is affected year to test and implement environmentally by the impact of foreign exchange movements focused initiatives.
Some examples in 2017 on the revenue figure that forms the intensity are the installation of LED lighting at Madame baseline.
This has contributed 4.2% to the Tussauds Singapore, a chiller optimisation reported reduction of 11.4% and accordingly project at SEA LIFE Blackpool and electricity the reduction on a constant currency basis efficiency initiatives at LEGOLAND Billund.
In addition, carbon emission factors used in 2017 were lower compared to 2016 due to a reduction in the use of coal for energy generation.
This contributes a further 5.2% to the reported reduction.
Our underlying carbon emission intensity reduction was therefore 2.0%, in line with our annual target which is to reduce our carbon emission intensity by 2.0% year on year.
Report boundaries Financial control all facilities under the Groups direct financial control have been included.
Consistency with financial statements This report covers the 12 month period from 1 December 2016 to 30 November 2017 in comparison to our financial year of January to December 2017.
Methodology The WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition applying emissions factors from IEA CO emissions from fuel combustion 2017 2 edition and emissions factors from DEFRA 2017.
Intensity ratio Emissions per 1 million of revenue Scope 1 25,560 tonnes of CO equivalent 2016: 19,270 tonnes 2 Scope 2 Localised Based 111,911 tonnes of CO equivalent 2016: 116,814 tonnes 2 Scope 2 Market Based 104,672 tonnes of CO equivalent 2016: 112,381 tonnes 2 Group gross emissions 130,232 tonnes of CO equivalent 2016: 131,651 tonnes 2 Intensity baseline revenue 1,594 million 2016: 1,428 million Emissions intensity 82 tonnes of CO equivalent per 1 million of revenue 2016: 92 tonnes 2 Table notes: Scope 1 refers to direct emissions natural gas, LPG, heating oil, refrigerants, diesel, petrol.
Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions purchased electricity, purchased heat and steam.
S cope 2 market based includes REGOs for our German Midway operations and Heide Park.
Our annual carbon reduction target is measured based on market based emissions.
48 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS THE HEART OF COMMUNITIES BEING A FORCE FOR GOOD Merlins Magic Wand In 2017 our childrens charity Merlins Magic Wand MMW has continued to grow, with Merlin teams across the world getting involved.
MMW has continued to enable children faced with the challenges of serious illness, disability and adversity to experience the magic of Merlin.
We provided days out to over 100,000 children and their families, launched more Magic Spaces projects totalling over 30 globally, and took the magic of Merlin on tour to children in hospitals all over the world.
org MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Marine and wildlife conservation Merlin promotes the protection of wildlife across the globe by supporting projects and campaigns which make a real difference, leveraging our reputation for the ethical and responsible care, preservation and conservation of animals and the marine environment.
SEA LIFE Merlin was once again pleased to lend support in 2017 to its partner marine conservation charity, the SEA LIFE Trust, in its endeavours to combat three of the biggest threats to our oceans and ocean wildlife: plastic pollution, overfishing and habitat destruction.
The Trust made the iconic sea turtle the focus of its actions, with a global Team Turtle campaign raising awareness of the problems of plastic pollution and overfishing, also funding turtle conservation and research projects in both hemispheres.
More than 5,000 pledges to help protect sea turtles were collected, while a Trustfunded research project off the coast of Peru is gathering persuasive evidence that green LED lights affixed to fishing nets can significantly reduce by-catch.
The Trust has committed AUD 150,000 over three years to fund a range of vital turtle conservation measures in Timor Leste, while other research has gathered data on the levels of plastic ingestion in young turtles.
Team Turtle is set to continue in 2018 with new initiatives already planned in the mission to safeguard sea turtles and our precious marine environment.
WILD LIFE Chessington World of Adventures Resort in the UK, WILD LIFE Sydney Zoo and WILD LIFE Hamilton Island in Australia all maintained their long-standing commitment to animal breeding or managed species programmes.
