Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 37 Corporate and social responsibility Truly a people business More than many businesses, we are truly a people business.
We have to be, as we help people at a dicult time in their lives.
Meeting their needs means that our employees have to be of the highest calibre and have particular and special qualities.
They must be caring, thoughtful and truly engaged with the people they serve.
Human values Our Companys core values spring from the simple fact of being a truly people business.
They are human values of decency, integrity and trust.
This translates into an overarching commitment to doing the right thing by everyone we work with: respecting each other in the workplace, working safely, behaving ethically and being a positive force in the communities we serve.
It also includes working hard to minimise our environmental impact.
The Dignity Way From these core values of decency, integrity and trust we have developed a special culture and way of working what we call The Dignity Way.
It encourages responsibility and stimulates high performance, adding value to our clients, communities and all our stakeholders.
Everyone at Dignity knows that he or she is an ambassador for the Company and is aware of the high standards the Company demands.
More specically, we must all adhere to our Our Companys core values spring from the Code of Conduct and maintain regulatory and legal compliance.
This culture is the means by which we will simple fact of being a truly people business.
continue to succeed as a business and behave as a good They are human values of decency, integrity corporate citizen.
Richard Portman External accreditations Corporate Services Director Dignity Funeral Plans have become the first such product in the UK to be awarded an ISO 9001 accreditation for customer service.
Our CSR Policies The Business Standards Our CSR policies are the means by which we make tangible Institutions ISO 9001 is an our desire to be a good corporate citizen.
We have three international accreditation areas of focus: for Quality Management Systems.
By achieving this standard, Dignity has been Positive about disability able to prove that it continues Dignity remains committed to reach and exceed the Our People Expertise Resources Health, Safety and to employing, retaining and global benchmark for quality and culture Environmental performance developing the abilities of management and has used disabled employees.
it as a tool for improving our business.
Relationships Building strong relationships and community impact 38 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and social responsibility continued Our people and culture Together we are Dignity With operations across the UK we have a diverse and engaged workforce that reects our geographic footprint and their local knowledge.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 39 The Board places a high priority Learning and development Recognising the Dignitys investment in training on attracting and retaining the right people as an integral part of our enables our sta to provide our strength, quality clients with the highest standards of strategic objective of continuing to prioritise excellent client service which service and care and to ensure that and diversity of our rigorous procedures are followed we believe will lead to organic growth.
Personal The Board is supported by a strong development, planning and our people.
HR team who are dedicated to meeting identication of training needs form the requirements of a growing Group.
a key part of our performance review This team is responsible for the process.
We continue to provide a integration of new sta and the variety of learning and development development and welfare of people opportunities, ranging from workshops across the business.
and mentoring to online resources and internal and external training courses.
Culture, engagement and communication Diversity and inclusion Communication, engagement and With operations across the UK we inclusion are at the heart of our have a diverse and engaged workforce culture.
To achieve our business that reects our geographic footprint objectives we need engaged and their local knowledge.
Dignity was employees dedicated to our vision awarded the Two Ticks Positive About and values.
We aim to provide an Disability Symbol by Jobcentre Plus in inclusive and collaborative culture 2014 and has continued to employ, that values every individual and retain and develop the abilities of provides the tools and opportunities disabled people.
Dignity continues to full their potential and add to be a member of the Business value to the business.
Disability Forum, a not-for-profit organisation that encourages the fair treatment of disabled people in the workplace and their community.
Case study: Long service at Dignity Recruiting and retaining the right people is an integral part of our strategy for delivering excellent client service.
Our people have the professional experience, compassion and knowledge that our clients expect.
In recognition of this we reward every employee that reaches 10 years continuous service, with subsequent awards granted every five years thereafter.
Dignity rewarded its loyal sta with Long Service Awards totalling 0.2 million in 2017.
40 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and social responsibility continued Our people and culture continued Key facts Diversity at Dignity Long service 32% 32 per cent of Dignity staff have over 10 years service.
Case study: Case study: Gender diversity Industry recognition and developing Armed Forces Covenant 20% successful employees Dignity has entered into an agreement 20 per cent of Dignitys senior Kate Davidson joined Dignity in with the Armed Forces to advertise all managers are female.
2011 as the Manager of Telford vacancies with them.
Each year 20,000 Crematorium before being promoted people complete their time with the 31% to Regional Manager four years later.
British Army, Navy or Royal Air Force In 2016, with Dignitys support, she and resettle into civilian life.
The 31 per cent of Dignitys senior and achieved a Diploma in Crematorium agreement confirms that Dignity will middle managers are female.
& Cemetery Management from the seek to employ veterans of any age Institute of Cemetery & Crematorium and provide them with a career path Management ICCM.
Kate was the in the funeral sector.
We will also oer Employee diversity first person to have ever received employment opportunities to the a Distinction grade for all 28 partners of those currently serving Senior managers % & number assignments.
She was also the first in the Armed Forces.
recipient in seven years of the EICKOFF Medal for Outstanding Achievement in Study at the ICCM Annual Conference.
In 2017, Dignity is assisting Kate to study in London for an MBA from Warwick Business School.
Male 80% 28 senior managers Female 20% 7 senior managers Case study: Employee Assistance Programme Total employees ratio % & number Information, guidance and support are available to all Dignity employees from a free and condential Employee 3,331 Assistance Programme.
The programme is designed to give easy access to help and support to enable Male 48% 1,613 employees individuals to make informed Female 52% 1,718 employees decisions and tackle issues early, before they become troublesome and complex.
The service can be used for Employee service % & number family issues: medical information: alcohol, drug and gambling issues: financial information: consumer issues and relationship or childcare advice.
Counselling on these and other subjects is provided in the strictest confidence by experienced Less than 1 year: 16% 515 employees 14 years: 35% 1,161 employees and qualied individuals in a friendly 59 years: 17% 569 employees and non-judgemental way.
1019 years: 24% 810 employees Over 20 years: 8% 276 employees Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 41 Building strong relationships and community impact Making a meaningful difference at the heart of our local communities.
charitys money so that it could be Helping people at one of the most Case study: used by other parents that had lost dicult times in their lives is our Violets in Bloom Childrens Memorial a child to fund a memorial and core social purpose and contributing Garden, Licheld & District burial plot.
to the communities in which we Crematorium operate benets both local people The garden was opened by Spandau and our business.
It helps to promote In August, more than 100 people Ballet singer, Tony Hadley, who has awareness of our brand and values, gathered to witness the ocial a personal connection to the enhances our reputation, promotes opening of the Violets in Bloom Mornington family.
employee engagement and attracts Children's Memorial Garden at new clients to our business.
The garden is Case study: a meaningful dierence to the local named after Violet Mornington who British Heart Foundation communities we serve remains was just five years old when she died a key quality of our business.
of an extremely rare blood disorder in In 2017, Dignity raised 230,000 for July 2013.
Her parents, Kerry and Ivan, our corporate charity, British Heart Our operations are located across established the charity, Violets in Foundation.
The charitys mission is many UK towns and cities and as Bloom, to raise funds for a memorial to win the ght against cardiovascular such we have an important role to their daughter and to provide a disease and is the largest funder in supporting our communities.
sanctuary for other bereaved parents.
of independent research in the UK.
We continue to build strong links with the communities in which we Prior to Dignitys ownership of the Fundraising initiatives included operate through local engagement crematorium, the previous contractors sponsored walks, marathons, fun and fundraising for charities.
had left the original memorial garden runs and skydives: selling lapel unnished and the work they had badges: charity football events: car Local community engagement completed was not of an acceptable washes: carol services and numerous and charitable support standard.
Dignity approached the coee mornings and cake sales.
Our community relationships and Mornington family and oered to fund Dignity also gave clients the option charitable programmes are primarily the design and development of a new to make a charitable donation when managed at a local level to allow our garden that was a tting memorial adding a remembrance message businesses to focus on the needs of to Violet.
Dignitys in-house Legal to our Christmas memorial trees.
Our people Counsel took action to retrieve the support many local community During the last 12 months, Dignity initiatives and charitable events employees have also taken part in every year.
national campaigns such as Bag It Beat It, where sta donated unwanted clothes, books, CDs and DVDs to the charitys shops in order to replenish their stock.
The Companys crematoria are also part of a national scheme where metal Dignitys corporate charity is recycled and the profit donated to this worthy cause.
230,000 In 2017, Dignity raised 230,000 for its corporate charity the British Heart Foundation.
42 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and social responsibility continued Health, Safety and Environmental performance Working safely in the workplace and build on these activities, monitor Working safely Dignity is committed to protecting, compliance and proactively identify as far as reasonably practicable, areas requiring action with the and reducing our the health and safety of its employees intention of further risk reduction and visitors to its premises.
environmental employees recognise this commitment Driving continuous improvement and that workplace safety remains We have a strong culture of safety and impact.
Working in a safe operational excellence and through environment allows our people to continuous improvement we focus on focus on delivering excellent service delivering excellent client service.
Protecting our people aim is to continue providing excellent also supports employee engagement leadership in the pursuit of safe and and retention.
environmentally responsible Governance and management workplaces.
Dignity has a full-time Head of Health Dignitys con manufacturing facility and Safety who is supported by nine in East Yorkshire has OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Ocers with a accreditation recognising the facility broad collective experience from as a safe and healthy environment.
Health and safety performance Dignitys head oce, crematoria and Managing our environmental impact Reduction in reportable incidents con manufacturing factory also In 2017, our business continued to have their own managers with have a low environmental impact responsibility for health and safety.
26% and its activities are not expected In the last eight years the number of to give rise to any significant In the last nine years the number of accidents has reduced by 26 per cent.
environmental risk over the next accidents has reduced by 26 per cent.
Dignity continues to proactively 12 months.
All waste generated is monitor health and safety through properly disposed of in accordance quarterly analysis, inspection of Health and safety training number with current legislation and steps are premises, surveillance and regular taken to recycle waste wherever this reports to the Board and monitors 11 is practical.
Approximately 34,000 reactively by investigating accidents cremations at Dignity crematoria 92 and analysing statistics.
were mercury abated during 2017, representing 54 per cent of the 274 Health and safety performance total number of cremations.
Our health and safety team have 0 25 50 7 5 100 125 150 175 200 225 250 275 worked diligently to reduce incidents Dignitys con manufacturing facility Employees with NEBOSH qualication: 11 and have focused on improving our has ISO 14001 accreditation, an Employees with IOSH qualication: 92 safety culture, behaviours and risk Employees with CIEH qualication: 274 internationally accepted standard reduction.
We continue to implement for an eective environmental management system that is designed to address the balance between Case study: maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact.
Our cons Setting the highest standards are manufactured using raw materials behind the scenes that are sourced from well-managed The funeral sector is unregulated and sustainable sources.
96 per cent and there is no requirement for a of the cons manufactured by Dignity funeral business to have even basic are from Forest Stewardship Council facilities.
Dignity sets high standards FSC accredited timber.
with professional mortuaries and embalming facilities that meet CDP health and safety legislation.
When As part of Dignitys ongoing we buy funeral businesses we often commitment to reducing its carbon nd that the largest area for capital footprint and environmental impacts, expenditure is behind the scenes.
Dignity has been reporting to the CDP In 2017, Lorna Brierley-Davies, an formerly Carbon Disclosure Project Embalmer based at Dignitys since 2008.
The CDP is a not-for-profit Business Centre in North West organisation that aims to reduce London, received The Trustees impacts on the environment by Award from the British Institute of measuring disclosures from Embalmers for achieving a mark of thousands of organisations across 100 per cent in her practical exam.
Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 43 CDP encourages best practice in Environmental performance reporting and reducing environmental impact through a scoring process.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2017 Scoring is based on a number The Group reports its greenhouse gas to CDP on an annual basis in tonnes of carbon of criteria designed to assess our dioxide equivalent resulting from the combustion of fuel direct Scope 1 emissions Energy Management practices and and that resulting from the purchase of electricity indirect Scope 2 emissions.
Environmental Strategy, specically around Performance and Reporting, The emissions for the last five years are as follows: Risk Management, and Business 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Strategy in relation to Climate Change.
During the Per FTE Employee 4.8 8.0 8.2 8.5 9.0 period, Dignity also reported on water and waste management under the Scope 3 requirements.
Our energy consumption gures over the same periods are: 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 ESOS compliance Dignity qualies for the Energy Savings MWh 92,121 91,413 87,730 86,738 91,315 Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
Having completed an ESOS assessment Methodology during 2015 we are not required to Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated on a per full time submit another report until 2019. equivalent employee ratio.
This intensity metric is the best measure available to the Group given the diversity of the property portfolio, the three separate divisions of the business, and the absence of a similar business to benchmark against.
For the 2017 reporting period Dignity has calculated carbon emissions using both the location-based and market-based methodology in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
The location-based methodology uses UK grid average emission factors whereas: the market-based methodology uses Dignitys supplier specic emission factors.
Dignitys lower market-based carbon emissions gure in Scope 2 reects a larger proportion of purchased electricity generated by low-carbon sources than the UK grid average.
We have calculated our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions since 2010 and have engaged with Ecometrica Ltd to assist with the carbon emissions reporting.
GHG emissions have been calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the locationbased on Scope 2 calculation method together with the latest emission factors from recognised public sources, principally Defra DECC.
Dignitys carbon emissions disclosure has been undertaken in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Percentage Index Graph Scope 1 & 2 Only Base Year 2009 170 150 130 110 Case study: 90 Eco-hearse and matching car 70 A Nissan Leaf Eco-hearse and 50 matching electric car have been 30 added to our eet in London to oer 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 an environmentally friendly alternative Total C02 FTE Employees to traditional vehicles.
In a heavily Services Performed congested area the use of an EcoOperating profit in m Revenue in m hearse will help reduce our carbon Energy MWh footprint and create a cleaner capital for future generations.
The Nissan Leaf Eco-hearse has a radius of 100 miles whilst the electric car can seat up to three passengers.
