CORPORATE Responsibility 2017 was a landmark year for our 2020 THE OCADO WAY: 2020 STRATEGY Corporate Responsibility Strategy: The Ocado Way.
We won the Best First Time Responder Award for our voluntary submission to The Carbon Disclosure Project: we made progress with all four pillars of our Corporate Responsibility EDUCATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENVIRONMENT EATING WELL strategy, and we completed our first Corporate Responsibility report.
Highlights for each pillar are featured below.
For a more detailed look, view the full report at ocadogroup.
EDUCATION By sharing our expertise in food, retail, logistics and technology, we aim to add value to our society now, and help the next generation achieve more.
In 2017, we continued to promote digital literacy, road safety, and recycling.
Building on our existing relationship with HMP Northumberland recycling Ocado uniforms, we supported an education project to upskill offenders and enable them to earn a formal qualification.
Code for Life We continued to develop Rapid Router, our open source software and guidance resource, teaching Key Stage 1 and 2 children how to code.
At the end of November 2017, there were over 113,300 registered users and 2,267 registered schools worldwide.
Road Safety We continued to work with Hertfordshire County Council on road safety projects aimed at children across five local primary schools.
In September, we started working with Warwickshire County Council, the location of our Dordon CFC, on similar projects.
In spring 2017, we sponsored a special edition of The Young Drivers Guide, a magazine which helps reduce road risks for new drivers.
27,000 copies were delivered to 125 schools in Warwickshire and Hertfordshire, counties where we have a high presence on the roads.
88% of readers said they were more aware of the dangers faced by new drivers after reading the magazine.
Recycling 2017 is the second of our five year partnership with WRAP, promoting recycling education projects to primary school children.
This year, we invested 100,000 in the partnership, along with an additional 30,000 to support Recycle Week, a social media campaign promoting the benefits of recycling, with a reach of over 3.5 million.
HMP Northumberland HMP Northumberland textiles factory has processed over 55 tonnes of Ocado uniforms since our working partnership began in 2015.
In 2017, prisoners began to include our refashioning project as part of the Performing Manufacturing Operations qualification PMO, which is a Level 2 NVQ.
In 2017, 17 offenders successfully completed the PMO, with a further 61 prisoners enrolled in the course, increasing offender employment opportunities after release.
10 product designs have been developed by offenders, which will be available for sale in 2018, with proceeds going to the Ocado Foundation for future charitable donations.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 42 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report ENVIRONMENT ENTREPRENEURSHIP We continue to work on environmental data We provide an environment where entrepreneurs Waste management with Ecometrica to provide a in retail and technology can flourish.
In 2017 we Our food waste figures are now available for the centralised data management system.
Carbon continued to find opportunities to encourage first time in our first Corporate Responsibility emissions from our CFCs, Spokes and vehicles and reward entrepreneurial thinking in our own report.
View the report in full online at are tracked.
We are expanding this to track all business and in education.
We have focused on food waste operational waste.
reporting first: figures for our operational waste are Supporting SMEs almost complete, and we hope to publish these Greenhouse Gas Emissions As discussed in last years report, at the end imminently.
Due to our continued growth, this reporting period of 2016 we launched our supplier application saw our absolute emissions increase by 9.4% website, Supply Ocado, to make our retail listing We continue to measure food waste and find compared to the previous financial year.
Despite process more accessible for Small to Mediumalternative solutions to anaerobic digestion or this, we have decreased our intensity measure in sized Enterprises SMEs.
In 2017 1,003 businesses landfill for edible food.
This year, relationships with tonnes of CO2e per hundred thousand orders by applied through the website, 151 entrepreneurs our Food Partners food banks and food charities 27.6% against our 2013 base year.
met our Buyers, and 33 brands launched on across the UK have strengthened: we have ocado.
continued to work with food surplus redistributors, As in previous years, fuels used by our fleet remain such as Company Shop, and our staff restaurants.
the largest contributor to our carbon footprint, We also established the Ocado Primary Network, We donated and redistributed 2,200 tonnes of food accounting for 66% of our total emissions.
a team dedicated to improving logistics for small in the last 12 months.
Electricity is the second highest contributor, suppliers at launch, and to continue this as they making up 25.5% of emissions, attributed mostly grow.
150 SMEs are currently managed by a Our uniform recycling project with HMP to our main CFCs.
This is the first year we have dedicated full-time Ocado team.
Northumberland described earlier continues to reported a market-based figure alongside the grow, and has now prevented 55 tonnes of old We relaunched Britains Next Top Supplier, our traditional location-based method.
Ocado uniforms from being sent to landfill sites.
competition awarding a small supplier a 20,000 In June this year, we voluntarily submitted data to launch package and a six month listing with us at be reviewed by the Carbon Disclosure Project and ocado.
The 2017 winner, The Garlic Farm, subsequently won their Climate Change Best First launched on our webshop with a range of 47 Time Responder award.
Were extremely proud products within 6 weeks.
to have an independent body confirm that were working as efficiently as possible, and we will To win Britains Next Top Supplier continue to strive for transparency and excellence.
2017 is an incredible accolade for This year the Carbon Trust have carried out a limited us.
Weve been innovating with assurance engagement on selected GHG emissions garlic for over 50 years and we are data below in accordance with ISO14064:3 so excited to bring the results of our Specification with guidance for the verification of labour to Ocado customers.
We are greenhouse gas assertions.
A copy of the limited assurance report is available at ocadogroup.
after all a nation of garlic lovers and our unusual products will bring that familiar taste to people in GHG Emissions tonnes CO e 2016 17 2015 16 2012 13 ways they have never experienced 2 Scope 1 Direct 82,305 72,377 39,530 before.
Scope 2 Indirect Natasha Edwards Location-based 28,270 28,675 21,613 OPERATIONS MANAGER AT THE Market-based 14,510 GARLIC FARM Total Emissions location-based 110,575 101,052 61,143 Intensity measure tonnes CO e 100,000 orders 2 Location-based 596.4 582.8 823.4 Engineering Education Scheme Market-based 522.2 In September, we signed up to this scheme, partnering with Monks Walk School in Welwyn Due to inaccuracies discovered in our 2015 16 data we have restated our GHG emissions and intensity measure for that Garden City, Hertfordshire.
Total emissions and intensity measure for 2017 have been calculated using the location-based method.
Development and Engineering team agreed to mentor six A Level students, providing them with View more information about the basis of preparation of a special Ocado challenge to solve.
Well report our emissions data online at ocadogroup.
com more on the results next year.
com 43 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM CORPORATE Responsibility EATING WELL As an online grocer, we have a natural connection with food.
Weve continued to focus on reducing food poverty in Carrier bags the UK, growing our Food Partnerships with food banks and food charities.
Weve also maintained our promise to The legislation that came into effect encourage our customers to eat well by having at least 100 promotions on fresh fruit and vegetables at all times.
in October 2015 requires a 5p charge on all new single use carrier bags in FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES ON PROMOTION 2017 England.
Given the aim of the legislation 500 is to reduce bag littering and damage 400 to wildlife, we believe that this is best done by removing the bags from 300 circulation.
One of the unintended risks of the legislation for us is that it could 200 encourage our customers to keep hold 100 of carrier bags rather than return them to us for recycling, so we decided to build 0 on our existing and very successful bag recycling programme by offering a financial incentive for customers to return used bags to us.
We call this our Donate Food with Ocado Bag Buy Back Scheme.
A large majority For every 1 our customers give in Donate Food With Ocado vouchers, we give 2 worth of food to our food bank of the proceeds from the bag charge fund partners.
Rather than food banks being overloaded with overstocks, they choose what they need most from a long this scheme: we believe that using a Bag list of fresh and ambient products.
In 2017 142,709 was donated by Ocado customers: to date we have matched Buy Back Scheme to proactively retrieve customer donations and given local charities 64 tonnes of food.
and recycle used bags from a customers Cool vans home correlates closely with the aim of When collecting fresh donations, we ask our Food Partners to use refrigerated transport.
This year, weve given three the legislation, and is environmentally of our charity partners a refrigerated van and weve paid for the branding, leasing, maintenance, tax and insurance more sensible than simply donating all on their behalf: they simply pay for their fuel.
Their van drivers have also completed our Safe and Efficient Driver the proceeds to a charity.
The Ocado training programme, to try and keep them safe on the road.
Foundation is the custodian of the remaining funds and disburses them on Ocado is committed to the upholding of human rights.
During the period, we introduced a Human Rights charitable environmental, waste, and Policy reflecting our commitment to acting ethically and with integrity in all our business relationships and to recycling projects.
During the 2016 17 implementing effective systems and controls.
We fully support the Modern Slavery Act which is designed to root period, we charged customers for out slavery-like practices, such as human trafficking, in global supply chains.
Our modern slavery statement will be 138.8 million bags.
Weve used the remainder of the funds During the period we made a donation of 306,808 to the Prince of Waless Charitable Foundation, through sales of from the charge to support waste, Duchy branded products.
litter and recycling charities across the UK.
This further supports the No donations were made by the Group to any political party, organisation or candidate during the period 2016: nil.
desire of the Single Use Carrier Bag THE OCADO FOUNDATION Charging Legislation to see some of The Ocado Foundation launched in April 2015: its the home of our charitable and fundraising activity, both internally and the money raised go to environmental externally.
We help our employees across the UK make a difference at a local level.
We do this through donations to multiple causes such as supporting work to small, local projects and charities where impact will be greatest, rather than only supporting a single national charity.
This year weve donated 130,000 of carrier bag funds to Matching the fundraising and volunteering activity resulted in donations of just over 22,147 for charities across the WRAP, supporting recycling education UK through the Ocado Foundation in the last 12 months.
Ocado employees have volunteered more than 2,000 hours projects: 150,000 has been spent to a variety of good causes.
on five refrigerated vans for our Food Partners: and 65,000 has been donated to CleanupUK, a charity which helps people combat litter in their local area.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 44 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM December 358 January 318 February 274 March 318 316 April May 302 June 258 319 July 414 August 361 September 336 October 334 November Strategic Report CASE STUDY EDIBLELINKS FOOD BANK, ATHERSTONE This food partner to CFC Dordon started out as a simple food bank in 2013, redistributing food surplus to local people experiencing food crisis.
The project has grown into one of our most successful partnerships, attracting media coverage with their inventive community group membership schemes and pilot projects with government services.
In just 13 weeks, we identified and refurbished empty council units and found a charity partner to set up our food bank, which opened in April 2013.
We were collecting 40 to 60 totes in a council van, weekly.
Now were using our donated Ocado Foundation vans to collect ambient and perishable food every weekday, and weve received a total of 33 tonnes of food.
When we started, we issued around 50 food vouchers to residents in need every month: we now issue at least this amount every week.
In addition, were using excess donations to support 135 community groups, 15 breakfast clubs in secondary schools, and are working towards sustainability with initiatives like our honesty shops.
Without doubt, this is the best project that I have ever been involved with and shows what is possible by the public and third sector working with a brilliant private sector partner.
Ocados support has meant that we reach thousands of people in our local and surrounding communities, making a real difference to peoples finances, health and wellbeing.
Bob Trahern Assistant Chief Executive at North Warwickshire County Council CASE STUDY CLEANUPUK, BEAUTIFUL BOROUGHS PROJECT This charity helps people combat litter in their local area.
We got in touch in September 2016, after we heard about their Beautiful Boroughs project, which focused on deprived areas in 10 boroughs in east and north London.
We donated money from the single use carrier bag charge to help them reach their funding target.
The money weve donated has enabled them to launch 40 additional litter picking groups, and extend the Beautiful Boroughs project to include Islington.
Ocados generous financial support has enabled CleanupUK to continue to develop its work in the deprived areas of London and to expand to the deprived areas of Birmingham.
We are now able to work with more people and achieve much greater impact.
We know that our work makes a difference because we have been evaluating the Beautiful Boroughs Project for three years and our evaluations consistently show that the practical results of our work are stronger, cleaner and more connected communities in which people feel empowered and active.
Ocado is CleanupUKs first significant corporate supporter and occupies a very special position in CleanupUKs family.
I am looking forward to achieving great things in partnership with our wonderful new friends at Ocado.
George Monck, Chief Executive, CleanupUK Stock Code: OCDO | www.
