Strategic Report INNOVATION Developing solutions for all our customers of shopping.
Combining attractive evolves and changes, but at the same Innovation is part of our DNA and aesthetics with pioneering functionality time balance workloads, performance with our investment to date, and our that offers unique ways to shop, we and resources in an efficient manner.
have helped to create applications Our technology teams design and build continuing research into areas such which deliver an exciting, informative these systems to be highly available and as artificial intelligence, robotics, and tailored experience while using self-healing.
intelligent technologies to remove the automation and big data, we have an Discrete Event-Simulation complexity of keeping it all managed opportunity to create a sustainable Simulation modelling is used at Ocado and up to date.
technological advantage in an Algorithms and Smart Optimisation Making highly optimal choices for increasingly competitive market.
Our systems can make around four physical devices, layout and algorithms million routing calculations per second.
is often beyond human capability, but With everything from websites to Ocados systems continuously monitor getting it right is extremely important for warehouses designed in-house, we stock at the individual product level any business.
Companies can optimise and compute multiple sales forecasts by trial and error in production often have developed capabilities across a for every product in every warehouse.
this is expensive, risky and slow or they wide range of technologies.
Warehouse replenishment systems are can create software to identify highly designed to automatically reorder stock optimal choices.
Ocado uses discrete from suppliers within the constraints of event simulation for this purpose.
AREAS OF DEVELOPMENT maximising product life and availability This gives us deterministic, faster than Automation and Robotics to customers while minimising waste real-time scenario and soak testing, Warehouse automation within our centralised CFCs is one of the key and stock-holding.
allowing us to create systems that differentiators for Ocado in the online grocery retail market.
Our most would otherwise be too complex to test ambitious and innovative project of this sort has been the design and Distributed Computing and debug.
development of our proprietary hive fulfilment solution, currently live Powering Ocado is a complex computing in our Andover CFC, which will involve thousands of robots working estate that covers everything from together to retrieve from storage the groceries comprising a customer our webshop to our highly automated order.
Our distribution systems need to support the business as it In terms of picking robotics, we have two ambitious Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation projects called SecondHands and SoMa which combine state-of-the-art robotics, artificial intelligence, machine learning and advanced sensors to understand and assist human warehouse workers in real time.
For more information on this see the Development in Robotics Case Study on page 13 Data Science and Artificial Intelligence Machine learning is a core competency at Ocado.
Artificial intelligence is beginning to transform how customers and companies interact with each other.
Ocado uses machine learning to develop predictive analytics, implement advanced monitoring and oversight, manage our operations, and achieve real-time optimisation of services.
Our data science teams work on advanced projects using programming languages, tools and frameworks in areas related to computer vision, natural language processing and demand forecasting.
Big Data and the Cloud We use advanced data analytics and cloud storage to deliver groceries to more than 645,000 active customers.
Our cloud and data teams collect and process data from customer-facing websites, warehouses, delivery vans and beyond to provide a more personalised shopping experience to customers, optimise warehouse operations, empower the supply chain, speed decision-making and reduce costs.
Web and App Development Ocado was the first grocery supermarket to launch Android, iOS and watchOS apps.
With the move into a digital era, the retail sector is becoming increasingly diverse and requires the strategic use of applications to offer new immersive and interactive methods Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 11 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM INNOVATION Developing solutions for all our customers CASE STUDY OUR PROPRIETARY ROUTING ALGORITHMS As we continue to grow our customer base, the routing algorithms the route optimisation for Friday.
The software is quick and efficient, that underpin the efficiency of our last mile delivery become meaning that additions and revisions of delivery bookings can be increasingly complex.
The algorithms must optimise the variants of taken into account when calculating the best possible solution thousands of delivery drivers in different cities with numerous drop within the time available.
com, the webshop destinations, with varying distances between them and calculate is actually communicating directly with our routing software to the shortest possible route for each delivery driver to complete their establish which delivery slots are still available.
When you click on shift and end up back where they started.
As we continue to grow, the day you wish to receive your delivery in the calendar, the real the scale of this problem keeps expanding.
time optimiser will return the available slots within 500 milliseconds!
Since 2007, when we outgrew the capacity of third party routing The secret ingredient to our routing success is the broad range of software, we have been using our internally developed proprietary variables we take into account when calculating the cost function, algorithms, which employ real-time optimisation to help us decide including van capacities, weights, volumes, fuel consumption and which deliveries to assign to each van and the order in which they even driver experience.
The work of our technology team means should be completed, while also ensuring we do our best to arrive we regularly find ourselves in a position to solve our own problems on time for all our deliveries in time slots selected by the customer.
without outsourcing to third parties.
The close collaboration between our retail and technology teams continues to keep us a step ahead.
The algorithm makes several million route calculations per second to identify the best delivery routes for our drivers.
We have continued to evolve our software over time so that we can assess which scenarios are most efficient.
Our platform is constantly running multiple instances of the optimiser simultaneously, each iteration focusing on a specific area for a certain day.
This means that a customer can book a delivery slot online late on a Thursday night for delivery the following day, and the software can make sure it incorporates this new slot into Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 12 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM Strategic Report CASE STUDY DEVELOPMENTS IN ROBOTICS SOMA PROJECT We designed a set of experiments to evaluate grasping performance As part of our ongoing aim to lower costs and drive efficiencies on an example set of artificial fruit stored in a tray.
The experiments within our model we have been evaluating the feasibility of robotic started with the simple scenario of grasping a single object.
Results picking and packing within our CFCs through various initiatives, illustrated that the hand is able to successfully grasp a variety of one of these being the SoMa project, a Horizon 2020 framework shapes and provided us with insights on how to improve accuracy programme for research and innovation funded by the European and success of picking going forward.
Over the year we have Union.
continued to explore more complex scenarios, adding more objects and introducing additional environmental constraints that could be One of the main challenges of robotic manipulation has been the exploited by a grasping strategy.
handling of easily damageable and unpredictably shaped objects such as fruit and vegetables.
To avoid damaging sensitive items, the OSPICK project uses a compliant gripper i. e. one that possesses spring-like More recently we have developed and trialled an alternative type properties in conjunction with an industrial robot arm.
of picking station, called OSPick.
OSPick is an industrial robot designed to pick a range of groceries within our CFCs using suction.
The variation in shape of the target objects imposes another set of The system is straightforward in concept compared to many other constraints on the design of a suitable gripper.
The gripper must industrial manipulation projects, but alongside this simplicity comes be sufficiently versatile to pick a wide variety of products, including flexibility.
The robotic pick station consists of a suction cup on the Ocados current range which includes over 49,000 hypermarket end of an articulated arm.
The arm is equipped with a pipe running items.
The goal is to develop versatile, robust, cost-effective, and to an air compressor, which is capable of lifting items regardless of safe robotic grasping and manipulation capabilities.
The biggest factors that influence the An example of a compliant gripper is the RBO Hand 2.
The gripper success of a pick are the items weight and surface properties.
uses flexible rubber materials and pressurized air for passively The future development and roll-out of this picking solution within adapting grasps which allows for safe and damage-free picking our CFCs should allow us to reduce the cost of fulfilment within our of objects.
Our robotics team replicated a production warehouse operations and that of our commercial partners.
scenario in order to evaluate the performance of the RBO Hand 2 for Ocados use case.
The team mounted the soft hand on two different robot arms.
