William Hill PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility Embedding responsible gambling In 2017, we have continued to promote Additionally, we have extended our Responsible gambling responsible gambling to our customers approach to supporting local communities isan integral part of through enhanced tools and increased as part of our Close to HOME commitment, information.
We evolved our ground to increase our positive impact on society.
both ourdaily operations breaking Multi Operator Self Exclusion This includes volunteering work, our andour commitment Scheme, enabling customers to selfcharitable partnerships, including with exclude from multiple betting shops at the Bobby Moore Fund and CLIC Sargent, toa sustainable business any given time.
We have also enhanced and our innovative work with the Scottish model.
We have three our player behaviour algorithm to help us Football Association in tackling mental improve our tracking and prevention of health in sport.
key areas of focus: our problem gambling in both our Retail and customers, our colleagues Online divisions.
We have applied significant focus to safeguarding our colleagues through our security processes, which have, for the third time, received recognition at the Outstanding Security Performance Awards.
Customers Colleagues Community 20 % 1,7 00 6, 9 1 8 of shop window advertising nominations were made hours of colleagues time is committed to responsible by colleagues for our have been given in the last year gambling messages Excellence Awards to support good causes Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Performance Customers Performance 2017 2016 Comments Customer Number of self-exclusions 9,881 9,687 We have continued to improve responsible gambling protection Retail interactions, supported by training for colleagues to identify patterns of potentially harmful behaviour.
Since October Number of self-exclusions 29,191 23,886 2015 we have provided automatic and short-term selfOnline and Telephone exclusion systems for Online customers.
RIDDOR reportable 3 2 RIDDOR requires all accidents to be reported.
accidents customers Customer Retail Net 76% 68% Mystery shopper scores in Retail have improved significantly, satisfaction Promoter Score supported by our customer service training programmes.
Disputes referred to IBAS 315 719 Our customers have access to an independent arbitrator IBAS disputes found in 1.0% 1.0% to resolve customer disputes.
In around 99% of cases, our customers favour original decisions are upheld.
Colleagues Performance 2017 2016 Comments Protection RIDDOR reportable 7 11 RIDDOR requires accidents to be reported when they result accidents colleagues in absence from work for over seven days.
Incidents of violence 340 344 The number of physical attacks on shop colleagues in the workplace decreased slightly.
During the year, we held 75 anti-social behaviour workshops to address violence in the workplace, involving 156 shops and attended by 465 employees.
Number of robberies 97 89 The number of actual robberies remains stable at 48 excluding 49 failed attempts.
Number of burglaries 53 56 The proportion of burglaries classed as failed attempts reduced slightly, supported by our Counter Plan training and cash control procedures.
Number of cash-in-transit 15 9 The number of cash in transit incidents increased, but still incidents remains very low.
Average cash loss from 233 405 Average cash loss was significantly reduced this year by 43%.
OTC robberies Training and Total number of training days 25,062 24,559 Our business is made more sustainable by attracting development Value of training investment 1,344.9 1,019.4 and retaining engaged employees.
We encourage this by 000 investing in our people.
Engagement Employee Engagement 89% The participation rate of 89% in our engagement survey, Index participation Your Say, is the highest weve ever recorded.
We did not conduct a full survey in 2016.
Support WilliamHill Foundation grants 28,004 48,645 The WilliamHill Foundations hardship fund supported colleagues across the Company, making 25 grants in 2017.
Community Performance 2017 2016 Comments Environment Total CO equivalent tonnes 41,275 48,584 Our tonnes of CO e decreased further this year by 15%.
2 2 Industry UK horseracing levy m 19.1 14.6 We continue to support sports through sponsorship, relationships Sports sponsorship m 11.4 8.8 Racing media rights and the horseracing and greyhound racing levies.
Community Employee charity matching 56.2 74.3 Our colleagues participated in 108 charity events for which engagement scheme 000 we matched their fundraising in 2017.
Research, education and 1,350 1,300 Donations shown relate to GambleAware and the Senet treatment contributions 000 Group.
We also fund other services via the ABB.
William Hill PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Customers We are focused on improving our approach to responsible gambling to build a long-term, sustainable business for all our stakeholders, and especially for any of our customers who are at risk from problem gambling.
Responsible gambling We are committed to conducting our operations in a manner that is consistent with the three licensing objectives set by the UK Gambling Commission: One example is the pilot programme we Almost 100 customers were helped by Preventing gambling from being a source completed and evaluated in 2017 with the service: many required only brief of crime or disorder, being associated Betknowmore, an innovative problem intervention support but, for those with crime or disorder, or being used to gambling support service based in North with more serious problems, the vast support crime: London.
The pilot in our Islington betting majority considerably improved their Ensuring that gambling is conducted shops, which started in October 2016, ability to successfully manage their inafair and open way: and was carried out in conjunction with gambling behaviour.
the Association of British Bookmakers Protecting children and other vulnerable Gaming machines in betting shops are and saw shops trial a new referral persons from being harmed or exploited among the most advanced in the world system for problem gamblers, direct to by gambling.
in terms of player protection measures.
Betknowmore, who were able to provide AtWilliamHill we have had our own player We dont just want to take necessary steps rapid response assistance within 24hours.
protection algorithm in place since 2015. to protect our customers, we want to The Betknowmore service provides It has been developed in partnership with develop innovative measures to increase holistic support for gamblers, seeking data scientists and experts in behaviour understanding of gambling-related harm to address not only their problems with change decision technology, and we and how to prevent it.
gambling but also the underlying issues continue to seek ways to improve this.
and other impacts from problem gambling We want to take ownership of problem Further development and research over such as debt, relationship breakdown or gambling, understanding it and actively the course of 2017 has allowed us to focus housing problems.
contributing to the wider engagement on the algorithm on problem gambling player research, education and treatment.
We characteristics and improve the accuracy We are delighted that the pilotphase want do more to help at risk customers of the model, allowing us to carry out more progressed well and yielded tostop problems developing.
WilliamHill staff In 2017 we undertook a number of new trials havefully supported the project and and initiatives, both on a cross-industry theirengagement has been really positive.
basis working closely with other operators The collaboration is helping to reduce and also by ourselves.
Frankie Graham Founder and CEO of BetKnowMore Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 The ability to set time and spend limits on Self-exclusion is an important tool for our Treating customers fairly machines before starting to play, combined customers when they feel their gambling andopenly with mandatory reminders and breaks is causing them harm and who want to WilliamHill has actively engaged with in play for every 150 or 20 minutes on take back control.
The Multi Operator Self the Competition and Markets Authority the machine, is unique to betting shop Exclusion Scheme, in operation since April CMA enquiry into unfair terms and machines.
Analysis of the changes in player 2016, continues to offer customers a quick conditions, which involved a number of behaviour in response to the alerts has and easy way to self-exclude from one or operators.
Itsoutcomes will apply to the allowed us to identify ways to improve several operators at once.
An independent whole gambling industry.
Making sure that howthe alerts work and when they occur, evaluation published in 2017 has shown that our promotional offers are clear and easy so they can have the maximum impact 83% of customers believe the scheme has to understand, with customers able to forthe player, and these have been trialled helped them control their gambling.
make informed decisions, is of the utmost during 2017.
New pop-ups were trialled At WilliamHill we are committed to working importance to us.
in three areas across all ABB member closely with other operators, using the shops, in response to player behaviour scheme to help make sure customers identified as problematic by independent continue to get the most out of the scheme.
research, such as chasing losses and Improvements are planned for 2018 to allow chaotic behaviour.
Independent evaluation the service to operate longer out of hours of these measures has shown that they are and at weekends.
of value and updates to gaming machines across our estate are planned once further We also continue to invest in improving refinements recommended in the report self-exclusion for our customers in shop.
This includes a pilot in 2017 of a tabletbased self-exclusion form, making for a clearer and easier process for the customer.
Protecting vulnerable persons The pilot was successful in demonstrating For the vast majority, gambling is an The lessons learnt from the CMA enquiry the potential of the technology and we enjoyable leisure activity.
However, process have enabled us to strengthen our hope to roll out a similar solution across our we recognise that, for a small number, approach and include: a full review of all estate in 2018.
Importantly, this improved gambling can become a problem.
We terms and conditions by external lawyers: technology will also help shop colleagues are therefore dedicated to implementing technical updates to our website making it access the images of self-excluded preventative and supportive measures easier for customers to access information: customers in shop and better support to ensure all our customers gamble in and new processes for internal review and themby identifying customers who may aresponsible way.
sign-off of marketing proposals, making attempt to breach their agreement.
sure we always put the customer first.
We acknowledge that some of our former We acknowledge that young people are policies were insufficient to ensure full We have a clear process for customers amongst the most vulnerable to gamblingregulatory compliance, particularly in to make and escalate complaints.
That is why we have such relation to the identification of the possible complaints are not resolved to the strong controls in place across our estate proceeds of crime.
An independent process customers satisfaction in the first instance, toprevent underage gambling.
All our shops review is underway and we will work to matters can be referred to the Independent operate a Think 21 policy, and as wellas implement any recommendations that Betting Adjudication Service IBAS.
Every receiving regular training, shop teams emerge from that review.
We are fully effort is made to resolve complaints at the are assessed using independent testers committed to operating a sustainable earliest opportunity.
In total 315 complaints aged below 21 to make sure ID is being business that properly identifies risk and were referred to IBAS in 2017 with 99% requested.
These test results show that ID better protects customers.
is requested 85% of the time, and we want to keep improving that record.
In 2017 we signed a Primary Partnership agreement with Reading Council to help review and improve our policies and procedures, and worked with Westminster Council to carry out under 18s test purchase visits to learn where improvements could be made.
William Hill PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Customers Money laundering GambleAware week Keeping crime out of gambling We have a Money Laundering Officer in Following the successful launch of Retail security place to coordinate our initiatives in this Responsible Gambling Week across We take the safety and welfare of our area.
Money Laundering is defined as betting shop operators in 2015 and 2016, colleagues, our customers and the people the method by which criminals attempt WilliamHill took part in the first crosswho live and work in the communities to legitimise monies derived from the industry Responsible Gambling Week in in which we are located very seriously.
As a regulated company 2017 to promote responsible gambling with With a dedicated Security function and we must have in place certain controls to other members of the Industry Group.
considerable investment in training, prevent the business from being used for The campaign involved full shop window systems and products, we have developed money laundering.
take-overs for the week, with key messages a security-conscious culture that has focused on letting customers know where reaped benefits over a number of years.
Examples of these include: to get help and support, and the tools We have a number of security systems that Assessing the risk of the business being available in shop to help stay in control.
have been installed in every LBO to protect used by criminals to launder money: and AtWilliamHill we were also pleased to have the safety of our colleagues.
These include Monitoring customers activity and the support of Robbie Savage, our brand StaffSafe, a security safety monitoring reporting anything suspicious to the ambassador, who helped promote the system that supports colleagues in dealing National Crime Agency NCA.
campaign and the role of the WilliamHill with anti-social behaviour, provides Foundation.
Customer feedback gathered WilliamHill has played a pivotal part in the protection for colleagues during periods after the event highlighted how much industry Gambling Anti-Money Laundering of lone working and offers immediate customers value this type of activity, and Group, which has successfully delivered response in the event of a serious incident.
we are committed to further promoting an industry standard risk assessment, We also have safe havens in 95% of shops responsible gambling in 2018. highlighting the risk of each product and CCTV installed in every LBO.
with the aim of promoting a better Training for shop colleagues includes: understanding of associated threats and dealing with serious incidents: conflict risks.
In January 2018, the industry group management: and, where appropriate, implemented an industry standard for anti-social behaviour ASB workshops, operator thresholds.
This will achieve an run in conjunction with local police and industry standard where operators will Safer Neighbourhood teams.
These be required to implement Know Your provide greater understanding of ASB Customer KYC checks.
and practical advice on relevant issues, A Suspicious Activity Report SAR is as well as enhancing relationships with submitted either when we have knowledge external agencies.
of or suspicion that a money laundering Our Security team is the three-times offence has taken place or under our legal winner of national security industry awards, obligation to report potential criminal spend the latest of these being Security Team under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002. of the Year at the Outstanding Security In 2017 we submitted 686 SARs to either Performance Awards in February 2017. the National Crime Agency or the Gibraltar Good Neighbour scheme Financial Intelligence Unit 2016: 614.
We launched the Good Neighbour scheme Wereceived 366 law enforcement in 2016 to better support colleagues and or financial institution enquires that local communities in dealing with antirequired investigation 2016: 435.
By social issues in and around our shops.
The submitting a SAR to the NCA, we provide scheme introduced early warning systems law enforcement agencies with valuable to identify areas of risk, improved colleague information of potential criminal activity.
awareness and delivered clear processes Keeping crime out of gambling to report and help deal with any issues.
Our continuing low levels of burglaries and Where issues are identified, we work with robberies is a testament to the rigorous colleagues, line management, support cash management measures we have teams and the relevant authorities to in place.
The scheme is aligned to our licensing objectives and There were 53 burglaries in 2017, a 5% has consistently received positive feedback decrease on 2016.
92% of incidents resulted from local authorities and colleagues.
in zero cash loss, 5 percentage points better than the previous year.
Costs arising from this form of crime, at 41,500, were the lowest recorded and an improvement of38% on 2016.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Leading sports betting integrity Integrity in sports betting is essential totheindustry in ensuring we address arange of potential gambling-related issues.
Wehave robust systems in place that help us efficiently identify and act upon unusual or suspicious activities.
We are a member of ESSA, the sports betting integrity body, launched by leading regulated sports betting operators to monitor suspicious betting patterns.
In the case of potentially fraudulent activity taking place, identified by our internal monitoring mechanisms, notably in our Trading teams, ESSA is able to report this activity to the relevant sports governing body.
We have a number of memoranda ofunderstanding in place with sports We had 97 robbery incidents in 2017, an Both our Retail and Online operations are governing bodies such as the British increase of 9% on 2016.
However, this certified compliant with the Payment Card Horseracing Authority, the Scottish still represents a significant reduction on Industrys data security standards.
We Football Association, the English Football 2015 and the level of incidents compares undertake annual security audits for our Association, Rugby Football Union and the favourably to figures from the Office of regulators and continue to monitor our Tennis Integrity Unit.
We work closely with National Statistics, indicating robberies keythird-party suppliers.
these sports bodies in sharing best practice increased by 23% in the 12 months ending in identifying and reporting suspicious During 2017 we continued to mature June 2017.
The average cash loss of 233 betting patterns.
We also have company ourprogrammes around intelligence, risk is our lowest annual figure recorded and representation at ESSAs board level.
management, vulnerability management the proportion of attempts compared to and incident response.
We are also a member of the Sports substantive robberies of 51% demonstrates highly effective application of our Betting Integrity Forum, established in More specifically, we opened our new 2012 to develop Britains approach to Counter Plan training, cash controls and 24 7 365 Enterprise Operations Centre in comprehensive deployment of safe havens.
protecting sports and sports betting from Krakw, which brings together our Network being corrupted and have contributed to and Security Operations, and are currently the associated Sports and Sports Betting engaged in delivery of a new strategy to Protecting our customers data Integrity Action Plan, a national approach mitigate the threat from the recent largeInformation Security, or Cyber Security, designed to address risks to the integrity scale, high-profile Distributed Denial of continues to be classed as one of the key ofsport and sports betting.
Service attacks against businesses globally.
risks facing companies, particularly digital We have embedded secure development companies, who hold sensitive customer and security testing practices into our data or perform transactions and business internal development teams and are online.
At WilliamHill we take the security also embarking on a new company-wide of our customers data very seriously security awareness campaign to ensure all throughout the Group and continue to our colleagues are briefed and aware of the invest in an ongoing programme of security risks associated with information security.
enhancements aligned with the everchanging nature of the threat.
We have Finally, we have been actively engaged on a dedicated Chief Information Security aprogramme of compliance around the Officer to coordinate security across new EU General Data Protection Regulation our business.
EU-GDPR, using specialist support to ensure that we are good shape to achieve compliance in May 2018.
William Hill PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Colleagues 2017 has been about transforming our ways of working and building our capability to go one better by making WilliamHill agreat place to work.
Transforming the way we work Our transformation includes changing our culture and ways of working.
We have said that we want to become an organisation set up for continuous improvement.
As our culture is shaped and underpinned by our values, we announced at the end oflast year that we would be replacing our HOME values with a new set of values.
These values are designed to protect what is already great about our culture while Setting up smart providing the aspiration we need to drive Introducing the Standard Bearers change.
They are provocative, simple and direct, and define what is expected of all We have a vision to be the brand in everyones hand.
We also our colleagues, every day.
The roll-out and have goals and a strategy, which we call Setting the Standard.
embedding of the values in all our people processes will take place throughout 2018.
Our colleagues hear about these from They are colleagues who put up In parallel we have revised our leadership their leaders.
But for any message their hands to get involved in our to stick, it needs to be heard multiple transformation programme Setting up expectations.
We know that culture change starts at the top and have therefore times and from multiple sources.
They are our change champions introduced a new way for colleagues and represent every division, function created new leadership Vitals which are the over and above things expected of all to find out more by introducing our and location.
Change can be challenging and the Standard Bearers are there to help and New ways of working initiatives We have introduced bite-size learning, answer colleagues questions.
The other important role they have is to give the managing virtual teams and cross border working development sessions.
leadership team honest feedback on the mood of the organisation.
These are vital for success in a digital world and are helping our Online teams work together, on the same side, across different locations using virtual technology.
We started updating our working environments to create open spaces toimprove collaboration.
WilliamHill values and leadership vitals Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 The Excellence Awards for Retail and Group The Retail Academy was updated in 2017 Engagement were held at Ayr Racecourse on Gold Cup and now has five programmes.
Aligned with In 2017, 89% of colleagues completed our day, with ambassadors Robbie Savage and core Retail roles, there is a development employee engagement survey, Your Say, Freddie Flintoff hosting our 200 finalists.
programme available for all colleagues.
our highest ever participation rate.
We On the night 16 finalists were crowned This is supported by regular mandatory asked our colleagues to let us know how the winners.
training to ensure colleagues maintain they feel about working at WilliamHill.
their knowledge and skills in subjects such And they have given us a clear steer on the Our Online and Krakw Excellence Awards as Health & Safety, Security, Responsible areas that they think we do well and those took place over a five-week recognition Gambling and Compliance.
that they want to see improve.
roadshow in four events held in Manila, Sofia, Krakw and Gibraltar.
Across these Leadership programmes There were improvements in 26 out of the events over 360 finalists were recognised We made a significant investment in two 31 questions with historically comparable for their efforts and 25 were crowned new leadership programmes, Strategic scores.
The highest scoring questions as winners.
Leader and Leading Edge, designed to related to our commitment to customer build essential leadership skills in our Area experience and pride in our products and Manager and Regional Manager teams.
Two of the priority focus areas for Over 60 colleagues were involved in this the Executive team in 2017 understanding training and were supported by action of the WilliamHill vision and strategy learning sets and one-to-one coaching, and and communication by leaders saw the also took part in collaborative work-based greatest positive improvement.
projects to embed their new skills.
Every leadership team is responsible for We also implemented a new Managing creating action plans to address priority forSuccess programme, aimed at new and improvement areas and drive our employee aspiring Business Performance Managers Net Promoter Score.
This starts with the BPMs.
Over 350 BPMs went through the Executive team which will be focusing development programme in 2017, along on recognition, strategic direction and We also hosted Home Awards in Australia with a talent bank of around 55 aspiring action taking.
and All Star Recognition events in US.
BPMs with over 50% of these promoted during the year.
Development for BPMs will Recognising our people Developing our people continue in 2018 with the new talent bank Our colleagues are pivotal to our successful intake of over 70 aspiring BPMs.
We continue to place a strong emphasis performance, and we recognise the on developing our people.
We want to give Building on this success we have started importance of rewarding and championing our people meaningful career development toroll out similar leadership programmes our colleagues success.
We want them opportunities, attracting talent and building inOnline, Technology and Group functions.
to be excited and motivated to be part of leadership development programmes to WilliamHill.
Senior C Suite talent programmes enable strong succession pipelines which In September 2017, we launched our CSuite will leave a positive legacy.
Our focus We hosted Excellence Awards events Executive Development Programme.
for 2018 is building better career paths across Retail, Group and Online in 2017, We delivered two high-quality learning and programmes for all employees and celebrating the efforts of our people around experiences facilitated by world-class becoming a great place to work.
professors, for which feedback has been WilliamHill Retail Academy From over 15,000 colleagues, we received positive.
We are working in partnership with The WilliamHill Retail Academy provides a record 1,700 nominations, from 2,439 London Business School to maintain levels the framework to support our colleagues locations across a range of categories, of learner satisfaction.
in developing the skills, knowledge and including a Community Contribution Award behaviours they need to be effective recognising colleagues efforts in supporting in their roles, whilst also providing a local communities through our Close to structured career development pathway HOME commitment.
from Customer Experience Assistant right through to Regional Manager.
William Hill PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Colleagues Our ambition is to improve our leadership Legislation requires that we define Gender diversity bench strength within the senior talent senior managers as the directors of our At WilliamHill, we are committed to succession pipeline and create credible subsidiary companies.
However, the Board creating a diverse and inclusive workplace candidates ready for the next C Suite believes this information does not provide for everyone.
Not only is this the right thing vacancy.
We want to grow confidence a meaningful analysis of how the Group to do, but we also believe that a diverse and visibility of our internal talent while operates so the data shown reflect the team means a stronger business, which reducing reliance on recruiting from the proportion of senior managers by our own benefits our customers and makes us external market.
The gender Technology graduate scheme diversity within the Board, management For reporting purposes, there are In March 2017 we launched a Technology and the Group as a whole is shown below.
58directors of subsidiary companies Graduate Scheme.
Eleven graduates in2017, comprising 47 men and 11 women.
joined us in September 2017 for a two-year Gender diversity structured programme where they will go Human rights as at 26 December 2017 on rotations throughout our technology number The Board considers that it is not necessary business.
We provided a structured for the Group to operate a specific human induction, taking our graduates through Board of Senior All rights policy at present.
Our policies already directors managers colleagues the ins and outs of life at WilliamHill.
They operate within a framework to comply are also studying for a qualification over 3 66 7,864 with relevant laws, to behave in an ethical the two years.
And each graduate has manner and to respect the human rights 226 aperformance coach and a buddy so they 7 ofour employees and other stakeholders know who to turn to when it comes to any inthe business.
We are growing our own stars of the future and making our mark as The Corporate Responsibility Committee, anemployer of choice in Leeds, especially on behalf of the Board, is satisfied that when it comes to the technology we WilliamHills policies operate in a way that are using.
is consistent with the UNs Global Compact, covering areas of human rights, labour, the Females environment and anti-corruption.
Males The Groups approach to the implementation of the Modern Slavery Act We welcome the requirement for more 2015, which involved a Group-wide supply transparency on pay and are committed to chain risk assessment, has been updated improving our gender pay gap as evidenced and is available via the Group website by our membership of the 30% Club.
take our responsibility to our colleagues very seriously and have a number of initiatives in place which we believe will increase the number of women in senior management positions and in other roles across the business.
We have released our gender pay statistics, details of which can be found on our website www.
com along with page 09 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Company is committed to gender pay equality and our gender pay disclosure outlines the steps we are taking to eliminate any disparity in pay and opportunity.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Community Haringey Box Cup With around 16,000 of our colleagues living and working We are the main official supporter of the in nearly2,500 communities across four continents, Haringey Box Cup, the largest international we recognise that we have a real opportunity as an amateur boxing competition.
We help provide an opportunity to young boxers organisation to makea significant impact in the areas from across the world to compete in the in which we operate.
three-day annual event at Alexandra Palace in London.
We also have a presence at the event, Close to HOME International Community Week inviting boxing clubs and members of the Close to HOME is WilliamHills community We are committed to providing volunteering public to win a volunteering project for commitment launched in 2015.
It includes opportunities for colleagues across the their community on behalf of WilliamHill.
supporting our colleagues in giving organisation and countries where we Asa result, our team in Liverpool spent their time and skills to make a positive are based.
two days supporting their local boxing club, contribution to the communities where Following on from the launch of Close to the Solly Boxing Academy, by carrying welive and work.
out renovation on the area surrounding HOMEs International Community Day in Close to HOME focuses on three areas to 2016, we expanded the event to a full week the clubs gym, which was overgrown with vegetation.
support our local communities: in 2017.
Creating opportunities through sport: WilliamHill have provided outstanding Promoting skills and opportunity: and support for this competition over the Improving the local environment.
As a major player in the Haringey Borough, they enable us to host the Box From working with homeless shelters Cup each year and also take an active to arranging sports sessions for local Our International Community Week took approach in engaging with visitors to the place in March and saw projects take childrens charities, our colleagues have event.
We look forward to continuing our made considerable efforts to support place on every day of the week across the partnership over the next two years.
world, starting in Sydney and Manila on their communities in 2017.
In total this year, colleagues have committed 6,918 hours to Monday and finishing in Bulgaria on Sunday.
Gerry Willmott MBE Over300 colleagues directly participated volunteering for good causes in their local Haringey Box Cup founder areas that they have chosen to support, in the event, arranged multiple projects that they had chosen throughout the anincrease on last year 2016: 6,393.
Everton in the community week, supporting different charities and youth zone programme community-based initiatives.
Close to HOME charitable We have a partnership with Everton in the Our US team organised two projects partnerships Community to create a Youth Zone evening for the week, helping to sort through programme to engage young people in the donated books at Spread the Word Merseyside area in sport.
The Youth Zone Nevada, a charity distributing books works with young people aged 519 years to local schools in the area.
They also old who are living in poverty, at risk of being packed 700 bags of food for families criminally exploited, in care or at risk of inneed in the local community.
Colleagues in Australia arranged The programme gives them the avariety of projects across the week, opportunity to experience fun activities, supporting three charities and involving As well as providing volunteering improve physical well-being and also to over 50 colleagues.
The team cooked opportunities tocolleagues, we also explore family and personal difficulties to meals at charity Oz Harvest, preparing partner with a number of charities help enhance their emotional well-being.
restaurant-quality meals to distributeto aspart of Close to HOME.
disadvantaged families in Sydney, and also helped out at The Habitat, a woodland Employability programmes regeneration project.
Colleagues in Providing skills and opportunities for Darwin and Sydney collected clothes for employment is a key focus for the organisation.
The Smith Family, providing support for disadvantaged people in the community: Since Close to Home started, through and groups of colleagues from our London our partnerships, including with social office spent a day painting at two local enterprise Our Club and the Tottenham charities, Mind in Haringey and Bikes for Hotspur Foundation, we have provided Good Causes.
Forty colleagues in Blackpool employment to 106 individuals from also spent the week clearing land for a our employability programmes.
Many community park and garden for Mereside of these people were previously longM.
A, a local charity redeveloping term unemployed.
recreational areas for the community.
William Hill PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Community In 2017, the programme has seen a total of 118 sessions in football, dance, fitness and Bobby Moore Fund &CLICSargent karate, engaging 161 different individuals, 128 of whom are now attending sessions each week, increasing their physical activity by at least 150 hours per week.
Through follow-up research with the Childrens Society, they have reported that the young people on the programme had demonstrated improved self-esteem and confidence following the programme, on a level they had never seen before from a consultation.
Chelsea Foundation In 2017 we ran two joint Small Business Accountancy Courses in partnership with the Chelsea Foundation.
The courses, delivered by an AAT accountancy qualified trainer at Stamford Bridge, provides adults For the second year running, we sponsored and took who are looking to start up their own business with basic accountancy skills to part in Football Shirt Friday, a national campaign run by help them maintain solvency in the medium the Bobby Moore Fund aiming to promote bowel cancer to long term of their business cycle.
On Football Shirt Friday, colleagues and customers donated 2 towear their Working with WilliamHill enables the football shirt for the day.
Chelsea Foundation to have a greater impact within our local community The event took place in April as In total we raised just over andto help create a new and innovative part of bowel cancer awareness 24,000 as a company, making approach to employment and small month.
As part of our commitment it 44,000 we have donated to business development we believe to helping the Fund increase the Fund in the last two years.
thisinitiative can have a real impact.
awareness of bowel cancer across This will help fund a project run the UK, we distributed 120,000 by a leading psychologist to help Louise Marriott leaflets to our shops and offices.
understand peoples motivations Chelsea Foundation further We also had the support of and fears around bowel cancer education manager WilliamHill ambassadors Robbie screening with the aim of producing Savage and Hayley McQueen to a nationwide bowel cancer Members of the WilliamHill finance and help promote the campaign on screening programme.
estates teams delivered workshops over social media.
CLIC Sargent, the UKs largest the course to provide financial skills to help childrens cancer charity, was our the group manage their businesses whilst Retail Charity of the Year for 2017. they are starting out.
Through our shop colleagues fundraising efforts we have raised Scottish Football Association over 60,000 for the charity this SFA mental health initiative year.
This will fund clinical and nonWe have continued to support the SFAs clinical care for hundreds of children Support Within Sport initiative, now in with cancer to maximise the time its second year.
It aims to provide medical they can safely spend at home.
intervention for professional footballers, coaches and managers suffering from depression and mental illness.
Impact data from the first year of the programme has shown that to date 108 people have made contact with the service, including five coaches and one referee.
Following 36 months of specialist clinical support, individuals demonstrated significantly reduced symptoms of anxiety and depressive illness.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Support for sport The WilliamHill Foundation We make substantial contributions to sport through levy and media rights payments Our work through the WilliamHill Foundation has into horseracing and greyhound racing, as focused on two main areas: supporting our colleagues well as through sponsorship opportunities.
in times of difficulty through the hardship fund: and also Project Africa, helping the remote village of This year we made an overall horseracing levy payment of over 19m.
We also have Ol Maisor in Kenya.
sponsorship deals as Official Betting Partners for Chelsea, Tottenham Hotspur and Everton, and sponsor the WilliamHill World Darts Championship and, in horseracing, the WilliamHill St Leger.
We also have a partnership with Matchroom Boxing which has seen us sponsor Heavyweight Champion Anthony Joshuas bouts this year, including his world title unifying defeat of Wladimir Klitschko at Wembley Stadium in April.
Environmental impact We continue to focus on reducing our carbon footprint, principally through the reduction of our CO emissions.
We report 2 an emissions figure based on tonnes of CO equivalent tCO e. This includes 2 2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, including Project Africa natural gas consumption, electricity Our five-year commitment to Project Africa came consumption, refrigerant emissions and to a close this year.
Through the outstanding efforts fuel from Company cars.
In 2017, we saw a of our colleagues and the support of the WilliamHill 15% decrease to 41,275 tCO e 2016: 48,584 2 Foundation, we have raised 220,000 and helped tCO e. Within this, Scope 1 emissions 2 were 2,696 tCO e 2016: 3,015 tCO e and 2 2 theremote community of Ol Maisor in Kenya become Scope 2 emissions were 38,579tCO e 2 more self-sufficient.
2016: 45,569 tCO e. 2 Over 80 colleagues have been out to Kenya in that time to help build Since 2013, we have used an intensity andrenovate the local Island School and its surrounding facilities.
measure tonnes of CO equivalent 2 per 1m of net revenue to track our Over the last five years, we have helped provide the community of performance.
In 2017, we saw a year-onOlMaisor with: year decrease of 20% to 24.12 2016: 30.29.
Fresh drinking water and electricity: These data points were calculated using A fully stocked and staffed library: DEFRA guidelines and conversion rates.
A health clinic with an AIDS nurse: Our internal Energy Management Forum New teachers accommodation and classrooms, supporting an increase will continue to meet throughout 2018 with in the number of students from 180 to 500: and an aim of managing energy more efficiently and introducing positive environmental Further education scholarships for high performing students.
practices throughout our global operations.
Although our commitment has come to an end, we continue to work with the tribespeople, teachers and the governing health and education ministries as part of a careful handover process.
Hardship fund and matched donations The WilliamHill Foundation also continues to support our colleagues through times of difficulty through our hardship fund, and runs a match funding scheme to encourage colleagues fundraising efforts for charities andcommunity initiatives.
William Hill PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate responsibility continued Non-Financial Reporting Directive The EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive applies to the Group for the first time this year and the following chart summarises whereyou can find further information in this Annual Report on each of the key areas of disclosure that the directive requires.
We operate corporate policies spanning The Group has already integrated noneach of these areas, which comply financial inputs and outputs into its with or exceed legal and regulatory business model and strategic planning, requirements in our markets.
which is reflected in the strategic priority given to building a sustainable business.
Good employee relations are a This is discussed further in the business vital part of our business, and we model on page 14. prioritise these through our policies and engagement, development and Similarly, non-financial risks are recognition programmes.
routinely considered by the Audit & Risk Management Committee, and are We further discuss each of these disclosed where deemed material in the areas in the Customer, Colleague and managing our risks section on page 45.
Community sections of this report on Environmental, Business pages 32 to 43. social and model, policies, employee related principal risks, matters KPIs We specifically discuss our approach We discuss the Boards approach to Human Diversity to Human Rights, which is not deemed diversity in detail on pages 60, 40 and in rights and antipolicy & bribery related approach a material issue for the Group as particular on page 76 of the Nomination matters its businesses are focused on UK Committee report.
Retail andOnline markets in mature The Board places great importance on economies, on page 40. the positive benefits that diversity of experience, background and viewpoints The Group operates specific anti-bribery can bring and is supportive of the policies and training programmes which objectives of Lord Davies and Sir John support full compliance with the UK Parkers reviews into gender and ethnic Bribery Act.
These are discussed further diversity respectively.
Related policies are operated by the Board and the Executive team, and these will be monitored in line with emerging market practice.
