OUR People ALL EMPLOYEES WE RECRUIT TALENT DIVERSITY Our business is built on innovation, on finding Ensuring that the Ocado workforce has the diversity of solutions, and on delivering world class service.
Our talent and expertise that it needs ensures that the business people are critical to us achieving our strategy.
We continues to both grow and innovate.
are committed to hiring and developing the highest Our equal opportunities policy is dedicated to creating quality talent throughout Ocado.
an environment for our employees that is free from We operate in sectors and locations where there discrimination, harassment and victimisation, reflecting is strong competition for workers.
We keep our our commitment to creating a diverse workforce and recruitment processes under constant review and environment that supports all individuals irrespective evolve them to make it easy to apply to work for of their gender, age, race, disability, sexual orientation, Ocado while maintaining our high standards.
We are pleased to have been accredited as a has allowed us to remain flexible and agile and Disability Confident Leader at our CFC in Dordon.
respond to the changing labour market by using The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information new attraction methods.
Regulations 2017 came into force in April 2017.
Ocado has ALL EMPLOYEES BY GENDER Our third Customer Fulfilment Centre in Andover has carried out gender pay reporting and has published the Male: 10,423 been steadily growing its workforce as the demands results of the analysis on our website.
Female: 2,376 of the business increase.
To support this, we have The charts on the left show a breakdown of the number prioritised building links with our local community of people who were on the Board, Senior Managers and there.
employees of the Group at the end of the period by number Our fourth and largest CFC, opening in Erith in 2018, and gender.
will result in significant growth which in turn will DOING THE RIGHT THING provide even more opportunities for existing and The Ocado Citizenship Code sets out our most important new employees.
legal obligations and helps colleagues follow key policies, In September 2017 we brought in a record 49 including our anti-bribery, corruption, money laundering, university graduates under our nine separate competition law and whistleblowing policies.
The training schemes, covering General Management, Citizenship Code and these policies underpin the Groups Retail, Human Resources, Finance, Engineering, key principles and standards governing business conduct SENIOR MANAGERS Engineering Operations, Operations Management, towards our key stakeholder groups.
It explains our Male: 9 Logistics Development and Technology, cementing responsibilities as a Company and as individuals and acts Female: 1 our place as a significant employer and creator of as a reference guide that is made available to all employees new graduate jobs.
We have also revised the way we train our new drivers, we call them Customer Service Team Members, creating a more efficient training programme, resulting in better skilled employees.
DIRECTORS Male: 8 Female: 3 The chart above includes Alex Mahon, who retired from the Board on 13 December 2017 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 46 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM 2014: 8,589 2015: 10,181 2016: 11,902 2017: 12,799 Strategic Report This year, because of our continued ENGAGING WITH OUR PEOPLE growth, we reviewed the Council Communication is key to innovation structure in our largest business area, at Ocado.
Enabling colleagues to Service Delivery.
The single tiered work across the business and share structure has been replaced with best practice allows us to leverage the regional Councils to enable more value of our employees and encourage focused discussions and resolutions to innovation.
This year, Ocado invested area specific issues.
in enhancing the way we communicate and engage with all of our people In addition, Ocado maintains a through the implementation of our voluntary union recognition agreement digital communications strategy.
Fuse with USDAW, which is integrated with is our mobile-first communication, our Ocado Council, to voice the views of collaboration and learning platform, our hourly paid employees.
which puts self-development and the ability to share information in the hands REWARD AND BENEFITS of our employees.
Our social platform, In September we reviewed our reward available as a downloadable app on and benefit providers to ensure we any device as well as on desktop, is continue to provide choice and flexibility going from strength to strength with for our employees.
This included adoption rates steadily increasing even changes to the pension offering at across our harder to reach employees.
Ocado, which means employees Open communities within the platform can choose and amend their level of allow colleagues to communicate with a investment at any time and Ocado will wider network of people and so access match contributions up to 7% of base information and resources that were salary.
Ocado has always taken employee wellOur commitment to listen and being seriously.
We have an established encourage formal two-way feedback Employee Assistance Provider available is also demonstrated by our new 24 hours a day and weve recently look employee survey MiVoice.
invested significantly in additional Employees, previously invited to services that demonstrate we care participate annually, are now able to about the physical, mental and financial respond in a bite-sized pulse style health and well-being of our employees.
Fewer questions asked more Well-being events are run across all of frequently, with results turned round in our sites and on-site catering services at STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL days instead of months, is enabling our our larger sites serve healthy balanced The Company's Strategic Report is set out on pages 06 to 47. business to respond, adapt and change meals.
The Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on its to meet employee needs at a pace that behalf by matches our agile culture.
Neill Abrams The Ocado Council helps us to identify GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY areas where we can improve as an Ocado Group plc employer and encourage participation Registered in England and Wales and consultation in the decisions we Number 07098618 make.
This was illustrated in a two year 6 February 2018 1 million project to upgrade our public facing CSTM and LGV driver uniforms, an initiative that was driven by the Ocado Council through engagement with employees across the organisation.
com 47 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 1:07 AM This Annual Report is printed by an FSC Forest Stewardship Council certified printer using vegetable-based inks.
This report has been printed on Magno silk, a white coated paper and board using 100% EFC pulp.
com Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 Stock code: OCDO Ocado Group plc Buildings One & Two Trident Place Mosquito Way Hatfield Hertfordshire AL10 9UL United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 1707 227800 Fax: 44 0 1707 227999 www.
