William Hill PLC 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Company Secretary acts as secretary Introduction to the Committee.
The CR Committee During the year the CR Committee meetings are regularly attended by relevant increased its focus in the UK on compliance members of the Group Executive and against the Gambling Commissions by various managers, so that informed key licensing objectives, applying similar presentations are made by individuals standards across the Group: responsible for key areas such as human to prevent gambling from being a source resources, health and safety, security, of crime or disorder, being associated regulation and community relations.
with crime or disorder, or being used to During the year the Committee reviewed support crime: the process to appoint a new external to ensure that gambling is conducted health and safety consultant.
The remit inafair and open way: and is being refined, but will continue to to protect children and other vulnerable include a briefing, at least annually, for persons from being harmed or exploited the Committee regarding health and Mark Brooker by gambling.
safety arrangements, performance and Chair of the Corporate legislative and best practice changes, The Committee also provided constructive Responsibility Committee primarily focused on the Retail operations challenge and oversight across the Groups in the UK, but also across major corporate responsibility programme.
Having assumed responsibility administrative buildings.
Further information can be found in this for the Corporate Responsibility Committee report and in the Corporate The Committee met on four occasions CR Committee in November, Responsibility Review on pages 32 to 44. during 2017 and details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found on it is important to acknowledge page61.
Membership and meetings Ashley Highfields contribution The following is the current membership of to the Committees work.
CR Committee remit the CR Committee: A full copy of the terms of reference for the Director Committee can be obtained via the website Mark Brooker, Chairman at www.
com or by request to member from 3April 2017 the Company Secretary.
Gareth Davis The Committees principal responsibilities Sir Roy Gardner are to: Philip Bowcock review CR policies and practices for Georgina Harvey the Group and set new CR policies David Lowden as appropriate: John OReilly from 2 January 2017 review CR performance across a range ofperformance metrics: Robin Terrell from 2 January 2017 ensure the business operates in a Imelda Walsh sustainable way: Philip Bowcock, CEO, is the executive advise the Board on environmental, director responsible for CR.
He is supported social and ethical matters: by various members of senior management monitor CR risks as part of the Groups throughout the business on different overall risk management framework: and aspects of the Groups CR agenda.
review and approve the annual CR report The Group Director of Corporate Affairs, within this document.
David Steele, continues to provide effective co-ordination of CR activities at Group Main activities during 2017 Executive level and throughout the The calendar of Committee activities on this Group, which helps to ensure effective page provides an overview of the key areas and consistent consideration of CR issues of focus for the Committee in 2017, and and reporting.
This approach also enables further information regarding key industry a flow of high-quality information to the issues, and how WilliamHill is responding, CR Committee.
are included in the review of CR matters onpages 32 to 44 of the Strategic Report.
During the year, both the Board and the Committee received frequent updates and regularly discussed the Governments Triennial Review and the Companys response to the Review.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 The Committee also discussed with 2017 calendar of CR Committee activity management the cases which led to WilliamHill entering into a regulatory January October settlement with the Gambling Commission Health & Safety update Security update in February 2018.
The settlement was Apprenticeship levy review Colleague Engagement update reached in respect of certain former policies which were insufficient to ensure Colleague Engagement survey results Compliance review full regulatory compliance, and specifically Update regarding industrys Political and regulatory presentation in relation to the identification of the Competition and Markets and discussion with external adviser possible use of the proceeds of crime.
Authority review Update on gaming controls and The Committee will maintain appropriate Review of Gambling Commission player protection oversight as an independent review process Annual Assurance Statement Review of Gambling Commission gets underway.
The Committee will also Review of corporate responsibility Annual Assurance Statement provide support as needed to ensure key performance indicators via a the Company works to implement any December CR dashboard recommendations from the review.
Triennial Review status update Fourth EU Money Laundering Directive Annual Health & Safety yearupdate and review Group approach to CR end review Security and Community The CR Committee measures progress Modern Slavery Act annual review Annual Reviews made on all the Groups compliance Retail Lone Working update objectives against an annual tracker which Discussion regarding Online compliance is reviewed at every meeting.
Community year-end update and controls Key regulatory themes for 2017 During the year the CR Committee The Committee also has standing reviewed an outline of a refreshed strategy July agenda items covering Health and Safety to ensure the Group delivers future growth Health & Safety and Security updates performance and arrangements, Retail in a sustainable and responsible manner.
and cyber security, staffing updates, and Compliance review including overseas In 2018 the Committee will work with regulatory compliance.
Previous actions regulatory updates management to oversee and support arising are followed up at each meeting Review of corporate responsibility the planned shift in approach and focus toensure that they are completed.
Further information is via a CR dashboard available in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 44.
Health & Safety review Retail audit Committee agendas include ongoing reviews to ensure good oversight in key Good Neighbour Scheme and Close areas and to measure progress on areas toHome community updates within the Committees remit, including: Retail Lone Working update health and safety: Stakeholder reputation audit community activity, charitable donations Review of gaming machine damage and related activity: inthe Retail estate issues in relation to employees, including Political and regulatory updates, employee recognition, engagement including review of future arrangements and wellbeing: for the Senet Group security: compliance and interactions with regulatory authorities: an overview on key CR performance andtrends.
These are primarily captured andreflected in a CR dashboard, whichis updated regularly: progress being made in relation to the use of behavioural analytics to help reduce at risk and problem gambling: and corporate reputation amongst keystakeholders, and improving the effectiveness of the Companys engagement with all stakeholders.
William Hill PLC 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee continued Management continued to refine the The Director of Regulatory Affairs chairs In addition, the Committee regularly Groups approach to CR matters, and the meetings and the Committee comprises considers items including key regulatory updated related policies and procedures the Director of Corporate Affairs, the and legislative updates, key performance within the business to ensure they Company Secretary, the Group Director indicator dashboard reporting, summary remain relevant.
Performance metrics of Legal Services, the Director of Risk & reports regarding interactions with are used where appropriate to measure Audit and senior managers responsible regulators, and compliance reports from performance on an ongoing basis.
For for compliance in each of the Companys across the Group.
example, during 2017 the Committee relevant business divisions.
The Deputy Mark Brooker reviewed performance metrics in respect Company Secretary acts as Secretary.
Chair of the Corporate of health and safety, security, Retail lone During the year, the Group Compliance Responsibility Committee working, charitable giving and the Groups Committee met a total of four times, and responses to ongoing regulatory reviews.
considered the following key agenda items: The Committee regularly reviews the January relationship with its Primary Authority for Compliance reporting from the Online, health and safety across the Retail estate Retail, US and Australian businesses of LBOs.
The Committee also formally endorses the objectives which are set Focus on Online Reality Checks: annually across key areas of health and Online Self-Exclusion and Timeouts: safety and staff welfare.
The business met Player Protection Model and Online the objectives agreed with the Primary Gambling Controls Authority for the 2017 financial year and Groups GDPR Response Planning is in the process of agreeing objectives July with relevant regulators and stakeholders Compliance reporting from the Online, for 2018.
Retail, US and Australian businesses The Committee also discussed Anti-Money Laundering Review developments in several other areas and in Advertising and Marketing Review particular the Committee: GDPR Update reviewed a draft of the Annual Assurance Competition and Markets Authority Statement prior to submission to the Industry Enquiry Gambling Commission: and considered and approved the Groups October first annual review of its procedures Compliance reporting from the Online, introduced in response to the Retail, US and Australian businesses implementation of the Modern Slavery Customer Due Diligence Act 2015, and approved a refreshed and procedures review updated transparency statement which Anti-Money Laundering Review is now available on the Group website www.
GDPR Update Competition and Markets Authority Group Compliance Committee Industry Enquiry Update The Company has further strengthened December the Group Compliance Committee, which Compliance reporting from the Online, is attended by the CEO and provides an Retail, US and Australian businesses effective means by which the Executive Customer Due Diligence team can co-ordinate compliance initiatives procedures review and identify material compliance issues GDPR Update across the Group.
Competition and Markets Authority Industry Enquiry Update
