STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY OU R APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY The millions of customers that choose Thomas Cook for theirholiday have high expectations of us and the services that we provide them.
We understand that sustainability isextremely important for our customers and critical to thelong-term success of our business.
Over the last year, we conducted an internal review of our AT HOME sustainability programmes and have developed a renewed We understand Thomas Cooks operations affect individuals vision and strategy for sustainability which is integral to and communities around the world.
Through working with our business strategy.
Through this renewed vision and our partners, NGOs and other industry tourism groups we strategy, we can enhance the Companys resilience to can better understand and mitigate the negative impact of the external environmental and social challenges while the business, whilst maximising the economic and social improving the experience of our customers.
The key strand of our work at home focuses on our impact OUR MAKING A DIFFERENCE WITH as a business through our charitable and community EVERYHOLIDAY STRATEGY initiatives, while ensuring we have the right policies Our goal is to make a difference with every holiday, and procedures in place to make sure we contribute working at every step to change the way we operate to meaningfully to the communities in which we live and work.
limit environmental impacts whilst maximising the social In order to materially impact the lives of 100,000 people by and economic benefits travel can bring.
2020, we have taken strong steps to strengthen our impact through greater alignment on charitable activity across Our new strategy is simplified and stronger than Thomas Cook Group.
It reflects three key stages of the customer journey: The Groups Health, Safety & Environmental Committee this year endorsed an over-arching charitable strategy for A t Home the Group.
This strategy, a first for Thomas Cook, aligns our On the Journey charitable activity across our source markets and focuses On Holiday our impact in key areas, including improving health and Each of these areas aligns to the three core concepts of well-being, supporting vulnerable children, providing natural sustainability: people, environment and business.
For each disaster relief and enhancing community spaces.
We aim to one of the three areas of the customer journey, our new make transformational impact through our charitable work.
strategy articulates our objective as well as a simple but Greater alignment means we can focus on fewer, more bold target to be achieved by 2020. relevant issues, whilst leveraging the scale of the business to create lasting change for thousands of people at home and in our destinations.
AT HOME ON THE JOURNEY ON HOLIDAY Objectives We will put the customer at We will strive to deliver resource We will embed sustainability into ourheart and will contribute efficiencies throughout the business our business to deliver world class tothecommunities in which to run our operations in the most quality products and services.
will collaborate and innovate with our customers, partners and suppliers.
2020 Targets 100,000 people reached through 12% increase in fuel efficiency 100% of our own-brand hotels to our charitable and community for Group Airline, from a 2008 09 obtain a Travelife award.
Underpinning By engaging every one of our 22,000 employees we will make a difference with every holiday thestrategy and embed sustainable practices at the heart of our business.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY C ONTI N U ED CASE STUDY DAVID VILLE SAFEGUARDING GROUP SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER ANIMAL WELFARE Experiencing the local environment and Following that initial review we setout We are determined to improve standards wildlife-viewing opportunities can be a ournew animal welfare policy in December for all animals in our supply chain, while key part of many of our customers holiday 2016.
At its heartis a simple premise our allowing our customers to enjoy and learn experiences.
We recognise that these customers trust us tomake sure anything about animals in their natural environments.
activities have a socio-economic benefit we recommend to them is consistent We remain committed to working and can help to promote biodiversity and with ourCustomer Promises of Quality, responsibly and ethically in all areas of our education initiatives.
However, we also are Service and Reliability.
business, and we expect the same from acutely aware of the welfare of animals our suppliers.
From that premise came a simple rule impacted by tourism.
ifan animal attraction is found not to To that end, we have already stopped the Last year we took the decision to be fully compliant with the ABTA Global sale of 16 of 25 audited excursions following commission animal welfare experts Global WelfareGuidance for Animals in Tourism, the 2016 audit programme.
We have Spirit to conduct an independent audit of Thomas Cook wont sell it.
expanded our 2017 audit programme, a selectionof animal attractions we offer.
34 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ON THE JOURNEY 2017 2016 Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO2 The environmental impact of the travel industry is equivalent equivalent considerable, with around five per cent of all global carbonemissions coming from the travel and tourism Total Scope 1 Direct emissions 4,342,127 4,091,159 sector.
We recognised the risks presented by climate change and our duty to reduce our impact.
Total Scope 2 Indirect emissions 17,931 21,045 Total emissions 4,360,058 4,112,203 We have for a number of years worked to reduce our environmental impact across our business and supply Total emissions million turnover 484 526 chain.
This includes reducing the use of water in our We have reported on all the emission sources required hotels, using sustainable products and materials wherever under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and possible: reducing our production of waste: and sourcing Directors reports Regulations 2013.
We only have orproducing renewable energy.
responsibility for the emission sources that are included Our new strategy has environmental efficiency at its heart.
in our Annual Report and Accounts.
We have used the We are committed to making progress across our business GHGProtocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to decrease our impact.
This is demonstrated through revised edition, data from EU Emission Trading Scheme and our annual response to CDP who assess our response to emission factors from the UK Government GHG Conversion carbon management.
In 2016 we scored B, which means Factors Guidance 2017. we are taking coordinated action on climate change issues.
Fuel efficiency in our airline is central to this effort and ON HOLIDAY is a key part of our approach to running efficient and Tourism is one of the biggest industries in the world and profitable airlines, as demonstrated through our target one that contributes to the economic and social fabric of of a 12 per cent increase in fuel efficiency per passenger destination communities.
We work extensively with our km by 2020 based on a 2011 baseline.
We recognise the hotel brands to enable our customers to experience local challenge presented by the Paris Climate Agreement to the products and services, giving them an authentic taste airline industry and we are determined to drive incremental ofthelocal culture.
improvements in our current fleet, while working with the industry to develop more efficient aircraft and more By 2020, we aim to have all of our own-brand hotels sustainable fuels.
accredited by Travelife, the  scheme which helps hotels and accommodations to manage Thomas Cook Group Airline is among the most efficient and improve their social and environmental performance.
in Europe, with only 72.4g CO per passenger kilometre, 2 The scheme also ensures that staff in resort are employed compared with an average of 88.6g CO for the five largest 2 fairly and local sourcing of products is promoted.
We know European airlines last year.
Our German airline was ranked that Travelife hotels are not only better for us, but they are ninth in the Charter Carrier sector by the 2016 Atmosfair better for our customers too, with greater results recorded Airline Index, which ranks the carbon efficiency of the incustomer satisfaction surveys than our other hotels.
Over the last year we have taken strong steps to embed In 2017 we brought together a group across the Airline Travelife within our Hotels and Resorts business.
This has to focus on fuel efficiency.
Seven key projects were included integrating Travelife as a brand standard in our selected, including a continued drive to reduce weight Casa Cook, Sunwing, Sunprime and SENTIDO brands, with on board, improve flight planning processes and optimise Smartline and Sunconnect brands to follow in 2018 and 2019. routing.
Our upgraded aircraft continue to deliver greater comfort and a superior experience for passengers, whilst Four years ago we launched range of excursions to allow contributing toward improved efficiency.
customers to immerse themselves in the culture of a destination and create lasting memories.
These Local Label excursions are designed to bring a place, its people and their traditions to life: celebrating authentic food and drink, sharing personal stories with local people, and contributing to the protection of ancient sites or natural habitats.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY C ONTI N U ED CASE STUDY STEFANIE BERK TUNISIA MANAGING DIRECTOR CENTRAL ANDEASTERN EUROPE EDUCATION PROGRAMME Tourism is a hugely important industry in The Continuing Education project, which The pilot project will run for three years Tunisia, but one which suffered in recent runs from September 2017 to the end of andis part of the develoPPP.
It is essential that following this 2018, will focus on the re-qualification and that GIZ implements on behalf of the tough period for the tourism industry, training of hotel staff in order to increase German Federal Ministry for Economic skills are retained and quality is improved service quality and sustainability.
A key challenge is finding At the same time, Thomas Cook and The two strands of the programme will good-quality staff who are able to deliver Futouris e. V, together with the Gesellschaft enable the training and mentoring of high-quality service while promoting fr Internationale Zusammenarbeit Gmbh, employees in the Tunisian hotels, enabling sustainability within our hotels.
the German Association for International them to access better quality employment This innovative programme consists of Cooperation GIZ, have launched a new and delivering a more sustainable, highertwostrands, focusing on further education partnership.
The aim is to improve the quality experience for our customers.
training for the hotel staff in Tunisian hotel schools and hotels through greater experiential learning.
36 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
