STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY OU R PEOPLE Our strategy towards recruiting, training, developing, retaining and inspiring our workforce is critical to our success.
We recognise that strong leadership and the development We decided to move away from traditional corporate of a highly engaged and committed workforce is critical to values, and instead, to develop and launch a new set of achieve our profitable growth strategy and continue the values and behaviours that truly reflect a holiday company.
We are particularly To this end, we took the unconventional approach of pleased therefore that our employee engagement score developing a set of values and customer promises from increased by 1 per cent to 77 per cent in our annual research into what our customers told us they want from engagement survey this year.
We believe this reflects the a holiday company.
Our new values help our people to efforts we have made to bring our strategy to life for our understand what we expect from them in their behaviour, people and inspire strong belief in our new organisational both towards each other and our customers.
values, which form the basis of our drive to put the Since launch in January, 21,255 colleagues across the Group customer atthe heart of all that we do.
have attended training workshops on the new Customer Promises and Values.
Our annual survey showed that 80 per COMMUNICATION cent of our people understand the new values, 2 per cent We know that great internal communications is key to more than last year, and 73 per cent of our people believe breaking down silos and building awareness and belief in they are the right values for us to succeed.
This year has seen a re-energised approach to embed our new behaviours by using them to recruit, to communication with the introduction of new global develop, measure performance and reward our people.
townhalls giving Peter Fankhauser the opportunity to The new values and behaviours were introduced as criteria speak to thousands of our people, increasing his visibility for our Customer Heroes recognition programme, which we and reach to record numbers.
Nominated by colleagues or managers, In May, we held our annual briefing for the top 170 leaders we identify customer heroes in each market and hold local in the Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC in Tenerife.
recognition events to celebrate the finalists.
The winners With many of our leaders now working in a horizontal are then recognised at the TCLC.
or matrix structure, we can see stronger connections Our annual survey has shown that work to develop a more across the TCLC, with several subjects at the Tenerife customer-focused culture is having an impact.
There was event co-presented by teams from across the Group.
a significant increase in customer orientation with 83 per cent of our people indicating that an awareness of CULTURE AND WAYS OF WORKING customer feedback drives their improvements.
With a continued focus on our Customer at our Heart We also launched a new version of our Code of Conduct in mantra, we felt the time was right in 2017 to make a bold May to reflect changes to our values and ways of working.
next stepin redefining our culture and place the customer The revised Code of Conduct is provided to all new joiners evenmore firmly at the centre of our organisation.
and we held briefings for existing colleagues in 2017, emphasising the importance of individual responsibility toadhere to the values at all times.
PUT OUR HEART INTO IT WEAR THEIR FLIPFLOPS WERE ONE THOMAS COOK We seek feedback & act on it We listen carefully to Were open and honest understand whats required & act with integrity We challenge the status quo & continually look for ways to Were solution focused & strive We take ownership & deliver make things better for the best outcome whatweve promised Were proactive to anticipate We focus on the little things that We work as one customers needs makeabig difference ThomasCook team THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY C ONTI N U ED ALIGNMENT OF OUR PEOPLE BEHIND PEOPLE TALENT DEVELOPMENT THE STRATEGY We strengthened our Group-wide talent management processes this year, culminating in our annual talent Reflecting the need to align our people behind review with the PLC Board in July.
the Groupstrategy, our Group-wide performance management system is organised into key themes Introducing a newly updated definition of potential, from the strategy sothat all colleagues can select wehave reviewed all our leaders performance to from a range of measures designed to achieve our identify those we regard as high potential and reviewed organisational goals.
succession for all roles across the TCLC.
70 per cent of our leaders were rated as key talent, up from 61 per cent Our annual Every Voice engagement survey showed the previous year, while 69 per cent of our TCLC have thatawareness of strategy rose 2 per cent this year anidentified successor.
We welcomed two new members to the Executive Building an efficient organisational structure is a Committee previously General Management Council keystrategic objective and we are working across in the year: Ingo Burmester as Chief Hotels Officer, theGroupto better align structures.
Our organisational and Anth Mooney as our new Chief Financial Services design review includes a focus on reducing layers Officer, leading Thomas Cook Money.
Tenure across between the CEO and our front line colleagues, and the TCLC, those reporting to the Executive Committee, increasing spans of control creating larger teams increased, with the number of leaders with less than one withfewer managers.
The aim is to increase speed years tenure reducing from 45 per cent to 31 per cent.
ofdecision making and empower teams to take action Attrition across the TCLC was 14 per cent.
forthe benefit of our customers.
There were 30 new appointments into the TCLC, of which We have also further developed our matrix structure 20 were internal promotions, demonstrating that our to bring the operations closer to the horizontal talent processes are working.
We have also moved key functions.
This has seen us split our two key horizontals high potential leaders into our two new businesses in Commercial and Digital & Marketing across the UK, China and Thomas Cook Money, aligning talent with our Northern Europe and Continental Europe.
that our leaders think Group at the same time as their local markets, streamlining the organisation In June, we launched our first global career site, aimed and accelerating the next phase of our strategy for atencouraging international movement and retaining our profitable growth.
Within the first three months, the site had received over 120,000 visits and 16,000 registrations.
We launched a new Group-wide Leadership Development programme, Leadership Plus, for our middle managers, department heads and local Directors, recognising the influence this group has on overall engagement.
Leadership Plus addresses three main areas: Influencing without authority reflecting the growth ofmatrix structures Authentic leadership Building highly effective teams 40 leaders attended the pilot programme with excellent feedback.
A further 45 leaders started the programme in October, with further programmes planned for 2018.
In addition, leaders from across our In-Destination teams attended a new Leadership programme aimed at addressing the challenges of leading virtual teams and building high performance.
Our Navigator programme, our Group-wide emerging talent programme, successfully concluded in February, with presentations to the Executive Committee from 18 leaders.
38 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIVERSITY EVERY VOICE ENGAGEMENT Our vision to be the worlds most loved holiday company Our annual Every Voice colleague survey is at the is supported by an internationally diverse workforce.
The 5th annual Group-wide We believe that improving our diversity will open up new survey was completed by just over 19,013 colleagues, ways of thinking, get us closer to our customers and drive representing a response rate of 78 per cent, something profitable growth.
We are committed to creating an inclusive we attribute to the fact that 75 per cent of our people working environment in which every employee is able to said that they had seen positive actions taken based fulfiltheir potential through training, career development onresults of our last survey.
andfair promotion, regardless of personal characteristics.
Our Core Index an indication of a highly performing Gender diversity has been a particular focus area for us organisation was 74 per cent, level with 2016, and in 2017.
We introduced balanced gender shortlists for ourengagement index rose by 1 per cent to 77 per cent.
the first time, for leadership roles, ensuring a fair and Customer orientation was at 83 per cent, seeing consistent selection of males and females.
In the UK, the highest increase of all areas of our survey.
we ran our second Womens sponsorship programme for This is particularly pleasing, given our Customer high potential females, while in Germany, we introduced atourheartfocus.
a family centre in our Head Office in Oberusel, to support working parents in their child care.
Our employee commitment remains high at 70 per cent, and we saw a 2 per cent increase in colleagues Our international diversity across our Leadership Team is recommending Thomas Cook as an employer.
strong, with 18 nationalities represented, the largest of which are British at 37 per cent, German at 28 per cent and Swedish Each team builds an action plan off the back of their at 9 per cent.
We are working to create a new international results, culminating in one overall plan for the Group.
mobility framework, designed to encourage the movement Action plans are reviewed closely by the Executive ofcolleagues across different countries and markets.
Committee to understand progress and ensure momentum is maintained.
Ethnicity is also an increasing subject of focus.
We aim to establish an organisational benchmark in 2018 and establish a framework of activity based on the results.
We remain committed to a fully diverse workforce which represents the wide range of ethnicities from both our customer base and the countries and destinations in which we operate.
GENDER DIVERSITY ACROSS THE THOMAS COOK GROUP Executive Committee Other Managers Total 73% 41% 32% Male Male Male 27% 59% 68% Female Female Female Thomas Cook Leadership Council Other Employees 73% 31% Male Male 27% 69% Female Female THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39
