STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Responsibility Employees The Group remains supportive of the employment and Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation advancement of disabled persons.
Applications for employment and teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in essential to achieving the Groups business objectives.
The loss mind the respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicants of key personnel is also identified by the Board as a Principal Risk concerned.
If an employee is, or becomes disabled during as set out on page 34.
The stability and commitment of the their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary and employees is demonstrated by the average length of service to the extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable which is consistently high at ca.
In addition, the the employee to continue in their current position or retrain number of working days lost to sickness is ca.
These the employee for duties suited to their abilities following measures remain consistent across each of the Groups Sectors.
At 30 September 2017, the Group employed seven disabled employees.
Key employee statistics Employment policies throughout the Group have been 2017 2016 2015 established to comply with relevant local legislation and codes of practice relating to employment, Health & Safety and equal Average number of employees opportunities.
The Group provides good quality working in year 1,658 1,602 1,449 environments and facilities for employees and training and Females as percentage of total 35% 36% 34% development appropriate to each of their roles.
Length of service years 6.7 6.7 6.6 Average staff turnover 20.6% 24.9% 23.0% The Group provides sponsorship for high potential employees Sick days lost per person 3.3 3.1 3.0 for higher education courses where appropriate.
Vocational training is also provided and some staff are enrolled on National Vocational Qualification NVQ or similar level courses.
The Group encourages healthy lifestyles and the level of sick Employees are actively encouraged to undertake Continuing days lost per person is heavily influenced by a small number of Professional Development CPD to maintain any relevant employees who are on long term sick leave.
Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by In accordance with the Market Abuse Regulation of the Financial gender at the year end: Conduct Authority, employees are required to seek approval of the Group Company Secretary before dealing in its shares.
2017 2016 Male Female Total Male Female Total Health & Safety Directors 5 1 6 5 1 6 The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and healthy Senior working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong managers 73 19 92 72 21 93 safety culture and ensures a collective responsibility for Employees 1,044 586 1,630 950 549 1,499 ensuring Health & Safety standards are continually improved.
Total 1,122 606 1,728 1,027 571 1,598 The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for Health & Safety policies and procedures across the Group.
However, The Board recognises the importance of gender diversity in the in line with the Groups decentralised management approach, Group and 35% of the Groups employees are female.
Some of accountability for Health & Safety is with local management the Groups operating companies have structured apprenticeship to ensure compliance with local regulatory requirements, schemes and of the five UK based apprenticeships started in 2017, culture and specific business needs.
The Group requires three of these were for females.
that each operating business conducts Health & Safety reviews against its specific operational risk profile and local The Group values the commitment of its employees and regulatory requirements.
recognises the importance of communication to good working relationships.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new relating to their employment, on business developments and employees and where relevant, more specialist training is on the financial and economic factors affecting the Group.
The Group has good coverage of This is achieved through management briefings, internal employees who have formal Health & Safety training and or announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution qualifications and this has continued to increase during 2017. of Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
Following the implementation of near miss reporting in 2016, Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are the Group has now used its first full year of the system to also made available in the operating businesses.
This assist in ensuring that Health & Safety hazards are proactively communication programme enables employees to gain a better identified and appropriate mitigation put in place to ensure that understanding of the Groups business objectives and their roles they do not result in Health & Safety incidents.
Both employment policy and practice in the 2017 2016 2015 Group are based on non-discrimination and equal opportunities.
Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the selection, Minor injuries 56 87 54 training, career development and promotion of all employees.
1 Reportable lost time incidents 5 11 4 Minor injuries per 1,000 employees 33.8 54.3 37.3 1 Reportable lost time incidents per 1,000 employees 3.0 6.9 2.8 1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
36 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The absolute level of minor injuries has significantly reduced Greenhouse gas emissions thisyear and also reduced when normalised to a rate per 1,000 UK listed companies are required to report their global levels of employees.
The near miss reporting system has placed new Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their Annual Report & emphasis on the need to identify and implement corrective Accounts.
This requirement is for disclosure of Scope 1 and 2 only actions prior to incidents occurring and this methodology direct emissions e. g. heating, cooling, transport fuel: and indirect indirectly assists with reducing health and safety risk.
The vast emissions, e. g. from purchased electricity and only to the extent majority of the minor injuries resulted in no lost time and were that such emissions are the responsibility of the Company.
The number of reportable lost time The Group has considered the six main GHGs and report incidents has also reduced significantly.
emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for Scope 1 direct 2 2 and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
These emissions are calculated All incidents are fully investigated and corrective actions and following the GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental preventative measures put in place to ensure that the incident Reporting Guidelines.
The Group has used Defra UK GHG does not reoccur and future risks are mitigated.
Conversion Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors and International Energy Agency Factors.
Human rights The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, the Groups countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
primary direct energy usage and related CO emissions arise 2 The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the from the Groups facilities.
Where possible the Group has countries in which it operates to ensure the rights of every reported billed data which represents ca.
80% of the Groups employee are respected and to treat all stakeholders with global emissions.
For the remaining entities the Group has used dignity and respect.
The Group promotes employment practices an estimation using sales data and local conversion factors.
to ensure fair regard to diversity and equal opportunities.
Staff are provided with a safe, secure and healthy environment in An intensity ratio of CO e per 1m revenue has been selected, 2 which to work.
Employees have access to an independent which will allow a comparison of performance over time and hotline to report any issues relating to Human Rights violations.
with other similar types of business.
Tonnes of CO e 2 Modern slavery Source of emissions 2017 2016 The Group adopted a zero tolerance approach to slavery in all its forms, including human trafficking, forced labour and child Direct emissions labour.
In 2017, each business assessed the risk of slavery taking Scope 1 Natural gas 657 714 place either within the business itself or among its principal Owned transport 68 100 suppliers.
Group businesses carry out due diligence of suppliers Indirect emissions through questionnaires, audits and visits.
Based on these Scope 2 Electricity 2,955 2,732 assessments and the initiatives implemented by the businesses Gross emissions 3,680 3,547 to counter slavery, the Board was assured that slavery is not Tonnes CO e per 2 taking place within the Group and has published a Modern 1m revenue 8.1 9.3 Slavery statement on the steps taken to prevent slavery, which is available on the Companys website.
Business ethics Environmental The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses whom the Group has business dealings including customers, which essentially receive products from suppliers and despatch shareholders, employers, suppliers and advisors.
The Groups businesses do not operate In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a delivery fleets: they use third-party carriers to deliver their local level by senior management and the Group expects a high products to customers and to provide much of their packaging standard of expertise and business principles to be maintained requirements.
The Groups ability to control the environmental in such dealings.
impact of its logistics partners is therefore limited.
The primary impact on the environment, which is entirely in the Groups The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating control, is consumption of the normal business energy sources business is responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions such as heating and power, which the Group aims to minimise under which they trade with their suppliers.
The Group does not through compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
operate a formal code that it follows with regard to payments to suppliers.
Group companies agree payment terms with their The Group is committed to identifying and assessing suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for environmental risks, such as packaging waste, arising from the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, in that way, made its operations.
Waste management initiatives are encouraged aware of these terms.
Group companies seek to abide by these and supported by the Group and materials are recycled where payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier has practical.
The Groups usage of water is minimal and relates provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed tocleaning, bathrooms and staff refreshments.
Local management are committed to good environmental Community management practices throughout our operations.
The The Group believes that good community relations are Managing Directors have responsibility for environmental important to the long term development and sustainability performance of their operating businesses and each subsidiary of the operating businesses.
is required to implement initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
The Groups businesses participate within their local Each facility participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard communities on a number of charitable and fundraising and wood from pallets and continues to focus on minimising activities primarily in support of health and childrens charities.
energy consumption through the efficient use of heating and The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and lighting.
In addition, a number of the businesses now use fully charities and in 2017 the Group made donations to charitable recycled and biodegradable filler materials for packaging.
No political donations were made.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 37
