Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our people, assets and environmental impact Creating long-term, sustainable value Developing the highest-quality talent and designing and creating the best possible homes.
We redesigned our governance of sustainability to strengthen Overview itand give it a new lease of life.
A new Sustainability and We are ensuring that we are creating long-term, sustainable CSRCommittee, chaired by an Executive Director, has income by designing and creating homes of the highest quality senior representation from each aspect of the business, for rent, engaging and empowering the people who create, with explicitdivisional ownership within operational teams.
manage and live in these homes, and doing our part to protect the environment around us to ensure the conditions are We undertook a peer review and benchmarking exercise, conducive to a thriving rental market.
political and legislative analysis, and a materiality review, where we consulted employees as well as key external stakeholders, Developing our new strategy including top shareholders, potential customers and key This year we have developed a new sustainability and corporate suppliers.
From this insight, we developed our new strategy.
social responsibility CSR strategy, following internal and external consultation, to ensure it supports our business strategy.
Identifying what is material to our business Health & safety Building health & wellbeing Waste & resource management Community wellbeing Aordable housing Energy carbon & climate change Corporate governance Technology Place-making & public realm Local economic development Employee attraction, retention & engagement Responsible supply chain management Materiality to Grainger Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Materiality to stakeholders S St tr ra at te eg gi ic re c rep po or rt t Our people, assets and environmental impact continued Continued growth in public attention on provision Our sustainability strategy of affordable housing.
We are successfully delivering our business strategy of creating great homes to rent and long-term sustainable income by 1 engaging and empowering the people who create, manage and live in these homes, People 2 designing and creating high-quality homes, and 3 protecting the Continuing emphasis on health and wellbeing.
environment around us, to ensure the conditions are conducive to a Greater scrutiny of companies diversity and inclusion.
Environment Our materiality review identified the following risks and opportunities A growing focus on setting science-based carbon reduction targets that we are responding to through our sustainability strategy: backed by investment in renewable energy following the Paris climate change agreement.
Assets Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards in 2018 and 2020.
Renewed scrutiny on asset health and safety following the Grenfell Tower fire.
See the Risk section on pages 36 to 41.
Grainger vision To be the UKs best private landlord and offer high-quality homes for rent Sustainability vision Create long-term and sustainable value for our shareholders, customers and employees People Assets Environment Treating people positively Creating desirable, healthy homes Securing our future Desired outcomes Desired outcomes Desired outcomes 1.
P rovide homes for rent which are 1.
P rotect the value and income with our customers affordable to a broad range of of our assets 2.
P romote healthy lifestyles and people and incomes 2.
R educe our environmental wellbeing among customers 2.
E nsure our homes are designed footprint in our new developments and employees well, to be safe and secure and existing operations 3.
M ake a positive impact on local 3.
Cr eate and maintain homes that 3.
H elp create a positive rental communities and help them thrive will last and be attractive to housing market customers for many years to come, protecting the value of our assets for our shareholders Reviewing and monitoring our KPIs Following our recently launched sustainability strategy, over the coming year we will be reviewing our existing KPIs which can be found on our website and aligning these to measure our performance against our top priorities, as set out above.
Below are some KPI metrics we will consider using going forward.
U LI Best Practice Design Guide compliant 5.
C onnectivity technology and location Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 1.
People Treating people positively We are committed to being the best we can to our people and our customers.
We focus on finding and supporting the best possible talent from the widest pool of individuals, to join us to achieve our vision.
We are determined to build strong, positive and long-lasting relationships with our customers.
In these ambitions, we are therefore committed to promoting diversity and inclusion, a stellar health and safety record, protecting human rights, and supporting health and wellbeing.
Actions undertaken FY17 outcomes and performance highlights Our commitment for next year Introduced a new customer survey Customer survey identified top issue is We will build on the significant work forour PRS customers speed of responsiveness and resolving doneinFY17 to further improve the Improved our complaints process maintenance requests servicewe provide to our customers.
Held meet and greet sessions Customer retention increased from Thiswill include taking action from our withourcustomers in our newly 18 to 27 months customer survey, including investing in acquiredproperties 1,010 hours of Company sponsored technology and our people to improve Introduced a talent forum, to identify training and education for employees responsiveness and the time to resolve talent and support our people High levels of employee engagement, maintenance requests Undertook an employee with a 87.5% survey response rate: high We will focus on improving in the areas engagement survey scores in my team, my manager and identified in our employee engagement Revised our employee benefits and my company and areas of focus include survey, including the health and wellbeing support package to reflect best wellbeing and giving something back andgiving something back categories practiceand external benchmarks Created 42 apprenticeships directly and We are committed to surveying both our Introduced a health and wellbeing indirectly through our supply chain employees and customers at least yearly, cash-back plan for all employees 88% of eligible employees are Company and taking action from the results of Ran a series of employee workshops shareholders thosesurveys onCompany benefits Highest performing European residential We will continue our strong commitment Established a new charity partnership organisation on the Health & Wellbeing toprotect the health, safety and welfare with Age UK London, to complement our module of the Global Real Estate ofour customers and employees LandAid charity partnership, which Sustainability Benchmark We will continue our work on promoting focuses on tackling youth homelessness Board discussion on talent, succession diversity and inclusion within the business Developed an Anti-Slavery and Human planning, employee engagement Trafficking Policy, delivered awareness andculture training to all staff and published our Established a new charity partnership Modern Slavery statement with AgeUK London Developing the highest-quality talent Over the past year, we have strengthened the way we manage and support our people and the great talent we have within theorganisation.
We introduced a talent forum, where senior management review each individual in the business, identifying potential for growth and planning for succession.
We reinvigorated our internal training and educational programme, with 79.5% of employees taking part in sessions covering a rangeof topics from London housing policy to pensions.
We undertook a third-party, independent and anonymous employee engagement survey, and have committed to do so annually and follow up with interactive employee workshops and action plans.
We have introduced a new health and wellbeing cash-back plan forall employees.
We have put in place a process to support the development of members of our team by providing them opportunities to engage with and interact with senior management and external stakeholders.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Strategic report Our people, assets and environmental impact continued 2.
Assets Creating desirable, healthy homes We are committed to creating great homes for rent.
We want our properties to be attractive to as many customers as possible, for many years to come.
This will support the long-term success of our business and the value we can provide to our stakeholders.
Actions undertaken FY17 outcomes and performance highlights Our commitment for next year Strengthened our investment appraisal Improved design and amenities through We will develop KPIs to more formally process to include affordability analysis customer focus groups and research measure our success at achieving these Compliant with Secure by Design No reportable health and safety incidents desired outcomes and Urban Land Institutes Build-to-Rent for employees, two RIDDOR reportable We will make further improvements to Best Practice Design Guide standards accidents or incidents within our thedesigns of our buildings to enhance Invested in assets with attractive Walk supplychain their attractiveness and sustainability, Scores, a connectivity measure Customer retention: increased by over six andto promote health and wellbeing Immediate and comprehensive portfolio months to more than two years since FY16 among residents review after the Grenfell Tower fire, Enabled the delivery of 105 We will continue to create a broad range confirming no similar risk affordable homes ofhomes for rent, at a wide range of prices 38.4 Average Considerate Constructors for a wide range of individuals and families Scheme score out of 50 Customer focus groups informing the design of our buildings From our customer focus groups, we have developed the design of our buildings and our customer service offer even further.
At Argo Apartments in Canning Town, London, for instance, we have introduced a new Guest Suite, which residents can hire for family and friends when they visit.
And we have ensured that we have designed ample storage space for residents in their apartments, directly addressing one of renters top concerns.
Benchmarking our success and our leading position Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB FTSE4Good A globally recognised benchmark to measure real A select recognition for public companies estate companies approaches to environmental, listed on the London Stock Exchange that social and governance issues.
demonstrate high standards of corporate governance and matters relating to Ranked 3rd among peer group sustainability and corporate responsibility.
GRIP REIT joint venture ranked 1st and 7th consecutive year Sector Leader among peer group Achieved Green Star status EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations CDP climate change previously Carbon Disclosure Project EPRA sBPRs The CDP is an organisation based in the The European Public Real Estate Associations UK which works with shareholders and EPRA industry standard forbest practice corporations to disclose the greenhouse in reporting on .
gas emissions of major corporations.
Gold award for 4th consecutive year Achieved B rating industry average: C Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 32 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3.
Environment Securing our future We are mindful of our impact on the world around us.
Aligned to our goal of protecting the long-term future of our business, we are committed to monitoring our impact, and taking appropriate action to ensure it is as positive as it can be.
Actions undertaken FY17 outcomes and performance highlights Our commitment for next year Strengthened our acquisitions Undertook analysis of environmental Find new ways to optimise the longevity process to include rigorous analysis andmarket factors for over 1.3bn and sustainability of our investments, of environmental risk factors, ofinvestment opportunities through design, materials and management including for example flood risk 93% of our portfolios energy Continue to identify opportunities to Put into action a portfolio-wide plan to performance ratings are rated E reduceour environmental footprint bring all properties into minimum energy and above Continue to engage with all British efficiency levels ahead of legislation Engaged with policy makers on the politicalparties and policy makers, and Engaged comprehensively with UK policy Londons Supplementary Planning the wider public about the benefits of makers on public policy affecting the UK Guidance and Housing White Paper, which aprofessionalised PRS rental market, including giving evidence both support the PRS investment sector to a range of pertinent consultations We report on all greenhouse gas such as the London Supplementary emissions within our operational control Planning Guidance Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
This year our location-based emissions increased by 1%, while our marketbased emissions decreased 2%.
See pages 80 and 81 Energy Performance Certificates EPC Strategy on PRS portfolio Strategy on regulated portfolio 60% of our PRS portfolio have EPC ratings of C or above, 60% of our regulated tenancy portfolio have EPC ratings and over 90% are D or above.
of D or above, and 80% E or above.
In advance of Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards coming This year, we commenced a two-year programme to ensure into effect in April 2018, we have taken steps to ensure full full EPC coverage for all regulated tenancies and will undertake coverage of EPCs across ourportfolio and have scheduled improvement works where required to ensure full compliance improvement works where required.
We continue to regularly with Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards regulations that review our refurbishment specification to ensure energy willapply from April 2020. efficiency opportunities are integrated where possible.
Diversity and inclusion Grainger is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion.
Despite not falling within the boundaries of regulations regarding genderpay gap reporting, we are nonetheless reviewing all aspects of diversity within the business and are considering various waysto promote and encourage greater diversity and inclusion.
This includes through recruitment, pay and reward, talent development, flexible working practices and Company culture.
Gender by job level headcount Male Female Headcount by gender c. 60:40 female to male employee ratio 100 80 60 Male 92 Female 123 40 20 0 Executive Senior Management Associate Support Graduate O-site Director Management Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic report Our people, assets and environmental impact continued Providing first-class learning opportunities Nurturing talent within our organisation will be a key ingredient to success.
We therefore focus on supporting our employees through training, development and learning opportunities.
Over the year, we reinvigorated our internal educational programme and held numerous workshops and sessions for employees, covering a range of topics, both real estate specific and more widely.
Hours of learning and development 1,010 Making a positive impact Working with our customers in local communities The future of our business is based on our customers and We are creating 3,850 new homes at Wellesley in Aldershot, Hampshire.
theirwillingness to put their faith in us when they choose to rentone of our properties.
Here we are an active member of the Community Matters Partnership Project.
During the past year we have supported a We are therefore committed to understanding their wants, number of local charity and community events, including Twilight Runway Charity Challenge, NUTS Charity Challenge, Christmas needsand aspirations fully.
Through a structured programme food drive, Race Night charity event, and mock interviews at local ofgathering feedback, we ensure we are not just listening to our secondary schools.
customers, but responding and acting accordingly.
This year we introduced a new customer survey for our PRS customers to We provide rent-free or subsidised commercial space to local provide us with an independent assessment of how we are doing.
community organisations, including The Source Bike Start: We have also strengthened our complaints process so customers Farnborough Foodbank: Community Bees: and North Lane Lodge, know their concerns will be dealt with fairly and promptly.
acharity facility for the homeless in Aldershot.
Our survey highlighted the potential to improve customer Through Rushmoor Borough Councils employment skills initiative, satisfaction levels by enhancing our responsiveness.
We are this year we have: looking at all our service level agreements to ensure suitability created 17 work experience placements: and we are investing in people and technology solutions to reduce delivered 13 career talks: and the time to address requests and maintenance issues, as we strive created 11 new jobs.
toward providing excellent customer service.
We act on customer feedback Hierarchy of customer needs A robust customer feedback loop Feedback gathered Monitored Is my Is the property andreviewed regularly home in a convenient Can I safe & and desirable put down Is it value Surveys 1 2 secure?
Questionnaires Focus groups Mystery shopping 3 Direct calls Action and Audit check improvement Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34
