Corporate responsibility Environment Actively managing our impact.
We aim to reduce the energy our We have collected data on energy in our businessuses and make the most of recycling buildings, air conditioning refrigerant opportunities.
We comply with local laws as a consumption and business car travel, minimum standard and Sage continues to take becausewe believe these encompass the part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project.
most material emissions to our business.
Going forward, we will review this, to ensure that we continue to capture significant Greenhouse gas emissions business emissions.
This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to theCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report Methodology andDirectors Report Regulations 2013 The methodology used to calculate our Regulations.
This data is included here to emissions is based on the Environmental provide a complete picture of our approach to Reporting Guidelines: including mandatory environmental corporate responsibility.
greenhouse gas emissions reporting 1,338 guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Reporting period FY16: 2,108 Strategy BEIS.
We have also used the Our Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Report Combustion of fuel and BEIS2017conversion factors for the UK, reporting period is 1 October 2016 to 30 operation of facilities combined with the most recent IEA September 2017.
This reporting year has international conversion factors 2015 for beenestablished to align with our non-UK electricity, withinour reporting financialreporting year.
Organisational boundary In some cases, we have extrapolated total and responsibility emissions by using available information from We report our emissions data using an part of a reporting period and extending it to operational control approach to define our apply to the full reporting year.
For example, organisational boundary which meets the this has occurred where supplier invoices for definitional requirements ofthe Regulations the full reporting year were not available prior inrespect of those emissions for which we to the publication of this years Annual Report areresponsible.
For further details, our 11,783 methodology document can be found at Sage has reported on all material emission FY16: 14,253 www.
com company about-sage sources which we are deemed to be Electricity, heat, steam and cooling .
We do not have responsibility purchased for own use for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of our operational control.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data For period 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017 FY17- FY16- tonnes tonnes CO e CO e 2 2 Scope 1: Combustion of fuels and operation of facility 1,338 2,108 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 11,783 14,253 Scope 3: Company business travel vehicles 5,391 6,345 Total emissions 18,512 22,706 Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above normalised to tonnes of CO2e per total GBP 1,000,000 revenue 10.76 14.47 All data is inclusive of operations active at any point during the reporting year.
Where disposals have occurred or operations ceased during the year, data has been included to be reported up until this date.
48 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Carbon Emissions Increased use of bioethanol for business Scope of reported emissions Intensity ratio travel fuel Emissions data has been reported for all In order to express our annual emissions theGroup operations in Australia, Austria, inrelation to a quantifiable factor associated Investing in new technology with lower Belgium, Brazil, Canada, France, Germany, with our activities, we have used revenue in energy consumption including laptops and Ireland, Malaysia, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, our intensity ratio calculation as this is the workstations Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, most relevant indication of our growth and Further installation of LED lighting across the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom provides for a good comparative measure the Group and the United States.
Selected office moves to more energy could not be reported for offices in the United efficient buildings Arab Emirates though travel emissions have Carbon Disclosure Project Increasedlow carbon energy sourcing, been reported and Nigeria, where energy We once again took part in the Carbon usage is not itemised on invoices.
We will be including hydropower, wind power, biomass Disclosure Project during the year under and solar working with our suppliers in these locations review by reporting our Scope 1, 2 and 3 to capture this information in theFY18 emissions for the financial year ending 30 Self generation including solar panel and reportingyear.
September 2016. hydroelectric plantinstallations Building usage emissions have not been Reducing carbon and waste included for where we have operations with a We have continued to make a concerted effort headcount of less than 25 people.
to reduce our carbon footprint, through reducing our consumption and purchasing alternative sources of fuel and generation, specifically: Total CO e by type Sum of CO e tonnes 2 2 International North America Southern Europe Northern Europe 7% Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 64% Electricity, heat, steam 29% and cooling Company business Scope 1: Combustion of fuels and operation of facility purchased travel vehicles for own use Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 3: Company business travel vehicles The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 49 96 96 96 96 4,953 4,953 4,953 4,953 571 571 571 571 297 297 297 297 3,362 3,362 3,362 3,362 208 208 208 208 121 121 121 121 1,271 1,271 1,271 1,271 4,263 4,263 4,263 4,263 825 825 825 825 2,197 2,197 2,197 2,197 349 349 349 349 Corporate responsibility Why is doing business the right way important?
Community We invest in our community through Sage Foundation Doing business the Sage Way is embedded within our strategy.
We believe that engaging with our Investors People stakeholders and providing the best This provides strong revenue This motivates our colleagues possible service leads to a more growth and returns to investors and helps attract and successful company with stronger and the community retain the best talent returns that can be returned to investors and reinvested into our stakeholder community.
Customers This then drives excellent customer service and encourages innovation 50 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Continuous improvement No complacency when maintaining ethical workingpractices.
2018 we will be enhancing our procedures Board reporting inthis area.
We recognise that there is no room Our refreshed Code of Conduct was endorsed for complacency when it comes to maintaining by the Board in January 2017.
Board reporting ethical working practices, and so we place a includes stakeholder impact information high priority on the review and refresh of our where relevant, and the Board reviews and efforts each year to ensure that we mitigate approves key policies at least annually, risk and support our colleagues to do business including our Energy & Environment Policy.
Ethics Modern slavery We are committed to conducting business In September 2017 we published our second inan honest and ethical manner, by acting annual Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking professionally, fairly and with integrity in all our Statement in accordance with the Modern business dealings and relationships.
The statement can be found of Conduct sets out the principles we expect via our website homepage at www.
com all our people to live by.
Given the nature of Sages Code of Conduct, we have a set of global business model, we believe the risk ofmodern policies covering areas such as anti-bribery slavery in our supply chain is low compared to and corruption, money laundering, businesses operating in other sectors such as whistleblowing and competition law.
However, we do not embedawareness of these policies we Data protection and GDPR intend to be complacent and will continue to conduct a programme of targeted training for Sound data protection and privacy practices work to improve our policies and procedures all colleagues.
We monitor the effectiveness of are essential for Sage.
The implementation of to ensure slavery and human trafficking is not training through assessments undertaken by the EU General Data Protection Regulations taking place anywhere in our supply chains.
"During 2017, we ""GDPR"" planned for May 2018 is therefore a Having identified the facilities management refreshed our whistleblowing procedures and critical project for us."
We are working hard to support as our primary area for slavery risk, we launched a poster campaign in six languages ensure that we are ready, and our customers have reviewed and improved our procurement across all our office locations globally to can be ready too.
We have established a Data processes and policies, to ensure that goods ensure that all colleagues had information Governance Committee to oversee Sages and services originate from sources that do about our independent whistleblowing hotline.
Subject to specific local not jeopardise human rights, safety or the As well as ensuring our own conduct is data laws, GDPR will be the standard against environment.
Our standard form procurement appropriate, we have procedures to prevent which we assess all of our future data contracts include language requiring suppliers bribery being committed on our behalf by protection activities.
to comply with applicable anti-slavery and anyassociated persons, particularly in our human trafficking legislation, including the subsidiaries, and third parties we work with.
Work is ongoing to Our senior management regularly complete introduce or improve controls via the roll out aconflicts declaration to ensure that any of our enterprise solution X3 to three new additional business commitments or client countries, bringing standardised purchasing and supplier relationships they or members and invoicing across a greater proportion of oftheir teams may have are clear and our procurement activities.
Suppliers are required to continue this work and we will also gather data adhereto our Supplier Code of Conduct.
on our progress so far and measure the impact Allcolleagues are encouraged to report any of our training and awareness activities.
conflicts they may become aware of, and in The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 51
