Strategic report Environment and market outlook The UK economy has remained resilient over the past year, despite the uncertain political environment, although recent economic data releases suggest that the UK consumer is starting to feel spending pressures heading into 2018.
UK GDP has continued to grow but the rate of growth has started to slow.
The preliminary estimate of GDP growth of 0.4% in the July to September quarter was up slightly from second quarter growth of 0.3%, but year-on-year growth reduced to 1.5%, down from 1.7% the previous quarter.
In response to this slowing growth, the Bank of England BoE has reduced its economic growth forecasts for both 2017 and 2018, to 1.7% and 1.6% respectively.
Other key UK macroeconomic indicators continued Growth in UK average house prices overall to improve in 2017, with unemployment falling continued in 2017, up 5% in the year to September.
to 4.3%, which is the joint lowest level since 1975, This continues the strong growth seen since the end and the employment rate remaining high at 75.0%.
of 2013 as a result of resilient economic conditions, together with sustained low mortgage rates and Inflation, as measured by the Consumer Price Index government support.
However, there is evidence CPI, has picked up considerably during 2017 and of an emerging divergence now appearing between rose to 3.0% in the year to September.
This remains London and the rest of the country, with London relatively high in comparison to recent years and is prices growing at a slower rate than the rest of above the BoEs target of 2.0%.
As inflation outpaced the UK.
wage growth, real earnings fell by 0.4% in the 3 months to September from the same period The outlook for SMEs remains more cautious, in 2016, meaning households will start to feel particularly with regards to Brexit, although the a squeeze on disposable incomes.
CYBG SME Health Check Index showed that the operating environment for Britains small and In response to this, the BoE increased the base rate medium sized businesses improved in the second by 25 basis points to 0.50% at the Monetary Policy quarter of 2017 with a number of improvements Committee meeting on 2 November 2017 and including increased lending to SMEs and a falling guided that any future increases would be expected number of business bankruptcies.
The index rose to be at a gradual pace and to a limited extent.
from 46.9 to 58.9 in Q2 2017, which is the highest Further base rate increases are expected to be reading since 2015, although confidence dipped in positive for the earnings of UK banks, particularly the quarter.
Confidence will be a key driver of the those banks with a high proportion of current SME market over the coming period as investment account funding, including CYBG.
The rate of UK mortgage growth slowed in 2017 Pricing in the customer deposit market is now with balances up 2.9% in the year to September beginning to intensify.
In addition to some larger versus a 3.1% increase in 2016.
This was banks aiming to fund their mortgage growth predominantly due to lower buy-to-let BTL ambitions there is also competition from some of mortgage lending, following stamp duty and tax the smaller institutions who have funded recent changes and lower owner occupied growth, which growth from the TFS and this will need to be has been attributed to uncertainty caused by Brexit.
replaced with customer funding over time.
Mortgage approvals were up 2.4% in comparison to the previous year and housing transactions were Overall, the economic environment for CYBG down 3.7%.
The outlook for the mortgage market remains broadly supportive of our growth ambitions remains muted but broadly solid with pressures but uncertainty over future conditions remains.
from any potential base rate rises, UK economic uncertainty and a squeeze on disposable income, partially offset by continued government support.
16 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report F Fiin nanc anciial al re res sul ult ts s Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information some of which are now in force.
The remainder Regulatory and political environment will come into effect by summer 2018 with the The Group continues to operate in a demanding Group on track to meet these remedies: regulatory and political climate.
Following the result the FCA and PRA have published a number of of the EU referendum in 2016, in March this year papers which relate to consumer credit.
While the Government formally triggered Article 50, giving the PRA is focusing on firms asset quality and notice of the UKs intention to leave the EU.
While underwriting practices the FCA is focusing on formal negotiations are underway between the EU consumer protection, with specific interest in and UK regarding the terms of the UKs exit from the assessing creditworthiness including affordability EU, the terms of Brexit are still unknown.
In Junes and the high cost credit market which includes general election the Government lost its majority in overdrafts.
The FCA has also set out a package of Parliament, which has added to this uncertainty.
remedies designed to make the credit card market The regulatory environment in which the Group work better and the Group has a project in place operates continues to develop and the Group is to meet a number of the requirements by January responding to the following key changes: 2018 and the remainder by June 2018: General Data Protection Regulation comes into the European Commission published a package effect on 25 May 2018.
Key changes include a to amend CRD IV in November 2016.
The requirement to notify regulators of breaches amendments cover a variety of areas including within 72 hours, responding to subject access Pillar 2: counterparty credit risk: trading book requests within 30 days and the imposition of market risk: large exposures: IRRBB: the financial sanctions of up to 4% of annual global SME supporting factor: and, support for turnover for serious breaches.
The Group has infrastructure lending: a programme of activity underway to meet the the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision requirements: BCBS revisions to the standardised approach to Payment Services Directive 2 PSD2 comes credit risk CRSA, operational risk, and IRB floors into force on 13 January 2018.
The Group is are yet to be finalised.
Uncertainty remains around progressing the necessary developments which the final shape of these rules.
The strategic intent include changes to information and transparency to pursue IRB accreditation will minimise some requirements on payments, new security of the impacts to the Group of the revised CRSA, requirements including strong customer although those rules will also affect the IRB floors: authentication the date for this is still unknown the recovery and resolution regime for UK banks and faster handling of payment-related is still being finalised.
The BoE has established a complaints.
In the innovation and competition framework on setting the minimum amount of space two new types of service are brought loss absorbing resources MREL banks should within the regulation third-party payment hold so they can be resolved when failing.
The instructions from accounts and account Group has been advised of its interim MREL and aggregation.
The Group is continuing to develop has submitted a plan to the BoE on how its market its long-term strategy in this respect: issuance will be phased to reach this.
The PRA has the Financial Conduct Authority FCA has also finalised its rules on ensuring banks critical implemented a time bar on PPI complaints shared services are able to continue operating of August 2019 with a two year consumer while in resolution.
The Group is well placed to communications campaign already launched: comply with these requirements: and over 2018, the Group will be taking steps to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II ensure compliance with ring-fencing legislation MiFID II and Packaged Retail and Insurancethat takes effect from 1 January 2019.
The Group Based Investment Products PRIIPs Regulation will achieve compliance with the legislation with come into effect in January 2018.
MiFID II no material changes to its business operations or imposes significant changes in a number of areas corporate structure and so there will be very little including transparency, market structure and impact on the Groups customers: transaction reporting.
The PRIIPs Regulation requires firms producing or selling packaged retail the Competition and Markets Authority CMA investment products and insurance-based retail banking investigation identified a number investment products to produce key information of adverse effects on competition in the personal documents to make it easier for retail investors to and business current account and SME banking compare products.
The Group has a programme markets.
Consequently the CMA introduced a in place to implement these requirements.
package of remedies designed to address these, CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17
