r e y C o l s o p e m m u e A d g m o d a o d u r g e e l n a s l s i g i o t n n i i g C e e o B s u r b r o a d e r Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Delivering sustainable value for our customers, colleagues and communities is an integral part of our overall business model and key to our future success.
Continuing to address our broader responsibility to society and managing the environmental impact from our day-to-day operations remains fundamental to our strategy and long-term ambitions.
Customers Colleagues We care about our customers and their individual Our colleagues are integral to our ongoing success needs.
Our strategy is designed to help us support and our overall business performance is dependent our existing customers, as well as attract new ones, on their engagement and advocacy.
In the same and achieve sustainable growth.
We aim to help way that we are transforming our business for our our customers develop a healthy relationship with customers, we are investing in our colleagues.
We are money and make their day-to-day management creating a workplace where every colleague can reach of money simple through the development of our their full potential in an environment which nurtures products such as B. a diverse, inclusive and committed workforce.
We are striving to build a high-performing culture where Listening to our customers and anticipating their colleagues can use their initiative, act with greater needs, as well as addressing the root cause of autonomy, and connect with each other to deliver any concerns, is a key input into the ongoing the right customer-focused outcomes, regardless of development of our products and services.
where they work or what they do across the Group.
For more detail see page 29 For more detail see page 30 Delivering for our stakeholders Communities Environment Our support for our customers and the wider The Groups commitment to operating in a communities, through our range of initiatives, sustainable way is underpinned by our Environmental form part of our corporate responsibilities.
Our Standard that recognises our need to meet key community initiatives, together with our community legislative compliance requirements, voluntary partnerships, collectively support the communities commitments and covers our approach to where we live and work and help demonstrate how environmental management, controls and reporting.
The Group acts to prevent pollution and the use of natural resources through increased recycling For more detail see page 32 and transition to lower emissions energy sources where practicable.
For more detail see page 34 28 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 r e s p s o n n o i s t i i b s i l o i E t p y o s n r t r p v o e i t s r h o m g c o i i r e o n t e y t h m s t u g e n C i n d i t v o r P Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information When we do make mistakes, our goal is to provide Customers our customers with fair outcomes consistently Understanding our customers is part of our DNA.
We constantly seek customer feedback and put this at the core of the development of our products and Development of B and the iB platform services.
Customer advocacy is monitored continually B is our digital first brand, offering customers a through various ways, including NPS.
This focus on current account, savings account, credit card and our customers perception of our offering enables us app that together help customers to take effortless to respond, build and innovate around real customer control of their money.
B is supported by the needs and ambitions.
Indeed our digital banking existing CB and YB customer banking centre solution - B - was built as a direct result of what network, and a 24 7 dedicated B contact centre.
our customers told us they needed from a bank As the primary brand for attracting new target in todays always-on world.
retail customers, the customer centric development We also understand that customers can become of B drives the underlying development of the vulnerable at any point in their lives and as a result iB platform, to the broader benefit of CB and may need our support.
We encourage our YB customers.
customers to let us know if they need our support Throughout 2017 a range of B and iB developments and through our omni-channel service and have been implemented, responding directly to empathetic staff, are able to work with customers customer feedback.
Examples of these as individuals, identifying solutions and providing improvements include: the appropriate support as and when they need it.
the redesign of the navigation within B to make Progress in FY2017 it easier for customers to use on the go: We continue to serve over 2.7m customers, the introduction of fingerprint login to make with overall customer numbers remaining stable, it easier to securely login to the app: while our B customer numbers have grown to over 100,000.
Customer satisfaction and advocacy are the launch of the B credit card to give customers key measures and we have enjoyed steady levels of greater control of their everyday finances: and satisfaction across all of our brands.
The highest the introduction of digital statements to enable levels of satisfaction being for B customers with customers to go paperless without losing control.
86% happy with the service they received, and 45% giving the service the maximum 10 out of 10.
In August, we relaunched the CB and YB mobile apps on the iB platform, migrating existing customers At the forefront of our strategy to drive sustainable from a 3rd party provided service.
By moving customer growth is the need to continually innovate, customers onto the iB platform, they are able to creating unique, customer-led propositions that benefit from some of the customer experience attract new customers to the Group.
In April we improvements first developed for B, such as the opened the doors of Studio B in Kensington, an fingerprint login and digital statements.
Our ambition innovation lab which operates on the high street to grow our customer base outside of our traditional within a fully operational customer banking centre.
CB and YB heartlands means the launch of our B The mission of Studio B is for the next generation of store in Birmingham was a hugely exciting milestone, customers to design the next generation of banking.
enabling us to increase our presence in one of the The lab within Studio B works directly with UKs most vibrant regional economies.
The design customers to co-create new concepts and solutions, and customer experience within the B store has publishing the best concepts to a public website to been directly influenced by the design and concepts gather direct customer feedback.
The best of these developed and tested within Studio B London.
concepts are taken forward into full development As well as being a fully operational customer banking and deployment across our channels.
centre, the store provides an exciting and inspiring We aim to get our service right first time every time, location for customers to experience our digital learning from any mistakes and driving continuous services and to participate in concept co-creation.
This year the Financial Conduct Authority FCA changed the way customer complaints are reported.
To comply with these new rules on improving complaints handling we now include complaints resolved in shorter timescales when reporting our complaints numbers.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Serving our business customers of both their own development and our current As we continue to digitise our bank and create a and future customers.
more innovative business, we are driving growth in Great leadership is our new leadership the business sector through strategic associations framework and was introduced at the same time with Fintech companies.
Our first Fintech as our refreshed values.
All leaders play a critical collaboration is an innovative online lending role in creating culture and driving performance solution for SME customers.
and so Great Leadership sets the expectations This year we announced that we would lend at least of all leaders.
Our leaders are being supported 6bn to SMEs over three years to help promote with targeted leadership development to help the growth of these businesses in the UK.
In June, them to Lead with Purpose, Drive Inclusion, we launched our SME Health Check Index, taking be Always Agile, Grow Trust, Be Connected the temperature of small businesses in the UK and Stretch Possibilities.
this quarterly report with the Centre for Economics Recruitment and performance management and Business Research Cebr is a new industry have both been updated to reflect our cultural report that measures business performance and aims.
Internal and external selection is now based the macroeconomic environment affecting SMEs, on our values, ensuring we recruit and promote including business costs, capacity, confidence, lending colleagues who align with our culture.
performance management approach has been transformed to a team-focused, forward-looking Recognition for our work approach, which helps every colleague to achieve We have won a number of awards this year, including: their personal best.
Best Digital Bank United Kingdom at the Capital Finance International Awards: Engagement and communication This has been a year of transformational change Fairbanking Foundation best current account and ensuring that our colleagues remain engaged with overdraft for B: is critical.
MyVoice our annual colleague feedback Digital Launch of the Year for B at the 2017 survey provides us with insight in relation to our FStech Awards: and values and behaviours, alignment with our strategy and focus on serving our customers.
90% of Challenger Bank of the Year at the Corporate colleagues understand how the work they do Entrepreneur Awards 2016. contributes to the Groups goals while 84% fully support our values.
Colleagues Our primary digital communications channel is our Our colleagues are integral to our ongoing success intranet home page, Our World, and in its first year and our overall business performance is dependent to August 2017 there was an average of c. 6,000 on their engagement and advocacy, with significant unique visitors per day, with over 370 articles progress made during the year to improve our published relating to our leadership, strategy, culture, offering, including: business success and community activity.
This site is increasingly used for two-way engagement through Our culture the use of polls, discussion threads and invitations This year, we began a major programme to to get involved in activities.
This year our develop the positive culture we are aiming for.
communications won the award for the Best Use This programme has several critical elements: of Interactive Media at the IoIC Scotland Awards.
Our values and behaviours were refreshed in June and define the desired behaviours for every Inclusion colleague in the Group.
Our values Be ambitious, Inclusion is at the heart of our culture.
Its written Be courageous, Be curious, Be all over it and into our values.
We are committed to fostering Be connected are brought to life through their and sustaining a truly inclusive culture where every associated behaviours.
Every team has colleague and customer feels they belong.
We want personalised the behaviours to their business all colleagues to recognise this and work together area, and every colleague has a personal goal to ensure that inclusion achieves its promise.
in relation to our values to support their own We ensure equality, diversity and inclusion by development.
By turning these words into concentrating on ensuring that every colleague actions, we are helping to build a Group where feels comfortable to be themselves, to ask questions, colleagues are focused on meeting the needs to be curious and operate at their personal best.
30 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Reflecting the importance of inclusion, this year Our overall mean and median gender pay and bonus our five network groups for gender, age, disability, gap based on a snapshot date of 5 April 2017 pay ethnicity and sexual orientation were re-energised and bonus paid in the 12 months to 5 April 2017 is: and sponsored by members of the Executive Pay and bonus difference between males Leadership Team, unlocking access across the Group and females and acting as ambassadors for the Group externally.
Mean Median Hourly pay gap 37% 36% Some specific highlights of the year include: Bonus pay gap 58% 39% events and activities held to celebrate and improve awareness of World Aids Day, Proportion of males and females in each pay quartile International Womens Day, International each containing just over 1,690 colleagues, shown Transgender Day of Visibility, National Inclusion lowest to highest Week, Carers Week, and religious celebrations including Ramadan and Vaisakhi: Male becoming a signatory of the Women in Finance 22% Female Charter.
With a long-term objective to be gender-balanced in senior management, we have committed to a target of 40% of those in senior Quartile 1 78% management roles to be female by 2020.
We are making good progress and as at 30 September 2017, 35% of our senior managers are female: helping ensure colleagues have the right tools available to break down the stigma of talking Male about mental health by launching new 23% Female enablement and wellbeing resources.
These included a new mental health awareness training module, a people leader toolkit and online Quartile 2 77% support materials.
We also supported Mental Health Awareness Week in May: and worked closely with LGBT Youth Scotland to broaden our reach and connection in the community.
We have also significantly increased our participation in Pride Glasgow, connecting Male 36% Female campaigning, social responsibility and commercial opportunity.
As at 30 September 2017, our strong, diverse and Quartile 3 engaged network of colleagues included: 5,813 permanent FTE, 63% of which are female, 64% 37% male three women and nine men on our Board Male three women and seven men in our Executive 63% Female Leadership Team Gender pay gap Quartile 4 An important element of inclusion is to reduce our 37% gender pay gap.
As part of this years Annual Report and Accounts, for the first time, we are disclosing our April 2017 gender pay gap in accordance with the UK Government regulations for gender pay gap reporting.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders Proportion of males and females receiving Community a bonus payment We bring our social purpose to life through our Male Female commitment to make a positive contribution to 85% 90% the local communities in which we live and work.
This is expressed through a series of community We are confident that we do not have equal pay partnerships and initiatives that deliver our issues, and conduct a biannual equal pay audit in We care about here ethos.
The Group recognises partnership with our trade union, Unite.
Through the important role we play as an enabler of change this audit we review the gender distribution of in local communities and society at large.
performance, base pay, allowances and bonuses paid to our staff.
We are confident that performance is Our charitable foundation supports our colleagues not gender biased and where pay gaps exist they by enabling them to help causes they support are not driven by gender.
regularly in their local communities by providing grants and encouraging volunteering of their time Our gender pay gap is largely driven by the fact that and expertise.
The Group supported National we have more men than women in senior roles.
Volunteering Week in June and encouraged Our Women in Finance Charter commitments are a colleagues to use their two day entitlement to public demonstration of our ambition to increase the support local charities.
287 employee grants were proportion of women in senior roles.
We are also awarded totalling over 141,000 and almost 7,000 working to increase career progression at all grades.
volunteering hours were undertaken during the year.
This commitment includes: Support for charities is provided through our annual reviewing our approach to parental leave Spirit of the Community Awards.
Now in its fifth to encourage shared parental leave: year, awards of 5,000 were made to 30 charities under three categories of Employability, Financial reviewing other working policies to make flexible Education and Environment.
Over 300 applications working easier, particularly in more senior roles: were received and the charities collected their ensuring our recruitment processes attract awards at ceremonies in Leeds and Glasgow in June.
a diverse range of candidates: The event in Glasgow was attended by the full CYBG Board.
Awards totalling 160,000 were given out making our unconscious bias training mandatory and the total over five years amounts to 860,000 for all colleagues: awarded to 143 charities.
establishing a sponsorship programme to develop Financial education Our Count me in 123 more diverse leaders: financial education programme is available in our formally linking executive reward to our branches, online and via public libraries in Leeds and inclusion targets: Glasgow.
The materials support parents and carers to engage with their pre-school children and have continuing to undertake our equal pay audits fun with maths.
Over 65,000 booklets have been in conjunction with our trade union Unite: distributed via our branches and the game is available transforming our performance management to download on Apple and Android tablets.
Our approach to encourage ongoing personal colleagues also support children in schools by improvement, removing the risk of any volunteering with reading and numbers programmes.
gender bias: and Hospice UK charity partnership We celebrated reviewing our reward practices to ensure they our 10th year supporting Hospice UK.
Through help us reduce any gender pay gaps.
the tremendous enthusiasm of our colleagues and the matched funding through our foundation Through all of these practices we are aiming to we raised 5.8m for the charity to help provide create meaningful progress with regards to inclusion hospice care across the country.
In addition to fun in senior management, based on robust pipelines of events throughout the year, colleagues took part diverse talent.
in a marathon challenge in the Tweed Valley of the Scottish Borders in September and raised over 100,000.
32 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information European City of Culture During the year, SSE Hydro Our support for the SSE Hydro, Yorkshire Bank supported Leeds bid to be European the worlds second busiest music venue, continued City of Culture 2023.
The Group is supporting a during the year.
We continued to use the SSE Hydro programme of cultural events in 2017 and 2018 to reward customers and the wider public for playing that aim to showcase and enhance existing Leeds an active role in their local communities through festivals, as well as giving scope for new ones.
our Centre Stage reward programme and to date, over 250 people have enjoyed attending a series Community partnerships of concerts.
Our unique seat upgrade initiative, Get The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland RZSS me in the Vault, together with other competitions, Our Wild about Scotland educational outreach proved very popular with more than 46,000 entries programme, in partnership with RZSS, continued to into 250 competitions.
travel the length and breadth of Scotland teaching Yorkshire Bank Bike Libraries YBBL The primary school aged children about Scotlands native legacy community initiative from the Grand Depart species and natural environment.
It helped engage of the Tour fide France in 2014 rolled into its third the next generation of conservationists, while year.
A total of 46 bike libraries have been bringing RZSS expertise to communities that might established across the county and the public not otherwise have been able to benefit from it.
continued to donate their old and unwanted bikes A team of volunteers supported the programme with over 5,000 being distributed.
This resulted in at a series of community events across the country over 48,000 opportunities for children and their at weekends and school holidays.
Families hopped families to borrow a bike.
on the bus to take part in fun activities on Scottish The initiative was recognised and shortlisted for wildlife, such as guess the animal skulls, build a beaver three prestigious awards during the year from the dam and look at minibeasts under microscopes.
European Sponsorship Association, The Sponsorship An extra special community event took place at Awards 2017 and BT Sports Industry Award for RZSS Edinburgh Zoo on Fathers Day in June, when Community Programme of the Year.
over 400 guests from five different Scottish charities The YBBL programme was the official partner of visited the Zoo and took part in the second annual Stage 3 of the Tour fide Yorkshire, with childrens Wild about Scotland Day.
parades and activation tents promoting the service.
Scotlands Charity Air Ambulance SCAA We supported the Tour fide Yorkshire in our Our support for SCAA is now in its third year and customer banking centres and our colleagues has helped to keep the aircraft in the air saving lives volunteered to help with the free fun activities across Scotland.
Last year the aircraft responded for the local communities in large tents at the start and finish towns each day.
The Tour fide Yorkshire to over 300 emergency call outs.
attracted 2.2m spectators along the route and Volunteers from the Group supported the charity was viewed by c. 10m people in 180 countries.
at the Blair Atholl Horse Trials.
Our colleagues, along with our agencies, also dedicated their expertise to help design and print customer communications, including their Annual Report and Accounts.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic report Delivering to our stakeholders GHG emissions CO e tonnes 2 Environment During the year, the Group made a contribution Scope 2017 2016 towards the drive for a low carbon and more Scope 1 emissions 3,297r 3,835 resource efficient economy through: Generated from the gas and oil used in all establishing a standalone Environmental Standard buildings where the for the Group and setting up a standalone group Group operates: system to capture and report on greenhouse gas emissions generated GHG emissions: from Group-owned and procuring 100% renewable green energy for leased vehicles used for electricity within Groups direct control: business travel: and fugitive emissions arising continuing to roll out advanced building efficiency from the use of air management systems as part of the branch conditioning and chiller refurbishment programme.
Such systems help refrigerant plant to automate controls to ensure we only operate service the Groups air conditioning units and boilers within set property portfolio.
operational hours and can respond quickly Scope 2 emissions 14,247r 16,743 to changes in temperatures: and Generated from the use retention of our ISO 14001 environmental of electricity in all accreditation in our Leeds offices.
buildings from which the Group operates.
Reporting on GHG emissions Scope 3 emissions 6,803 7,595 The reporting period for GHG emissions in the Relate to business travel Group ran from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. undertaken by all colleagues using rail, Total emissions for the Group have reduced by 14% private vehicles, hired in the last year.
Nearly half of the reduction is driven vehicles, contracted taxi by changes in the emission factors as defined by services, air travel, waste, the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial water and paper.
The Group used the 2016 Total 24,347 28,173 Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy conversion factors due to the timing of the The Group reports GHG emissions in accordance release of the 2017 conversion factors.
The largest with the GHG Protocol, which sets a global standard change in emission factors is the decarbonisation of for how to measure, manage and report GHG electricity generated by the National Grid.
Using the emissions, with the exception of reporting market same emission factor for both the 2016 and 2017 based emissions in addition to location based.
reporting years and accounting for the impact of The Group are working towards this.
FTE and portfolio changes, the reduction in emissions would be 3%.
34 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Intensity ratio The Group has chosen to use an intensity ratio of GHG per average FTE for scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Using FTE offers a simple way to measure and monitor Group performance on emissions and is also a useful way to benchmark and compare with others.
2017 2016 Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions per average FTE 2.61 2.83 The only estimated emissions in the GHG emission data relate to energy consumed in properties where the landlord controls the supply and recharges the Group via a service charge arrangement or where actual meter readings were not available before year end.
In these instances an average rate per kWh has been used.
Independent limited assurance The Group engaged KPMG LLP to undertake an independent limited assurance engagement over the selected information highlighted in this report with a three years in comparison to a baseline in r. KPMG has issued an unqualified opinion over the June 2016.
We have made good progress selected information.
The full statement is available against three, but there is work to do in the next on the CYBG website.
12 months to increase the volume of recycling across the Groups operational business through Use of resources promoting staff awareness and improving in-house In 2017, we created four new environmental targets recycling processes.
to measure the Groups performance over the next 2016 restated 2017 2016-17 2019 2017 Area baseline Actual % change % target performance GHG measured by CO 25,096 24,347 3% 9% On target 2 Energy gas and electric measured by gigajoules GJ 179,649 172,743 4% 9% On target Water consumption 3 measured by m volume 71,528 69,055 3% 5% On target Recycling first line waste measured by % volume 74% 73% 1% 6% Behind target 2016 Baseline has been restated to reflect changes in emission factors, property portfolio and FTE numbers during the course of 2016 17.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Strategic report Highlights of the year October November December January February March April May June July August September 36 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report F Fiin nanc anciial al re res sul ult ts s Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information SEPTEMBER October November December January February March April May June July August September COLLEAGUES STRIDE OUT TO SUPPORT HOSPICE UK Supporting local communities across the UK is important to the Group and our colleagues undertake around 11,000 volunteer hours a year in support of our charity partners.
In September, 150 colleagues pulled on their walking boots and trekked the rolling hills of the Scottish Borders in a fundraising challenge to support Hospice UK.
This is the fifth time we have supported a large fundraising event for Hospice UK and this year the challenge raised 50,000 for the charitys work across the UK, which was matched by the Group to a total of 100,000, adding to the 5.8m raised for hospice care by colleagues since 2008.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
