Strategic report Governance Financial statements People Building a culture of high performance and a great colleague experience.
Leadership Our senior management team SMT are the During FY17 Sage continued to develop a cohesive and capable leadership community key driving force behind achieving our results and shaping our culture.
We are investing in through the creation of a new leadership development framework which is centred FY18 to develop the capability of our 150 SMT leaders with quarterly development sessions.
around four pillars: This will further embed the One Sage model as 1.
Manager essentials: we harmonise our leadership values, behaviours and capabilities.
Senior leaders: We recognise that our executive leaders have 3.
Executiveleaders: different development needs and leadership 4.
experience and during FY18 we will be continuing to invest in our most senior Manager essentials is designed for our 2,000 executives through tailored bespoke managers across Sage.
We have designed and development plans for each of our top deployed the Leading at Sage programme Sage continued to deliver on its 30leaders, underpinned with a targeted which encourages continual feedback and transformation aims during FY17 by development programme.
evaluation against the transformational embedding the One Sage operating model leadership model align, model, coach, and unifying the organisation with a single reinforce and culminates in a Licence to set of Sage values and behaviours.
Leadfor existing and new management.
Building and nurturing a high-performance and customer-obsessed culture is at the Our Values heart of the People agenda.
We have invested in new cloud-based systems, talent acquisition practices and leadership development in order to create a great colleague experience which enables Customers first Velocity Innovate sustainable deployment of our strategy.
Our customers are at the We are action oriented and We create new ways of heart ofeverything we do: agile: we keep things simple, doing things and deliver We are embedding practices which focus on they are why we are here deliver at pace and innovative solutions which developing our talent internally, valuing and we wouldntexist overachieve.
our customers need to help diversity and creating the most inspiring withoutthem.
workplace which challenges our colleagues to be the best that they can be so that we can provide our customers, partners and each other with the best experience of Sage.
Do the right thing Make a difference Our colleagues are aligned Sage is a great place to and we trust each other to work and our colleagues do the right thing to enable make a difference tolocal our customers tosucceed.
communities by relentlessly supporting our customers Amanda Cusdin and their businesses to be successful.
Chief People Officer interim The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 41 Corporate responsibility People continued Our people and our culture, working collaboratively with pace and agility to put our customers first.
invest in the LGBT community with the Diversity Board gender diversity Pride@Sage network and in Health We have significant ambitions for improving andWellbeing activities for all.
our gender balance in technology and leadership roles and we set targets to achieve Talent Management 35% female representation in the SMT and in Talent management is key to driving the technology roles by the end of FY18.
business forward and we place this at the top Significant progress has been made against of the People agenda, with a focus on creating this ambition, with SMT female representation consistency by identifying, harnessing and increasing from 26% to 29% in FY17, and we strengthening the capability of our key have 28% representation of women in talentwho are critical to the delivery of technology which is higher than industry Sagesambitions.
During FY17 we progressed the development of a strong pipeline of highIn FY17 our core development programmes potential female talent.
Sage continued to 75% 25% were standardised across all Sage receive external recognition for our tech Male Female geographies.
All new hires now experience leader Kriti Sharma, VP Bots and Artificial aconsistent on-boarding journey from offer Intelligence, making the Forbes 30 under 30 through their first 90 days, including a Sage list for Technology.
SMT gender diversity Induction with certified cloud product training.
Colleagues who join our Sales and The Sage diversity agenda is underpinned by a Services function receive intensive training number of initiatives, including the launch of which has proven results in accelerating the Women@Sage mentoring programme, performance and integration to Sage.
In July supporting the development of women and 2017, SageLearning, Sages cloud-based the Women@Sage Network which provides a learning management system, was launched.
platform to share experiences and learnings.
This allows all colleagues to view learning Complementing this, and the wider diversity opportunities and take ownership of their agenda, unconscious bias training has been development and career progression at Sage.
developed and deployed as a mandatory learning module for all colleagues.
Sages talent review process dovetails with the performance management process and seeks Kids@Sage days took place across a number 71% 29% to identify development areas for key talent of locations, including North America, Brazil, Male Female and plan succession.
The Executive UK and Spain.
Over 300 children came to work Committee meets quarterly to discuss talent at Sage with their parents for one day, helping and in FY18 this dynamic approach will move to introduce technology at an early age, whilst Total workforce gender diversity deeper into the organisation, ensuring the creating a stronger connection between work visibility and development of emerging talent and family life for colleagues.
millennial talent represents 40% of Sages Heading into FY18, the release of Sages workforce.
Gender Pay Report will explain the progress Sage supports apprenticeship schemes achieved to date and our ongoing focus on acrossthe globe with a record number eliminating any disparity.
In addition, Sage will of87apprentices joining Sage in the UK alone focus on embracing all forms of diversity, during September 2017.
To complement our placing more emphasis on ethnicity and LGBT, apprentice programme, Sage has introduced creating a truly inclusive environment where agraduate programme in FY17 for technology colleagues can be their true selves at work.
To and engineering graduates with the desire to support this, Sage will launch a Returner grow this in FY18.
programme for men and women who have 52% 48% been away from the workplace for career Sage has developed an omni-channel Male Female breaks, giving them the confidence and skills approach to hiring great talent and our to restart their careers.
Sage will continue to internal recruiters work with entrepreneurial 42 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements partners and strong digital media Rewarding colleagues for high performance Sage is committed to its communities and, campaigners who provide agile and flexible iscore to generating progress across the since its launch in January 2016, Sage solutions to meet ourresourcing needs.
We review our rewards structures Foundation has mobilised the hearts and each year and for FY18 we have made changes minds of colleagues and partners: it is woven to the sales compensation schemes in order into the fabric of the organisations culture Great place to work to better align performance and reward.
Each with a commitment to do business in the right Our People mission is to create the best year we host our exceptional performers at our way, giving a helping hand to those who need workplace for colleagues who live Sage values Platinum Elite exclusive reward trip and in it.
This is evidenced by the growth of and are all aligned, engaged and passionate 2018 we will host these colleagues in Mexico.
volunteering, which has increased by more about Sage products, customers and partners.
than 100% and is now in excess of 150,000 During FY17 we have launched our new global In May 2017, Sage introduced our first global hours.
Colleagues receive up to five days paid HCM system and global Your Sage intranet, Share Save plan available to all colleagues, time for volunteering.
Sage Foundation wehave broadcast worldwide 11 times to all predicated on the idea of dont just work at creates a sense of purpose beyond work colleagues via Sage Live TV and invited 150 Sage, own it which enables colleagues to itselffor colleagues, it is developmental and ofour best performers on a trip of a lifetime to have a personal stake in the Companys restorative and brings together communities Dubai, we have given colleagues the chance success, rewarding contribution whilst for good causes.
The Sage Board has given togive their feedback and the opportunity creating a stronger sense of belonging.
The their time as volunteers this year and Sage toown a part of Sage and finally we have scheme was very well received with 21% Foundation is often cited as a pull factor by devoted150,000 hours of colleague time to participation from across all colleagues.
new applicants to Sage, demonstrating its voluntarywork.
influence on the strong culture Sage is Understanding how colleagues experience SagePeople, Sages cloud HCM system, building.
theSage culture, and their alignment with provides colleagues with a single global Sage strategy and values is important to the platform to safely and securely access leadership of Sage.
In July 2017 Sage launched information.
Where possible, core people an all-colleague engagement survey, Your processes are now automated and the system Voice, to take feedback from across the provides enhanced visibility and improved business and received a strong response analytics which drive operational efficiency.
The strong levels of engagement Launching SagePeople demonstrates our highlight the many positive aspects of being a passion for our own products and builds on Sage colleague and we are working to address our X3 roll-out with another Sage product areas of improvement.
Throughout FY18 we embedded in the business.
will put in place mechanisms for more regular Your Sage has enhanced colleague pulse checks on engagement across the organisation.
engagement by providing a single platform forcascading relevant and in the moment content about progress, priorities and products to all our colleagues simultaneously.
This is supplemented by Sage TV Live, a monthly broadcast hosted by the CEO andguests.
Year-end employee count split by region 4,386 13,292 3,603 2,998 2,305 Central & Group 2017 International 2017 Northern Europe 2017 North America 2017 Southern Europe 2017 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 43
