Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Operational risk including people risks Risk appetite Proactive operational risk The Group is prepared to tolerate a level of operational risk exposure within agreed thresholds and limits.
Operational risks management with enhanced arise from day-to-day business activities, which may result in direct or indirect losses and could adversely impact the Groups financial risk frameworks performance, levels of customer care and reputation.
The Group continues to strengthen the controls Approach to monitoring and mitigating exposures that provide a continuity of service, while Losses may result from both internal and external events, and are categorised using risk categories aligned to Basel II.
The Basel II identifying areas of operational efficiency, and categories are used to ensure that data can be reported externally ensuring the level of operational risk capital and compared with other industry data.
The Group has identified, assessed and is currently monitoring all key operational risks across the above noted categories, including Operational risk including people risks is the risk of loss resulting undertaking an assessment of control effectiveness, monitoring from inadequate or failed internal processes, people strategies trends in key risk indicators and escalating events, in accordance and systems or from external events including, for example, the with policy requirements.
It is a core component of the RMF and is embedded in day-to-day business activities.
Responsibilities are Stress testing set out in a structured operational risk framework that seeks to The Group undertakes scenario analysis to gain insights into the identify, assess, mitigate, monitor, and report the operational risks stresses the business could be subject to in the event of this type and events that could impact the achievement of business of operational risk materialising.
The Group maintains a suite of objectives or impact core business processes.
operational risk scenarios covering top operational risks relevant to Business units are responsible for the day-to-day management its business.
As part of the scenario analysis approach, the suite of of operational risk, with oversight from the risk management operational risk scenarios are reviewed and updated on a regular function, and independent assurance activities undertaken by basis for existing potential impacts and identification of potential internal audit.
Management then document a proposed response to identify how the scenarios would be managed and The requirements of the operational RMF are defined in an monitored if they occurred.
overarching operational risk policy and related minimum standards, and reflect the Groups operational risk appetite.
Risk category Operational resilience risk The risks associated with the ability of the Group to quickly adapt to disruptions while maintaining continuous business operations and safeguarding people, assets and overall brand equity, even in the face of adverse events, shocks and chronic or incremental changes.
Information technology risk The risks associated with inadequate and failed information technology processes and components including hardware, software and networking components.
Change risk The risks associated with a failure to execute and deliver change that could result in an inability to meet our strategic objectives, including failing to meet our customer, regulator, colleague, or shareholders expectations, at a Group level and local management level.
Third-party risk The risks associated with ensuring the Groups outsourced and offshoring arrangements are controlled effectively, including the risk of failure to service existing and new customers, and the potential cessation of specific activities, or the risk of personally identifiable information or Group sensitive data being exposed or exploited, or the risk of financial, reputational and regulatory censure if the third party enters into any illegal or unethical activities.
Data risk The risks associated with the accuracy, management and use of data that underpins decisionmaking at every level across the organisation.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 173
