Corporate and social responsibility Our approach to Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR is largelyled by staff The global nature of our Group and the fact that it serves a Diversity and inclusion widerange of customers gives people an opportunity to Our business is dependent on recruiting, retaining, developing communicate and interact with different sections of society and motivating talented people.
The talents we need do not across the world.
Our success owes much to understanding depend on gender, sexual orientation, religion, ethnic or andengaging with the communities we serve.
national origin, race, colour, age, disability orsocio-economic background.
We recognise that we needtodo more to appeal People to everyone who could help us to succeed.
Therefore over the Euromoney is well known as a place where entrepreneurs past year we have started to focus more on diversity.
Historically this may have meant we overlooked some thatis making sure that everyone can fulfil their potential at ofthe benefits of being a large group.
That is changing, but Euromoney and be, and feel, supported by the Company in wewantto remain a place where innovators and self-starters doing so by fostering an environment of inclusion.
There is thriveand those who want and deserve responsibility and always more work to be done and so this willcontinue in 2018. relishaccountability can still progress rapidly.
We call combining the best of Euromoneys entrepreneurial culture We do not believe that diversity is about having a policy or withthe benefits of being a substantial corporation without astand-alone initiative.
It needs to permeate all peoplethedownsides of either, our best-of-both-worlds model.
Wetalkabout it in more detail in the strategy section on page17.
One part of that is introducing more opportunities forstaff to As an equal opportunity employer we seek to employ a develop their careers in the Group.
workforce which reflects the diverse community at large.
Wedonot discriminate in recruitment, promotion or other Two years ago, we operated as 30 or so separate businesses.
The Group endeavours to provide a Atalented individual who rose quickly in a business might workingenvironment free from discrimination, victimisation decide that they had to leave in order to continue to orharassment and we will not accept behaviours which developtheir career.
By combining businesses into seven contradict this.
divisions and byco-ordinating our management of people across the whole of Euromoney we are now able to help our Since the summer our Group Management Board has spent, staff develop their careers beyond their current business.
and will continue to spend, time considering what more we can Bettercareer prospects and more development means our do to make the Group more diverse and inclusive.
This includes staffbecome more experienced and skilled, which will understanding why women make up a smaller proportion of enhancetheir performance and encourage them to stay in senior staff compared to their representation at more junior theGroup.
Gillian Fox, our Global HR Director, is leading this levels.
We have started a pilot to focus on developing careers and other changes in approach, working closely with our ofhigh-potential women in the Company.
We have changed divisional and functional heads.
our approach to hiring for senior roles to make sure short lists are diverse.
We have introduced our first LGBT and womens Here are a few best-of-both-worlds people-related examples: networks and have begun to roll out unconscious bias training.
We are making sure the recruitment firms we use understand We want to recruit staff who will like our culture: but we dont our seriousness about finding and attracting diverse candidates want to hire people simply to fit in, so we are introducing more of the highest quality.
We have also started working with a rigorous, evidence-based recruitment practices.
recruitment firm that specialises in helping firms hire talented black, Asian and minority ethnic staff, particularly those near We take seriously our duty to care for our staff.
We want to ensure the start of their career.
Staff feedback on these programmes our people still travel to, and run events in, emerging and frontier has been positive.
But we want to make sure they can do so as safely as possible and that we always consider the safety of delegates Gender pay gap analysis who attend our events.
So we have introduced training on We have analysed the pay of men and women in the UK.
travelling safely and a comprehensive event-safety assessment Theanalysis shows that we pay men and women roughly and accompanying training for our event organisers.
thesame within each band of seniority.
We will be doing further At Euromoney we have always given people responsibility analysis of the small gaps that are revealed and will take any earlyin their careers.
In 2018 we will focus on training staff as necessary remedial action.
The issue the analysis highlights, managers.
We will also make sure that we have successors however, is that we do not have enough senior women even identified and developed for critical roles across the Group.
though 47% of our Group overallare female.
We need to work across the organisation tochange this.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 24 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 24 12 11 2017 12:13:53 PM Strategic report Group Hurricane Irma Management Senior Total Our colleagues at IMN ran their annual ABS East conference Board Board Managers Employees inMiami in the aftermath of Irma.
They did so with the support Male 98 83 1,178 of local government and agencies who wanted to show that Male % 90% 67% 75% 53% Miami remained open for business.
Our team was grateful Female 14 28 1,050 forthat support and the Company donated $100,000 to the Volunteer Florida Foundation to help with relief efforts Female % 10% 33% 25% 47% andorganised for conference delegates to get involved Total 10 12 111 2,228 inreliefefforts.
1 Board % Group Management Board % Over the year we have continued our work with TSF, Afghan Connection, AMREF ORBIS and Haven House.
Male Male 10 9 8 TSF 33 Female Female Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF is an NGO specialising in 1 4 emergency telecommunications and new technologies.
It has 10 12 led emergency relief efforts in 70 countries supporting millions ofvictims of conflict and natural disasters, as well as facilitating 67 the relief efforts of more than 800 humanitarian organisations 90 inwar-torn and disaster zones.
Since 2014 the Group has raised more than 130,000 to support TSFs projects.
Senior Managers % Total Employees % Afghan Connection Afghan Connection AC has over 10 years experience Male Male successfully funding education and sports projects in 83 1,178 Afghanistan.
AC has funded 43school construction projects 25 Female Female forover 50,000 children and built 50cricket pitches.
We have 28 1,050 donated $154,000 includingfunds raised by staff to support 47 53 111 2,228 theconstruction of Kezer School in the Rustaq district of Northern Afghanistan.
75 AMREF ORBIS Amref Health Africa is one of the leading health NGOs in Africa, working to improve the health of women, men and children by 1 Above data reflects position at 22 November 2017.
Two additional female Non-Executive Directors will join the Board before the 2018 AGM establishing a participatory health care system.
Orbis is an international charity that works across Africa, Asia and Latin Our commitment to improve gender balance applies across America, transforming lives by preventing and treating theGroup.
As already announced we are delighted that three avoidable blindness and visual impairment.
Since 2014 talented and experienced female Non-Executive Directors Euromoney has supported a joint project between Amref Health arejoining the Board.
This is an example of how a focus on Africa and Orbis to help eliminate trachoma, a preventable diversity widens the pool we can attract and brings in skills and blinding eye disease, in the South Omo region of Ethiopia.
Our experience from which the Board and Group will benefit hugely.
donations last year and in the coming year will total 100,000.
Environment Haven House The Group has a small environmental footprint but that does Haven House is a childrens hospice based on the borders of notmean our staff do not want to help us contribute in this Essex and East London.
It looks after children aged from birth to area.
Our main offices are all located in central city locations 19 with life-limiting or life-threatening conditions.
Last year, the which generally means staff travel to work by public transport.
hospice supported 353 children and young people across all its Ourtechnology allows home-working, reducing work travel.
Euromoney has made a 50,000 contribution to Haven Overseas trips must be justified.
We try to do the easy things as House during the last 12 months.
For example, we switch most of the lights off at night.
Our larger offices include shower facilities for staff who Global efforts prefer to cycle or run to work.
Within the office, recycling bins Our staff are engaged globally in our charitable fundraising.
Our colleagues in New York support a range of local charities through initiatives such as helping with meal preparations at We have found with our diversity initiatives that they work better theBowery Mission, clothing drives for charities which provide when we harness the passion, energy and experience of our disadvantaged men and women with professional office attire, staff, not just via Company policy, we are taking the same hurricane relief fundraisers and volunteer work as part of approach with our environmental initiatives.
Although our Habitat for Humanity to rehabilitate a home in Battle Hill, carbon footprint is small, we think we can do more and we NewYork.
Our teams in Sofia, Bulgaria carry out fundraising, intend to ask our staff across the world for their ideas for what including donations, for the Bulgarian Red Cross and the else we can do.
We shall report back next year.
National Fund Saint Nikola, as well as a local hospital for children with cerebral palsy.
Social investment Our staff drive our charity fundraising, which comes from both More to do individual fundraising efforts and the Groups charitable budget.
The Groups success is dependent on the efforts of our staff.
Our staff give their time generously to support a wide range of Thatis not just true in terms of financial results but also our projects across the globe.
ability to serve our communities.
We will continue to focus on making the Group a place where people want to join and stay inpart because we are an organisation where they can make adifference both inside and outside of the office by leading or participating in CSR activities that they care about.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 25 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 25 12 11 2017 12:13:54 PM
