Our people 30 OUR PEOPLE MAKE THE DIFFERENCEEVERY DAY We are a growing business.
Our people play a pivotal role in that growth: without them we would not be able to build sustainable communities where people want to live.
People remain a Our approach to future talent keydifferentiator continues to be a priority Countryside continues to attract and retain the Our two-year graduate programme was highly best people in the housebuilding sector to deliver commended by graduate recruitment website our strategy.
We believe that our people truly The Job Crowd.
The programme is proving differentiate us from our competition.
In the very successful, and we continue toattract last three years, we have more than doubled large numbers of high-calibre graduate candidates.
our employee numbers and now have just over We have recently recruited a further 12graduates, 1,200 people working for us.
Our aim is to and in addition now have nearly 30 apprentices, grow our own as much as we can, together both on site and in ouroffices.
We have added with a healthy balance of new recruits.
internships to our Early Careers offering, and we aim to extend this further in the year ahead.
We saw record investment in developing our people Our people are our shareholders We have maintained and developed our In December 2016, we launched our second Group-wide approach to succession and talent all-employee Save as you Earn SAYE plan.
management as part of our grow our own This plan, together with our first launched just people strategy.
We have commenced after IPO, means that 70 per cent of our eligible implementation of a coaching programme for employees have signed up to buy shares our senior population, using a combination of inCountryside.
internal and external coaches, tailored to the December 2016 also saw the second grant of individuals needs.
Our focus on quality of training our Long Term Incentive Plan to our Director delivery remains, particularly around induction group as a retention tool for this key population.
and externally accredited leadership programmes.
We believe we continue to offer ahighly We are committed to developing our people market-competitive reward package.
at all levels of the organisation through leadership, professional and vocational qualifications and e-learning.
Building a pipeline of talent is critical to our success.
Our people are highly engaged 2017 employee survey results In 2017 we ran the Groups second all-employee survey, and once 82% trust the senior leadership ofCountryside again over 80 per cent of our people responded.
We were very 89% believe that Countryside has anoutstanding future pleased that we achieved a high overall engagement score of 79per cent.
From this, we believe that our people feel valued, 75% are satisfied with the benefits they receive at Countryside wellled and excited about the future.
87% are proud to work forCountryside The key action areas remain fairly consistent to those agreed in 71% believe Countryside values theircontribution 2016.
Whilst improvements have been made during the year, thetwo main areas of focus for the Group are: 81% would recommend Countryside as a great place to work continuing to encourage a more flexible approach to working 95% feel their safety is valued hours across the business: and promoting inter-departmental teamwork.
Our employee engagement is 15 per cent In addition, specific regional action plans will bedeveloped.
higher than the UK average Source: IBM Kenexa UK overall average Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 31 7 10 of eligible employees participated inour SAYE plan For those of our employees who qualify for a car or cashallowance, we offer a sector-leading fleet proposition.
Thisfocuses on offering our employees choice based on their lifestyle, while remaining environmentally conscious by capping emissions.
our CO 2 Health and safety Gender diversity Countryside conducts its business with due At Countryside, we are committed to regard for the health, safety and welfare of its increasing diversity by providing an inclusive employees, contractors, clients, visitors and working environment where everyone feels members of the public.
We develop a positive valued and respected.
culture towards health and safety throughout our operations and as a minimum we observe Board of Directors Total 7 all the requirements of the Health and Safety atWork etc.
3 4 Countryside operates a comprehensive health Senior management Total 200 and safety management system fully registered to OHSAS 18001 and we are committed to 30 170 continual improvement through a comprehensive training programme and by actively encouraging Total workforce Total 1,205 feedback from all levels of our workforce.
Regularon-site inspections are carried out 400 805 internally by the Groups qualified health and safety professionals.
The day-to-day management of these activities is overseen by the Groups Female Male Head of Health andSafety.
The companys Accident Incident Rate AIR We want our people to choose continues to be below the National Incident the right benefits for them and Rate NIR benchmark.
During the reporting period the companys AIR averaged at 220 their families 2016: 305 reportable incidents per 100,000 Our approach to reward is centred on choice.
persons at risk, compared with the NIR of 398 These benefits range from buying and or selling 2016: 421.
For the fourteenth consecutive year days of annual leave, through to reduced fees our AIR has been below the national benchmark.
on life, dental and travel insurance, to discounted We intend to maintain this performance.
During our 2017 flexible benefits annual enrolment window, The Company Secretary is the Executive 70per cent of employees logged in to the benefits Committee member responsible for health site and over 50 per cent of employees selected andsafety throughout the Group.
a new benefit or amended an existing one.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
