STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Sustainability and stakeholders Our strategic goals: The environmentally sustainable re-use and careful management of existing buildings Effective stakeholder engagement Invest in our community A fair and ethical framework for employees and our supply chain We pride ourselves on our ability to extend the economic Management of useful lives of our buildings through changes of use and reconfiguration, within the constraints of legislation, so sustainability that they continue to meet the needs of modern occupiers.
A sustainability committee meets quarterly to define objectives, This emphasis on refurbishment forms the core of our agree strategies and review progress.
We have a robust and sustainability strategy and is measured through an increased effective sustainability policy which is reviewed annually by number of schemes achieving BREEAM certification.
the Board and is available on our website.
In an urban location, which is intensively used by huge We continue to base our sustainability strategies on the numbers of visitors, a large working population and residential core goals: community, social issues and challenges are bound to arise.
We therefore focus on community-related activities which Environment: the re-use and careful management of help to support organisations that tackle these problems.
existing buildings is inherently sustainable.
In addition, reducing the running costs of the buildings and improving The Wild West End collaboration, which promotes biodiversity, their operational efficiencies is essential to attract tenants, continues to gain momentum.
Working with other as well as meet future regulatory requirements.
neighbouring landowners, we are increasing the number of biodiversity features in our areas and on our buildings, with Community: engaging with community groups and charities the associated benefits which promote health and well-being to ensure we integrate with our community.
We were delighted to be recognised Stakeholders: engaging with our tenants and investors for our work at Carnaby with pollinators as part of the ensures that we are aware of their expectations and can Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Bees respond accordingly.
In particular, we work with tenants to Needs Week.
identify ways in which they can use our buildings more efficiently and operate in a more sustainable manner.
In the year ahead we will work together with our stakeholders and, in particular, our tenants, to further our sustainability Working closely with our suppliers enables us to control our objectives.
potentially most significant impacts and facilitate better standards of service through our supply chain.
Employees: investing in the welfare and development of our employees ensures development in their role and continuing retention.
See also the full sustainability report on our website.
BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method 28 s e S t e u n y e p E m o s n p y l n v l o i i p o r l i p e o t i m n r m d e m s E n e r o n u c t o b a L s V t i s n i a STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Stakeholders Environment As a long-term business in the West End, we have, over many We are committed to sustainability by the re-use and careful years, created an extensive stakeholder group.
We improve and extend the economic life of our buildings.
All our portfolio is located in a Conservation Area and around 20% of our buildings are listed.
Within these constraints, we strive to minimise our impact on the environment.
Building certifications Our objective is to achieve BREEAM Very Good for all commercial refurbishment schemes.
Progress has been made over the year to extend the coverage to include larger projects, both commercial and domestic: six are in progress and are on course to achieve at least our target of Very Good.
Three other schemes are at pre-assessment or planning stage.
EPCs We are making good progress against the Governments Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards MEES.
From April 2018, leased areas, at the time of letting, will be required to have an Energy Performance Certificate EPC of grade E or above.
Properties where we have not got EPCs at, or above, this level have generally been let under long-term leases which commenced before MESS requirements for EPCs were introduced.
They will be scheduled for works, to meet During the year, we have focussed our sustainability efforts on or exceed the requirements of MEES, when the leases expire.
developing an air quality strategy and supply chain management which involves working in partnership with a number of stakeholders.
NUMBER OF LEASES As a consequence of our outsourcing model, the effective communication of our policies and objectives through our supply 203 chain is important to ensure that an ethical and sustainable approach is adopted to the employment of labour and the purchase of goods and services on our behalf.
182 We have developed a Supplier Code of Conduct which has been circulated to our principal suppliers for inclusion in contracts.
We require payment of the London Living Wage and compliance Unassessed with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 throughout our supply chain.
F or G grade We publish a statement on our website detailing how we are 1,082 A-E grade tackling slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain.
Having written to all our principal suppliers to raise awareness of the legislation, we have progressed to identifying the higher risk areas within our supply chain and are working to raise awareness and monitoring processes.
We have other policies in place which address human rights, whistleblowing and the ethical conduct of our business, all of which are included within our sustainability policy.
The policy is updated annually and provided to organisations in our supply chain to encourage them to adopt and enforce similar policies in their own businesses.
Two important initiatives were introduced during the year to implement the air quality strategy: Consolidation of waste collections in Carnaby.
This had the dual benefit of reducing vehicle movements in the area and minimising the number of refuse bags left on the street, thereby improving the visual appearance of the area.
A partnership to provide consolidated and managed deliveries for tenants and customers in Carnaby.
The aim is through delivery consolidation of office supplies, there will be fewer vehicles in the area and by using a low emission fleet, air quality will be improved.
29 t n o r e s T y A t s i i r s C r r q e e o u v d i a m d l l i o t o i y m B h u e n r i a t h y S STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Community Our engagement and activities are aligned with the community in which our portfolio is located.
We have a long record of support, HOW WE CONTRIBUTE and close involvement with, local charities and not-for-profit 21% organisations which assist with initiatives in these communities.
Cash Not only are they our neighbours, but their work ensures that the In kind contributions West End remains a vibrant and diverse destination, which Management costs supports residential communities, businesses and cultural 52% 8% organisations and which welcomes growing numbers of domestic Employee time and international visitors.
We have continued our membership of the London Benchmarking Group LBG.
Our contribution is measured in accordance with 19% their framework which provides a standard and comparable methodology.
Our LBG contribution equated to 562,000 and is analysed opposite.
We provide space to charities and other not-for-profit organisations on a short-term basis to assist in promoting their WHAT WE SUPPORT charity or cause in our areas or provide cost-effective space for 18% organisations in our central locations.
Arts culture 29% Our Section 106 contributions an agreement to make a payment Education to a local authority in respect of planning obligations totalled Environment 513,000.
These funds are generally for investment in public 14% Health realm works.
Other Our total community contribution equated to 2.5% of EPRA pre-tax earnings.
Social welfare 6% We are establishing a community investment committee to 23% oversee the strategic direction and effectiveness of our 10% community giving.
Our key community partners include: Pride ENO Community Choir Provides a platform for Londons LGBT Provides an opportunity for people from community to raise awareness of LGBT all walks of life to come together for the issues and campaign for the freedoms joy of singing.
that will allow them to live their lives Supported the choir for over 7 years.
House of St Barnabas Westminster Tea Dance through Sir Simon Milton Foundation LBG Supports homeless people in London back in to work through a City & Guilds The dance hosts 1,000 Westminster accredited 12 week employability 562,000 residents over the age of 65.
Silver Sunday national campaign to tackle We have sponsored one person per the blight of loneliness that affects so employability programme since 2015 many older people.
We have been a headline sponsor since 2014. s106 513,000 The Connection at Chinese Community St Martins-in-the-Field Centre The Connection helps thousands of Sponsorship of a part-time advice worker homeless people in Westminster every year who gives advice and support to Chinese move away from and stay off the streets of people about welfare, benefits and housing.
The Centres mission is to preserve and promote Chinese culture, arts and identity, We have sponsored an outreach worker whilst helping the community to better since 2012. integrate into mainstream UK community.
30 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Employees We believe that investing in training and development is essential Our employees play a vital role in implementing our strategy and and, this year, employees underwent an average of 16 hours contributing to its evolution.
The culture of the organisation and training.
A number of new training initiatives have been introduced our approach to employee training, development and employment including an e-learning training programme.
We have also had conditions has been an important part of our focus this year.
training on unconscious bias, time management and people Diversity is important to ensure that we have a mix of views and management skills.
Employees receive personal development inputs into our business.
This is not limited to gender diversity, reviews and annual appraisals.
The Board and employees but includes a wide spectrum of attributes and backgrounds we undertook culture workshops to discuss and document the look for when recruiting new employees.
We have increased our corporate values and behaviours.
employee numbers by three this year and in the recruitment 14% of employees have taken advantage of the flexible working process, we implemented new procedures to ensure that we are arrangements we offer.
recruiting from the widest talent pool.
We recognise the importance of community volunteering from In the real estate sector, there is a concerted effort to ensure both an employee and a community perspective and are now gender is at the forefront of diversity initiatives.
We are introducing volunteering leave.
committed to gender equality and employee development.
This is reflected in our membership of both Real Estate Balance and There have been no instances of non-compliance with our the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark.
Our gender diversity is Anti-Bribery Policy during the financial year.
set out below and in the Nomination Committee report.
We have been ranked first in the FTSE250 progress for Executive Committee and Direct Reports in the Hampton-Alexander review on gender diversity.
Overall, the Group was ranked 37 in the FTSE250 for combined Board and Executive Committee diversity.
2017 2016 Percentage of female employees overall 59% 60% Percentage of female employees in senior leadership team 57% 50% Percentage of female board members 30% 30% Average training hours per employee 16 12 Percentage of employees receiving professional development review 100% 100% Average length of service years 12 12 Employee turnover 1 1 Absentee rate EPRA calculation 0.96 0.75 Number of employees with flexible working 4 3 The like-for-like comparator group changed in 2017 following the creation of the senior leadership team.
Therefore the previous year figures are not directly comparable.
Real estate balance RICS inclusive employer qualitymark An association of real estate leaders with the objective to work with both men and Aims to drive behaviour changes by women in the real estate industry and with encouraging businesses in the real estate corporate leaders to achieve a greater sector to look carefully at their employment gender balance at board and executive practices and to ensure inclusivity is management level across the real estate embedded in their operations.
31 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Performance against targets One of our strategic goals is to work with our stakeholders including tenants, suppliers, employees, agents and the local community throughout our operations.
This engagement is inherent in our performance against the other three strategic goals, which are set out below: Strategic goal: ENVIRONMENTALLY SUSTAINABLE RE-USE AND MANAGEMENT OF BUILDINGS Work with other stakeholders Refurbishment schemes above Increase the EPC rating of Source timber from well-managed to investigate and promote 1 million value target BREEAM properties being refurbished sources, certified by third party solutions to reduce air pollution Very Good certification schemes in the West End 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress Focussed on vehicle movements: Launched Six schemes both commercial and Making progress towards compliance Reuse of timber maximised throughout initiative to consolidate deliveries to tenants in residential on course to achieve a with MEES all schemes Carnaby minimum of BREEAM Very Good Of the EPCs assessed, over 80% were Over 95% of timber has been confirmed Working with waste contractors to a grade C or above and all qualifying as sustainably sourced with full Chain of consolidate waste collections in Carnaby buildings achieved at least an E on Custody and 92% using FSC timber completion of refurbishment Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Implement air quality strategy Continue to target BREEAM and develop Extend the useful life of buildings and Continue to maximise the proportion fit out guide for commercial tenants improve their sustainability by raising the of timber that is reused Extend initiatives to other locations EPC rating of properties being refurbished Source a minimum of 90% of all timber according to predetermined targets from certified sources and ensure all timber is purchased from legal sources Maximise use of landlord procured Recycle a minimum of 50% of Improve biodiversity appropriate renewable energy and reduce tenants waste and divert 90% to the Groups urban location energy consumption in from landfill commonparts 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress All landlord controlled portfolio sourced 57% of tenants waste recycled or Continued membership of Wild West End 100% renewable electricity composted in Carnaby and Seven Dials Increased area covered by 16% from 8,127 Green Apple award for Carnaby sq.
ft. An increase of 3% for landlord-procured electricity, but overall reduction in Remainder of all waste diverted to landfill Developed Biodiversity strategy with five greenhouse gas emissions year targets 33% recycling achieved at Chinatown in first year of reporting Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Continue to purchase green electricity where Continue to engage with tenants to Continue membership of Wild West End costs are within 5% of brown electricity improve recycling Implement five year plan to achieve a 50% Engage with tenants to achieve a year on increase of coverage of biodiverse features year 3% energy reduction throughout the portfolio Reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions by a rolling annual target of 5% from the 2015 baseline by 2020 32 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Strategic goal: INVEST IN OUR COMMUNITY Support local community groups Continue membership of London All projects registered with and be proactive in identifying and Benchmarking Group Considerate Constructors working with charitable and other Scheme achieve a minimum organisations scoreof 30 out of 50 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress Ongoing support of nominated charities Contribution to community and stakeholders Average score was 34.8 out of 50 including Section 106 payments equates to 2.5% of EPRA pre-tax earnings Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Create community investment committee Continue membership to monitor Continue to achieve a minimum score to set strategic goals for community contributions of 30 out of 50 above satisfactory engagement and identify new initiatives Strategic goal: FAIR AND ETHICAL FRAMEWORK FOR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLY CHAIN Minimise risk of reportable health Ensure compliance with Ensure London Living Wage is paid Invest in training and and safety accidents incidents anti-bribery and corruption policy through the supply chain, where development of our employees.
throughout the portfolio within our control Comply with employment legislation and best practice including diversity 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress 2017 Progress No incidents in 2017 No policy breaches The requirement for the payment of 59% of employees are female.
The London living wage has been included in Executive Committee has 57% females.
new contracts The Board has 30% females Supplier Code issued to all principal Gained Fairplace Award from Ethical suppliers Property Foundation Signatory to the RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Future action 2018 Review health and safety policies across Maintain full compliance: continuing review Ensure adherence to Supplier Code Implement an action plan for the RICS the portfolio of policies and procedures Inclusive Employer Quality Mark Aim for accreditation from Living Wage Aim for no reportable accidents and incidents Foundation Continue to monitor diversity within throughout the Groups activities theGroup Review compliance procedures and supplierreporting 33 Strategic report Annual review 34 Strategic report Annual review 35
