STRATEGIC REPORT High Medium Low Impact CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Making a positive impact The Groups strategy and approach to corporate responsibility CR are well aligned as we improve the business model to reflect more sustainable practices.
CR is a keystone of our commitment to provide the highest quality service to our customers.
Across the business, the safety and wellbeing of our colleagues and consumers is our number one operational priority and supports our growth strategy, increases trust and helps us attract the best talent.
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We continually listen to our stakeholders and regularly review our approach to CR to keep pace with change and maintain our position as a responsible business partner.
We consider the issues that LEADERSHIP A- 70 TIER 4 matter most to our business and stakeholders to help us inform 2017 SCORE 2017 SCORE 2016 SCORE ourbusiness strategy.
Through this process we have identified 2016: Leadership A- 2016: 69 keyissues we believe materially impact our business and our relationships with stakeholders see matrix below for highlights inour journey tobecoming a more sustainable business.
On pages 38 and 39 we explain how our four CR pillars address REDUCING RISKS IN OUR GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN the most material business issues, why they matter to us and how they will inform our priorities and activities moving forward.
We spend around 6 billion on our global food supply chain and reducing risk is important to us to ensure food security for future generations.
This year, we have continued to develop the way in 3 which we measure our impacts and assess the risk for our business that deforestation presents.
Our progress has resulted in a marked 2 4 performance improvement in the CDP Forests module against peer 1 companies in our sector.
We are therefore delighted to have been 6 7 5 recognised as the most improved business in the Forests module for soy.
We will continue to set ourselves more ambitious targets andactively support the sustainable production of forest risk commodities through supplier engagement.
OUR 2017 CDP FORESTS RESULT Benchmarking Low Medium High Our Company performance benchmarked against peer AAProbability companies in the Hotels, B B B B Restaurants and Leisure C C and Tourism Services PROGRESS THIS YEAR sector and the 2017 CDP Forests sample.
This Each year, we participate in the key sustainability indices that focus demonstrates we are on economic, environmental and social factors that are relevant to assessing the risks related acompanys success.
We use our participation in such indices to to deforestation and are benchmark our performance within our sector and identify where measuring and managing wehave an opportunity to improve our approach towards more the impacts.
Member of sustainable business practices.
Increasingly, our stakeholders, including clients, investors and NGOs, proactively assess the scores Timber Palm Oil Cattle Soy that we achieve and the progress we are making.
We have Products Compass Overall CDP Forests average performed well this year, including our achievement in the Carbon 3-0033-10-100-00 Disclosure Project CDP of a Leadership score of Ain the Climate Change module.
In DJSI RobecoSAM, we scored 70% across all three dimensions Visit our website at www.
com for more information about our approach to CR and progress against economic, environmental and social which is well above the industry average of 39%.
This now places us in both their World the performance targets that we have set ourselves.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Material impacts and progress OUR PILLARS OUR PRIORITIES OUR UN SDGs OUR PEOPLE Our people are fundamental to our great service 1 Workplace health & safety andreputation and we recognise their positive Transparency around processes, controls contribution to our performance.
and reporting are in place and monitored toensure the safety and wellbeing of our Ensuring our employees are safe, well trained, people and of those who work with us.
motivated and productive is an essential component of our business model.
2 Employee recruitment &retention Provide our people with training and development opportunities.
Recognise andreward their great work.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 3 Having a responsible global supply chain is important Product safety Visibility around the ingredients that for us to deliver the quality of food service which is a we source for our operations.
key business driver for Compass and of paramount importance to our clients and consumers.
4 Supply chain integrity Ensure our global supply chain is acting As a result of our actions across our global supply responsibly and humanely towards chain, we are able to build client and consumer itsworkforce.
confidence, reduce potential risks and develop sustainable supplier relationships.
5 CBC compliance Ensure the implementation of our Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Measure, report and act upon concerns via the SpeakUp whistleblowing programme.
HEALTH & WELLBEING 6 By pursuing our passion for wellbeing and nutrition, Wellbeing and nutrition we can help our consumers and employees adopt Promote simple product labelling and a more balanced lifestyle.
signposting at the point of sale to encourage our consumers to make healthier choices.
We support our clients to deliver improved employee performance and satisfaction, encouraging client Raise awareness of mental health issues retention in our business.
and the support programmes available to our employees.
ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING 7 As a leading food and support services provider Environmental reporting with a global footprint, we have a clear responsibility Transparency around our environmental to help protect the environment.
impacts, target setting and activities to demonstrate progress.
We are reducing our impact by implementing programmes that focus on the improved use of Working to the Science Based Targets resources, helping us to manage our costs and Initiatives accredited methodologies, we those of our clients more effectively.
willreduce the intensity of our Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions by 50% by 2030.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 17,980 6.0 17,576 6.7 16,900 6.7 16,715 7.3 OUR PROGRESS OUR PEOPLE We employ 550,000 colleagues worldwide and protecting their wellbeing is very important to us.
Global Lost -26% Since 2014, we have achieved a 26% reduction in our Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate Time Incident since 2014 performance.
This year, with a continued focus on embedding a strong safety leadership culture, Frequency Rate we have achieved an improvement in our performance compared to last year, resulting in 15% less lost time incidents across our global business.
Sadly, we had two work-related fatalities in our Europe business as the result of vehicle accidents.
We conduct root cause investigations of all fatalities to identify opportunities to strengthen our policies and controls.
The lessons learned are shared to ensure that other parts of our business can learn from serious events.
All work-related fatalities are reported to the Executive Board and 2014 2015 2016 2017 Group Board.
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING We have extended our third party audit programme to validate that all our markets are complying Global Food Safety -14% with the requirements of our Global Food Safety Standards.
Incident Rate since 2014 This year, audit results identified that some of our developing markets, including South East Asia and Latin America, required further support to implement effective controls.
We have responded by investing in upskilling our teams and securing additional resource to help them embed the required operational standards.
2014 2015 2016 2017 HEALTH & WELLBEING Many of our businesses have implemented wellbeing programmes to encourage healthy Number of sites 8% behaviours amongst colleagues and consumers.
These include healthy lifestyle campaigns, offering healthy since 2014 raising workplace awareness of mental health and employee assistance programmes.
eating programmes For example, we recognise that developing good eating habits in childhood sets people up for a lifetime of better diet.
To encourage the right behaviours and habits in the younger generation, our Chartwells team in the UK business developed a Putting the Fun Back into Food programme.
Since 2006, the programme has reached over half a million students.
The aim is to excite children of all backgrounds about food and cooking to help them lead healthy lives.
2014 2015 2016 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL REPORTING Compass Groups disclosure in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors GHG intensity ratio -18% Reports Regulations 2013 is stated in the table below: since 2014 GLOBAL GHG EMISSIONS FOR THE PERIOD 2016-2017 CURRENT 2015-2016 1 OCTOBER 2016 TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 UNIT REPORTING YEAR COMPARISON YEAR Combustion of fuel & operation of facilities Scope 1 Tonnes t CO e 128,154 124,488 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 location based tCO e 8,376 9,100 2 Total Scope 1 2 tCO e 136,530 133,588 2 2014 2015 2016 2017 Emissions intensity per m revenue tCO e m 6.0 6.7 2 We have calculated our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions since 2008 and aim to improve the scope and accuracy of our reporting each year.
We have established an organisational boundary, reporting on emissions originating from our top 20 countries, accounting for 94% of Group activity by revenue.
Our GHG emissions calculations are based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
Applying an operational control approach, we have identified relevant activity data for Scope 1 and 2 emissions and have used the location based Scope 2 calculation method.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED WORKING TOWARDS THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS In 2016, we identified through our strategic review that UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE OUR ROLE FOR EXAMPLE stakeholders and international clients had a growing interest in supporting the United Nations Sustainable END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY By 2050, the worlds population is Every year, we spend around 6 billion Since 2014, our Imperfectly Delicious Produce Development Goals SDGs agreed by world leaders AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND expected to increase by two billion.
Collaborating with our global programme run by our US business has used over inSeptember 2015.
In response to this feedback, we present almost 800 million of the worlds supply chain to design and deliver 4.5 million lbs of imperfect fruit and vegetables that PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE continue to consider how our business activities can help population are malnourished and scalable and practical solutions for food would otherwise have rotted in fields or been sent to us to deliver our contribution towards the SDGs at a global starving.
This means that the need to security and sustainable agriculture is composting or landfill for simply not meeting an artificial and local level.
improve sustainable agriculture will therefore vitally important to safeguard standard of attractiveness.
become increasingly critical as the the future of our business.
The SDGs provide a useful platform and common demand on natural resources intensifies.
language upon which we can build new, and strengthen existing, global and local partnerships to progress our ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE Nutrition is essential for sustainable Each year, we serve over five and a half Since 2010, we have worked towards a target that 100% sustainability activities.
WELLBEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES development.
Every year, poor nutrition billion meals.
By pursuing our passion for of our units will provide Balanced Choices or similar Of the 17 goals designed to help deliver the 2030 vision kills over three million children under five, wellbeing and nutrition, we are committed healthy eating programmes by 2016.
This year, we have fora more sustainable planet, we have identified six where whilst world wide over two billion people to helping our consumers and employees seen a further improvement in our performance 69% vs we believe we can make the most positive social impact.
Whilst we have not achieved our target this In addition to these issue specific goals, we recognise the year, we expect to continue to make good progress during critical importance of working in partnership, supported the coming year.
bySDG 17 Partnerships for the Goals.
ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND Women and girls around the world Women make up 55% of our global Since 2016, our UK business has run the Women in LOOKING AHEAD TO 2018 struggle to exercise their rights, face workforce and 28% of our global Food programme to tackle the shortage of female chefs.
EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS We will continue to engage our teams and stakeholders discrimination, legal barriers and violence leadership team.
We are resolved to By 2020, we expect that 50% of the chefs in our UK around the world to understand the issues which and receive unequal pay for equal work.
empower all our female employees as workplace will be female.
This year, 35% of the chef matter most and to identify opportunities to build weknow this leads to increases in population was made up of women and we will continue stronger partnerships which address global and local productivity, organisational effectiveness to focus our activities to achieve our 2020 target.
PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE AND The availability of decent work is a must Our 550,000 employees are In Australia, we run a programme called Project 1050 to for lasting, inclusive and economic fundamental to our great service support the recruitment of an additional 1,050 indigenous SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, growth, yet while the global labour force andreputation.
Around the world jobseekers into the Compass workforce by 2019.
In 2017, FULL AND PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT continues to grow, there are not enough weareworking with local communities we achieved a further 339 jobseekers versus our annual AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL jobs available, particularly amongst young tooffer fair employment and great target of 244, towards our 2019 goal.
CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY 30% of the worlds fish stocks are Three words encapsulate our approach to We have partnered with the MSC in the UK to develop the overexploited, compromising their ability sustainable seafood: 1 Avoid: by not Good Fish Guide app, which encourages everyone from USE THE OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE to produce sustainable yields.
serving seafood on the Marine chefs to consumers to make more sustainable choices RESOURCES FOR SUSTAINABLE Stewardship Councils MSC fish to easily and quickly.
DEVELOPMENT avoid list: 2 Improve: by buying more certified sustainable seafood each year: 3 Promote: the availability of responsibly sourced fish to our consumers.
PROTECT, RESTORE AND PROMOTE People need nature to thrive.
It is We are working across our global supply Globally, we are an active member of the Roundtables particularly critical for sustainable chain to ensure we source our food and on Responsible Soy and Responsible Palm Oil.
SUSTAINABLE USE OF TERRESTRIAL For a more detailed review of our 2016-2017 agriculture, yet deforestation, non-food products in a sustainable 18 of our top 20 countries have already established ECOSYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLY MANAGE performance against targets, please visit desertification and loss of biodiversity manner with the least possible impact sustainable and ethical sourcing programmes.
and natural habitats are degrading fertile onthe environment.
AND HALT AND REVERSE LAND land and reducing crop productivity.
DEGRADATION AND HALT BIODIVERSITY LOSS STRENGTHEN AND REVITALISE The SDGs set out a vision for ending As a global business, we recognise the We have been assessed annually by the Business poverty, hunger and inequality and critical importance of working in Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare since the THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR protecting natural resources by 2030. partnership with our clients, suppliers and publication of its first report in 2012.
We remain SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Realising this ambition will require a step other stakeholders to improve the positive committed to continuously improving our performance change in the way that the private sector, contribution that we can make to help by embedding a common framework designed to deliver governments and civil society work address some of the biggest issues that enhanced and harmonised farm animal welfare st together in partnership.
we all face in the 21 century.
standards throughout our global supply chain.
We achieved a benchmark score of Tier 4 in 2016 and await results of the 2017 assessment.
40 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT UNITED NATIONS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS THE GLOBAL CHALLENGE OUR ROLE FOR EXAMPLE END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY By 2050, the worlds population is Every year, we spend around 6 billion Since 2014, our Imperfectly Delicious Produce AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND expected to increase by two billion.
Collaborating with our global programme run by our US business has used over present almost 800 million of the worlds supply chain to design and deliver 4.5 million lbs of imperfect fruit and vegetables that PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE population are malnourished and scalable and practical solutions for food would otherwise have rotted in fields or been sent to starving.
This means that the need to security and sustainable agriculture is composting or landfill for simply not meeting an artificial improve sustainable agriculture will therefore vitally important to safeguard standard of attractiveness.
demand on natural resources intensifies.
ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE Nutrition is essential for sustainable Each year, we serve over five and a half Since 2010, we have worked towards a target that 100% WELLBEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES development.
By pursuing our passion for of our units will provide Balanced Choices or similar kills over three million children under five, wellbeing and nutrition, we are committed healthy eating programmes by 2016.
This year, we have whilst world wide over two billion people to helping our consumers and employees seen a further improvement in our performance 69% vs are overweight or obese.
Whilst we have not achieved our target this year, we expect to continue to make good progress during the coming year.
ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND Women and girls around the world Women make up 55% of our global Since 2016, our UK business has run the Women in struggle to exercise their rights, face workforce and 28% of our global Food programme to tackle the shortage of female chefs.
EMPOWER ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS discrimination, legal barriers and violence leadership team.
We are resolved to By 2020, we expect that 50% of the chefs in our UK and receive unequal pay for equal work.
This year, 35% of the chef weknow this leads to increases in population was made up of women and we will continue productivity, organisational effectiveness to focus our activities to achieve our 2020 target.
SUSTAINABLE USE OF TERRESTRIAL agriculture, yet deforestation, non-food products in a sustainable 18 of our top 20 countries have already established ECOSYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLY MANAGE desertification and loss of biodiversity manner with the least possible impact sustainable and ethical sourcing programmes.
FORESTS, COMBAT DESERTIFICATION, and natural habitats are degrading fertile onthe environment.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 41
