GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Corporate Responsibility CR Committees Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
This is my first statement as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and, in the short time since I succeeded Susan Murray, I have been inspired by the hard work and enthusiasm of my colleagues.
With their help, I look forward to building on the progress we have made to date.
ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR SAFETY PERFORMANCE Notwithstanding our focused efforts on building a positive safety culture which is supporting a year on year reduction in our lost time incident frequency rate, sadly, we had two work related fatalities Building on our in our Europe business as a result of vehicle accidents.
So that we continue to make what we do safer, we have shared lessons learned from these serious events with our colleagues around the globe to try commitments to prevent similar events from happening again.
During the year, we have been working with the British Safety Part of our ethos is being a responsible Council and exploring best practice within our own business related to transport safety.
We have introduced improved partner and this year we have continued global policy standards and colleague engagement materials to make progress in our efforts to create designed to boost employee awareness of the potential risks a more sustainable business.
resulting from unsafe driving behaviour.
You can view our policy and see examples of our engaging employee awareness campaign at www.
The wellbeing of our colleagues around the world is GOVERNANCE important to us.
We have long been building on our The Committee also addressed a number of governance matters SafetyFirst programme and awareness campaigns and received updates from the Group General Counsel and whichcontinue to focus both management and frontline Company Secretary on new developments in corporate governance colleagues attention on reducing risk and injury at work.
and reporting, and considered recommendations to the Board Apositive safety culture has been further reinforced by concerning these matters.
linking key metrics to the bonus outcomes of our global leadership team.
We are actively piloting innovative SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY programmes to encourage more inspirational safety We continue to make steady progress in advancing our sustainable leadership from our management teams, as well business practices, including supply chain integrity.
Maintaining a asexploring ways in which we can use technology visible and transparent supply chain is important for us, our clients toimprove visibility of risks and hazards within and the millions of consumers that we serve every day.
expect our sourcing practices to be aligned to those of a responsible business partner.
We want to do the right thing and to demonstrate progress against the public commitments weve made to be an ethical and sustainable organisation.
We moved forward with the roll out of our Global Supply Chain Integrity Standards which we hope, in time, will be the industry leading standards that set the benchmark for our sector.
I am particularly proud of the progress being made related to farm animal welfare in our supply chain.
This year, we appointed an executive sponsor to help shape our farm animal welfare policy.
Thispolicy and its supporting standards are part of a clear road map to help drive continuous improvement in our sourcing practices.
We have more to do, but it is pleasing to see that our efforts have been acknowledged by Compassion in World Farming and the Business Benchmark on Animal Welfare, where we achieved a benchmark score of Tier 4 for 2016.
We await results of the 2017 assessment and hope to improve upon last years performance.
62 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 GOVERNANCE UNITED NATIONS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING During the year, we reassessed our suite of metrics for our Trends towards globalisation mean that it is increasingly common sustainable business activities which included further refining our forbusinesses to source their goods and services from different alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
This increases the task we have of maintaining transparency and makes the identification of unethical or inhumane practices in our supply chain more challenging.
END HUNGER, ACHIEVE FOOD SECURITY AND IMPROVED NUTRITION AND PROMOTE Those that profit from such practices go to great lengths to ensure SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE that their criminal activities remain hidden and, consequently, it can be extremely difficult to identify such activities.
This means that no business, including our own, can have absolute certainty that such activities do not exist within its business or supply chain.
Despite ENSURE HEALTHY LIVES AND PROMOTE such challenges, our position is clear: our people are the key to our WELLBEING FOR ALL AT ALL AGES continued success and we will not tolerate unethical behaviour in our own operations or within our supply chains.
This year, we have extended our membership of The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX, a not for profit organisation ACHIEVE GENDER EQUALITY AND EMPOWER dedicated to driving improvements in responsible and ethical ALL WOMEN AND GIRLS business practices across global supply chains.
It enables sharing of ethical supply chain data which allows members to access information about their suppliers in four key areas health and safety, labour standards, the environment and business ethics.
PROMOTE SUSTAINED, INCLUSIVE We recognise that certain categories of procured products and AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH, FULL AND PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT services potentially carry a higher risk of child or slave labour being used in the supply chain.
This is why we use the SEDEX data in AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL addition to conducting independent audits, to verify labour standards and identify any poor practices within our supply base.
Any supplier breaches that are uncovered via audit or any other CONSERVE AND SUSTAINABLY USE THE means will be fully investigated and, where possible, remedied.
OCEANS, SEAS AND MARINE RESOURCES Repeat breaches or those that cannot be remedied will result in FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT theimmediate termination of the relevant supplier relationship.
To help us improve visibility of any potential wrongdoing, we operate a free, independent and confidential helpline called Speak Up.
PROTECT, RESTORE AND PROMOTE This enables colleagues and suppliers to raise in confidence any SUSTAINABLE USE OF TERRESTRIAL concerns about slavery and human trafficking, any wrongdoing or ECOSYSTEMS, SUSTAINABLY MANAGE other breaches of our Code of Business Conduct.
Performance data FORESTS, COMBAT DESERTIFICATION, and trends from Speak Up, as well as other compliance data, are AND HALT AND REVERSE LAND DEGRADATION reviewed as part of our Committee meetings and those of the Audit AND HALT BIODIVERSITY LOSS Committee and remedial actions taken as appropriate.
The Committee is comforted, but not complacent, that there have been no reports made to the helpline regarding slavery and human STRENGTHEN AND REVITALISE trafficking in the past 12 months.
THE GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT As signatories to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, one of the ways in which we have sought to build on the awareness of our colleagues is to introduce an elearning programme for our strategic procurement teams, highlighting the potential risks of The review helped to shape our thinking on how we challenge human slavery and trafficking within supply chains.
To date, we have our own business policies, commitments and activities: measure trained 200 colleagues from our strategic procurement teams who our performance against the goals to be achieved by 2030: and account for 70% of the Groups annual global procurement spend.
address any material impacts to our business.
You can find out We will continue with this programme throughout 2018 and we are more about our global commitments towards the 2030 goals on committed to extending our elearning programme to our top 20 pages 38 to 41. countries, which account for the majority of our global procurement spend each year, by 2020.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 63 GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In October 2017, we published our second Modern Slavery Act THE CR COMMITTEE COMPOSITION statement MSA statement.
This year, our MSA statement sets out The CR Committee comprises Nelson Silva, Chairman, Paul Walsh, the steps that we are taking to reduce the risk of slavery and human Richard Cousins, Johnny Thomson, Robin Mills Group HR trafficking in our business and supply chain.
The Committee Director, Mark White Group General Counsel and Company recognises that this is an ongoing process and has selected five key Secretary, and all of the non-executive directors in office at the performance indicators with the aim of demonstrating our year on dateof this Report.
year progress in this area.
Our current MSA statement can be found The CR Committee meets at least twice a year.
twice during the year and members attendance is set out in the THE YEAR AHEAD table below.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of my Compass MEETINGS ATTENDANCE colleagues for their continued commitment and enthusiasm and 1 NAME ATTENDANCE I look forward to reporting on our progress next year.
Its important Nelson Silva 2 of 2 that we continue to listen to the views of our stakeholders and use Carol Arrowsmith 2 of 2 their insights to help shape our strategy and build on our John Bason 2 of 2 achievements to date.
Stefan Bomhard 2 of 2 Richard Cousins 2 of 2 Robin Mills 2 of 2 2 Susan Murray 1 of 1 Don Robert 2 of 2 Nelson Silva Johnny Thomson 2 of 2 Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Ireena Vittal 2 of 2 21 November 2017 Paul Walsh 2 of 2 Mark White 2 of 2 1.
The number of meetings attended out of the number of meetings which eachdirector member was eligible to attend.
Stepped down from the Board and its committees at the conclusion of theCompanys AGM on 2 February 2017.
OBJECTIVES The objective of the CR Committee is to assist the Board and theCompany in fulfilling its corporate responsibility in line with theCompany's strategy, policies, processes and standards.
RESPONSIBILITIES The Committees primary responsibilities include health, safety andenvironmental practices, ethical business conduct, the promotion ofemployee engagement and diversity as well as community investment.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from the Director of Health, Safety and Environment and other senior managers to ensure that progress is being made towards meeting the Groups specific corporate responsibility KPIs and in our ongoing corporate responsibility commitments.
We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and throughout the Annual Report there are examples of how we are endeavouring to achieve our strategic goals whilst underpinning our core values.
64 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
