Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Corporate Responsibility A target driven approach Marstons believes that Corporate Responsibility CR plays an integral role in contributing to long-term growth, commercial viability and stable relationships with its stakeholders.
During 2017 the CR Committee has focused upon a target driven approach, aligned with our CR priorities and to the businesss strategic objectives.
This cross-functional working group meets several times per year to discuss our strategic framework and inform each other on progress made.
With members from teams across the business such as brewing, procurement, risk and communications, the CR Committee is truly representative of the importance that corporate responsibility has for everyone in the business.
We have previously assessed our CR strategy and set CR priorities aligned to the Groups strategic objectives.
This year has seen us implementing these objectives, establishing targets and making progress in focusing the business on integrating them across all areas.
We continue to work with our key stakeholders to make sure our activity stays relevant and focused.
With publishing our frst Modern Slavery Statement this year, we have made an important step towards demonstrating our commitment to go beyond compliance.
WE REMAIN COMMITTED TO OUR FIVE CR PRIORITIES: We invest in our people We partner with suppliers who share our values We care about our customers wellbeing We celebrate our local communities We reduce our environmental impacts With these priorities in mind, we have formulated focus areas for each of the Marston's Group strategic objectives that guide the commercial side of our business: WE PARTNER WITH WE CARE ABOUT WE CELEBRATE WE REDUCE WE INVEST SUPPLIERS WHO SHARE OUR CUSTOMERS OUR LOCAL OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IN OUR PEOPLE OUR VALUES WELLBEING COMMUNITIES IMPACTS ENSURING PEOPLE ARE AT OFFERING THE BEST CONSUMER EXPERIENCE: THE HEART OF QUALITY, SERVICE, VALUE AND INNOVATION OUR BUSINESS TARGETING PUB GROWTH STRATEGIC INCREASED OBJECTIVES INVESTMENT IN ROOMS OPERATING A HIGH QUALITY PUB ESTATE LEADERSHIP IN THE UK BEER MARKET Pub food Healthy options Support for Food recycling Apprenticeships supplier charter onour menus local charities inour pubs Improve Head offce AREAS OF Training Nutritional Energy FOCUS our supplier involvement with in our pubs information consumption DURING 2016 17 audit programme local charities Support teams Engagement Modern Engagement individual Recycling rates andenablement slavery with Drinkaware contributions Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 35 Corporate Responsibility continued WE INVEST IN WE PARTNER WITH SUPPLIERS OUR PEOPLE WHO SHAREOUR VALUES Keeping people at the heart of our business is essential to our At Marstons we recognise that our suppliers are an integral part of success, wherever they work in Marstons.
Every year we create our success and proftability and we strive for long-term relationships new jobs within our new-build pubs and lodges and every year we with those who share our values.
We have a robust tendering process track the engagement and enablement scores of our people.
This is which examines the company management, locations of production what makes Marstons The Place to Be.
That is why all our training facilities, fnances, codes of ethics and accreditations.
We have and development programmes are built around customer service invested further this year in our process for registering contracts, because, in our view, personal fulflment translates into customer renewal periods, data transfer and security.
satisfaction and long-term corporate success.
All our main food suppliers are either British Retail Consortium, We carefully track the numbers of our people achieving training or equivalent standard, approved, or audited independently on all levels in our pubs.
This has been achieved through creating greater aspects of hygiene, traceability, quality and ethical approach.
fexibility, allowing our people to complete much of their training Online we provide information on how we source food, ingredients, at home through e-learning as well as on-site training.
This year traceability, animal welfare and sustainability, particularly regarding 6,000 people have been trained through the Marstons Talent meat, fsh and eggs.
In 2017 we issued our frst statement on Modern Slavery and, since Over 450 apprentices have worked through our apprenticeship then, we have contacted 55 suppliers in order to understand their programme this year.
For many of those apprentices, working at own policy regarding the employment conditions of staff in their Marstons has been their frst experience of full or part-time work.
CR targets this year CR targets this year and how we have performed and how we have performed 1.
Increase levels of training amongst our people 1.
Issue a supplier charter There has been a signifcant increase in the completion of initial In 2017 we developed a Pub Food Supplier Charter which is and refresher training programmes across allpub formats.
now issued to all current and potential food suppliers and sets out our expectations regarding quality of product, traceability 2.
We continue to monitor our engagement and of ingredients, ethical approach, sustainable sourcing and enablement score against other employer scores.
We achieved an engagement score of 73% 2016: 76% and an enablement score of 76% 2016: 77%.
Improve our supplier audits All of our brewery suppliers for key ingredients have been audited during the year as well as a third of our pub food suppliers.
We have appointed a new service provider Acoura in order to improve on the number of suppliers audited and taken the opportunity to expand our audit protocol.
Since the new audit protocol was launched in May we have scheduled or audited over 50% of our food supplier base.
Talent Academy launch Ethical and sustainable sourcing This year we launched the new Marstons Talent Academy brand and online learning platform: Marstons Talent The bed linen in our lodges is purchased from TheFine Academy Online, delivering high quality, tailored, fexible Bedding Company which shares our values on the learning for our pub team members at all levels.
sustainability of their sources of supply and an ethical approach to production.
We also partner with Brew Tea, founded in 2012, for a range of hot drinks offered in our P&P bars, Revere, Accent and Milestone Rotisserie pub-restaurants.
Our English breakfast tea is 100% rainforest certifed.
More detail of how we partner with our suppliers and More detail on our people can be found at our Modern Slavery statement can be found online at www.
co. uk responsibility 36 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information WE CARE ABOUT OUR WE CELEBRATE OUR CUSTOMERS WELLBEING LOCAL COMMUNITIES We like to ensure that our guests have a great experience in our pubs Our breweries and pubs have a long and rich tradition of involvement and we offer a range of dishes that cater to various lifestyles, priorities with their communities.
We recognise the importance of these local and tastes, which assist in making informed choices.
In the past year, relationships to the success of our heritage beer brands and the longwe have deepened our engagement with key stakeholders and have term success of our pubs.
Each year we actively involve ourselves in made signifcant progress in broadening our menu choices.
community events such as beer festivals, carnivals, coffee mornings, family fun days and carol services.
We continue to monitor consumer trends and collect customer feedback to ensure that our menus remain relevant to changing diets We support many charities and fundraising activities within our and lifestyles.
We donate to Pub is the Hub each year, which supports pubs diversifying within often small rural communities to incorporate As part of our continuing engagement with Public Health England we local stores, play areas, postal services and libraries.
We operate two are working on sugar reduction in our dishes.
charity schemes for our people to contribute to charitable causes from their pay and Marstons matches those contributions each year.
All of our pub team members undertake food hygiene training.
We have a robust independent audit programme that monitors health and safety standards and a documented food safety management CR targets this year system.
A catering hotline for any food-related queries is available to and how we have performed our pub teams 365 days per year.
Encourage our pubs to engage with their local Operating a high-quality pub estate requires responsible marketing communities of alcoholic beverages.
This year we re-joined Drinkaware, a national Marstons Give Back Week was again in operation this year, initiative providing information and advice to consumers.
encouraging all our managed pubs to run activities to raise funds for charities of their choice.
To match any contributions made to charities by and how we have performed our people through the payroll 1.
Broaden our range of healthy options on pub menus Contributions made through both the Marstons Inns and Taverns Our menus have been designed to offer a range of dishes with Charitable Trust and the Marstons Employee Charitable Fund lower calorie and non-gluten options.
Give more nutritional information to customers 3.
For our people at head office to offer direct support to Specifcations maintained on all products used on our menus local charities detailing ingredients, nutrition and allergen information.
All core Marstons is a Founder Patron of The Way in Wolverhampton.
menus have an allergy app available providing allergen information This modern state-of-the-art Youth Zone, close to Marstons head on all menu items.
This year we participated in their Get a Job campaign, helped young people with their CVs and 3.
Maintain the level of test purchases and age verification interview preparation and decorated their Intervention Room.
checks All managed and franchised pubs receive at least one test purchase visit per annum.
Developing Healthier menus Community involvement Healthy menus: All of our core menus have nutritional information available online and include a range of dishes All of our breweries involve themselves in their local towns where we have controlled the calorie content and these at fairs, open days, celebrations and seasonal events such are highlighted on menus.
We endeavour to ensure that as the Beertown Brewery Bash event in Burton.
all of our menus have vegan options available.
All of our Christmas 2017 menus have vegan options for each course.
We have launched our frst dessert with less than 300 calories and fve-a-day fruit and vegetable portions are highlighted on our Childrens menus.
More detail about our customers wellbeing can be found More detail of how we celebrate our local communities can be online at www.
co. uk responsibility found online at www.
co. uk responsibility Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 37 Corporate Responsibility continued WE REDUCE OUR OUR FUTURE PLANS ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We invest in people Expansion of our training courses available on Marstons We aim to reduce our environmental impact.
This impact is monitored Talent Academy Online and the provision of our apprenticeship constantly for our pubs, breweries and logistics operations.
Across all programme across the Group.
of our operations approximately 140,000 tonnes of CO are emitted 2 from energy use.
The majority of this energy is used within our pubs Further embedding of our PCDR process to ensure our people have for heating, cooking, refrigeration and lighting.
In recent years we absolute clarity about what they need to achieve and how they can have reduced the energy demand in our pubs by investing in greater work to achieve it.
effciency: installation of LED lamps, voltage optimisation, heating controls and cellar cooling.
This year we will install a new boiler at We partner with suppliers who share our values our Wolverhampton brewery which aims to reduce energy usage for To investigate a range of ethical sourcing issues with our suppliers.
production at the site by more than 20%.
Following the introduction of our Pub Food Supplier Charter, we Marstons takes its environmental responsibilities seriously, and will consider how similar expectations can be communicated to our continues to make good progress in implementing innovative other key suppliers.
technological solutions to reduce the use of resources, minimise Modern Slavery: we intend to extend the coverage of our supply waste and increase effciency.
This year, we have achieved a 98% rate chain base and publish a policy on Modern Slavery during the year.
of glass recycling, compared to 89% in the previous year.
We care about our customers wellbeing Work with our suppliers to identify ways in which the calorie content CR targets this year of our meals can be reduced.
and how we have performed Monitor consumer healthy eating trends and develop our menus accordingly.
Increase food recycling Food recycling is now taking place in 73% of sites with a food Strive to support Drinkawares campaigns and initiatives.
offering 52% last year and we are aiming for 80% next year.
We celebrate our local communities 2.
Reduce CO emissions in relation to activity 2 Encourage our teams to donate their time to support An increase in Group activity across our pub estate and our local charities.
breweries has resulted in an overall increase in energy usage.
Report more stories of how our teams support charities, fund However, carbon emissions have reduced due to our programme raising events and local projects.
of installing LED lighting, cellar cooling, voltage optimisation and heat recovery systems.
We have also benefted from a higher Look at engaging with the Onside Youth Zone charity nationally, proportion of the UKs energy supply coming from non-fossil fuels.
particularly where they have youth centres in proximity to our pubs, breweries and depots.
Recycle 70% of waste from pubs and inns where Marstons provides waste services: We reduce our environmental impact Currently 76% of waste from our pubs is recycled, up from 63% Relaunch our Energy Heroes employee engagement programme.
last year through a bin rationalisation project.
Next year we are Future technical initiatives: continue to install LED lighting in expecting further improvement with a target of 80%.
back of house areas, cellar temperature management and voltage optimisation.
Energy saving trials next year: building management systems and battery storage.
Reporting of water usage by site to be enhanced.
Achieve zero waste from our pubs to landfill.
Diverting waste from landfll Awareness of our commitment to reduce waste going to landfll has increased amongst our pub teams following our Wise up to Waste campaign this year.
In addition, food collections from our pubs have increased dramatically since appointing a new contractor, UK WSL, in 2016.
More detail about how we reduce our environmental impact can be found online at www.
co. uk responsibility 38 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Report 41 Board of Directors 42 Nomination Committee Report 48 Audit Committee Report 50 Directors Remuneration Report 53 Directors Report 63 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 66 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 39 Chairmans Introduction experience relevant to the Group, are set out UK Corporate Governance on pages 42 to 43.
Code Compliance Statement BOARD AND COMMITTEE SUCCESSION The version of the Corporate Governance Code applicable to the As announced last year, following the current reporting period is the April Roger Devlin retirement of Neil Goulden after the Annual Chairman 2016 UK Corporate Governance General Meeting AGM in January 2017, Code.
The Code is available on the Carolyn Bradley assumed the role of Senior Independent Director and also became a Financial Reporting Councils website Our governance member of the Remuneration Committee, www.
and Catherine Glickman took over as Chair framework continues Marstons PLC was compliant of the Remuneration Committee.
Prior to to support the delivery with all relevant provisions of the the announcement of our 2016 17 results, Code during the reporting period we announced that Nick Backhouse will of our strategic under review.
retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
I would like to thank priorities and protect Nick on behalf of the Board for his valued the interests of our contribution to Marstons during his tenure GOVERNANCE REPORT with the Company.
Nick will be succeeded stakeholders.
We have used the key themes of the as Chairman of the Audit Committee by Code to structure this report: Matthew Roberts.
Carolyn Bradley will also join the Audit Committee from the DEAR SHAREHOLDER 1.
Further details on the Boards For our governance framework, composition are given on page 41.
We believe that good governance is management structure and roles see fundamental to achieving our aim of making page 41 Marstons The Place to Be for our people, REMUNERATION POLICY our customers and our shareholders.
Effectiveness Board we are responsible for demonstrating The Policy approved by shareholders at For details of this years Board evaluation, training and induction and diversity details the desired values and behaviours that we the 2017 AGM applied throughout the year see page 46 want to embed within the culture of our and all payments made to Directors during business.
Our governance framework, the year have been made in line with that 3.
Shareholder Relations set out on the following pages, supports Policy.
Further details are provided in the For details of our engagement with the delivery of our strategic priorities and Remuneration Report on pages 53 to 62. shareholders see page 49 helps to protect the interests of all our stakeholders.
Accountability AUDIT Governance Code the Code has applied Details of our internal processes and our throughout the reporting period under review As previously announced, during the year we AuditCommittees report start on page 50 and I am pleased to confirm that the Board conducted a formal tender of our external considers it has fully complied with the main audit provider.
Remuneration principles of the Code.
overseen by an internal panel, the Audit Details of payments made to Directors are set out on pages 53to 62 Committee recommended the appointment This review, together with the reports that of KPMG as the next external auditor.
It is the follow from each of the Nomination, Audit Boards intention to appoint KPMG after the and Remuneration Committees, provides an conclusion of the 2018 19 audit.
The Audit overview of our key governance activities and Committee has continued to focus on the practices during the period.
development of the internal audit strategy, with the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit, and key deliverables from the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS internal audit plan for the year.
During the The Board is mindful of the need for year, as part of their normal monitoring continuous review of its own effectiveness, in procedures, the Financial Reporting Council order to support the Group in its ambitions.
the FRC reviewed the Groups 2016 Annual Last years annual Board evaluation was Report and Accounts.
I am pleased to conducted by Independent Audit, a corporate report that no changes were required to our governance consultancy.
Progress made accounting policies, but we have enhanced during this year on the key points identified our disclosures in certain areas of our 2017 during last years evaluation to improve and Annual Report and Accounts.
Further details develop the efficiency of the Board are set are provided in the Audit Committee Report out on page 46.
This year the Board have on pages 50 to 52. conducted a self-assessment evaluation by means of a questionnaire and individual meetings between myself and each member Roger Devlin of the Board.
The outcomes of both were Chairman discussed in detail at our October Board 30 November 2017 meeting and the agreed actions arising are summarised on page 46.
Profiles of each Director, together with information on their 40 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
