Stakeholder engagement Strong stakeholder engagement We engage in constant two-way communication with a diverse group ofstakeholders who help us understand their needs, improve our services and deliver on our mission.
We engage in constant two-way communication with a diverse group Consumers Partners Talent ofstakeholders who help us understand their needs, improve WHO ARE THEY WHO ARE THEY WHO ARE THEY ZPGs services are relevant ZPG helps over 25,000 ZPG has over 850 employees our services and to all 28 million UK households business partners ranging who are working to help empower deliver on our mission.
across the property lifecycle from energy suppliers to estate people to make smarter property whether finding, moving agents and mortgage lenders.
WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT A hassle-free experience where The ability to win new Their company culture and they can find what they want as business via high quality leads, working environment and quickly as possible with the right reduce customer acquisition opportunities for personal level of data and transparency costs and increase overall and professional development.
to make an informed property business efficiency.
HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM Through our market-leading Through our best-in-class Regular engagement via their consumer facing platforms products and services tools line managers, our dedicated Zoopla, uSwitch, PrimeLocation, across marketing, software Employee Engagement Manager, Money, our consumer services and data, our partner services weekly HR drop-in sessions, teams, social media and teams, social media and surveys, Company Update focus groups.
meetings, and sport and social committees.
16 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Government & regulators Supply chain Local communities Investors & media WHO ARE THEY WHO ARE THEY WHO ARE THEY WHO ARE THEY ZPG works closely with ZPG works with a large number ZPG is active in the local ZPG has a broad range of government and regulators of suppliers providing a range of communities where its offices investors from institutional across both the property services across the business from are based.
shareholders to employees and comparison markets.
media planning and buying to and corporates.
catering for our daily snack time.
WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT WHAT DO THEY CARE ABOUT Increasing consumer Desire to deliver the best Having a mutually beneficial A clear and consistent engagement and boosting service, innovate and secure a relationship with a strong business strategy with visibility competition to make markets pipeline of work, with positive sense of community.
on execution, progress on the work more effectively and to payment terms.
integration of acquisitions, greater save consumers money off understanding of specific their household bills.
products, strong governance, and long-term value creation.
HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM HOW WE ENGAGE WITH THEM Regular engagement via Engagement from various teams Proactive engagement with Proactive engagement via dedicated Regulatory and across the business to deliver community representatives dedicated Communications Compliance team, submission on time and share the benefits and via an educational events and Investor Relations teams, responses and briefing meetings.
of success including positive programme with local residents.
investor meetings, corporate payment terms.
website, roadshows, product demos and independent third party feedback.
