Our people and corporate social responsibility Putting people at the heart of our business spaces like our Games Room and Cafe, home to our legendary barista, Bruno.
It is We are passionate about attracting, here that we provide daily breakfast and engaging, developing and retaining the 3.00pm snack time to encourage regular breaks and refuelling, as well as Friday night besttalent in the industry.
drinks, all of which are now also enjoyed by our regional offices.
We have also kitted out each regional office with similar spaces for rest and play, complete with sofas, pool or ping pong tables, dartboards and unlimited hot and cold drinks.
We reward and recognise excellence We have also substantially improved Improvements in talent communication in line with the growth  Our extensive and varied range of benefits of the business by introducing new monthly offers something for every lifestage and lifestyle We are passionate about attracting, engaging, Company updates, hosted by our CEO, here at ZPG.
We pride ourselves on offering developing and retaining the best talent in the which provide regular business and industry competitive salaries and market-leading industry.
During the year we have significantly performance updates.
In addition we have benefits, which we continually monitor, improved our talent attraction and recruitment invested in Peakon, a new employee survey review and evolve in response to industry through the appointment of a dedicated Head tool, to help us regularly measure our changes, benchmarking exercises and colleague of Talent, the launch of an improved careers employee net promoter score eNPS and feedback.
In addition to the traditional section on the ZPG website, including a Why key engagement drivers.
The first survey, offerings, like matched pension contributions, work at ZPG video, and the roll-out of a new using the new tool, saw significantly increased birthday day off, subsidised health insurance, end-to-end recruitment process which has participation rates compared to previous tools mental health support and season ticket been streamlined to save hiring managers time.
and highlighted that our eNPS currently loans, we offer some more creative benefits stands above the industry benchmark.
designed to relieve the stresses of everyday We believe in conversations life, such as a day off when moving home For us, communication means conversation.
Home-from-home offices and interest-free loans to help get a foot on With collaboration as one of our core values, the property ladder.
Recognition is important Following the relocation of all of our we are always open to feedback and seek to to us too, so we celebrate our ZPG Heroes London-based colleagues to our new provide as many opportunities for discussion twice a year by asking all colleagues to vote world-class office near Tower Bridge in as possible.
It is vital for us that everyone feels for the person they think personifies our values.
September 2016, we have invested in several they have a voice.
At the beginning of the improvements to our regional offices during year we recruited an Employee Engagement Opportunities to learn and grow 2017 to provide the same home-from-home Manager to formalise and lead our engagement feel for all of our colleagues.
Our London office Our colleagues share the same high level and internal communications strategy and was recently voted one of the Top ten coolest of ambition as our business and we take we now have an improved Glassdoor rating offices in the UK according to Glassdoor their development seriously by providing of 4.4 out of 5. and encourages creativity, collaboration and the tools and opportunities to help everyone socialising between teams, with plenty of reach their full potential at ZPG.
whiteboards, breakout areas and communal 42 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our Head of Learning & Development continues to create and deliver a broad range of in-house learning programmes to support the diverse needs of our colleagues, as well as the longer-term needs of our Our values business.
This enables us to nurture and Our shared values bind us together.
retain the talent already within our teams as well as set our business up for success in the future.
We offer more than 30 bespoke PASSIONATE COLLABORATIVE ZPG workshops, totalling more than 100 hours Taking pride in our work and vision Supporting each other as one team of learning per quarter.
These are open to all Our vision and passion drive the We support each other and work as a colleagues, regardless of tenure or location, decisions we make, the products we team to enable us all to achieve our offering the opportunity to learn new skills create and the services we offer.
and create cross-sell opportunities across departments.
In the last 12 months, more than 500 colleagues have received over AGILE ENTREPRENEURIAL 1,300 hours of learning through our in-house Moving fast and in a focused fashion Being creative and owning it workshops across multiple offices.
We make quick decisions to innovate We use our initiative, make decisions During the year we successfully became an and stay ahead of the competition.
and spend money like it is our own Institute of Leadership and Management ILM Weare focused and data driven.
centre, approved to deliver and award the Level 3 Diploma for Managers, alongside our accredited in-house leadership programmes.
We also recognise that some people prefer to self-learn, so we also offer the opportunity to access a wide range of online learning resources, including Lynda.
com and LinkedIn Learning, and unlimited access to Udemy, giving our colleagues access to over 60,000 courses.
We are committed to giving back anddoing the right thing Charity support This year colleagues voted for the charity they would like to partner with most and Cancer Research UK CRUK was chosen.
A regional network of Charity Champions was set up and as a result we have been able to provide countless opportunities for colleagues to support CRUK, from Payroll Giving and sporting events, to charity raffles and volunteering.
We operate a generous LAURA BULL ONE TEAM, ONE DREAM fund matching scheme, matching up to 500 per colleague per year for fundraising When it comes to our people, we are all Laura was soon promoted to B2B Marketing events in aid of CRUK, and up to 250 for about the bigger picture from spotting Executive a role that incorporates B2B any other charity.
We also encourage regular and developing talent, to supporting marketing and trade campaigns across several donations through Payroll Giving by matching individuals to land perfect-fit roles.
ZPG brands and relocated to ZPGs London up to 20 per month for donations to CRUK head offices.
Take the case of Laura Bull, who joined ZPG and up to 10 per month to any other charity.
In August 2017, Laura also completed brand TechnicWeb last year as a Project As a result, we have been awarded the Coordinator, responsible for managing a Certificate in Professional Marketing, Platinum Quality Mark by the Association delivery of estate agent websites.
which she says will stand her in good of Payroll Giving Organisations and have stead for her next move within the raised over 23,743 for CRUK so far through Lauras creativity and marketing prowess ZPG family.
Combined with the were soon spotted by her manager, who wide range of other fundraising activities suggested she join ZPGs marketing team I am in the job Im in now precisely we have raised a total so far this calendar on an initial one-day-a-week basis to help because of the exposure I was year of 58,453 and expect to raise a further promote the TechnicWeb brand.
given to ZPGs different brands 13,600 during the remaining months of 2017.
During her time there, Laura worked with andtheir strategies, she said.
This will give us a fundraising grand total of the Head of Trade Marketing and drew up Thebusiness has been incredibly 72,000 in our first years partnership with a personal development plan which would CRUK.
Total charitable contributions made supportive in my development.
pave the way into a full-time marketing role.
to all registered charities during the financial year was 63,887 2016: 39,529. www.
co. uk 43 Our people and corporate social responsibility continued Gender diversity 30 September 2017 % We are committed to giving back tech by providing toolkits to teach the teachers.
We are incredibly proud to be part of such anddoing the right thing continued Directors Total: 10 a significant project.
Diversity and inclusion We believe that all current and future 8 2 We passionately believe in improving colleagues should have fair and equal access mental wellbeing throughout the business Executive Management Team Total: 8 to all opportunities within ZPG, regardless and, following a successful trial partnership of their age, sexual orientation, parental with Mind, we plan to roll out a programme 7 1 responsibilities, disability, race, nationality, of mental health awareness training to all ethnic origin, membership of a trade union, All other colleagues Total: 864 people managers, which will include a religion, belief or gender and this is reflected learning lunch with experts from Google 528 335 throughout all of our employment policies this November as part of our twice-annual 1 and practices, including recruitment, selection, Wellness Week.
Male Female training, promotion, salary reviews and In relation to employee involvement, we Agender flexible working.
ZPGs equal opportunities undertake employee surveys twice a year.
policy is contained in our employee handbook The results are carefully analysed, reviewed which is available to all employees.
This sets and, where appropriate, actions are taken out that it is our policy to select the most Ethnic origin following discussions with our colleagues.
qualified person for each position within the We hold monthly Ask Alex sessions where organisation and it is our intent and resolve all employees can get answers to any specific Asian 28 to comply with the requirements and spirit work-related queries they might have.
We Black 21 of all laws in the implementation of all facets Mixed 19 also hold weekly Ask HR sessions where of equal opportunity.
This policy applies to all Other 3 colleagues can drop by at our surgeries Undisclosed 375 employment practices and personnel actions with members of the HR team to discuss White 436 including, but not limited to, recruitment, any personal matters, to talk about benefits, selection, training, promotion, pay rates, to answer questions or just to have a chat.
ZPG is a member of a new working group of businesses, which Supporting our local communities includes peers from Google, Microsoft, PwC, Oxfam and the Girl Guides, who have We recognise the importance of giving something back to our communities, united to promote Science, Technology, Nationality Engineering and Mathematics STEM and whether that is through supporting local businesses with regular custom in exchange women in tech to create more diversity in the industry and build a future talent pipeline.
for employee discounts, or through donating our time to helping others.
And we encourage The working group came together in both July and August this year for the first time to all colleagues to donate their valuable time EU 79 Non-EU 35 by giving them a day off every year to volunteer create a manifesto that will target schools in UK 665 the Governments social mobility cold for any charity of their choice, or do a good Undisclosed 103 deed for any non-profit organisation, like spots, celebrate successful women in tech as role models and work with schools across schools and hospitals.
It also covers donating blood.
the UK to educate pupils about working in Age 1620 5 2130 276 3140 347 4150 191 51 63 ZPGs 2017 Tough Mudder team 44 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report ALFIE TRAISH THE APPRENTICE Just as ZPG has grown from the fledgling business it was 10 years ago, we are keen for our people to grow with us too.
And in June this year, we employed our first ever apprentice Alfie Traish.
Alfie arrived at ZPG in September 2016 on a temporary contract to support IT in the office move to The Cooperage.
By the second time his temporary contract was extended, it had become clear that Alfie was a perfect fit for ZPG and he was invited to enrol in ZPGs brand new apprenticeship programme.
I had left college with GCSEs and wasnt sure what I wanted to do, said Alfie.
But Id loved my role at ZPG, as well as the people and the culture, so I was delighted to accept the offer.
Alfie is now part-way through a Level 3 Pathway IT Infrastructure Technician Apprenticeship.
It is a 12 to 18 month programme which covers everything from networking and architecture, to cloud services and coding, via virtual classroom lectures.
But some of the most valuable learning is on the job, said Alfie, now aged 20: LAURA WILKINSONS AGE UK INITIATIVE Being immersed in an IT During the year one of our colleagues, In addition to volunteering activities, our environment with an incredibly Laura Wilkinson, took the initiative and set dedicated uSwitch Community Engagement supportive team, meeting people up an in-house volunteering event in Manager provides free educational services every day and being tasked with partnership with Age UK.
With help from to community members in partnership with constantly improving users the charity, Laura arranged for a dozen elderly community centres, charities, councils, experience has given me a real local residents to come to our award-winning housing associations and MPs to promote sense of satisfaction.
office for the day where they were offered the benefits of switching energy providers practical and useful guidance on internet and shopping around to save money on a When asked what his apprenticeship safety, how to stay in touch online and how whole range of other household bills.
highlights have been so far, Alfie said: to compare service providers online and passing my first module with ease.
The Community Engagement Manager save money on their household bills.
And, having given his apprenticeship a attends several UK-wide events run by recommendation score of 10 10, it is likely various organisations and provides free Our guests were all greeted by a ZPG others will soon be following in his footsteps.
buddy and were given a guided tour information and the options available for getting a better deal on household costs.
of the office and the chance to make some new connections with one another over At the events the Community Engagement Manager provides energy saving tips, answers lunch and a game of bingo.
They thoroughly enjoyed the day and Laura and the rest of questions about the energy market and runs presentations about our comparison services, the volunteers received a personal thank you from Age UK.
We hope to replicate even providing one-to-one services to community members, ultimately empowering this event and host similar ones in all of our regional offices over the coming year.
them to make smarter decisions when it comes to managing their home.
co. uk 45 Our people and corporate social responsibility continued Health and safety Why does the gender pay gap exist?
We are committed to maintaining a safe workplace for our While were confident that men and women are paid equally for colleagues and ensuring they have the appropriate training and doing equivalent jobs across ZPG, the main reason for the gender working conditions to perform their work safely.
It is therefore our pay gap is that women are under-represented in technical and senior policy that all of our facilities, products and services comply with roles which are typically higher paid.
applicable laws and regulations governing safety and quality, in all Under-representation of women in technical and senior roles is material respects.
We offer fire warden and first aid training to all driven by a number of factors and to help remedy this more women colleagues who wish to support the business in this effort and need to be inspired by, and attracted to, STEM science, technology, perform weekly fire alarm tests and regular fire drills.
We currently engineering and maths subjects.
At ZPG we will continue to focus have two fully trained Display Screen Equipment Assessors within on developing a more diverse talent pipeline and promoting flexible the business, promoting positive ergonomic workstations that working practices.
comply with health and safety legislation, including the option for adjustable standing desks and ergonomic chairs.
What weve done so far Weve further analysed our data on a role-by-role basis and ZPG is committed to promoting diversity and inclusion concluded that there is no pay inequality.
However, it is clear that Gender pay reporting is a new statutory requirement which provides there is a greater proportion of males in the higher paid roles which a snapshot of the gender balance within an organisation by measuring is due both to the smaller proportion of senior women in the business the difference between the average earnings of all male and female and also as a result of the large number of highly paid technical and employees at all levels.
However, gender pay is not the same as digital roles which, historically, have been seen to be significantly equal pay.
ZPG carries out regular analysis of pay levels within the business and is Pay confident that men and women are paid the same for carrying out work We regularly monitor and carry out salary benchmarking across all of equal value.
However, the greater proportion of men than women in roles to ensure we pay equitable salaries irrespective of gender.
senior and technical roles has created a gender pay gap at ZPG.
Recruitment Although there is no quick fix to the gender pay gap, we dont believe Weve reviewed our recruitment practices and made targeted the gap is acceptable and weve already taken steps, as part of a wider changes which has resulted in the hiring of 30 females into digital plan, to start addressing the underlying issues causing the gender and technical roles in FY17 representing a third of these hires.
imbalance in technical and senior roles, as outlined below.
Education Gender pay gap analysis Weve set up internal training for our people managers, starting with lessons learned by market-leading peers, to ensure they fully understand the principles of diversity and inclusion and learn from Snapshot date 5 April 2017 their practices with the aim of making constant improvements.
Male Female Difference Leadership Gross hourly rate of pay Our Head of Talent has become an active member of the Women in Technology group renamed Tech She Can together we can change Mean 30.34 21.88 28% the ratio, a group of 16 well-known organisations which have recently Median 20.51 16.92 17% formed with the objectives of: generating a lasting increase in the number of girls and young Male Female Difference women pursuing technology careers: and Bonus pay sharing and developing best practice.
Mean 12,771.09 7,669.94 40% What were doing next Median 7,000.62 3,717.24 47% Flexible working Proportion of relevant We are reviewing all our various working arrangements and colleagues who received piloting new programmes in areas that are not offering flexible a bonus 84.10% 85.15% and part-time opportunities.
Male Female Difference Parental leave We have revisited our programmes and enhanced them, related Quartiles gross hourly rate of pay to length of service.
Our intention is to promote parental leave 0.00 to 14.49 49.25% 50.75% 3% and encourage and support returners after their parental absence.
14.50 to 21.56 56.72% 43.28% 24% Internal promotions 21.57 to 32.05 63.50% 36.00% 43% We are actively focused on internal hires to ensure we develop 32.06 to 261.54 78.50% 21.50% 73% and retain our talent and encourage career development and training which is targeted at all our colleagues.
We believe this will encourage women and minorities to develop their careers at ZPG in a Our approach to gender pay supportive environment.
ZPG believes that diversity, including gender diversity, enhances Mentoring programme business performance and is critical to the delivery of our mission.
We will be establishing a formal internal mentoring programme for all Weve outlined below why we believe the gap exists, what weve our colleagues, with a significant focus on women, to ensure they have done about it so far and what we are planning next to help tackle the support of role models to help them develop to their full potential.
46 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Environmental awareness Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act Average number of employees 2006 Strategic Report and Directors in the financial year We continue to support energy efficiency Report Regulations 2013 has required all throughout our business activities and 850 UK quoted companies to report on their remain conscious of mitigating any negative greenhouse gas emissions as part of their impact we may have on the environment.
Disclosure As a digital business, we naturally operate Scope 1: The Companys fleet of vehicles.
A report on our output of greenhouse without intensive production processes, Scope 2: The Companys electricity and gas useage.
gas emissions shows that, when compared use of packaging or the need to print out with other companies of a comparable size, substantial amounts of paper, a practice CO emissions tonnes CO e 2 2 the Companys activities produce a very low which we will continue to maintain.
A number impact on the environment.
The Companys 826 of sales colleagues are provided with company scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to cars to allow them to meet clients within 30 September 2017 are set out below.
designated geographies, but the majority of 2017 507 319 Scope 1 emissions relate to the Companys colleagues are office based.
Our company-wide fleet of vehicles, which are used by certain Bike-to-Work scheme offers our colleagues 2016 443 308 employees for business purposes.
Scope 2 the financial support and incentive to travel emissions relate to the Companys electricity to and from work in an environmentally friendly and gas usage.
This information is set out in way and we have doubled our secure cycle Emissions per employee tonnes CO e 2 the chart opposite.
We have measured our storage this year at The Cooperage as a result greenhouse gas emissions using emissions of increased demand.
0.97 factors from the UK Government Conversion We have recently established an Factors for Company Reporting.
The period 2017 0.6 0.38 Eco Committee, with members from all covered is that of the financial year to areas and working locations of the business.
Comparatives for 2016 2016 0.8 0.5 The Committee meets once a month to have been calculated on a consistent basis.
discuss environmental concerns and implement CO emissions include the impact of 2 Scope 1 improvements throughout the coming year acquisitions from the date of acquisition.
Scope 2 and hope to host quarterly inspirational talks In order to provide an intensity ratio for Source: UK Government conversion factors for with environmental experts.
our emissions disclosure, we have calculated company reporting.
our greenhouse gas emissions per employee.
We always consider the impact on the The Directors believe that the number of environment as part of the building design employees is the best indicator for a company and as a result have installed motion sensor of this size for the purposes of this disclosure.
lighting throughout including meeting The number of employees used is the average rooms, water-saving flush systems and number of full-time employees over the energy-efficient chiller units within our air measurement period.
conditioning system in our London office.
This strategic report was approved by Environment and greenhouse the Board of Directors and signed on gasemissions its behalf by: We continue to support energy efficiency throughout our business activities and remain conscious of mitigating any negative impact we may have on the environment.
As an online property portal and home services Alex Chesterman switching platform, we naturally operate Founder & CEO without intensive production processes, 28 November 2017 use of packaging or the need to print out substantial amounts of paper, a practice which we will continue to maintain.
A number of sales employees are provided with company cars to allow them to meet clients within designated geographies: however, the majority of employees are office based.
The Company also operates a Bike-to-Work scheme, which offers our employees an incentive to travel to and from work in an environmentally friendly way and our head office includes secure storage for over 50 bikes.
