Corporate Responsibility Employee engagement drives value for all stakeholders Genuine: heartfelt advice, delivered by people who care The importance of engagement Expert: skillfully facilitating important decisions It is widely recognised that an organisation whose employees are engaged with its purpose and culture will perform better Ambitious: making more of lifes opportunities than others, and create value for clients and shareholders.
During 2017, we focused attention on embedding these values This is because engaged employees feel a strong connection throughout the organisation.
In particular, they have become key with their employer and believe their work is important.
factors in our performance management and promotion This is certainly what we believe.
For us, engagement has a processes.
They have also provided the platform for the newly strong role to play in helping our people be as good as they launched Brewin Dolphin People Awards, in which employees possibly can be, and this underpins a superior business nominate colleagues for their exceptional qualities in these performance.
At Brewin Dolphin, our Human Resources HR three areas.
function and Corporate Responsibility CR activities are both The values also reflect Brewin Dolphins cultural desire to do recognised as powerful builders of engagement.
what is right, which is echoed in how we treat our clients, our employees and our communities.
In particular, they run through Our rising engagement score all our people processes, covering performance, talent and It is very important to us that we understand our engagement development, ensuring that how we do things is at least as performance.
In 2017, we commissioned an employee important as what we do.
engagement survey for the third successive year.
Once again, this is proving to be an active tool that helps us listen to our Driving diversity and inclusion people, understand what they want and focus on improvement.
Our ongoing commitment to Diversity and Inclusion D&I This years survey demonstrated that this approach is working.
continued during 2017, focusing on issues wider than gender It showed a rise in the Brewin Dolphin engagement score, and ethnicity to help us ensure that we attract the very best up by four percentage points pp on last years very strong talent we can find and enable all our people to perform to the result to 82%.
This is well ahead of the financial services best of their ability.
This approach enables Brewin Dolphins industry benchmark of 76%, and continues the year-on-year people to benefit our clients, our business and society as a improvement that weve seen since the surveys initial launch.
whole, as well as themselves.
Every office identifies local initiatives that can make a positive During the year, the D&I Committee was reinvigorated to impact on the workplace.
Taking the rich data the survey provides broaden the scope of the issues that we address.
Specific we also focus on a number of Group-wide work streams.
actions included joining the City of London Mental Health Satisfaction with internal communication, for example, rose by Alliance, a self-help group aiming to eliminate the stigma 14 pp, while that for learning and development rose by eight pp.
This is especially good to see, as these are the two key areas in We also started to work with the Outstanding LGBT business which HR can most directly improve employee engagement.
network, with employees participating in their mentoring These were not the biggest rises, however working with our programme as mentors and mentees.
colleagues across our Business Support function saw their overall In addition, we joined the Business Disability Forum, which aims to engagement score rise from 67% to 80% 13 pp.
The employee open up visibility around the issues of disability in the workplace.
participation rate in the 2017 engagement survey, meanwhile, was 88%.
This is an exceptional level of participation by any standards, All these organisations, and more, were identified as offering and we see it as an endorsement of the actions we have taken opportunities for interaction, as they gain from the contributions following past surveys.
of our people as much as we do from theirs.
Last year, we reported on the unconscious bias training initiative Culture and engagement we ran across the organisation.
In 2017, we took this a stage We continue to nurture and strengthen the elements of our further, addressing all our recruitment literature and selection culture that we believe will engage our people and drive the best processes to reduce unconscious bias and attract the broadest possible service for our clients.
From both an internal and external perspective, our brand During the year, we hired 208 new employees across the values are key features of our culture.
This is why in 2016 we organisation.
In seeking the best candidates, we are delighted involved employees, clients and prospective clients in identifying that more than half 53% of these hires have been female.
our three core values of: Brewin Dolphin 38 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Janet Barrett, winner in the CR category at the Brewin Dolphin People Awards, raised thousands of pounds by selling knitted chicks for a cancer charity.
For more information https: www.
co. uk The Women @ Brewin initiative that we announced last year We also continued the programmes mentioned in the 2016 has continued to grow in scale and positive impact.
These included the business apprenticeship programme our employees to meet and discuss career issues with we launched in 2016 in our Newcastle-upon-Tyne office.
This is successful female role models, both from our Board and from now fully embedded, and is operating on a six-month cycle.
High-profile external participants in the emerging talent programme also continued at the expanded programme during 2017 included Heather Hanbury, level we announced last year, with 30 graduates participating headmistress of the Lady Eleanor Holles School, and Ebru this time.
Kksal, a leading figure in global football.
Driving new efficiencies in HR Learning, development and talent Our new HR system was fully integrated during the year.
During 2017, we ran a wide range of internal and external It enables our people to find all HR-related materials, from initiatives designed to improve the skills and personal performance management data to holiday dates, more efficiently.
development of our employees, and to identify the best talent of We also introduced the use of LinkedIn to our recruitment the future.
In this way, we aim to attract and retain the best programmes, enabling us to develop direct relationships with people to achieve competitive advantage by delivering a candidates and drive down our spend with agencies.
Tax strategy Our internal development programmes addressed every level of the Group.
For example, we developed in-house a fully bespoke Our tax strategy, as published on our website, outlines our Executive Leadership Programme that aims to prepare those governance arrangements, our approach to tax risk and tax individuals identified with the appropriate talent to reach and planning, and how we interact with tax authorities.
We manage perform strongly at the highest levels of the organisation.
This tax risk within our Group wide risk management and governance year-long programme took into account our growth strategy framework where we operate an industry standard three lines of and aspirations, using the input of psychologists and one-todefence model.
As befits our operating structure and one feedback to ensure it matched our organisational needs as straightforward business model, our appetite for tax risk is low.
well as the personal requirements of the 13 participants.
While we are mindful to run our business in a cost effective At the other end of the scale, we also launched the Financial manner in line with our obligations to our shareholders, we do Planning Academy, a Government-approved apprentice not participate in aggressive tax planning or condone abusive scheme aiming to achieve social good as well as providing us tax practices which would contravene our ethics and culture.
with a sustainable pipeline of planning talent.
In this first year, 16 individuals from diverse backgrounds, aged 22 to 47, participated with the aim of becoming para-planners.
Encouragingly, half of these were female.
co. uk Corporate Responsibility continued We use legitimate tax reliefs for the purpose they were intended These include: and aim to pay the right amount of tax in the territories in which Volunteering Day: every employee is entitled to one paid day we operate.
We believe in fostering professional working each year to volunteer for a good cause in the community, relationships with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC and other either singly or as part of a team.
In the year 2016 17, our tax authorities and we work with industry bodies and HMRC people had volunteered for more than 3,000 hours.
With supporting initiatives to reduce complexity and unintended around 25% of employees participating, this is gathering commercial consequences in the development of tax legislation.
momentum from a standing start in 2015.
Looking ahead to 2020, our target is for 40% of employees to volunteer each Our Corporate Responsibility activities year for the cause of their choice.
This was an outstanding year for CR at Brewin Dolphin.
The further Payroll Giving: all of our employees get the chance to development of our strategy and twice-yearly updates to the Board contribute to charity directly from their pre-tax salary.
The have ensured that issues involving CR are of increasing importance numbers choosing to do so increased by a third this year.
to our people at every level of the organisation.
Brewin Dolphin matches donations by up to 20 every As a result, CR activities become more directly connected to month.
As a result of our peoples efforts, we received the our values, particularly the genuine aspect, which is government-supported Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold underpinned by the authenticity of our peoples commitment to Award for the second successive year.
Fundraising Matching: every employee can claim a 100 This growing importance is borne out by the findings of our donation from Brewin Dolphin for their chosen cause if they 2017 engagement survey.
Last year, we were delighted to be raise over 100, or 200 if they raise more than 1,000.
In shortlisted for a major national award on the strength of a 34% 2017, 170 employees collectively raised 136,000, with rise to 78% in the importance of CR to our people.
that score rose again to 85% a full 20 percentage points Small Grants: employees can nominate a small local charity ahead of the national benchmark for the financial for a grant of up to 1,000.
In the year 2016 17 over 20,000 services industry.
Significant progress has been made since 2015, which was Our offices have continued to be active in their communities when we commenced an intensified strategic focus on CR.
through sponsorship of events such as local literary and flower This has seen us bring together a number of previously festivals as well as charitable sporting events.
disparate corporate-level initiatives in an integrated fashion under the same management structure.
Children at one of our partnership events Brewin Dolphin 40 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information These initiatives are complemented by a number of key corporate We have also become the first business partner for the Winning partnerships with charities or non-profit social enterprises whose Scotland Foundation, an independent charity that uses the work is aligned with our purpose of creating access to inspiration of successful sportspeople to help children and young opportunity.
We have deliberately selected  people learn important life skills.
With a particular focus on the partners so that our input and financial support can make an growth mindset, it aims to create a generation of young people important positive difference to them.
who can achieve their personal best.
Our focus in this first year was on identifying where we can best support the charitys goals.
These partnerships are with Enabling Enterprise and Dress for Success Dublin, which promotes economic independence We are always keen to look for opportunities to work with young for women.
people across our wide network of offices, and this year we ran a series of day-long sessions on career preparation for sixth Preparing for the world of work form students from Gateshead.
We believe that providing work experience is a highly effective Environmental activities way of improving opportunities for young people, and this belief At Brewin Dolphin, our main environmental impacts are through drove much of our CR activity during the year.
largely UK-based travel and the consumption of resources and For example, we participated alongside other employers in the emissions at the buildings in our branch network.
We do all we Capital Experience initiative, run by the national Career Ready can to reduce any such impacts through sensible policies and charity which prepares young people for a life in work.
We ran initiatives including Green IT and recycling programmes.
Please networking and Q&A sessions for groups of participating school see page 72 for our full environmental statement.
students from across the UK, many of whom were visiting Supplier initiatives London for the first time.
Even though we are largely UK based, we are aware of the We further developed our Brewin Dolphin Career Workshops risks associated with a supply chain that crosses borders, during 2017, in which 18 school students aged 16 18 joined potentially into nations where employee rights do not match our us for a week-long programme designed to help them own standards.
We take our responsibilities very seriously in this experience the reality of office life.
This included a series of area and are taking those actions necessary to understand our seminars and presentations on areas ranging from marketing supply-chain and carry out any required remedial activities to HR.
Participants included pupils from an inner-city school in that we identify.
London, as well as several young people who applied via the Brewin Dolphin website.
Skills, experience and aspirations for success Our national partnership with Enabling Enterprise has developed further this year.
We have hosted students taking part in their school A fantastic Enabling Enterprise day, when the children programmes at a growing number of offices, including those in thoroughly enjoyed using their problem-solving skills to trade Nottingham, Leeds, Birmingham, Manchester and London.
All of the children shared ideas effectively Over the course of the year, 375 students worked with over 50 and demonstrated great teamwork skills throughout the day.
Teacher, Gilbertstone Primary School Enabling Enterprises vision is that one day every student will A great day!
The children were fantastic: they had such good leave school equipped with the skills, workplace experience questions and worked really well in their teams to achieve a and aspirations they need to succeed.
From a single great outcome for their client.
classroom in 2009, Enabling Enterprise now works with over Volunteer, Brewin Dolphin 85,000 students each year and provides training and support I have enjoyed learning about the stock market something to more than 3,400 teachers.
we have never done before.
One school, Gilbertstone Primary in Yardley, Birmingham is Student, Gilbertstone Primary School starting its fourth year of working with Enabling Enterprise.
In June 2017, 20 Year 5 students visited Brewin Dolphins office in the city as part of their Enabling Enterprise programme.
