Corporate social responsibility BRANDS PE OPLE TRUST Food sourcing At Mitchells & Butlers we understand that our priority is to procure quality products, at a competitive price, in guaranteed quantities.
We want to make sure that our guests can make a dish selection which is right for them, whatever the occasion.
An important part of this process is that our guests trust us to be honest about what is in our food so that they are able to make an informed choice and we aim to make this information as clear as possible.
We also have a responsibility to our guests to ensure that the food we source has been produced in a sustainable and ethical manner, taking due regard for high standards of animal welfare.
Our Sourcing Policy has been developed to ensure that the procurement of all meat, poultry and finfish used within our business is carried out in accordance with the Companys ethical standards that operate across all our brands.
Working closely with our suppliers, we aim to optimise welfare standards to meet business needs and satisfy guest requirements.
Guest insight research that we conducted, highlighted key areas that matter to our guests in terms of animal welfare, environmental impact F OOD AND DRINK and social equity.
Our sourcing policy sets out to address these issues and confirms our intention to achieve the optimal standards possible The food and drink we serve for each of our brands.
Led by a cross-functional team, reporting directly As one of the largest managed pub and restaurant operators in the UK, to the Executive Committee, the sourcing policy continues to evolve and serving millions of meals and drinks every year, our guests trust us to is reviewed on a regular basis, to incorporate any changes in legislation, serve great food, at the right price which is safely prepared and cooked: procurement policies or business needs.
and to serve alcohol responsibly.
Our key achievements in FY 2017: We procured 100% shell-on eggs produced from free range hens, We procure 100% shell-on eggs produced from free range hens, achieving this status six months ahead of our original target.
The achieving this status six months ahead of our original target.
business received a Compassion in World Farming CIWF award in recognition of the Companys commitment to the welfare of laying We are a member of a Leadership Group of companies preparing hens, by sourcing cage-free birds.
a Code of Conduct for sugar reduction in the out of home sector.
The Mitchells & Butlers Antibiotics Policy has been agreed, outlining M&B named Food Service Operator of the year at the British our objectives concerning the use of antibiotics in livestock production.
Poultry Awards for the fourth consecutive year.
Our sourcing policy has been integrated within the Company In January 2017 Browns restaurants began serving guests with Technical Guide for Food Suppliers, recognising the importance 100% British Red Tractor Farm Assured beef, produced through of animal welfare within our food production standards.
their very own Browns Integrated Beef Supply programme.
A cross-functional working party has been established to collate data Were a major funder of the Drinkaware Trust.
from suppliers regarding the current status of the welfare standards in We operate a Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses across operation for farmed fish, wild caught fish and crustaceans purchased England and Wales: and a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish for use within the Mitchells & Butlers estate.
In January 2017, 25 Browns restaurants began serving guests with 100% British Red Tractor Farm Assured beef, produced through their own Browns Integrated Beef Supply programme.
In recognition of the great quality beef produced from this scheme, Browns won both a Silver and Bronze award at the World Steak Challenge 2017.
More details on our food sourcing policy can be found at www.
com responsibility goodfood 30 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 Nutrition Allergens We continue to look for the most effective way to present nutritional We are committed to ensuring that customers who suffer from allergies information to our guests across our portfolio of brands.
By using our are provided with the information they need to make an informed choice guest insight to understand better our guests preferences and priorities, about the suitability of the food we serve for their own circumstances.
we can develop our nutritional messaging to ensure it remains effective.
We have improved the format of the allergen information provided on We believe our focus should be on communicating ingredients, healthy our websites and included filters so that customers can see the dishes cooking techniques, the freshness of our food and providing healthier that do not contain an allergen as an ingredient.
We continually review options to enable our guests to make an informed choice when eating our service cycle and retail staff training on allergens to improve the with us.
We publish the nutritional information for our menus on our websites Salt for All Bar One, Ember Inns, Harvester, Premium Country Pubs, Toby Over two years ago our brands replaced standard salt used in salt Carvery, Suburban Pubs and Vintage Inns.
For example, this year we shakers on the tables in restaurants and to season food back of house, launched specific menus in All Bar One for Veganuary and Browns with a mineral salt containing 15% less sodium than standard salt and has developed a special gluten free menu.
which is high in magnesium, thereby delivering on our commitment to the Government Responsibility Deal pledge to support and enable Nutritional information is provided as a guide and values are calculated consumers to reduce their dietary salt intake.
using detailed recipes that include weights and measures, manufacturers nutrition data and laboratory data where required.
Sugar We continue to actively engage with Public Health England and our We have invested significantly in technical processes and systems to trade association, the British Hospitality Association, to determine the incorporate the requirements of Regulation EU No.
1169 2011 on the best way to meet the objectives of the UK Governments Childhood provision of food information to consumers.
We follow both regulatory Obesity Strategy within our sector.
and best practice advice, to ensure the information is as accurate as possible and helps our guests make the most informed choice to suit their dietary needs and preferences.
It is now a mandatory requirement for all suppliers to Mitchells & Butlers to provide nutritional information for every food product, and to follow Company policy on the provision of accurate nutrition data.
This enables our chefs to have the detail required to design and improve dishes that meet the specific nutritional requirements of our guests.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 31 Corporate social responsibility continued Signposting healthier options In addition, this year we have committed to Public Health Englands In partnership with Campden BRI, a food and drinks research service, Sugar Reduction Programme for our family brands Harvester, Toby we developed a guide to help position our brands as leaders in the Carvery, Sizzling Pubs and Stonehouse.
We are focusing on reducing industry for healthier options and to enable guest communication sugar in some of our higher sugar desserts through dish reformulation.
that is on trend, truthful, substantiated and legally compliant.
We continue to support and enable our customers to eat and drink fewer calories through product and menu reformulation, reviewing portion This best practice guide translates the regulations and relevant codes sizes, education and information.
of practice into user-friendly language to support the development and communication of commercially viable healthier options that comply Childrens menus with all relevant regulations and do not mislead the guest.
In response to the growing concern over childhood obesity, we developed our own Childrens Food Standards that were implemented Several of our brands have increased their range of healthier options, across all brands from Spring 2016.
We continue to optimise our and supported these with nutrition and health information, to make childrens offer and update the standards with new Public Health them easily identifiable to the health-conscious guest.
Examples include: Guidance following the Governments Childhood Obesity Plan.
Toby Carverys signposting of a range of menu options which are low in saturated fat and contain 500 calories or fewer: and All Bar Ones range The standards incorporate best practice and recommendations from of calorie controlled options, with the energy content published on the leading health charities such as The Soil Association and have been menu copy, whilst dishes high in protein, omega-3 and lighter options developed in consultation with the School Food Standards, Government are also signposted.
Buying Standards and established dietary recommendations for children.
Responsibility Deal partnership Food safety We are committed partners of the Governments Responsibility Deal, We place great importance on the Food Hygiene Ratings Scores of our and remain focused on delivering our pledges relating to artificial pubs, bars and restaurants and we have made a commitment to increase trans fats and salt reduction, which is now under the remit of Public the number of our businesses that achieve a 4 or 5-star Food Hygiene Health England.
Rating, taking a zero-tolerance approach to anything below.
It is pleasing that at the year end, 97.5% of our sites were rated either good or very good for food hygiene, a higher proportion than any other national pub company.
32 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 Mitchells & Butlers is fully engaged with the Food Standards Agency and supports the Regulating Our Future initiative.
The Companys Head of Safety has been appointed to the Expert Advisory Panel Industry for the Food Standards Agency as part of this project and is assisting the agency as it develops a future model for Food Safety Enforcement in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
The Companys Head of Safety also chairs the British Hospitality Association BHA Food Group and earlier this year was instrumental in the publication by the BHA of the Industry Guide to Good Hygiene Practice.
The Company supports the development of the BHA Assured Catering Scheme and wishes to see a robust, fair and sustainably funded scheme that informs Food Hygiene Ratings standards.
Food Crime The Company is aware of the risks from food crime and is working on a research project with Birmingham University on the use of technology NIR Spectroscopy to screen products for authenticity.
Serving alcohol responsibly PE OPLE The responsible operation of our pubs and restaurants is central to the culture of our business.
Our Alcohol & Social Responsibility Policy has Working with us now been in place for over a decade, and lays down best practice about serving alcohol responsibly in England and Wales, and Scotland Over 14,820 employees have received an award recognising their including team training, responsible pricing and promotions.
Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses In FY 2017 a further 1,300 young people have joined our business across England and Wales and a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish on hospitality apprenticeships.
The policy requires that any guest attempting to buy alcohol We launched our Chefs Academy, the Companys primary who appears under the age of 21, must provide an acceptable form of apprenticeship route to grow team member culinary capability.
proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18, before they can be served.
This policy forms part of our regular training for our employees on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.
As one of the largest managed restaurant companies in the UK with over 100 years experience, we have a huge range of career opportunities This highly responsible approach has resulted in our businesses winning on offer.
Through our people strategy we strive to attract, develop and a number of Best Bar None awards.
These awards are supported by the retain the best talent.
Everything we do as a business is built on the Home Office and aim to promote responsible management and enthusiasm and professionalism of our people.
operation of alcohol licensed premises.
Listening to our people Were a major funder of Drinkaware Trust.
The Trusts aim is to promote Every year we carry out our employee engagement survey, Your Say, responsible drinking by finding innovative ways to challenge the national to understand better what is important to our employees.
In turn, this helps reduce alcohol misuse and minimise in FY 2017 our engagement scores improved for all groups of employees.
People told us they could see their colleagues living the PRIDE Passion, Respect, Innovation, Drive and Engagement values maintaining an upward trajectory in this area since 2015.
Our colleagues also told us that they value the flexibility that working for Mitchells & Butlers brings and that they loved being part of a team.
Following the survey employees in each business or department create an action plan specific to their engagement scores.
Diversity We are committed to providing equal opportunities for all of our employees.
Our employee Diversity Policy ensures that every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
The policy confirms that there will be no direct or indirect discrimination in respect of age, disability, religious belief, gender, sexual orientation, race, colour, marital status, political belief and nationality, or any other category defined by law in all aspects of employment including recruitment, promotion, and opportunities for training, pay and benefits.
The following table sets out our diversity balance as between men and women at the end of FY 2017.
Men Women Directors 10 1 Other senior managers 35 12 All employees 22,452 23,961 Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 33 Corporate social responsibility continued Rewarding and recognising our people We acknowledge the importance of rewards and how important these tools are in recognising the hard work and dedication of our people.
Pickaperk, our benefits platform, continues to be popular with our employees, with a spend on discounted goods of 1.6m in FY 2017, an increase of 300k from the previous year.
Many of our employees continue to enjoy the Dine with Us programme, where they can access their employee discount digitally when they eat in one of our businesses.
Discount remains at 33% for the employee and up to five of their guests.
Over 14,820 employees have received an award recognising their service to the business.
Awards are made to employees for achieving service milestones between one year and 45 years.
Around a further 5,230 have been recognised across the year with specific, ad hoc acknowledgements for their contribution for a job well done.
Nurturing and developing young talent In 2017, we have continued to evolve our youth attraction strategy which aims to increase the quantity of young people of 16 and over joining the C OMMUNITIES business.
We are achieving this through our partnership with Believe in Young People by recruiting young people for our work experience Local and national fundraising initiatives opportunities and working with HeadStart in local communities as part Over 7,700 meals donated to military personnel on Armed of their programme to drive social integration and youth employability.
These activities are enabling us to position Mitchells & Butlers as a credible, potential employer to a younger audience.
Raised over 10,000 for Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
Our apprenticeships Nicholsons pubs partnered with the RNLI Water Safety Campaign.
We are proud to offer apprenticeships nationwide in all our managed pubs and restaurants.
We have developed a series of learning pathways, We are committed to being a good neighbour and a responsible which mean our apprentices can gain a nationally recognised contributor to society, locally and nationally, by supporting our qualification, transferable career skills and on the job training.
Hospitality communities with both our time and expertise.
We support our is one of the few industries where you can very quickly progress from employees and businesses across a spectrum of charitable activity and an apprenticeship into a position of management, therefore helping fundraising, enabling us to build strong relationships with our guests, us develop a talent pipeline and growing our apprenticeship scheme our colleagues and our neighbours while giving back to the communities to support our business today and for years to come.
To support our strategy internally, in FY 2017 Mitchells & Butlers Employee donations programme launched Chefs Academy, the business primary apprenticeship route The employee donations programme helps individual Mitchells & to grow team member culinary capability: 117 learners were attracted in Butlers employees and retired employees support a personal charity the first year of which 50% will move into next level roles.
We are already event or challenge of their choice.
This year we have donated around looking forward to recruitment for next year, with 180 new learners 12,000 through this initiative, to a large number of local and national already committed to the programme.
The growth of this programme causes including Cancer Research UK, Great Ormond Street Hospital, will ensure that kitchen employees at Mitchells & Butlers have an Sheffield Mind, Parkinsons UK, MS UK and many more.
apprenticeship opportunity that can help elevate them to future Head Chef roles and provide the business with confidence in our highly Payroll Giving capable food workforce.
We have re-launched our Payroll Giving programme with a new provider, which enables employees to donate to their chosen charity In addition, a further 1,300 young people have joined our business direct from their pay.
The Company has committed to paying the on hospitality apprenticeships this year and over 750 of our current administration fee to process each employees donation, so each charity employees have enrolled onto one of the apprenticeship opportunities gets the benefit of the full donation amount.
Employees receive tax relief open to them.
We are also delighted to see over 460 employees on the donation.
successfully complete their first apprenticeship in 2017.
M&B now has c. 1,600 active apprentices within the organisation and, whilst this Supporting Marie Curie Care represents significant progress, we are aspiring to add a further 2,500 Once again, businesses across our Nicholsons, Vintage Inns, Toby apprenticeship starters in 2018.
Carvery and Ember Inns brands worked together to support the Marie Curie Great Daffodil Appeal during March.
The restaurants and pubs M&B now offer apprenticeship opportunities from Level 2 through sold the famous daffodil pins and raised more than 6,000 for the charity.
to Level 5, which allows a 16-year-old school leaver to join us on an intermediate apprenticeship and progress through a range of Big hearted brands, proud to serve those who serve qualifications culminating in a BA Hons degree.
We understand that We have continued to raise funds for Cancer Research UK.
Up and there is not one learning pathway which fits all and therefore we are down the country our teams have been busy holding fundraising events, confident that we offer a true alternative to a traditional academic route: all of which have helped to raise over 26,000 for the charity this year.
and that we have the building blocks in place to help produce our Vintage Inns are delighted to have joined forces with the NSPCC this business leaders of the future.
year and are supporting the charity through special discounts for its supporters and taking part in the Go Green for Halloween initiative.
34 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | Annual report and accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 43 GOVERNANCE 44TO87 FINANCIALSTATEMENTS 88TO139 OTHERINFORMATION 140TO144 In June, Toby Carvery showed their support for the armed forces by Energy champions offering all military personnel a free carvery meal on Armed Forces Day.
We have dedicated energy champions in every district, who drive The offer was open to all military personnel, from serving troops and down consumption through proactive energy management from within reserves to veterans and cadets and around 7,700 meals were donated our businesses.
by Toby Carvery teams across the country.
Lighting This summer the RNLI and Nicholsons pubs joined forces to promote the Our whole estate is fitted with energy efficient lighting.
This has helped charitys Respect the Water campaign.
Across their 78 sites, Nicholsons us to make considerable savings on energy consumption as well as helped to spread the safety messages as well as donating money to the improving lighting levels for our guests.
RNLI during the brands Fish Festival.
Nicholsons developed a limitedInnovative energy equipment edition fish menu just for the partnership with 50p from every dish sold Smart meters are installed in almost all our businesses, along with heat being donated to the RNLI.
recovery units which have been fitted in a number of our cellars.
This has All Bar One has been working with Shelter since 2016 to help support not only allowed the recovery of heat, but also reduced maintenance costs the charitys work with millions of people every year struggling with by allowing other equipment in the cellars to operate in cooler conditions.
bad housing or homelessness through their advice, support and legal We also use free cellar air cooling systems, which draw in cool air from services.
All Bar One supported Shelter with donations at Christmas outside when temperatures drop below 8C and turn off the traditional donating 50p from every limited-edition festive dish sold, as well as other cellar cooling process, saving a huge amount of energy every day.
in-bar activity during the year, such as donations from breakfast items Many of our kitchens use technology to control our extract and air sold.
This has resulted in 20,000 being raised for Shelter so far.
supply fans to ensure that they always run at the lowest speed to Once again, we supported the Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal minimise energy usage.
We have added smart heating controls to selling thousands of poppies to raise funds for thousands of serving and compatible sites that allow for better time and temperature control of ex-Service people.
Toby Carvery has also made the Royal British Legion our businesses, demonstrating how the reduction of our consumption its official charity partner for 2017-2018. of energy is now a fundamental part of our everyday business.
Support for Birmingham Childrens Hospital Waste management The Company continues to support a local charity, close to many We continue to drive successfully our waste disposal strategy, focused colleagues hearts, Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
Over the past two on reducing, re-using and effectively recycling the waste generated by years the Retail Support Centre Social Committee has organised a series our restaurants and pubs.
This captures recycling cardboard, glass, food of fundraising events for Birmingham Childrens Hospital including and cooking oil.
We are currently trialling the use of Too Good to Go sponsoring a bear as part of the Midlands wide Big Sleuth fundraising an initiative where surplus food, normally thrown away by one of our activity which saw over 100 bear sculptures in the citys streets, parks kitchens, is sold at a discounted rate to ensure it is not wasted.
Money has also been raised through a sky dive, a mud We also use other simple but effective products to reduce the volume run, abseils, leg waxing, and cake sales.
Over the course of FY 2017 of water used in our toilets such as Hippo Bags.
M&B has so far raised over 15,000 and we are looking forward to starting our third year of fundraising for this cause.
Our environment Energy efficient lighting in every pub and restaurant.
We recycle our cardboard, glass, plastic and aluminium waste.
A network of dedicated energy champions across the business.
As a business we successfully manage our energy, waste and water in a way which is cost effective to the business and reduces our impact on the environment.
Annual report and accounts 2017 | Mitchells & Butlers plc | 35
