Strategic report Sustainability report Delivering sustainable benefits Victrexs sustainability strategy builds on the competitive advantage and performance benefits we deliver to our customers and our markets, for example in helping reduce CO 2 in transport through lighter and more durable materials.
Our 2023 Vision with long-term targets is largely on track, with several interim targets already delivered.
Victrex continues to focus on three key areas: sustainable solutions, resource efficiency and social responsibility.
Introduction from the Chief Executive JakobSigurdsson In the three years since we introduced our sustainability strategy and2023 Vision, Victrex has made continued progress.
I am pleased to report that we have now completed several of our interim targets, whilst one of our long-term targets in the sustainable solutions area isclose to being surpassed.
Consequently, we have actually increased the target from 9 million patients implanted with PEEK-OPTIMA to12 million, underlining our long-term confidence.
Whilst we will continue to assess the practicality of our long-term targets, I am confident that we remain on the right path, and that we are delivering real sustainable benefits to our customers and markets, toour business, and to the communities where we operate.
Our sustainable solutions area also sees a new interim target in Automotive, to increase the level of PEEK polymers in cars from anaverage of 8 grams today, to 12 grams in the next three to fiveyears.
Across our resource efficiency area, our focus on CO 2 reduction continues to see steady improvement.
We also delivered New 2023 target for patients with a500-tonne reduction in water and hazardous waste per unit of PEEK-OPTIMA implanted globally revenue improved, whilst in social responsibility, our activities in thecommunity, and to support the next generation ofscientists andengineers, show progress.
Our target to have over75% of 12 million employees engaged and active on sustainability by 2023 has beenrevised down to 50%, largely reflecting realistic timing.
Nevertheless, with continuous improvement and cost efficiency atthe forefront of our business, we have a great opportunity to further improve our sustainability record over thecoming years.
With our Polymer & Parts strategy focused on moving further downstream to supply semi-finished products and components beyond manufacturing polymers we have an opportunity to deliver further benefits to our customers and markets.
Whether itbein Aerospace, where the current commercial airline fleet is expected to double by 2035: in Automotive, where durability, electrification and lightweighting are key themes: or in Medical, where our polymers are delivering real performance benefits to patients, sustainability remains integral to our strategy and long-term success.
Jakob Sigurdsson Chief Executive Officer 5 December 2017 28 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Our sustainability goals Victrex is committed to creating and delivering sustainable benefits and solutions to our customers and our markets, alongside maximising our resource efficiency across our global footprint.
Sustainable Resource Social solutions efficiency responsibility Vision: Vision: Vision: Develop and deliver sustainable polymer Maximise resource efficiency across Inspire the next generation by supporting solutions that provide clear social and thevalue chain science, technology, engineering and environmental benefits to society maths education STEM 2023 target: 2023 target: 2023 target: Save more CO than we produce 50% reduction in CO per revenue 10,000 employee hours cumulative u u u 2 2 carbonneutral supporting community activity 50% reduction in waste u by2023 5 million-tonne reduction of CO perrevenue u 2 inAerospace and Automotive 1,000 young people reached u through education activities Target 12 million patients with u PEEK-OPTIMA implanted globally 50% of employees engaged u target enhanced from current onsustainability 9million Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Our 2023 Vision: interim targets Metric: Metric: Metric: CO savings Reduction in energy and waste Employee involvement in the community u u u 2 Scale of patient benefits Tonnes CO per revenue Number of young people worked with u u u 2 Interim targets: Interim targets: Interim targets: COMPLETED COMPLETED COMPLETED u Independently review method of u Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 to u Employee network in place to support measuring CO savings in Transport identify their climate change impact and community STEM education activities in 2 improvement plans the UK by end of FY 2015 and globally u Extend PEEK-OPTIMA further intonew byend of FY 2016 andexisting spinal therapeutic areas u Establish an R&D programme by FY 2015 toidentify process yield improvements u Victrex Catalyst Science Education u Extend PEEK-OPTIMA intonew and waste reduction opportunities Centre project fully up and running therapeutic areas byend of FY 2015 u Engage with key suppliers by FY 2016 toidentify their waste impact and u Employee engagement insustainability improvement plans assessed inFY 2015s employee survey, with results benchmarked against peer companies TO DO TO DO TO DO Extend Invibio Biomaterial Solutions into Establish a long-term energy Continue to support Fleetwood High u u u emerging geographies efficiencyplan School to achieve improved STEM academic results ENHANCED TARGETS ENHANCED TARGETS u Increase volume of PEEK in cars from u Establish long-term resource 8 grams to 12 grams over the medium efficiencyplan with raw material term, supporting lighter vehicles and supplychain CO savings 2 Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 29 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Doing business the right way GlobalCode of Conduct Acting ethically and responsibly is not only the right thing to do, Acting ethically butalso the right thing to do for our business, helping us to Victrex is a signatoryof the Prompt maintain our competitive advantage.
The Global Code of Conduct, Payment Code for suppliers.
further details of which can be found in the corporate governance section starting on page 41 and on our website, is a fundamental guide toupholding our good reputation as a business and one that can betrusted by our employees, customers, suppliers, partners, investors and all other stakeholder groups with whom we engage.
Our success as a business rests on maintaining this trust and ensuring that we are a company that upholds the highest standardsof integrity.
We have a zero tolerance approach to behaviour thatbreaches our Code ofConduct.
Our three principles of ethical business conductare: We are honest, transparent We respect the privacy We investigate reports and trustworthy in all our ofindividuals and other ofpotential breaches 1 dealings, both within Victrex 2 organisations with 3 oftheCodeof Conduct.
and in all our external whomwework.
Performance reviews from  Pages 18 to 21 30 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Sustainable solutions Our sustainable solutions area focuses on products and services which help shape future performance for our customers and markets, by providing sustainable environmental and social benefits.
implants since we started supplying materials into the Medical Shaping future performance market in the late 1990s.
This brings us close to our 9million target Beyond lightweighting and durability benefits, our PEEK and PAEK ahead of schedule and, consequently, we have increased ourtarget polymers continue to offer reduced cycle times with the potential to 12 million.
for quicker manufacturing, as well as the associated properties that make our polymers one of the highest performing materials available.
In Transport markets, our PEEK Gears programme has moved forward Our customers continue to specify our polymers in many of their this year, with a supply agreement to a major European Automotive applications, whether it be in Aerospace to fly lighter, in Automotive manufacturer commencing in 2018.
With an average PEEK Gear to reduce wear and improve durability, in Electronics to deliver application at more than 20 grams, our new interim target of thinner, smaller and smarter devices, in Energy to improve increasing the average PEEK content in cars from 8 grams to 12 grams durability and recover more, or in Medical applications to help in 35 years looks possible.
Our polymers are up to 60% lighter than address an ageing global population.
The demands on material metals and offer genuine CO saving opportunities and performance 2 performance across our markets remain strong.
Achieving higher benefits inthe case of Gears, lower noise vibration.
In addition to performance with less continues to be important, less material, Gears, Victrex also has an emerging opportunity in electric vehicles, lessenergy, less waste, less noise, less time and less cost.
This requires thanks tothe heat resistance and insulating properties of our polymers.
innovation in developing solutions for our customers and markets.
InAerospace, with the global commercial airline fleet set to double by2035, weight savings and hence CO reduction and faster As we move further downstream beyond manufacturing polymers 2 manufacturing cycle times provide a strong proposition to the into selected semi-finished products, our inherent innovation aerospace industry.
Our next-generation Loaded Brackets, using a capabilities offer us the potential to deliver further performance unique hybrid moulding process, have many potential application uses.
andsustainability benefits for our customers and markets.
Emerging areas of opportunity include renewable energy, including We are already moving close to becoming carbon neutral through nuclear, and 3D printing.
the CO savings our polymers deliver, offsetting the CO produced in 2 2 Our sustainable solutions continue to provide a strong performance our manufacturing operations, following on from our independent proposition across our markets.
review of the methods of measuring CO savings.
During the year, 2 we had verification of 9 million patients with PEEK-OPTIMA Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 31 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Sustainable solutions continued Focus: Automotive the huge potential for reductions in CO 2 In one of Victrexs largest markets, every single contribution to and, after successful durability testing, other projects could cutting CO emissions counts.
For the automotive industry, this is potentially move forward towards production.
2 more relevant than ever since the underlying technology is right in Victrexs investment in driving the adoption in the automotive the middle of a paradigm shift from internal combustion engines industry has a set aim: partnering with an increasing number of to hybrid and fully electric vehicles.
Companies along the entire customers to develop high precision gear solutions that contribute supply chain are looking for enhancements to engine and vehicle to environmental targets and increase the amount of PEEK used in design that could, potentially, result in reducing the carbon cars.
With an average of 8 grams of PEEK today per car, a typical footprint further.
engine gear solution, which could have over 20 grams per application, Victrex already has a strong history supplying the automotive offers huge potential for continued CO reduction.
Considering 2 industry and is well placed across existing internal combustion that more than 90 million vehicles, including passenger cars, 1 engine `ICE platforms and new platforms for electric vehicles weresold worldwide in 2016 according to the International 2 `EVs.
Our materials, which can help to save weight compared Organisation of Motor Vehicle Manufacturers `OICA this global tometals, aswell as durability and other benefits, are used in ABS perspective on CO emissions is what really counts: no matter 2 braking systems, transmission and a number of other applications.
how small the application, it can have big implications.
In Gears, one of Victrexs emerging application areas, alongside Two other facts further support and magnify the importance the opportunities in electric vehicles and `e-motors, our differentiated ofVictrex gear technology.
First, between 2005 and 2016, gears capabilities span from design and engineering to gear worldwide sales of passenger cars steadily increased from system testing, manufacturing and quality control.
PEEK based 3 45to69 million per year.
Second, an additional environmental precision gears are expected to contribute more and more to benefit comes from the different processes used in the environmental goals over the coming years.
Whereas traditional metal parts require Gear designs based on the VICTREX HPG high performance additional processing, incurring additional production costs, the gear product family can reliably function in harsh environments manufacture of gears, specifically designed for the application and contribute to gain competitive advantages.
In contrast to from high performance PEEK polymer, enables cost-efficient metal gears, they can be up to 70% lighter in weight, and the injection-moulding processes, and therefore less energy, resulting moment of inertia can be reduced by up to 80%.
This translates in lower production costs.
Alongside existing automotive into improved responsiveness and consequently lower power applications and the future potential from e-motors, Victrex gear consumption, which in turn contributes to lower CO emissions.
technology could prove to be a winning and sustainable solution 2 At the same time, a 50% 3 decibel reduction in noise, vibration for the automotive industry over the coming years.
and harshness can also be achieved.
Now, just two years after the acquisition of gears specialist Kleiss 2 OICA, Organisation Internationale des Constructeurs dAutomobiles, Gears, the Victrex development pipeline is already filled with www.
An initial production agreement with a major European car manufacturer will commence in 2018 3 www.
32 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Resource efficiency Our performance in how we are managing and measuring our resource efficiency is shown in our 2023 Vision on page 29.
Resource efficiency Compliance Whilst our sustainability credentials are strong, through lighter Proactively staying well ahead of environmental standards is part materials which can support CO savings, we have an impact on the ofVictrexs philosophy across our operations.
2 environment through the resources that we use to make our products Our manufacturing plants are regulated under Environmental and the processes that we operate.
This is where resource efficiency Permitting Regulations and, as such, are subject to close regulatory comes in.
We focus on controlling these impacts and, as wegrow, review by the UK Environment Agency EA.
We carry out extensive arecommitted to continual improvement.
Our priorities remain the routine environmental monitoring to proactively make sure our efficient use of energy and waste minimisation and we are proactively plants are well controlled.
When we design and build new plants delivering continual improvement to address these areas.
wework closely with the EA to make sure that the best For example, this year a development programme has successfully availabletechniques to protect the environment are adopted.
focused on waste reduction in our raw material manufacturing We recorded two environmental notifiable events during the year.
The amount of water used in one step of the process was Atour Hillhouse manufacturing plant in the UK, during routine successfully reduced by 10% resulting in annual savings of over environmental monitoring, we detected an instance when the 500tonnes of water and an equivalent reduction in hazardous waste, concentration of acetone in a waste stream from the plant was as part of that process.
slightly elevated above agreed levels, but with no potential to cause In another downstream processing plant, to improve energy significant environmental impact: and at our Rotherham manufacturing efficiency, high power lighting was replaced with LED lighting plant in the UK, during routine environmental monitoring, we resulting in a saving of over 30 MWh per year.
detected an emission of oxides of nitrogen from a plant vent that was elevated above agreed levels, again with no potential to cause significant environmental impact.
There were no other environmental Principal environmental impacts notifiable events at any of our other UK manufacturing sites.
The Groups operations and environmental impact are set out in the charts on page 36 and are different from the Groups overall GHG During the year we successfully maintained ISO 14001:2004 emissions see overleaf.
These show energy use, water use and accreditation for the environmental management system on our waste from our main UK production sites.
The impact from our compounded pellets production plant, validating our high level overseas gears facility, new fibres plant in the UK and our technical commitment to environmental improvement.
and office facilities is not material and is not included.
We have reported data per unit of revenue to best align our indicators with our business strategy based on our varied product mix, along with absolute data to demonstrate our total impact.
Environmental indicators improved this year, due to higher revenues and economies of scale.
As we move downstream into more specialised manufacturing, CO per unit of revenue remains the 2 most appropriate measure.
CO emissions are reported separately, 2 as part of our greenhouse gas emissions report under the Companies Act 2006 Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Victrexalso participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project `CDP.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 33 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Our emissions have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol Our GHG emissions are predominantly from gas combustion and Corporate Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our electricity use on our production plant in the UK.
We have included emissions from both our owned our Kleiss Gears facility in the US and new Zyex fibres facility in the and leased assets for which we are responsible in the UK and UK are relatively immaterial compared with the UK production plants.
This includes our manufacturing plants, technical centres Additionally, emissions from our overseas technical facilities and and offices.
No material Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions are omitted.
offices are relatively immaterial to those from our UK activities, Emissions have been calculated using data gathered to fulfil our which explains our focus on production site reporting metrics.
reporting requirements under Climate Change Agreements at Whilst absolute direct emissions from gas Scope 1 increased slightly twoof our UK manufacturing sites we operate under a tenancy this year due to higher production levels encouragingly, our agreement at our Seal Sands facility.
National and regional emission indirect emissions from electricity purchased Scope 2 decreased.
conversion factors have been used.
This year, we have included This is primarily due to a favourable reduction in the UK grid electricity emissions from the newly acquired Zyex fibres facility in the UK CO e factor as a result of a decrease in UK coal-powered electricity 2 and have adjusted the previous reported year emissions to generation and an increase in gas and renewables generation.
Whilst this shows an increase in absolute This factor, combined with higher 2017 revenues, has resulted in direct emissions, with newly acquired downstream assets, the a low intensity measurement.
Indirect emissions from transport of opportunity for improvement over the medium term remains.
goods and employees increased Scope 3, primarily from increased Whilst not a mandatory requirement, we have included indicative air freighting of goods, to meet the upturn in customer demand Scope 3 emissions in our report for greater transparency: these within our core business during the year, orbased on specific air include indirect emissions from employee travel and international freighting requirements from our customers.
This year 2016 air and shipping freight of goods.
Scope 3 emissions have been revised toinclude understated .
Victrex GHG emissions 2017 Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2017fromPEEK manufacture SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 .
Direct emissions resulting from Indirect emissions resulting from combustion of fuels Tonnes CO e electricity purchased location- 2 based method Tonnes CO e 2 2017 22,478 2017 13,667 Scope 3 2016 22,048 2016 16,206 2015 21,203 2015 17,932 2014 16,728 2014 15,363 Scope 1 2013 14,339 2013 12,947 Scope 2 SCOPE 3 INTENSITY MEASUREMENT Other indirect emissions from related SCOPE 1 AND 2 activities such as transport of goods Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 51 31 18 andemployees Tonnes CO e 2 2017 8,136 2017 126 2016 4,583 2016 152 2015 3,839 2015 149 2014 2,815 2014 127 2013 1,462 2013 123 Note: Following the 2016 independent review undertaken of our GHG reporting, all our prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
This year, in accordance with the updated GHG Protocol Scope 2 guidance we have again calculated our scope 2 emissions using the market-based method 9,408 tonnes CO e. This is a reduction on last year 10,848 tonnes CO e primarily driven by a more favourable 2 2 supplier fuel mix at one of our key manufacturing sites.
We have market-based data for over 75% ofour Scope 2 emissions based on supplier declarations.
34 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report REACH The EU chemicals policy known as REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals regulations is a well established regulatory regime for the chemical industry and Victrex has well established processes in place to comply with it.
We regularly monitor and review to ensure that raw materials involved in our manufacturing process are compliant and that REACH will not adversely impact on the security of supply, which is important both for Victrex and for our customers, which are focusing on long-term demand.
There has not been, and we do not anticipate, any disruption to the supply of products arising from the regulations, particularly as the 2018 deadline approaches.
Following the EU referendum Brexit, we are also monitoring any potential amendments to regulations such as REACH, or other EU-led legislation.
Health and safety Protecting the occupational safety and health of all our employees, along with contractors and visitors to our sites, remains the highest priority for Victrex.
We continue to have a strong track record and have won several accolades to mark our success in this area.
We received the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Order of Distinction award this year.
It is the 20th consecutive year that we have received a Gold award and the sixth year running that we have received an Order of Distinction award, a great achievement and one which underlines our significant commitment to health and safety and consistent high level of performance.
Whilst we have a strong track record, we set targets to drive continual safety, health and environment SHE performance improvement.
During the year, 1.3 million employee hours were worked with no employee reportable injuries and no cases of reportable ill health.
This has been achieved by establishing and maintaining a strong health and safety culture throughout the business from the Executive Leadership Team to the shop floor.
Wehave a strong business risk management culture and believe thatgood health and safety management is just one part of it.
The occupational health and safety of contractors working on Employee hours worked with oursites is of equal importance as our employees.
With ongoing noreportable injuries investment in new projects like our world-class Polymer Innovation Centre, over 70,000 contractor hours have been worked on our UK 1.3 million manufacturing site at Hillhouse with no contractor reportable injuries or incidents.
Health and safety management remains a priority during projects, achieved by working closely with project contractors to ensure that robust project health and safety procedures are in place and that they are actively monitored, audited and reviewed.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 35 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Resource efficiency continued This year, our environmental indicators have improved due to higher revenues andeconomiesofscale.
Energy use UK operations Primary energy Primary energy per unitrevenue In line with previous reporting, energy use Thousands GJ Thousands GJ m is reported for our UK manufacturing sites.
Total energy has increased this year driven 2017 764 2017 2.6 by higher volumes manufactured and, to a 2016 735 2016 2.9 lesser extent, commissioning of our new 2015 731 2015 2.8 Polymer Innovation Centre which will support 2014 574 2014 2.3 differentiated grades and prototyping of new applications.
Pleasingly, energy per 2013 518 2013 2.3 unit of revenue decreased.
Energy per unit of revenue is our preferred metric, reflecting that with an emerging proportion of semi-finished products and parts compared to higher volume products, energy per unit of volume is not an appropriate measure.
Water UK operations Water usage Water usage per unitrevenue Water use is reported for our UK production 3 3 Thousands m Thousands m m operations North of England.
Our overseas water usage is not material.
Our polymer 2017 566 2017 2.0 manufacturing operations are in North West 2016 532 2016 2.1 England, a region which does not typically experience water shortages and has seen 2015 602 2015 2.3 flooding events in recent years.
Whilst total 2014 499 2014 2.0 water usage increased this year, again driven 2013 377 2013 1.7 by higher volumes manufactured, pleasingly, water use per unit of revenue decreased.
Waste UK operations Hazardous waste produced Hazardous waste produced per Whilst our manufacturing process Tonnes unitrevenue Tonnes m generates hazardous waste, we work closely with licensed waste service 2017 53,135 2017 183 providers to ensure that it is recovered, 2016 51,041 2016 202 recycled or disposed of with minimal environmental impact.
2015 60,908 2015 231 2014 55,072 2014 218 We have invested in improving and optimising the production process to 2013 47,254 2013 213 reduce waste, but we are already striving to reduce it further.
This is a priority sustainability objective and there is an Hazardous waste disposed to Hazardous waste disposed to ongoing programme of work to examine landfill after treatment Tonnes landfill after treatment per how we can further minimise generation unitrevenue Tonnes m of waste at source and how we can also recover value from waste generated over 2017 19 2017 0.07 the medium term.
Pleasingly, as a result 2016 1 2016 0.00 ofthis programme we have seen waste 2015 12 2015 0.05 perunit of production in one of our raw material manufacturing processes driven 2014 14 2014 0.06 down by 5% 500 tonnes.
2013 15 2013 0.07 36 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Social responsibility Our focus is to inspire the next generation of talent by supporting science, engineering, technology and maths `STEM education, alongside our commitment to employees and to the communities where we operate, both in the UK and globally.
We continue to make good progress in this area, whilst remaining practical in some of our longer-term objectives.
Employees as at year end Average number of people employed during the year including Directors, by category IN 1993 TOTAL: TOTAL: 60 765 763 16 54 30 L16 54 30 L IN 2017 IN 2016 IN 2017 Make 416Make 410 785 Develop, market and sell 232 Develop, market and sell 232 Support 117Support 121 Regional breakdown of employees 75.3% UK 6.2% Europe 10.8% Americas 7.7% Asia-Pacific Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 37 Strategic report Sustainability report continued Social responsibility continued Our employees Recognition The breadth and depth of talent across our workforce at all Our well established recognition programme ranges from instant locations continues to be important to Victrex, particularly and functional awards through to our annual CEO Awards, which aswemove further downstream towards selected semi-finished have become the showcase of the year, with an increased number products, ensuring we have the capabilities both at a manufacturing of categories to reflect the global talent across our business.
level, and across our business.
In an increasingly competitive global market, ensuring that we attract, engage, develop and retain our Involvement people remains a consistent theme for Victrex.
Each year we run The Group places considerable emphasis on two-way an organisational capability review following our annual strategic communication and involving our employees in the business.
This supports us to identify and develop the capabilities and Wehave a number of channels, both formal and informal, to keep experience we need to deliver ourbusiness strategy.
This is led by the employees informed on business news.
These include quarterly Chief Executive Officer, supported by the Group Human Resources global staff briefings involving all of our global employees and, Director and the Executive Directors of each business unit.
moreformally, UK and global regional employee forums and union partnership meetings.
Our newer employees at our Kleiss Grantsburg Employee breakdown and Zyex Stonehouse locations are also becoming involved.
Diversity is something we actively support.
Approximately 79% Thisyear we also introduced a Works Council in Germany following ofouremployees are male as at 30 September 2017 and 21% discussion with employees at our Hofheim offices.
The purpose arefemale asat 30 September 2017.
On our Executive Leadership ofthe forums is to promote positive two-way communication, Team during 2017, one quarter of the team was female.
In Victrex, proactive involvement and problem solving.
We have over diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, 50employees involved across all countries, functions and levels.
sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, physical and mental The Company supports employee share ownership and offers the ability, thinking style, experience and education.
We believe that the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
As at 30 September 2017, wide array of perspectives that result from such diversity promotes approximately 88% 2016: 91% of employees worldwide were innovation and business success.
We operate a global diversity and participants in employee share schemes, principally as option holders equal opportunities policy which is reviewed each year and provides under the Companys employee share option schemes.
the framework for productive working relationships within the organisation.
With the acquisition of Zyex completed this year, we We also sponsor pension plans for employees across most of our have extended our diversity agenda to our new employees, and will global operations.
Details of the Groups principal pension schemes continue to do sofor similar acquisitions or joint ventures in the are set out in note 15 to the financial statements.
Community volunteering Our voluntary employee turnover was lower this year at 3%, which Supporting local communities and participating in regional and national is better than other similar sized global manufacturing companies.
events which inspire the next generation of employees is a big focus for Victrex.
Our main focus is to get young people interested and excited Development about science, technology and engineering.
This year our employees Investment in the development of all our employees remains a key participated in activities in local schools and colleges, spending over priority, through both an informal and formal route.
Assessment 600 hours supporting the next generation.
Since we started formally ofindividual training needs is a key element of the annual appraisal measuring our activities, we have committed over 1,700 hours to the process which is undertaken by all employees.
This year has seen community since 2015. usintroduce a learning and performance portal which allows us to manage our development programmes consistently and give greater We continue to partner with Catalyst Discovery Centre in the availability and visibility to all of our programmes globally.
UKwhich teaches school-age children about chemistry and howpolymers are made, in an interactive way and are actively This is our 11th year of recruiting apprentices, and we have recruited involvedin the Science Industry Partnership SIP.
31 apprentices to date across a number of functions, principally inoperations.
The first apprentices we recruited were recently Working with other manufacturers in the UK is also important for awarded their 10 year long service award, a strong testament to Victrex.
The Springfields Award saw one of our engineering apprentices theattraction of Victrex as a sustainable and developing global Dan Larsen scoop the Endeavour Award this year, as well as being business.
This year we became part of the Apprenticeship Levy runner-up in the main award.
inthe UK and are looking at different ways that we can use our Victrex has also participated in a range of activities within local contributions from increasing the number of apprenticeships to communities, offering apprenticeships, promoting awareness in using them to develop existing employees.
schools and advancement of research work at universities and providing work experience to students of all ages at varying stages Wellbeing oftheir academic careers.
Our priorities for the health and wellbeing of employees are unwavering.
Occupational health and private medical services are Charitable giving available for all employees in all locations.
Our focus on wellbeing Last year we established a Community Investment team to look services includes on-site medical checks, provision of financial after the distribution of the charitable donations budget in the UK, education sessions and driver safety for company car owners and through nominations made by employees.
A similar approach is now frequent travellers.
This year we have introduced a new behavioural in its second year in the US and we are making good progress in approach to driver safety and training for traveller safety.
targeting investments to the right areas.
Charitable donations totalling 115,450 2016: 58,337 were made during the year.
No political donations were made 2016: nil.
38 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report As a business we continue to: 3% Voluntary employee turnover provide a clean, safe working environment 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 which meets all legislative requirements and 3% 7% 7% 5% 2% 1 all the necessary training and support for employees to operate safely within it: Note: The breakdown by region also continues to be consistent with last year.
provide appropriate remuneration for work Overall, we spent over 600 hours working carried out and equal opportunities for in localcommunities this year.
2 development and career advancement: be intolerant of any unacceptable working Participation in employee practices such as any form of discrimination, share schemes 3 bullying or harassment: prohibit illegal activities on our sites: and 4 88% 88 12 promote fair, ethical and transparent business practices both within our business and in 5 dealings with externalstakeholders.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 39 Directors report corporate governance 41 I ntroduction from the Chairman 42 B oard of Directors 44 S tatement of corporate governance 54 Directors remuneration report 67 Other statutory information 71 Statement of Directors responsibilities 72 I ndependent auditors report
