SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our sustainability strategy is focused on responsibly managing those environmental and social issues which have been identified as material to our business.
We seek to do this in a way which also supports the Groups commercial strategy by improving our risk management or supporting operational efficiencies.
A named member of the Executive Committee is responsible for each of the four elements of our programme: Marketplace: People: Environment: and Community.
Day-to-day accountability for sustainability is integrated into our core management structures and systems.
The Board regularly reviews progress of the implementation of our strategy.
This report provides a summary of our sustainability activity.
More detail, together with relevant policies, is available at www.
Marketplace We are committed to providing quality products and services to our Sustainable and ethical sourcing customers, and to ensuring the safety and sustainability of those It is a priority for us that the products we sell should come from products, and the supply chain behind them.
sustainably managed sources and that the people working within oursupply chain should be fairly treated.
Our customers Customer focus is one of our core business values and our Our Supplier Code of Conduct, which is aligned to the Ethical colleagues seek to empathise with our customers needs, making Trading Initiatives Base Code, outlines the standards we expect our their satisfaction our priority.
We encourage customers to give us suppliers to work towards in term of labour standards.
Our global feedback on how we are performing and where we can improve using purchasing teams contact our key suppliers to confirm their our global digital platform Eat on the Move.
compliance with the code and our suppliers are also required to share their ethical audit data with us via the Supplier Ethical Data We regularly review our menus to ensure we are offering our Exchange SEDEX.
In the year ahead, we plan to use the SEDEX audit customers choice, and including healthier options.
We focus this data to strengthen our understanding of ethical trade risks within work around SSPs own brands, where we have control over product our largest suppliers.
Low fat and low carbohydrate options are available on many of our menus around the world.
In our In addition to this work, and in line with the requirements of the Spanish business, for example, our ranges include low-cholesterol 2015 Modern Slavery Act, we operate a due diligence process options, freshly made fruit pots or quinoa salads and low-fat dairy to ensure that modern slavery risks are closely monitored within products, as well as muffins, cookies and cakes which are low in fat our business and supply chain.
Further detail on our approach is and sugar.
In the UK, we have reviewed our ranges and increased the provided in our separate Modern Slavery statement, available at healthy snacking lines on offer in our coffee and bakery brands by www.
In Scotland, we have carried out a full review of When sourcing ingredients for our products, we require that our food and beverage ranges on offer in hospitals, with over 70% our purchasing and menu development teams across the world of our products now meeting the NHS healthy eating criteria.
follow the standards outlined in our Responsible Sourcing Policy.
Coffee and tea are a core part of our product offer, and we work hard to ensure that the majority of the coffees and teas are produced in accordance with ethical and sustainable standards, such as the Fairtrade or Rainforest Alliance certification schemes.
Animal welfare is another focus, and this year we have carried out a review of our egg sourcing strategy.
Following this review, we are now working towards targets for all of the eggs used within our proprietary brands operating in the UK to be sourced from cage-free hens.
Our objective is for whole eggs to be from cage-free sources by 2020 and to reach the same standards for egg ingredients by 2025.
We will work with our suppliers over the coming year to implement any changes.
23 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED People Our employees are core to our business success.
We invest in our Employees by gender people to enable them to reach their full potential, as well as provide Male Female a positive, non-discriminatory and safe working environment.
Board of Directors 86% 6 14% 1 Employee engagement and recognition Senior management 78% 98 22% 27 It is important to us that our employees are fully engaged with the All employees 47% 16,036 53% 18,333 business strategy and objectives.
We achieve this through a regular programme of briefings, huddles, employee conferences and Health and safety updates via our enterprise social network, SSP Connections.
In the We are committed to maintaining high standards of health UK, we have conducted employee engagement surveys in a number and safety for our employees and our customers at all times.
of our M&S units, with managers then working to respond to the All employees complete training on health and safety, and we feedback given as part of the survey.
monitor performance against key safety performance indicators.
Learning and development Our learning and development strategy is focused on growing talent Environment from within.
We achieve this through a range of bespoke learning Reducing the environmental impacts of our operations also make and development programmes, each tailored to meet the needs of them more efficient, so makes good business sense.
We focus our individuals, teams and the operating business.
Our online training efforts on improving energy efficiency and reducing waste.
In the tool, Academy Live, has been relaunched this year, and now offers majority of our locations, we do not purchase utilities or services training to every new colleague in the UK.
From their first day in the ourselves, so we continue to work with our clients to improve the business, they can access a range of training to help them get up to quality of environmental impact data and look for ways to improve.
speed in their new role as well as learning valuable skills that can help them to develop personally.
We have commenced a roll-out to launch Global greenhouse gas emissions data the Academy in all our other markets.
This will enable us to provide 2016 17 2015 16 the same level of training and opportunities across all our markets.
Tonnes of Percentage of Tonnes of We offer apprenticeship qualifications in a number of our European CO2e carbon footprint CO2e operations, such as Germany, Norway and the UK, and these Scope 1 emissions 8,300 8% 6,056 programmes seek to give our team members the opportunity to Combustion of fuel and develop their careers into junior managerial roles.
127 of our UK operation of facilities colleagues completed apprenticeship qualifications during the Scope 2 emissions 95,992 92% 80,693 year, across our eight different qualifications.
This includes Team Electricity, heat, steam Member colleagues achieving a food and beverage apprenticeship, andcooling purchased Team Leaders achieving a supervisory apprenticeship and front-line forown use managers completing a management skill qualification.
All these Total 104,292 100% 86,749 programmes support individuals to develop their personal skills Intensity measurement 45.55 41.15 and support career progression.
Total emissions reported grams Across our operations, we have many partnerships at a local level to above normalised per offer career opportunities to people from deprived communities.
of turnover In America, for example, SSP partners with Job-Corp, a no-cost education and career technical centre training programme that Scope and methodology helps young people aged 16-24 to improve their lives through career, We have reported on all of the emission sources required under technical and academic training.
SSP colleagues take part in mock the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors report interviews, and SSP also hosts job fairs and offers employment to Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated qualified individuals.
This data covers the continuing activities Equal opportunities and diversity undertaken by our retailing operations worldwide.
Our Equality Policy outlines our expectation that all our employees The methodology applied to data gathering and analysis is should be treated with respect and be able to work in an environment consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate in which they can realise their potential, free of harassment and Accounting and Reporting Standard for Scope 1 and discrimination in any form.
We provide training and guidance to all Scope2 emissions and the DEFRA Environmental Reporting employees to ensure they understand and comply with this policy.
Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions We have a number of partnerships which promote a more diverse reporting guidance.
SSP Hong Kong is developing a partnership with a A full documentation of the methodology used, including local NGO to help the recruitment of more minority groups to help collection of data from worldwide operations, exclusions of grow diversity amongst our unit employees.
SSP America works any non-material emission sources, emission factors used and with Refugee Focus to mentor and coach refugees and help them assumptions made is available upon request.
In Swedens Arlanda Airport, we are working with Samhall, an NGO providing job opportunities for people with disabilities.
24 SSP GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Reducing our carbon footprint Community We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint through a Our units support a wide range of local charities, usually nominated programme of improved energy management.
Savings are being by our colleagues or our clients.
This year SSP America has provided achieved through the installation of business management systems extensive support to charities working with communities affected and LED lighting systems, both of which are enabling us to deliver by the Houston flooding.
In the UK, the SSP Foundation registered material savings in energy consumption and carbon emissions.
1163717 is the focus for our fundraising activity.
During the year, these systems have been rolled out to our M&S The Foundation works with partner charities on projects to promote stores in the UK and Ireland and Spar Express stores in Germany.
healthy eating and other causes, and also supports employeeWe have also installed half hour meters across a number of our nominated charities in the communities where SSP operates.
European sites, which allow us to check how much energy is being used at all times of the day, and new software which switches off During 2017, the Foundation made grants to 60 charities nominated non-essential refrigeration cases on store closing.
It also partnered with UK registered charity, the Childrens Food Trust, to fund Lets Get Cooking Clubs in 30 Where applicable, we have also installed a last person out switch schools and further education colleges near to Leeds and Stansted linked into the system to shut down non-essential supplies on store airports and in Greater London.
The clubs have offered students the closing.
We are already seeing efficiencies of over 7% in an average opportunity to learn how to cook simple and healthy meals, how to unit.
In the year ahead, we are looking to extend these initiatives budget for food, and how to use up leftovers and avoid waste.
In the across all UK and German sites as well as in France, Hong Kong year ahead, our UK colleagues will be actively involved in determining and Belgium.
the Foundations charitable strategy by voting for a Charity of the Year.
Kate Swann Chief Executive Officer 21 November 2017 Reducing our waste to landfill Reducing food waste is a priority for our business.
A detailed review of the food production processes across our global operations has enabled us to identify opportunities to reduce waste.
This has been achieved by making small changes to the way we prepare core ingredients such as fish or vegetables, which reduces the overall amount of food that is wasted in our kitchens.
Volumes of unsold food are also being reduced through improved forecasting of customer demand cycles to ensure we have the right volumes of product available at the right times.
Our units across the world have developed partnerships with local charities to donate unsold food.
SSP America, for example, works in partnership with Food Donation Connection, a company that assists restaurants and food service companies with the development and implementation of programmes designed to prevent the discarding of surplus food that is consumable.
SSP Spain has a partnership with the Red Cross to donate unsold food to those most in need in communities including Malaga, Granada and Tenerife.
