28 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Employees and diversity EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT The Group employs approximately 14,000 people, primarily Employee engagement is supported through clear in the UK, and is proud of its long history of being regarded communication of the Groups performance and objectives.
as a responsible and respected employer.
Information on This information is cascaded through team briefings, employee our Employee policies is available at www.
co. uk events, intranet sites and e-newsletters.
This approach and corporate responsibility our policies.
the Groups open management style encourages employees to contribute to business development.
We conduct annual employee engagement surveys and the results are shared with EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES all staff and actions agreed to respond to specific points of The Board believes in creating throughout the Company feedback, with employee focus groups used to help understand a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment the staff feedback in more depth.
and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Company gives full and fair consideration to applications EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP for employment when these are received from disabled people and employs disabled people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved Should an employee become disabled when working for the Save-As-you-Earn share option scheme Sharesave Scheme Company, we will endeavour to adapt the work environment which provides employees with the opportunity to acquire shares and provide retraining if necessary so that they may continue in the Company.
Approximately 1,055 employees participate in their employment.
At WHSmith we believe that it is just as important to support our DIVERSITY colleagues mental wellbeing as it is to look after their physical WHSmith recognises that talented people are core to the wellbeing.
Our strategy is led from the most senior level in the success of our business, whatever their age, race, religion, business, with CEO Stephen Clarke signing the Time to Change gender, sexual orientation, age or physical ability.
We are pledge in February 2017.
During the year, we have continued committed to promoting a culture of equality and diversity with our work to raise awareness of mental health issues and through our policies, procedures and working practices.
the associated stigma among employees, and work with Mental We want to ensure that all our employees receive equal and Health First Aid MHFA England to train our employees on how fair treatment, and this applies to recruitment and selection, to support mental health in the workplace.
This training is well terms and conditions of employment, promotion, training and underway and we are also working to ensure that our 1,100 line development opportunities and employment benefits.
managers all receive mental health first aid training.
At the 2017 Worldpay Everywoman in Retail Ambassador Awards, we were During the year, we have implemented a number of initiatives to delighted to see WHSmith Head of Strategic Projects, Alison promote more women into senior positions.
We have partnered Garbutt, receive an award for her work in driving change through with a company called Everywoman, the worlds largest our organisation around mental health.
network and learning and development platform for women in business.
The aim of the network is to advance women in TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT business and create a change in gender diversity.
The network Our Learning and Development L&D programmes are has been rolled out to our head office employees and a number designed to support our employees to reach their potential of initiatives are planned for the next year to build on this and within the business and their careers.
As part of this, we focus create an internal Everywoman network.
WHSmith took part in on supporting and developing talented individuals within our the Everywoman in Retail Ambassador awards programme and business, with the objective of continuing to achieve a 90 per we were delighted to have a finalist in the category of Being a cent internal succession rate across the business.
Our Retail great team leader.
Academy continues to support store staff in developing their skills and moving on to new roles, and targeted development programmes in head office helps to create a pipeline of talent to fill future vacancies.
During the year, over 500 team leaders and supervisors and over 200 store managers attended our internal retail academy development programmes.
In head office, we introduced a mentoring programme to support employees with their career development.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 The Board has chosen not to set specific representation targets for women at Board level at this time although it does have due regard for the benefits of diversity within the overriding objective of ensuring that its membership has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and independence.
The table below shows a breakdown of the composition of the Board as at year end.
Tenure Male Female 01 year 0% Male 4 67% 13 years 0% Female 2 33% 36 years 67% 69 years 33% Executive non-executive Executive 2 33% Non-executive 4 67% The tables below show the number and percentage of women and men in the senior management team, the management team and the mix of employees across the Group as at year end.
1 Senior Management team Women 5 24% Men 16 76% 1 This group comprises employees who are members of the executive committees who are not also members of the Board.
2 Management team Women 273 43% Men 366 57% 2 This wider group includes store managers and senior head office staff who are not also members of the senior management team.
Employee mix across the Group Women 8,391 65% Men 4,541 35% The Strategic report on pages 1 to 29 of the Annual report has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Stephen Clarke, Group Chief Executive 12 October 2017
