Biodiversity, Carbon emissions, Ecology, Energy, Transport, Water Environment Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Bellway is committed to being a responsible housebuilder.
We aim to have a positive impact on all those who live in and around our developments while at the same time delivering high quality homes, in desirable surroundings, in areas where housing demand is strong.
This year we have continued Our key achievements Construction to develop our approach to in 2017 improved our waste diversion rate to corporate responsibility CR.
For 2017 we set the business a range Branded as Bellway4Good, we operate of targets under each of our CR pillars.
our CR activity under three core secured 100% of our timber from A total of 15 targets were set with 11 pillars.
By integrating CR practices sustainable sources 2016 100%.
The remaining four into our business we are able to build achieved the highest rank in the are multi-year targets substantial better homes and communities, and WWFs Timber Scorecard 2017, one progress has been made against create a stronger company for the of only two national housebuilders three of these targets this year and we long-term that delivers benefits to our to do so.
are well on track to achieving them shareholders, customers, employees within the pre-agreed timeframes.
The final target around rationalising Society and economy While ultimate responsibility for our the number of waste management regained our 5 star homebuilder CR programme rests with our Chief contractors we have across the status from the HBF, one of only Executive, our CR Committee is chaired Group has been curtailed early after two national housebuilders to have by the Group Finance Director and analysis demonstrated that negligible achieved this rating 2016 4 star.
includes the Head of Sustainability improvements to waste management and functional heads.
This committee achieved an improved NHBC health could be achieved.
The focus in 2017 18 meets at least four times a year and in this area will switch to using existing and safety reportable incident rate of is responsible for setting strategy and 0.690 2016 0.766. waste management best practice to monitoring progress against targets drive further improvements across delivered 4.2 training days and objectives.
targets achieved 11 donated a total of 385,913 2016 targets in progress and will 159,228 to our charity of the 3 be rolled over into 2017 18 year including money raised by our employees, sub-contractors targets missed 0 and suppliers.
target curtailed early 1 We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP A full summary of our performance Climate Change and Forests as well as our 2018 targets is set out programmes.
In November 2016 we on our website www.
co. uk improved our Climate Change score .
Some of our to Awareness C and maintained key achievements are outlined below: our Forests grade at Management Construction B.
Both of these scores are in line Environment with our industry group average Planning, Procurement, Research and development, Sitemanagement, Sustainability, Waste and the CDP programme average.
increased the proportion of our Unfortunately towards the end of 2017 construction compounds fitted with we were informed that Bellway was no energy saving devices to 94% longer a constituent of the FTSE4Good 2016 84%.
The index has recently increased the percentage of our revised its scoring criteria and while forklift fleet fitted with energy efficient we improved our score from 2.2 to 2.3, engines to 83.5% 2016 68.9%.
this was below the new 2.5 threshold required to remain a member of the index.
28 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Charities, Customers, Economic development, Employees, Health and safety, Stakeholders Society and economy About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Thames Gateway The Residence, Nine Elms, London Borough of Wandsworth.
29 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Environment Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Environment As the demand for new housing increases, we recognise the need to enshrine climate change and the protection of the wider environment at the core of our Bellway4Good activities.
We will increase the proportion of construction compounds with energy saving devices Energy to at least 90%.
We will limit the engine size of forklifts to 55 watts on all sites by 2019, delivering fuel and carbon savings.
We will develop a best practice energy saving campaign, implement in one division and assess its impact prior to considering roll-out across the wider business.
We will introduce metered supplies for construction water usage at 90% of new Water developments, building up an accurate picture of Bellways water usage.
We will develop quarterly carbon reporting with a view to establishing carbon reduction Carbon targets in future years.
target in progress and will targets achieved targets missed 4 1 0 be rolled over into 2017 18 Our construction activities impact In total 198 65.8% of our developments this type of technology and we plan to on the environment in a number of had Sustainable Urban Drainage reach 100% within the next few years.
As a responsible housebuilder Systems implemented 2016 129, This year has also seen a focus on the we have a duty to create sustainable 60.0% and we planted over 277,000 energy efficiency of our forklift vehicles communities for both now and the trees and shrubs this year 2016 on sites.
We are changing to more future, ensuring that we protect, over 195,000.
We continue to invest energy efficient engines and already conserve and enhance the in and develop brownfield sites 83.5% of the machines used on our environments in which we operate.
which are acknowledged to support sites have been upgraded 2016 ecological, community and economic 68.9%.
We expect this to rise in 2018 as regeneration.
During the year 59.0% of Biodiversity and ecology energy efficient engines become more our new homes were built on land that readily available for the larger vehicles.
We continue to carry out biodiversity had already been developed 2016 and ecology risk assessments as part 62.0% and this strategy will continue to We continue to deliver energy saving of the site planning process, ensuring be important in our future plans, with benefits to our customers through that the full impact of the development brownfield sites making up 50.0% of the design of our homes.
In 2017 the is fully understood and associated the owned and controlled plots in our energy efficiency of our new homes, mitigation measures implemented land bank.
measured by their Dwelling Emission if necessary.
Examples of recent Rates, was 6.0% better than the relevant measures include the provision of building regulations 2016 5.6% Energy bat boxes, relocation of badger sets, better.
Some form of renewal energy migration of protected species to Work on reducing our energy usage technology was fitted in 38.6% of new habitats and the construction has continued across all aspects of our homes 2016 38.4% while 48.2% of of on-site and off-site ponds for business.
On our construction sites, the homes were fitted with waste recycling both drainage and to support and programme for installing energy saving facilities 2016 49.3%.
technology in compounds continues and we estimate that this can save up to 500 per compound per year in energy costs.
We now have 94.0% 2016 84.3% of compounds fitted with 30 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information We have also turned our attention to emissions from site-based combined the sustainability performance of our heat and power units for which we offices this year with an environmental do not have operational control.
awareness campaign developed and An element of carbon estimation is introduced in three of our divisions.
undertaken in the following areas: Focusing on issues such as energy saving, waste recycling and reduced diesel fuel usage on a small number paper usage, employee feedback and of sites where fuel is provided by our environmental performance will be groundworks contractors.
Bellways monitored over the coming months share of the usage is estimated based prior to a potential roll-out across the on forklift usage.
divisional offices where gas and electricity usage is included within Carbon reporting landlord charges.
Bellways usage is In accordance with the Companies Act estimated using a kwh per square 2006 Strategic Report and Directors meter of occupied floor space figure Reports Regulations 2013, we report on derived from other divisional offices our greenhouse gas GHG emissions with utility billing in place.
as part of the annual Strategic Report.
Our overall carbon emissions have Our GHG reporting year is the same increased by 11.5% to 24,909 tonnes as our financial year, 1 August 2016 CO e 2016 22,334.
This has largely 2 to 31 July 2017, and the previous been driven by an increase in years figures have been provided construction activity, with the number as comparators.
of homes sold increasing by 10.6% to The methodology used to calculate 9,644 2016 8,721.
Using our chosen our emissions is based on the UK business metrics, carbon emissions per governments Environmental Reporting home sold has remained consistent Guidelines 2013 and emission factors with the previous year at 2.6 2016 2.6 from the 2016 government GHG and carbon emissions per employee Conversion Factors for Company have risen by 4.3% to 9.8 2016 9.4.
The reported emission Both the 2016 and 2017 emissions have sources includes those which we are been externally verified by Zeco Energy responsible for, as required under the to a reasonable assurance level as part Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report of a review of our carbon footprint.
and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, with the exception of the In addition to recording carbon on a following which were excluded from quarterly basis, 2018 will see further this report: analysis of our carbon output to establish a cost of carbon measure, gas and electricity from partidentifying opportunities for savings, exchange properties due to roll-out best practice and consider immateriality and difficulty in potential carbon reduction targets for accurately reporting and recording the business.
1 Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes of CO e 2 2017 2016 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities including diesel and petrol used on site and in company cars on Group business.
18,844 16,362 2 Scope 2 Electricity purchased for our own use.
6,065 5,972 Total emissions 24,909 22,334 Emissions intensity: tCO e per Bellway home sold.
Carbon dioxide equivalent as per the meaning given in section 93 2 of the Climate Change Act 2008.
Scope 2 emissions have been reported using a location based emission factor.
Based on the average number of employees during the year.
31 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Construction The construction process is the most visible impact we have on local communities, society and the wider environment.
Working in partnership with local authorities, communities, suppliers and our sub-contractors is critical to our success.
Construction We will continue work to introduce a maximum number of waste management Construction waste contractors across all divisions, aiming for 100% compliance by 2018 and work to identify management key waste reduction opportunities.
We will maintain the proportion of waste diverted from landfill on construction sites at Construction waste 95% or above.
We will pilot Building for Life 12 on a minimum of one site and assess the impact on Planning planning, construction costs and development desirability over the next three years.
We will continue to investigate new commercially available sustainable building Construction R&D products techniques materials to assess their design and build performance.
We will continue to source 100% of timber from sustainable supplies.
Supply chain management target in progress and will targets achieved targets missed target curtailed early 3 1 0 1 be rolled over into 2017 18 This year we began an assessment we committed to spend 118.2 million Communities process to understand the benefits of via section 106, affordable housing The creation of attractive and utilising the Building for Life 12 industry contributions and CIL payments 2016 sustainable communities remains standard for the design of new housing 147.9 million.
This will include an consult through tailored planning and impact assessment with the pre-existing Waste community engagement strategies community as well as post completion for each site.
We aim to reach a As the fourth largest national assessments undertaken with new representative range of stakeholders housebuilder by volume, we recognise home owners on the sites.
The findings from existing communities, including our responsibility to minimise our will help shape our evolving approach property owners, local authorities, impact on the environment through to delivering homes and communities businesses, schools, residents reducing waste.
While we have that are attractive, functional associations and other groups and continued to improve the Groups and sustainable.
where possible we incorporate waste diversion rate to 97.8% 2016 feedback into our plans.
We contribute to local economies in a 95.9%, contributing to a 36.9% wider way other than the employment reduction in the amount of waste sent opportunities we offer and the new to landfill, during 2017 our construction homes and communities we create.
waste per home sold increased by 7.1% Through local consultation processes to 9.25 tonnes 2016 8.64. we make certain commitments We are therefore committed to relating to the sites we have acquired.
reducing the amount of waste we These commitments vary from generate and in the coming year the development to development, based focus will shift to waste elimination as on local need.
These may include we seek to reduce both waste tonnage investments in local communities, and costs, rather than only driving an such as education, healthcare facilities, increase in diversion rates.
sports facilities, transport infrastructure improvements and the creation of recreational space.
During the year 32 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information We will establish a waste per 1,000 We are committed to ensuring that square feet of completed homes there is no modern slavery, servitude metric and devise a strategy to reduce and forced compulsory labour or waste for implementation in 2018 19. human trafficking in our supply chains Work to identify the potential benefits or in any part of our business and we of rationalising our waste contract act in accordance with the Modern structure has been curtailed early Slavery Act 2015, publishing a slavery and the focus will now be on utilising and human trafficking statement for existing best practice to drive waste the financial year to 31 July 2017 on our management improvement.
We also require all applicable suppliers and sub-contractors with a revenue of 36 million or more to Supply chain confirm that they either have their own Our aim is to follow a responsible modern slavery policies in place or that procurement policy with all of they adopt the Bellway policy.
With a proportion of our procurement through Quality Group contracts with national suppliers, this year we undertook a top level risk The quality of Bellway construction has analysis and asked these suppliers again been recognised in the NHBC to undertake a self-assessment audit Pride in the Job Awards.
These are process to identify strengths and the only UK-wide awards dedicated weaknesses in our Group supply chain.
to recognising Site Managers who To date the findings have identified no achieve the highest standards in areas of significant concern.
Bellway Site Managers achieved a record 49 awards this We also work with many smaller year 2016 43, with candidates businesses, including companies that assessed on a wide range of criteria, are local to specific development including technical knowledge, sites, who provide materials, labour leadership qualities and organisational and services.
The local and regional skills.
We are extremely proud of this economies where we operate achievement and their success is a are significant beneficiaries of our testament to the quality and high activities.
We are committed to paying standards they deliver on a daily basis.
our suppliers and sub-contractors within agreed terms and we remain a Research and development signatory to the Prompt Payment Code.
We are continually refining the We continue, where possible, to design of our homes, both to meet procure materials from sustainable the needs of evolving building sources and this year we again ensured regulations and also, where possible, that 100% of our directly supplied to deliver sustainability benefits to timber came from certified sustainable both the Group and the customer.
sources Category A and Category This year we have investigated five new B sources.
We are pleased that our processes, materials and products to stance on sustainable timber has understand how they can influence been recognised in the WWFs Timber and improve the design of our homes.
Scorecard 2017, with Bellway one of Overlaying this, our initiative to increase only two national housebuilders to standardisation of our house types will secure the top score of 3 trees.
deliver improvements in quality and reductions in waste.
33 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Society and economy With housing as the fifth priority of the 1 electorate and the estimate that around 250,000 new homes are needed each year to keep up with 2 demand, Bellways activities deliver a range of social and economic benefits, both locally and nationally.
We will deliver high levels of customer satisfaction and aim to achieve 5 star Customer homebuilder status for the 2016 17 year.
engagement We will deliver slips, trips & falls site briefings at 100% of sites to aid a reduction in our Health and safety RIDDOR seven-day reportable incident rate.
We will increase the number of training days per employee compared to 2015 16 levels.
Employee development We will develop a more structured and integrated programme for graduates, trainees Employee and apprentices by 2018. development We will engage with our employees and Cancer Research UK with the aim of raising Charitable giving and donating over 100,000 to the charity in the 2016 17 year.
target in progress and will targets achieved targets missed 4 1 0 be rolled over into 2017 18 training in the year 2016 - 966 days.
For those Economy We are proud to have regained our requiring additional assistance, the Investment in new homes is vitally rating as a 5 star homebuilder from continuing governments Help to Buy important for the regional and national the HBF 2016 4 star, meaning that at schemes have been an important economies.
It directly stimulates least nine out of ten of our customers mechanism to support home growth, supports jobs and ensures would recommend Bellway to a friend.
ownership and of the 9,644 homes regional economic competitiveness We are one of only two national sold this year 2016 8,721, 35% were through access to labour.
In addition, housebuilders who have achieved the through the various Help to Buy housebuilding as a sector plays an 5 star rating for this current period.
important role in generating economic output and the HBF estimate that In total around 43% of our homes were Affordability housebuilding accounts for 3% of the sold to first-time and deposit-assisted 2 UKs total Gross Domestic Product The governments recent white paper buyers 2016 41%, representing 4,123 3 GDP.
homeowners whom Bellway have highlighted that, in the current market place, affordability is often a barrier helped to get their foot on the property This year we produced our first ladder this year 2016 3,534. to people wanting to either take their Economic and Social Impact Report first step on the property ladder or to which can be found on our website.
Another 22% 2016 16% of our upsize as their circumstances change.
In total we estimate that overall homes were sold to affordable housing Therefore supporting the affordability economic output as a result of providers mostly housing associations of new homes is vital to the continuing Bellways housebuilding activities in and local councils, representing an success of our business and the UK 2015 16 generated 4.7 billion for the important contribution to meeting housing market as a whole.
These affordable homes are either let by the affordable We build a comprehensive range of houses and apartments to housing provider at below market Customers rents or provide the opportunity of enable customers to select the right We have continued our focus on property for their needs and budget.
affordable home ownership through delivering excellent customer care shared ownership and other Our average selling price this year was across our business, aided by the 260,354 2016 252,793 and 8% of intermediate products.
delivery of 997 days of customer care our homes were sold to unassisted 34 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Society and economy About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information have set additional single and multiEmployees Charitable engagement year targets to further develop our The quality of our developments, the As a responsible business we continue Bellway4Good agenda.
standard of our customer service, to support local and national charities, the strength of our business strategy as well as the communities in which All 2018 targets can be viewed on our and the value we deliver for our we develop.
website and some of our key aims are stakeholders are all a result of the outlined below: We have improved our Charity of the people who make up Bellway.
Year programme with the focus now ensure 100% of our compounds are We believe in treating all of our on support for a single cause, Cancer fitted with energy saving devices employees and sub-contractors fairly Research UK, and a commitment for by 2020. and responsibly.
We have a range the Group to double match every of policies and procedures in place roll-out an energy saving campaign pound raised by employees.
to ensure that equal opportunities to all divisional offices to reduce are provided to all existing and We are extremely pleased with how office energy use.
prospective employees of Bellway successful the partnership has proved, devise a strategy to set a longer-term and we act in accordance with the allowing us to raise and donate an carbon reduction target for 2018 19.
We will be amazing 385,913 to the charity in just updating our slavery and human 12 months this is a 142% increase establish a rolling average trafficking statement for the financial on the total donated in the previous measurement of tonnes of waste year to 31 July 2017 on our website.
Our employees, per 1,000 square feet of completed We offer competitive salary and sub-contractors and suppliers raised homes to shape a strategy to reduce benefits packages, including pension, 184,793 of this total.
waste in 2018 19. life assurance, a private medical We have decided to extend the retain our 5 star homebuilder status.
scheme and a save as you earn share partnership for at least another year option scheme.
increase total donation to Cancer and we look forward to working with Research UK to at least 600,000. our employees to try and make 2018 Safety just as successful.
In summary, 2017 has been another The well-being of all who interact successful year in the development of Each of our divisions also operates with our sites remains our highest our Bellway4Good programme, with their own budget for donations to priority and we continue to actively our CR strategy now better understood local charities and community groups.
promote safe working through the use across the business.
In the past year we have supported of training, site briefings, informal and employee fundraising by toppingWe remain committed to operating formal inspections and best practice up amounts raised by 50%.
In 2017 Bellway in a sustainable manner, forums to ensure all our developments employees raised a total of 44,254 for one which delivers benefits for the operate in a safe manner.
various charities and causes of their environment, our shareholders, This year we have successfully reduced choice 2016 40,058. customers, employees and the local our RIDDOR seven-day reportable communities in which we operate.
Across our wider charitable activity, incident rate to 426.36 incidents per Bellways total donations through a 100,000 site operatives 2016 445.19. combination of employee fundraising, This is a direct result of various safety matched funding and direct donations initiatives undertaken, including a Approval of the Strategic amounted to 521,920 2016 campaign addressing slips, trips and Report 284,704, an 83% increase on last falls, which are a major cause of year.
Of this total, 229,047 was raised The Strategic Report was approved by accidents on site.
For the fourth year by employees from their colleagues, the Board and signed on its behalf by: running, our NHBC health and safety friends, family, our suppliers and subincident rate improved to 0.690 2016 contractors, a huge 207% increase on 0.766.
Bellway Site Managers won ten last year 2016 74,704.
John Watson awards at the 2017 NHBC Health and Executive Chairman Safety Awards 2016 five, including Looking forward the national award in the large builder 16 October 2017 category and the national runner up In 2018 we will undertake further work award in the multi-storey category.
on our existing multi-year targets and Director and employee profile The following table shows the gender split in the Group as at 31 July 2017: Male Male Female Female Total Workforce No.
No Place Like Home October 2016, Confederation of British Industry.
Fixing our Broken Housing Market February 2017, Department for Communities and Local Government.
The Economic Footprint of UK House Building 2015, Home Builders Federation.
35 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
