Corporate social responsibility HIGHLY SUPPORTIVE ENVIRONMENT We take our social responsibility seriously, particularly in the areas of charitable activity, minimising our environmental impact and looking after our employees.
CHARITIES Supporting charities and raising money for such causes is an integral part of life at Softcat.
We have a designated charities team which has been formally operating for almost a decade.
Charities are chosen by our employees and, where possible, forcauses staff have existing relationships with or are closely connected to or affected by.
We strive to get as many people involved in our charity work as possible, employees as well ascustomers and suppliers, in order to fulfil what we see as acentral part of our corporate responsibility.
We believe it isimportant to promote awareness of worthy causes, as well ashardship, and to show how individuals and teams may come together to do something notable for the greater good.
Softcats charity work to date has helped to raise over 1.7m, aswell as providing assistance for our chosen charities.
In 2017 For the last five years we have worked particularly closely with alone, Company and employee initiatives have enabled us to Dreams Come True, raising a total of 1.2m over this timeframe.
As a Company, we have also benefited from We are very proud to have helped children and young people these programmes as they continue to help increase employee with serious or life-limiting conditions fulfil their dreams.
This year, engagement, satisfaction and development through the endless Softcat has also supported Wycombe Homeless Connection.
In activities our employees lead, encouraged and supported by addition, we support focus events for organisations such as the Company.
Comic Relief, for which we have acted as a contact centre for the last four years, on top ofother fundraising activities for this cause.
We support a large array of charities, large and small, national and local.
Tuberous Sclerosis Association, The Princes Trust, These events promote team building and unity within Softcat, Comic Relief and Children in Need have all benefited from alongside the primary goal of helping those less fortunate ourcharitable activities to date.
2m raised for charity 26 26 Strategic report 30 charities have received donations of over 1,000 ENVIRONMENT In each of the Softcat offices we have a group of volunteers GHG emissions whocare for the environment: we call them the Green Team.
Our emissions have been calculated using the GHG Protocol The Green Team works together to raise employee awareness Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, around environmental issues.
together with the latest emission factors from DEFRA and DECC.
Decisions at Softcat are influenced by our care and passion Scope 1: Comprises emissions from our pool cars and natural forthe environment.
We use video conferencing whenever gas burnt in boilers we control.
If employees need to travel, Softcat Scope 2: Comprises our electricity consumption in leased and offers eco-friendlier travel options including a cycle to work owned buildings.
scheme or the use of one of our low emission pool cars.
Allofour offices are also within one mile of a train station GHG emissions soemployees can use public transport.
1,000 924 Around the office the Green Team has been making positive environmental changes.
In the current financial year we have 800 689 installed a new managed print solution reducing waste.
This has saved 50,165 sheets of paper orthe equivalent of three trees.
600 751 The managed print solution alsorecycles used ink cartridges 31% 513 increasing our impressive recycling portfolio of paper, cans, 400 plastic, obsolete computer equipment and food waste, which we 37% compost at our Marlow office.
Softcat offices use energy-saving 200 technology, such as energy-efficient lighting which automatically 176 31% 173 0 shuts offwhen not being used and thin clients rather than FY17 FY16 energy-hungry desktops.
All our offices are ISO 14001 and ISO50001certified.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Softcat intensity measurements We have chosen to present our total emissions relative to the average number of employees, in order to represent how our emissions are impacted by the growth of our business.
We are pleased to report a 22.4% reduction per employee.
tCO e 2017 2016 2 tCO e m 0.83 1.05 2 tCO e employees 0.67 1.37 2 GREEN TEAM Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 tCO e 2 Corporate social responsibility continued PEOPLE We are extremely passionate about employee satisfaction feedback mechanisms in place for employees on their andendeavour to provide a supportive and encouraging performance, aswell as frequent communication between working environment for all employees across all of our offices.
The Company provides an extensive array of benefits including Our recognition as the Great Place to Work Best Large weekly on-site doctor visits, a Share Incentive Plan SIP, aswell Workplace 2017 is an achievement that demonstrates as many social and sporting activities.
Likewise, we believe whataunique place Softcat is to work.
inthe importance of inspiring our employees to give their best: therefore, everyone is given the chance to qualify for our amazing We are mindful that human rights risks can arise within our incentives.
We believe hard work should reap extra rewards.
business and supply chain, including labour risks, unsafe work Additionally, Softcat strives to support employees in all aspects place conditions and bribery and corruption.
Our code of conduct, of life, both inside and outside of the workplace.
which is applicable to all employees and those who work for or on behalf of Softcat, sets out the standard ofbehaviour expected Softcat provides exceptional and ongoing training and development in relation to human rights risks, bribery and raising concerns opportunities.
We have developed bespoke training for many through the whistleblowing process.
We have also published roles to help employees to identify and realise their aspirations, aModern Slavery Statement which is available on our website, to provide our staff with opportunities to enhance their skills softcat.
Furthermore, we have strong 1,000 employees GREAT PLACE TO WORK UKs Best Large Workplaces 2017 28 Strategic report Gender breakdown Softcat is an equal opportunities employer and we are committed to equality and diversity.
A breakdown of the Board, senior management and all employees is shownbelow: 2017 2016 1 1 Number % Number % Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 5 1 83 17 5 1 83 17 Senior managers 13 0 100 0 10 1 91 9 Total permanent employees 739 307 71 29 649 278 70 30 Note: 1.
We remain committed to gender diversity and to providing equal opportunities by recruiting and promoting staff on the basis of their experience, skills, attitude and qualifications.
Additionally, we acknowledge the recommendation from theHampton-Alexander Review targeting 33% representation of women on FTSE 350 boards by 2020.
Softcat recognises the benefits to be gained from having a diverse workforce throughout the organisation including at Board level.
Diversity in its many forms, including, but not limited to, the skills, industry experience, race, ethnicity and gender of the workforce, will enable the Company to maintain its competitive advantage.
We recognise that gender diversity within the IT industry, andin particular sales within IT, has not been ideal historically, and this is indeed reflected in our numbers above.
We are therefore especially focused on working with the industry to improve this position and ensure that Softcat is not missing valuable sources of talent.
98% employee engagement score 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 31 Introduction to governance 32 Board of Directors 34 Governance report 38 Audit Committee report 42 Nomination Committee report 45 Remuneration Committee report 60 Directors report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code We have structured this years report in the following way, based upon the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Leadership The Board has clear divisions of responsibility and is collectively responsible for the long-term success of Softcat.
See page 32 for more information Effectiveness We evaluate the balance of experience, skills, knowledge andindependence of the Board to ensure we are effective.
See page 35 for more information Accountability We present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of Softcats position and prospects.
Our decisions are discussed within the context of the risks involved.
See page 38 for more information Relations with shareholders Strong relationships with our shareholders are crucial forthe Companys success.
See page 37 for more information Remuneration Director remuneration is set to promote the long-term success of Softcat.
See page 45 for more information 30 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
