Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 36 Sustainability Report Committed to making a Positive impact Photographed on location at JAH Plant Hire Ltd. Close Brothers has a strong reputation as a responsible lender, founded on a prudent approach to managing our business and commitment to our employees, clients and communities.
We seek to provide the highest level of support and service by applying the same responsible approach across all our businesses and focusing on areas that matter to our stakeholders.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 37 A sustainable approach Our Employee Opinion Survey is run Our long-standing reputation as a every two years to ensure that the leading merchant banking group is built businesses have sufficient time to on the consistent application of our analyse the results and to agree and 90% prudent business model, underpinned implement meaningful action plans by core values of service, expertise and which focus not only on what we could Employee satisfaction relationships.
We apply these values improve, but also on maintaining those in our interaction with employees, areas of strength that our employees customers and our communities.
share a strong commitment to acting To ensure we keep developing and responsibly, ethically and with integrity Developing our people enhancing our pool of future leaders, when interacting with all our stakeholders.
During the year we implemented a we continue to run our annual Emerging number of initiatives to promote training Leaders programme.
The programme Management of sustainability issues across the group as well as further focuses on individual leadership across our organisation and the programmes designed to attract and development, management and coaching consideration of environmental issues to develop talent.
skills in order to build a strong network of and ethical standards are an important up and coming leaders.
part of our corporate culture and are All our employees have access to a new reflected throughout our group-wide online learning portal offering a wide We have also developed a new policies and procedures.
Our employees range of practical tools, workshops programme to build leadership capability are involved in a range of community and e-learning on a range of topics.
across the organisation in line with our initiatives and responsible finance By simplifying and centralising training bespoke leadership framework.
matters regularly appear on group and for all our employees we expanded the divisional risk committee agendas.
number of training hours across the Remuneration and benefits group and on average, our employees We believe in rewarding our staff Focus on our employees completed 8.4 continuing professional fairly and transparently, ensuring that The contribution of our people is critical development hours over the past year, remuneration across the group is linked to the ongoing success of our business.
This year, we have We are committed to creating an undertaken an extensive review of environment where our employees are We continue to support the development our executive Remuneration Policy to supported and motivated by providing of a new talent pipeline by running a ensure it remains fit for purpose and them with opportunities to realise their number of structured programmes aligned to both our distinctive business full potential.
We continuously review the designed to attract school leavers model and the long-term interests of our ways we engage, reward and develop and graduates, provide on the job shareholders.
our people to ensure Close Brothers learning and support studies towards remains an attractive place to work.
We also We also conducted a comprehensive focus on supporting internal career review of our benefits package, Engaging our people mobility by advertising the majority of our introducing new and enhanced benefits, Engaged employees are more roles internally and identifying internal to support further our people in the committed to their work and their successors through regular talent forums areas that are most important to them.
organisation and we believe they are across the organisation.
We assessed the impact of the benefits likely to perform better and stay with review as part of the latest employee the firm longer if they feel valued and Our Training Academy, which launched survey and we are pleased that 80% of supported.
We monitor the engagement in 2015 to develop our own sales our employees reported their satisfaction of our staff through an externally run professionals in asset finance, has made with the enhanced benefits package.
group-wide Employee Opinion Survey, good progress with 20 of the initial which we last conducted in January candidates becoming qualified sales To encourage our staff to save for 2017. managers in August 2017. the future and build long-term share ownership, we offer a Save As You Earn The results showed that we have Close Brothers Asset Management also scheme as well as a Buy As You Earn continued to build on the strengths continues to run its Adviser Academy share incentive plan allowing employees highlighted in surveys from previous which is designed to develop skills to acquire shares on a monthly basis out years, with 90% of employees who and provide career advancement of pre-tax earnings.
Currently 48% of our completed the survey indicating that opportunities for our financial advisers.
employees are participating in at least they are satisfied with working at Close We have expanded the programme with one of these schemes.
Brothers, an improvement on our more of our advisers encouraged previously strong score of 88%.
In line to study towards a professional Diversity and equality with our previous surveys, areas of qualification to support further their Our latest employee survey indicated strength across the group continue to be career development.
that 89% of our people believe that our strong customer focus and our team Close Brothers treats their employees working culture.
As in previous years, we In addition to the existing programmes, fairly regardless of gender, ethnicity or for had a high overall response rate of 85% we have launched a new Guru Network any other diversity reasons.
which gives credibility to these results.
designed to capture and share the knowledge of our internal experts who will be invited to facilitate internal learning and knowledge sharing sessions.
Close Close B Br ro ot th he er rs s G Gr rou oup p p plc lc A Ann nnu ua all R Re epor port t 2 20 01 17 7 38 38 S Sus ust ta aiina nab biilliit ty y Re Rep po or rt t c co on nt tiin nued ued 44% Female employees 38% Female board representation Leadership team leading by example, with our chief executive being a member of the 30% Club, an institution focused on promoting good gender balance at all levels in organisations.
We participate in their cross-company mentoring scheme aimed at helping to develop a broader pipeline of women at all levels.
Workshops aimed at raising awareness about unconscious bias and the benefits of supporting female talent.
Implementing a new recruitment system which allows us to monitor the diversity of job applicants, to ensure that we are attracting potential candidates from a variety of backgrounds.
Aiming for a 50:50 gender split at assessment centre for all entry-level roles across the group to broaden further the diversity of our talent pool.
Our workforce remains diverse, with 44% female employees, and we already meet the voluntary target set by the Women on Boards Davies Review and the Hampton-Alexander Review published in November 2016, which recommend a minimum of 33% female directors for FTSE 350 companies by 2020.
Our 38% female representation Photographed on location at Piling Equipment Ltd. significantly exceeds the current average female representation on FTSE 250 across all our people related activities, Our Equal Opportunity and Dignity at boards of 21%.
including compensation review, talent Work policy is in place to ensure equal and succession planning, leadership and respectful treatment for all our We also have a broad age range of programmes, the development of our employees.
This includes additional employees with 26% of our employees benefits package, recruitment, training support to disabled employees and being under 30 years old and 15% and development.
We aim to make reasonable over 50. adjustments to the working environment Further initiatives that we have in place to to minimise potential difficulties and Focus on our Customers support diversity include: provide suitable training or offer Our customers are typically small Enhanced maternity, adoption and alternative solutions where possible.
to medium-sized enterprises and shared parental leave.
This reflects our strong commitment individuals with whom we build lasting Promoting flexible working where to creating and promoting a diverse relationships.
They know they can rely possible and providing emergency workforce, with focus on supporting all on our commitment to provide them with back up care.
individuals irrespective of their gender, consistently high levels of service and in race, age, disability, sexual orientation or religion.
We apply this approach Strategic Report Close Close B Br ro ot th he er rs s G Gr rou oup p p plc lc A Ann nnu ua all R Re epor port t 2 20 01 17 7 39 39 Gender Diversity Male Female 1 Number of board directors 5 3 2 Number of directors of subsidiaries 46 8 3 Number of senior employees, other than board directors 47 8 Number of employees, other than board directors and senior employees 1,655 1,384 1 Includes non-executive directors, excluded from group headcount calculations.
2 Includes subsidiary directors who are excluded from group headcount calculations.
3 Senior employees identified as Material Risk Takers who are not directors or subsidiary directors.
return they reward us with consistently Our conduct risk framework continues Customer experience high levels of repeat business.
to include monthly management As we strive to maintain the highest information that provides senior standards in all our dealings with clients We want to remain a trusted partner, management with a broad view of and partners, we continue to improve by behaving ethically and responsibly conduct related behaviours.
This customer experience across all our in all our dealings with customers.
We management information is analysed businesses whether direct to customer continuously listen to their feedback and assessed each month to provide orintermediated.
and are committed to improving their assurance that we treat customers fairly experience and expectations.
and continue to operate in line with our Over the year we developed capabilities customer principles.
within the Banking division which focus on To this end we continue to run customer data and analytics, customer insight and forums and surveys at both a divisional Our privacy policy ensures the protection experience, and operational excellence, and business unit level so we understand and correct treatment of client data in by recruiting small teams of experts, and manage the changing needs and accordance with the Data Protection Act who operate across our businesses and expectations of our customers.
During the year, we commenced help to improve and deliver changes to reflected in consistently high satisfaction our GDPR programme to ensure that the way we operate.
Over the year, they levels amongst our Asset Management we continue to meet high standards helped re-design customer journeys and clients.
In addition, we have built Centres of protection and handling of personal corresponding operational processes in a of Excellence across the Banking division data in line with the new regulatory number of areas.
which focus on improving internal requirements for May 2018. processes and enhancing customer As a recent example, we have reviewed experience.
We strive to ensure that our complaints the way in which our premium finance handling process is as fair as possible customers interact with our brokers Responsible finance and we continuously review and improve through a programme of primary research Within the Banking division, we focus on internal processes to deliver fast and and customer journey mapping.
The five key customer principles: satisfactory outcomes for our customers.
data we gathered helped us develop new We are responsible lenders and We take all complaints seriously, with digital capabilities that will better serve deposit takers.
each division monitoring customer both our customers and our brokers as We seek to ensure the right outcomes complaints separately, to ensure they are they transact with us every day.
dealt with efficiently and promptly and We endeavour to ensure our pricing is that actions are taken to address issues Our operational excellence team has fair and appropriate.
worked closely with the businesses to We are clear and consistent in the way identify areas of operations that can be we communicate with customers.
We have policies and training in place to easily improved to enhance customer We expect our standards to be upheld ensure our staff can identify vulnerable experience.
Through introduction of by our partners.
customers and that they are treated fairly selective process automation we have in our interaction with them.
This remains proved that we can quickly and cost We regularly collect feedback on how an area of focus for our Customer effectively address points of friction for we perform against these principles via Forums, through regular thematic customers while improving levels of customer and staff surveys, targeted reviews of our conduct.
research, complaints analysis and mystery shopping exercises.
We continue to monitor and enhance In addition we developed a our systems and controls to safeguard comprehensive training programme In support of these customer principles customers data and protect our business designed to create a culture of we have a wide range of policies in place and have invested over the year in continuous improvement across our across all our divisions to ensure that expertise and technology to further organisation and recognise our people our staff and management are aware strengthen our internal capabilities.
We also as they seek out ways to improve of their responsibilities towards our remain a member of governments Cyber experience for customers, intermediaries customers.
We promote best practice Security Information Sharing Partnership, and colleagues alike.
and strict compliance with relevant rules which provides early warning of potential and regulations supported by a range of system failure or cyber-attack and allows compulsory training for all employees.
intelligence sharing across the industry.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 40 Sustainability Report continued Photographed on location at Alicat Workboats Ltd. Our continued focus on improving Close Brothers Asset Finance Close Brothers Invoice Finance customer experience is also reflected in consistently high customer survey results across our Asset Management division with 100% of customers across Bespoke Investment Management and 94% of customers across financial planning and Named the UKs Best Factoring & Invoice advice expressing satisfaction with the Winner of the Finance Provider of the Year Discounting Provider at the Business services received.
In addition, over 96% at the Commercial Motor Dealer Awards.
Moneyfacts Awards, for the 4th year.
of our clients remain satisfied that their investment manager or financial adviser understands their needs.
Close Br others Motor Finance Close Br others Retail Finance The strong focus on our customers is further reflected in our many awards won during the year, some of which are presented on the left.
Winner of the New Product Product Winner of the Bank owned Finance Improvement category Loving the Provider of the year at the Motor Finance Social responsibility customer.
Compliance with regulatory requirements is essential not only from the relevant regulators perspective but also to maintain the trust of our customers.
Close Brothers Asset Close Brothers Asset Management Management We have a wide range of policies in place across all of our divisions to ensure that our staff and management comply with all regulatory requirements and adhere to the highest professional and ethical standards Winner of the Client Service Quality Winner of the Investment Performance: in dealing with our customers, suppliers award for high net worth individuals.
Cautious Portfolios award for high net and each other.
We require all staff to worth individuals.
complete the relevant regulatory training on an annual basis with further training offered when required.
Some of the group wide policies and regulations include: Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 41 We have introduced an online risk Charitable activities Anti-money laundering regulations assessment process in order to manage Our employees are directly involved with We have implemented policies and site specific risks as appropriate choosing their favourite community and procedures in accordance with antiand have implemented a new online health charity partners as part of the money laundering regulations and have Display Screen Equipment training regular employee survey.
For the first dedicated money laundering reporting and assessment process to assist our time the NSPCC was selected as our officers where required.
employees in effectively managing community charity partner, while Cancer the hazards and risks associated with Research UK remained our health Anti-bribery and corruption policy computer use.
charity partner for the fifth year.
Funds We operate a zero tolerance approach raised from group-wide activities is to bribery and corruption, ensuring Focus on our Communities equally split between these two charities.
compliance with all applicable antiCommunity engagement is important bribery and corruption laws and to our people and their care and The groups charitable donations regulations, including the UK Bribery Act contribution to charitable matters is reached 257,264 during the 2017 2010. reflected in our active corporate and financial year.
Whistle-blowing policy To this end, we continue to invest in a We encourage our employees to report number of community based initiatives any activity that may constitute a violation and support the charitable causes that of laws, regulations or internal policy and 257,264 our employees are passionate about.
reporting channels are provided to staff for this purpose within the framework of Raised for charity in 2017 The group CSR Committee is chaired a whistle-blowing policy.
by our group head of human resources and supported by employees across Our comprehensive whistle-blowing Our annual group-wide charity week, the group.
The CSR committee meets procedures comply with the new rules which consisted of a number of locally regularly to discuss and propose new that came into effect in September 2016. organised events for staff, as well as initiatives with an oversight from risk and We have enhanced the existing policies some group-wide initiatives, was the compliance when required.
We also by an appointment of a whistle-blowers most successful ever.
We have also have a number of local CSR committees champion and a confidential telephone collectively raised over 100,000 for which run initiatives to raise funds for local whistle-blowing service, operated by a Cancer Research in calendar year 2016, charities.
which has never been achieved by our group in just one year before.
We are Community initiatives Human rights and Modern Slavery Act proud of this achievement as only a few The Close Brothers SME Apprentice The board gives due regard to human of Cancer Research UKs corporate Programme continued the success of its rights considerations, as defined under partners reach this amount.
Close first two years by launching phase three of the European Convention on Human Brothers is also the exclusive sponsor the initiative.
To date we have contributed Rights and the UK Human Rights of a Dogs for Good assistance puppy, to the funding of 40 new apprentices within Act1998.
supporting the initial training for a future the manufacturing sector in and around assistance dog.
the Sheffield and Birmingham areas.
This We are aware of our responsibilities and year, we are proud to be working with obligations under the Modern Slavery In order to encourage further our staff to the Road Haulage Association RHA to Act with the appropriate policies and fundraise and volunteer for the charities launch a new initiative that addresses the training in place to ensure compliance they support, the Close Brothers skills gap within the transport sector by across the organisation.
Matched Giving Scheme matches 50% funding 20 SME members of the RHA, of funds raised or donates 8 per hour who might otherwise be unable to take on Employee health and safety policy of voluntary time given by employees.
This new partnership Our health and safety policy ensures We also match funds raised by other with the RHA cements our long established the provision of a safe and healthy local, organised fundraising activities, and continued commitment to help SMEs working environment for our employees encouraging employees to work together secure the skills they need for future growth.
and visitors in accordance with The to raise money for causes that are close Management of Health and Safety at to their hearts.
This year we matched Close Brothers Asset Management Work Regulations 1999. over 100,000, an increase of nearly continues to run our Trustee Leadership 50% compared to last year.
Programme in partnership with social The Health and Safety Committee enterprise Cause 4.
This programme continues to meet on a quarterly basis In addition, we match contributions provides a fulfilling and career enriching and we are proud of the progress made under our Payroll Giving scheme, which opportunity for young professionals over the year in successfully raising allows employee donations to be made to take on a board level role within the health and safety profile across the directly from pre-tax salary.
Around 13% a charity while also providing the business.
This year we recorded 31 of employees across the group are signed charities themselves with a fresh incidents across all of our sites, of which up to Payroll Giving, allowing us to maintain and diverse pool of potential board the majority relate to low risk slip, trip or our Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award members.
The programme is open to fall, with only two reportable accidents for the seventh consecutive year.
Close Brothers employees as well as in the year.
During the year we expanded the programme to Manchester and Bristol, following the successful launch in London in 2014.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 42 Sustainability Report continued Photographed on location at BCW Engineering Ltd. Focus on our Environment We continue to monitor our energy Waste reduction and recycling As a financial services company we consumption and greenhouse gas We have reduced water and electricity require limited natural resources to emissions across the business via a consumption at our head office for the operate and therefore have limited third party provider.
Our head office second year and continue to monitor environmental impact.
Notwithstanding also participated in the CDP formerly waste production via a third party this, we care about the environment the Carbon Disclosure Project, which provider.
Waste recycling is encouraged we operate in and are aware of our involves disclosure of our greenhouse in all our offices and in 2017 at our head responsibility to protect natural resources gas emissions on a voluntary basis.
office we achieved a recycling rate of and to behave sustainably.
91%, avoiding 251 cubic metres of landfill Our employees are encouraged to reduce and saving 195 trees.
We also remain a significant provider their individual environmental impact of finance to the green energy sector by leasing of low emission cars and Greenhouse gas GHG emissions by providing finance for wind, solar and participating in the cycle to work scheme.
In line with the GHG Protocol framework, hydro power developments.
we have calculated the GHG emissions Consideration of environmental risks and associated with our Scope 1 and 2 Energy consumption ethical standards is explicitly required as operations.
Scope 1 includes fuel The majority of our environmental impact part of any credit underwriting proposal emissions from buildings and company is driven by staff travel, our supply chain under our bank Credit Policy.
We only vehicles and Scope 2 includes our and our office network.
We continue lend against asset types defined in our emissions from electricity.
to monitor ways to reduce our impact credit policies and dont finance arms by lowering our energy consumption or onshore oil development, or lend We do not currently report our Scope and reducing emissions.
Each of our internationally outside narrowly defined 3 emissions as they form a small businesses manages its resources and areas.
proportion 3% of our total emissions recycling locally and we work closely and are not deemed to be material to our with all of our business locations to footprint.
We do collect some Scope 3 encourage the implementation of data for water, waste and non-company additional ways to reduce energy use.
vehicles grey fleet and we will continue to collect the data for Scope 3 emissions with the intention of reporting them in the future.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 43 GHG Scope 1 and 2 Emissions by Division tCO e 2 4,035 4,088 977 977 878 811 787 817 Group Banking Securities Asset Management 2.
13 2017 2016 tCO e per employee, 2 Note: Group reflects the group headquarters which includes some Banking division businesses.
reduction of 7% GHG Emissions Summary tCO e 2 Scope GHG emissions source 2017 2016 Scope 1 Fuel Buildings 172 160 Fuel Owned vehicles 3,199 3,229 Scope 2 Electricity 3,269 3,341 Total GHG emissions 6,640 6,730 Average number of employees 3,114 2,946 Total per employee 2.13 2.28 In 2017, our total GHG emissions Calculation The Strategic Report was approved by were 6,640 tonnes of carbon dioxide We have continued to gather data the board and signed on its behalf by: equivalent tCO e, equating to working with an independent third party 2 2.13tCO e per employee, down 1.3% GHG emissions reporting company.
This 2 overall and 6.7% per employee since verifies the accuracy of our data and Preben Prebensen 2016.
We were pleased to achieve a enables us to monitor our performance.
Chief Executive reduction across both Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in 2017.
The largest Our total GHG emissions are reported 26 September 2017 source of GHG emissions remains our as tCO e and are calculated in line with 2 Scope 2 electricity consumption, albeit the GHG Protocol framework.
In addition this is lower than the previous year.
The to reporting our total Scope 1 and 2 reduction in electricity emissions reflects emissions, we have also disclosed the energy efficiency improvements to our emissions per employee as an intensity offices and a reduction in the emissions metric to enable a comparable analysis factor used to calculate electricity in future disclosures.
Outlook Given its relative size our Banking We will continue to monitor and report division continues to account for the our GHG emissions, working to improve majority of our GHG emissions.
our energy efficiency across our businesses.
A full breakdown of our 2017 GHG emissions, together with corresponding We encourage our offices to report their data for 2016, is shown in the table Scope 3 emissions for water and waste above.
each quarter, where this information is available, to facilitate continued performance monitoring.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 44 Because we operate in diverse business areas, our teams comprise of industry specialists, not just generalists.
Many of our team have first-hand experience of working within their industry this specialist knowledge helps us make fast, firm decisions.
Photographed on location at The Morgan Motor Company Ltd.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 45 Governance 46 Board of Directors 48 Executive Committee 50 Directors Report 54 Corporate Governance Report 62 R isk Committee Report 64 Audit Committee Report 67 Nomination and Governance Committee Report 69 Directors Remuneration Re port
