Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 O UR A PPRO A CH T O R E S P O N S IBL E B U S INE S S P R O M O T IN G A C U LT U R E O F R E S P O N S IB L E B U S INE S S I S F U ND A ME N TA L T O A C HIE V IN G O U R V IS I O N O F D E L I V E R IN G INN O VAT I V E S O LU T I O NS F O R T HE W O R L DS C H A L L E N G E S A ND T O HE L P IN G U S B EC O ME O NE O F T HE W O R L DS L E A D IN G T EC HN O L O G Y C O MPA NIE S Our Responsible Business governance Identifying our responsible business At Smiths, being a responsible framework priorities business is firmly embedded in Strong governance is essential to We use our strategy, risk management the ways we think and operate.
embedding responsible business practices and stakeholder engagement processes across the Group.
Our Board of directors to identify focus areas.
We engage with With around 22,000 people working in oversees our approach to responsible a wide range of stakeholders including more than 50 countries, it is important business, including our Code of Business our employees, customers, investors, that we maintain the highest standards Ethics the Code.
The Board sets industry bodies and suppliers around of corporate responsibility.
Behaving our strategic and financial objectives, the world on an ongoing basis and use ethically, working safely, providing establishes high ethical standards and their insights and feedback to help shape high-quality innovative solutions, robust risk management frameworks, our activities and communication.
reducing our environmental impact, and monitors succession planning.
developing and engaging our people, We also use a range of external sources and contributing to our communities is The Audit Committee monitors how to identify potential issues.
These include fundamental to our long-term success.
we implement and comply with the regulatory guidelines and legislation: peer Code.
It reports to the Board on the reviews: sustainability standards and Many of our products and services deliver effectiveness of our internal controls guidelines: and experts and consultants.
valuable benefits to society and the and processes to identify, evaluate and environment, helping to reduce harm, manage significant business risks, Through this process we have identified keep people safe, improve efficiency including potential violations of the Code.
a number of material issues, grouped and minimise environmental impact.
under our five focus areas Ethics: The Chief Executive and Executive Health, Safety and Environment: As a global technology company Committee are responsible for delivering People: Products: and Communities.
operating in highly regulated sectors, our responsible business strategy.
They operating responsibly also helps champion the strategy within the business, Our responsible business strategy us create long-term value by: setting and continually reinforcing the tone Our Group-wide responsible business from the top.
This includes ensuring the strategy sets out our approach to Enhancing our reputation with our Code is upheld, implementing supporting these focus areas, underpinned by people, customers, suppliers and policies, setting targets and reviewing a robust governance framework investors performance across key areas.
Winning business from customers who value responsible business performance Our corporate centre helps foster our We set Group performance targets across Improving efficiency and reducing costs sustainable business culture.
It sets a number of areas of responsibility, Providing a safe and ethical work governance and risk management and our sites and divisions regularly environment that supports health and frameworks, and develops tools, policies report their performance.
productivity, and reduces the risk of an and programmes that help to embed a ethical breach strong culture of responsible behaviour Attracting and retaining key talent in and continuous improvement across the an increasingly competitive market Group including the Smiths Excellence System.
Our divisions tailor these programmes to reflect their specific business needs and local regulations.
68 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 employees.
Our Chief Executive and a global centre of excellence for trade E T HI C S Executive Committee champion our compliance and launching a new Gifts, values and the Code, and set the tone Meals and Entertainment Policy.
through communications and interactions Integrity is one of our core values with employees and stakeholders.
We are committed to upholding all and underpins our commitment internationally recognised human rights to doing business the right way.
It We give everyone a copy of the Code when standards wherever we operate.
We support it with an online not tolerate any use of child or forced supports our ambition to establish training course and refresher training every labour within our facilities or those of Smiths as one of the worlds two years.
Both the Code and the training our suppliers.
During FY2017, we rolled leading technology companies.
come in our top 19 operating languages.
out a policy and risk assessment to help address modern slavery risks.
This We want everyone to feel confident about can be found on www.
Being ethical means applying our speaking up if they have a concern.
We offer shared values to our everyday actions an independently operated, confidential Our Supplier Code of Business Ethics, and decisions.
Acting with integrity Ethics Alertline for those who feel informs our suppliers, contract helps to protect our reputation, uncomfortable with raising an issue with manufacturers and other third parties business and people, safeguard our their manager.
In FY2017, 182 issues were exactly what we expect of them in terms shareholders investment and support reported via the Alertline, all of which were of ethics, compliance, human rights, our ambition to become one of the thoroughly investigated and disciplinary and social and environmental issues.
action was taken in 26 instances.
As a global organisation we have to comply We are continuously improving our Education and compliance with numerous local and regional laws.
approach and strengthening our ethical We regularly review and update our To support this, we revised our Export and culture, so that everyone knows what is ethics training materials in line with Import Controls Policy to provide better expected of them, where they could face changes to risks and regulations.
We also conduct exposure to ethical risks, how to ask for training programmes cover risk areas regular site-based reviews of trade activity help and where to report concerns.
such as competition and antitrust, to identify and manage any areas of risk.
anti-bribery and corruption, modern The Board is ultimately responsible slavery, and trade and export controls.
FY2018 priorities for the ethical conduct of the Group Refresh and roll out our Code of Business and our employees.
On behalf of the Throughout the year we arrange global Ethics and associated training Board, the Audit Committee assesses forums to deepen our managers Upgrade the Ethics Alertline operating the ethical risks to our reputation and understanding of the ethical challenges system and raise employee awareness performance, monitors the implementation facing the business.
In FY2017, we held Hold regional ethics conferences in India of the Code, and reviews reports and regional events in growth markets and Eastern Europe investigations from our Ethics Alertline.
such as Dubai, Indonesia, Thailand and Continue to enhance our risk They are supported by our crossChina, as well as our Global Business management tools to better assess divisional Business Ethics Council Ethics Forum in San Diego, California.
ethical risks, site by site and Ethics and Compliance team, who Refresh and roll out our Supplier Code of design and implement our compliance During FY2017, we continued to align Business Ethics and continue to embed programme, manage our Ethics Alertline, and strengthen our global compliance our pre-qualification questionnaire for investigate breach allegations and programme across the business, further new suppliers promote the Code across the Group.
enhancing our central policies, training Oversee the ongoing implementation They are supported by internal teams and oversight, including establishing of our Anti-Modern Slavery Policy including HR, Legal and Internal Audit.
We aim to continuously reinforce a DOING THE RIGHT THING strong ethical culture and enhance our compliance programmes to address evolving areas of risk.
In FY2017, our Integrity is one of our core values and principal compliance programmes included doing the right thing is at the heart of modern slavery risks: trade compliance: what it means to work at Smiths and it supplier conduct: anti-bribery and was the theme of our FY2017 Business corruption: antitrust: and data protection.
and Ethics conference, which brought together 100 leaders from across the Culture organisation to consider the ethical Our shared values underpin a culture issues we face at Smiths.
of doing the right thing, every time, while the Code provides more detailed guidance on our expectations of 69 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 O U R A P P R O A C H T O R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S C O N T I N U E D HE A LT H, S A F E T Y A ND E N V IR O NME N T HSE management and compliance waste generation of 15%, and water At Smiths we are determined Our management systems help us identify usage of 10% by FY2018, all normalised to achieve world-class health, and prioritise HSE risks across the Group.
By installing more energysafety and environmental They drive continuous improvement and efficient equipment, implementing water HSE performance.
Wherever provide the externally verified framework reuse programmes and focusing on we operate, we aim to provide behind a consistent, best-practice green energy contracts, we have made approach to HSE management.
Our HSE good progress against these objectives.
injury-free and environmentally performance against Group targets is responsible workplaces.
tracked on a site-by-site basis using Compared to our baseline year of FY2013, dedicated HSE management software, and we have achieved good progress in is reviewed by the Executive Committee.
reducing our environmental metrics, with We are committed to protecting our GHG and non-recycled waste already people, communities, customers and We use external auditors to check exceeding our five-year goal and water the environment.
This commitment is compliance at sites, often as part of their consumption on target.
During FY2017, demonstrated by our comprehensive HSE management system certification.
Audit our overall environmental performance Policy available at www.
com and findings drive corrective action plans and continued its long-term improvement trend our HSE governance framework.
Together, are shared with other sites to promote with normalised reductions in energy, water we are creating a culture that prioritises best practice.
usage and GHG emissions, while nonthe health and wellbeing of our people and recycled waste remained broadly in line.
minimises our impact on the environment.
Environmental performance Absolute environmental metrics reduced To ensure we are using energy and natural in 2017 with 4% energy, 9% water usage, Our Chief Executive has ultimate oversight resources efficiently, we implement world- 7% GHG, and 2% non-recycled waste.
Working closely class production processes that decrease with the Executive Committee, he is waste and energy consumption.
We also See our 2017 Responsible Business responsible for executing our Groupinvest in low-carbon technologies and Report or our website www.
com wide HSE strategy, implementing our environmental management systems that for a detailed review of environmental policies and processes, and meeting our drive improvement in our performance.
To ensure these principles are fully and effectively embedded, the In FY2013 we set new five-year Energy and greenhouse gas president of each division sets HSE environmental targets, having exceeded We measure and monitor energy programmes specific to their business.
previous targets two years early.
Using consumption at a site level using our tracking They are supported by the HSE Technical FY2013 as the baseline, our targets are software, which provides a consolidated view Committee who track performance, to achieve a reduction of energy usage, of overall performance across the Group.
and identify areas for improvement.
Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions and Our Energy and Greenhouse Gas Policy By developing a shared approach to GHG EMISSIONS HSE across the Group, we manage our Emission FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 safety and environmental risks more Absolute values effectively and provide better protection Scope 1 direct emissions t CO e 11,000 12,000 14,000 2 for our employees, our communities, the Scope 2 indirect emissions t CO e 62,000 69,000 81,000 2 environment and shareholder value.
Total t CO e 73,000 81,000 95,000 2 Normalised values Scope 1 direct emissions t CO e m revenue 3.74 3.95 4.54 2 Scope 2 indirect emissions t CO e m revenue 20.83 22.56 26.08 2 Total t CO e m revenue 24.57 26.51 30.62 2 70 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 see www.
com sets out our WORKPL ACE HEALTH AND SAFET Y approach to managing the impacts of our FY2017 FY2016 FY2015 business, and action plans and best Recordable incident rate practices are shared across the Group.
Where employees require medical attention beyond Our GHG emissions calculations and first aid per 100 employees per year 0.36 0.47 0.55 reporting follows the Greenhouse Gas Lost time incident rate Protocol operational approach and Where employee is unable cover emissions from all sources under to work the day following our control, grouped under: Scope an incident per 100 employees per year 0.16 0.14 0.22 1 direct GHG emissions from owned assets: and Scope 2 GHG emissions from supplied electricity.
Emissions from company vehicles, production processes and fugitive sources are small and not deemed to be material and, as such, are not included in reported totals.
Workplace health and safety Our people are our most important asset and we are committed to protecting their health, safety and wellbeing and delivering a culture of zero harm.
To achieve this, we are rolling out a series of Group-wide initiatives that drive continual improvements in our safety culture and shape our behaviours, while reducing exposure to risks.
We monitor various leading and lagging measures for health and safety.
Safety Leading Indicator Activities assess initiatives undertaken by sites to improve performance and are established as a company KPI.
We also monitor the Recordable Incident Rate RIR and Lost Time Incident Rate LTIR across the Group, measured per 100 employees per year.
Since 2004, we have cut our RIR from 4.6 to 0.36, achieving TAKING OWNERSHIP OF HEALTH AND SAFETY our lowest RIR in FY2017.
Our LTIR increased slightly to 0.16 in FY2017.
With service teams often working in external environments outside our direct control, their ability to recognise unsafe conditions and act accordingly is critical.
FY2018 priorities Smiths Detection has launched a new online training tool and web-based mobile Continue to improve our safety risk assessment platform thats giving both leadership and field service engineers a performance and draw ever closer to our better understanding of how to stay safe when working off-site.
We encourage target of zero injuries everyone at Smiths to take ownership of both their own health and safety and that of Develop a new set of environmental goals their colleagues, and this tool is helping our service teams do just that.
for our next commitment period RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE PER 100 EMPLOYEES 0.36 71 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 O U R A P P R O A C H T O R E S P O N S I B L E B U S I N E S S C O N T I N U E D dialogue across the Group, with a refreshed Reward and recognition PE O PL E set of questions that better align with our Recognising and rewarding our employees new strategy and culture, more granular in a fair and transparent way ensures that reporting, and increased frequency.
We our people feel incentivised to succeed, People are our one truly sustainable achieved a participation rate of 82% and that strong performance is recognised, source of competitive advantage and an employee engagement score of 71 and that individuals are differentiated critical to our growth strategy.
We are across the Group in our latest survey.
The based on abilities and results.
To data and insights gathered will be used reinforce this, a global grading project is passionate about helping them fulfil to identify global priorities for FY2018.
being rolled-out to help identify distinct their potential so we can reach ours.
career paths for all employees.
Initially Leadership and learning focusing on our leadership population, Providing our employees with the best the programme will be rolled out to the Our people strategy is focused on learning and development opportunities wider organisation during FY2018.
building a learning organisation that is a vital aspect of our people plan.
attracts, retains, engages, develops During the year, we introduced new Line managers and HR professionals and inspires the very best people.
We incentive plans for some of our employees work with employees to identify their do this by focusing on four key areas that align individual objectives with the skills, areas for improvement and culture, leadership and learning, reward delivery of our growth strategy, such development opportunities.
These personal and recognition, and infrastructure.
as Smiths Excellence System and sales development plans form a key part of our targets.
Incentive plans are adapted each annual performance review process.
Culture, engagement and communication year as specific focus areas change.
We are building a culture based on our Competition for talent is increasing so it Diversity and inclusion shared values of integrity, respect, is essential we can identify and engage Respect is one of our core values and we ownership, customer focus and passion with our leaders through world-class aim to provide an inclusive, collaborative and we are doing this through the Smiths development programmes.
In FY2017 culture where respecting diversity is woven Way, which we launched in April 2017.
As we launched an executive development into everything we do.
We ensure that well as using our shared values to guide programme in partnership with UCLA equal opportunities are practiced when our decisions and behaviours, we are Anderson Executive Education.
The interviewing, recruiting and promoting aligning globally on key initiatives and programme currently has two streams employees with decisions made based on a shared operating model to make us a leadership and strategy, and finance skills and expertise first and foremost.
bigger, better, more focused Smiths.
and has been successfully piloted with a cohort of our senior leaders, with three In FY2017 we introduced a Group Culture We use regular surveys to measure further cohorts set to participate in and Diversity function to increase our engagement and gather insights into our FY2018.
These programmes challenge focus on diversity and inclusiveness across employees experience and perceptions.
and engage our team and enhance the business.
Specific diversity-focused A new survey My Say was launched in their core leadership capabilities.
questions were added to the engagement FY2017 to encourage an ongoing, two-way survey, and an online training course addressing unconscious bias was piloted across several business functions.
SMITHS EXCELLENCE AWARDS We believe that recognition is broader than reward and compensation and the Smiths Excellence Awards recognise the highest levels of achievement across our six pillars of Excellence, as well as outstanding contributions to Health and Safety and our communities.
This year, we expanded the programme to celebrate success more widely and further embed Excellence across the business by rolling out a tiered scheme, with divisional winners being rolled up into an overarching Group scheme.
The winning teams were celebrated at a gala dinner and received a $1,000 contribution to a charity of their choice.
72 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 We are committed to broadening the DIVERSIT Y PERFORMANCE diversity of our workforce and are Male Female Total developing programmes such as our Board of directors 7 2 9 global Womens Leadership Network Senior managers 218 36 254 that increase the diversity of candidates Employees total 13,600 8,300 21,900 for senior positions.
At the end of Senior managers are as defined by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations FY2017, 38% of our global workforce 2013, which includes employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the and 14% of our senior managers were Group or a strategically significant part of the Group other than Board members and or who are directors of subsidiary undertakings.
In addition, two of our Board directors are women, representing 22% of the Board as at 31 July 2017.
It is our policy to provide equal employment opportunities.
The Group recruits, selects and promotes employees on the basis of their qualifications, skills, aptitude and attitude.
In employment-related decisions, we comply with all applicable antidiscrimination requirements in the relevant jurisdictions.
People with disabilities are given full consideration for employment and subsequent training including retraining, if needed, for people who have become disabled, career development and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
We endeavour to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing job because of disability.
We believe all our employees should be treated with respect and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group respects the right of each employee to join or not to join a trade union or other bona fide employee representative organisation.
FY2018 priorities Continue to embed the Smiths Way of IMPROVING MOTIVATION ON THE SHOP FLOOR working, including our shared values Integrate workforce planning with talent Recognising the key role supervisors play in employee engagement and operational development to ensure we develop the performance, John Crane launched a Supervisor Development Programme in right people to drive our strategy Bangalore, India.
By building the knowledge and skillset of site supervisors, the Develop and implement our unique programme has increased motivation and engagement among shop floor employer brand to help attract and retain production teams, as well as creating a new passion for learning.
the best talent Continue the roll-out of our global Sathishbabu Palani, Continuous Improvement Manager at John Crane said: job-grading programme to support The scheme has been really successful its enabling our people to become the creation of new job opportunities, better coaches to their teams and ultimately improve safety, productivity and career paths, and aligned remuneration team engagement.
across Smiths 73 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 O U R R E S P O N S IB L E B U S INE S S C O N T I N U E D P R OD U C T S Many of our solutions play a missionBy developing leading-edge, critical role in our customers PROTECTING THE mission-critical solutions, we help operations and ensuring consistently EN V IRONMEN T to drive safety, security, health, high standards of quality and safety productivity, reliability, connectivity through their manufacture, distribution John Cranes non-contacting gas and progress around the world, and end use is essential to our seal technology has been helping to reputation and long-term success.
Our solutions enable protect the environment for nearly customers to operate in safe, 40 years.
This innovation helped The Smiths Excellence System drives efficient and environmentallyslash methane emissions from our approach to quality, both within centrifugal compressor shaft seals friendly ways, and we ensure that Smiths operations and throughout by a factor of 10 helping natural our products meet the highest our supply chain, ensuring consistent gas processing and transmission best practice across the business.
standards of quality and safety.
companies reduce their carbon We are also committed to using footprint across the world.
Gas Seal materials that are ethically and safely technology is now the fide facto sourced.
Where possible, we look for From Smiths Medicals products which are standard on new equipment and can ways to design out or replace less vital to patient care globally: and Smiths be readily retrofit into most existing sustainable materials and chemicals Detections security scanners, which play a equipment in the field.
used in our manufacturing processes vital role in enhancing security around the with more sustainable alternatives.
world: to John Cranes seals, which help its customers reduce their environmental Technological differentiation is critical impact we provide innovative solutions to to outperforming in our chosen markets some of the worlds toughest challenges.
on a sustainable basis and innovation is a key part of our growth strategy.
Our New Product Introduction process assesses the current and future needs of INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCT customers and considers health, safety, D E V EL O P M EN T security and environmental outcomes when determining and developing the solutions that make up the pipeline.
150M PROTECTING PEOPLE FROM DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES The threat of fentanyl, a highly dangerous pain relief drug that can be absorbed through the skin, is on the rise and Smiths Detection has adapted its leading-edge technology to detect and identify it helping protect the security and health professionals coming into contact with this dangerous substance in emergency situations.
And the ReachBackID 24 7 hotline service has been enhanced so first responders using our products in the field can speak directly to PhD scientists to help them better analyse situations and reduce risk.
74 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C O MM U NI T IE S Supporting the communities in which we operate helps drive prosperity locally providing jobs, boosting the economy and supporting local initiatives as well as enhancing both employee engagement and our reputation as an employer.
Given the diversity of our business, we manage our community relationships and charitable programmes at a local level, so each business can focus on its own markets and communities.
We also offer Group-level support to charities and organisations that can show how a donation will increase the wellbeing of people through improvements to their education, health, welfare or environment.
In FY2017 the Group made charitable donations of 348,000.
In addition, our FUNDING FOR COMMUNITY GIVING employees donated and raised money for a CLEAN WATER IN COSTA RICA number of good causes, through a range of fundraising initiatives across the business.
Clean water is in short supply in many The team at Smiths Interconnect, parts of the world.
In the developing Costa Rica, ran a wide-ranging Our global footprint means we generate nations people have to walk around community programme during the financial value for a wide range of 5km each day to collect water thats year.
The team supported projects communities.
As well as paying often dirty and contaminated.
ranging from sponsoring a shelter for wages and benefits to our c. 22,000 at-risk teenagers and young mothers employees worldwide, we contribute To help raise funds for clean water, providing food, clothing and baby to local economies through taxes, Smiths Medical organised a global supplies, as well as helping with duties, infrastructure investment, and sponsored water walk across its sites.
building repairs and maintenance purchase of local goods and services.
In total, more than 1,800 employees through to a re-forestation project in from 26 sites took part in 5km walks.
We encourage our people to get involved Together they walked 10,000km, in their local communities as it promotes donated 25,000 litres of water The team of volunteers showed real employee engagement and builds a through water collection drives passion for the initiative and were sense of pride in our business.
We and raised money for the Red Cross recognised at our 2017 Smiths celebrate the best of these initiatives and other charities.
Excellence Awards as an outstanding through our Excellence Awards scheme.
example of supporting local The ten winning teams from across our communities where we operate.
Excellence pillars also receive $1,000 to donate to a charity of their choice.
Strategic report The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 21 September 2017.
By order of the Board ANDY REYNOLDS SMITH CHIEF EXECUTIVE 75 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 G O V E R NAN C E GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 78 Corporate governance statement 82 Directors remuneration report 103 Directors report 121 76 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 77
