OUR KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED Our people Striving to be a leading employer We have achieved higher employee What are our key performance What are the risks?
engagement scores across bus and rail.
All Low levels of employee engagement could indicators KPIs ?
our bus businesses delivered improvements, result in reduced productivity and higher Our people KPIs measure how engaged our with increases in engagement as great at levels of absence or employee turnover, all of people are through annual independent 18ppts in some businesses, demonstrating which would have an adverse impact on employee surveys conducted across our the value in our culture change programme.
resource planning across the business.
We also measure employee Both our employee absenteeism and absence by the percentage of scheduled Employee shortages could impact our ability turnover went down this year which reflects hours not worked due to unplanned absence todeliver our services at the frequency, the higher levels of employee engagement from work and monitor employee turnover, levelof punctuality and standard we aim across the Group.
which is measured by the percentage of toachieve.
It potentially puts additional employees who leave the business in pressure on colleagues in the workplace the year.
andimpacts employee morale, engagement and stress levels.
There is asignificant cost All our bus and rail companies set their to the business of absenteeism: the national Why is it important?
ownchallenging targets to increase levels estimated averagecost of an absent ofemployee engagement.
Overall, our aim is Go-Ahead strives to be a good, respected employee is 522per year CIPD 2016 toimprove our levels of engagement each employer and we appreciate the experience survey.
year, remaining above the average for and opinions of our people as well as insights large businesses.
we gain from their feedback.
Whenever possible, we make changes based on How did we perform?
We aim to achieve low levels of absenteeism, feedback, to build trust and foster an Weve seen strong performance across our below the national average whilst environment where employee opinion is people KPIs with improvements against every maintaining consistently low levels valued.
In addition to making Go-Ahead an metric.
attractive place to work, we believe high Employee engagement scores increased in levels of employee engagement contribute to both bus and rail divisions, and absenteeism the success of the Group.
and employee turnover decreased slightly.
High levels of absenteeism and turnover Absenteeism improved despite could be reflective of low levels of staff unprecedented levels of absence at GTR in satisfaction and engagement.
By monitoring the year, which we believe to be connected 29,000 levels of absence, we can identify areas of with the industrial dispute.
the business with potential employee Total employees relations issues or employee shortages.
2016: 27,500 Monitoring this also helps us with our resource planning and allocation.
Employee engagement index % Absenteeism % of working hours Employee turnover % Bus Rail 80 4 12 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.8 11.4 70 10.5 10.5 63 9.4 9.4 62 60 3 60 60 59 58 8 50 47 46 45 40 40 2 30 4 1 20 10 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 13 14 15 16 17 36 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Change theme: Culture change Changing culture from within encouraged to do what they could to make Adopting the Groups vision, beliefs and attitudes has had a tangible, positive the business a better place to work.
impact on the engagement, morale and All 7,000 employees have taken part in working practices across the business, training and development sessions on particularly at one of the Groups largest theGroups vision, beliefs and attitudes companies: Go-Ahead London.
and diversity and inclusion workshops With 7,000 employees and five different andsessions designed to improve companies under the Go-Ahead London communication skills have taken place.
As umbrella, all with slightly different a result, a culture of ongoing engagement period, with a connection being made employment terms, conditions and has developed across the organisation.
In between this strong performance and the working practices, there were initial addition to Go-Ahead Londons specific change in culture.
reservations about the effectiveness of programmes, all drivers took part in TfLs anyone-size-fits-all approach to culture Hello London customer service training.
The Group-wide vision, beliefs and attitudes are ties that bind all our change.
However, the desire to work as The combined effect of these initiatives has one Go-Ahead London overrode any been greater engagement and a more operating companies together and, in a devolved management structure, ensure misgivings and, since the beginning of the proactive approach, embodying Go-Aheads year, more than 650 managers and can-do attitude.
Progress has been seen that all employees are working to the same common purpose: totake care of supervisors have had interactive sessions across the business, with a 12% reduction to discuss the values with the senior in costs associated with driver shift customers journeys.
management team, as well as being overruns.
QICs payments have risen in the employment and appropriate training, letters and functional and business Focus on our people career development and promotion of updates.
The majority of our workforce is Our aim is to be an employer of disabled people employed by us.
represented by a trade union and we strive choice.
The safety and wellbeing of to foster positive working relationships with our people is our priority and we place union representatives, acknowledging the Human rights great emphasis on strong health and damaging impact that a poor relationship We are committed to protecting the rights of safety standards being maintained can have on our success.
It is clear that the our people, customers, suppliers and other unions response towards modernisation across the Group.
This commitment is reflected in changes set out in the GTR franchise our Group policies and procedures.
The agreement, particularly driver-controlled Diversity and equal opportunities Modern Slavery Act came into effect in 2015 operation, has created adifficult climate.
Go-Ahead recognises the value of diversity and Go-Ahead has made steps to promote The improvement of relations with our in all areas and at all levels of the business.
and improve our commitment to eliminating trade union partners is akey focus.
Traditionally our industry has a large abuse and exploitation in the workplace.
We percentage of men working in roles such as have identified at risk functions within our Our local approach bus and train drivers and engineering business and supply chain and have required operational roles.
We work to ensure that our suppliers to abide by our anti-slavery and Go-Ahead has always operated through a there is no bias towards either gender and trafficking policy or their own equivalent.
devolved management structure, with local that all appointments and internal teams entrusted and empowered to run promotions are made on the basis of merit.
This approach Employee relations allows flexibility and fast action which we The Group believes in equal opportunities High levels of colleague engagement, job believe gives us competitive advantage in regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, satisfaction and a safe, supportive working the markets we serve.
This local focus is sexual orientation, race and, where environment directly contribute towards complemented by skills, expertise and practicable, disability.
We give full and fair the success of Go-Ahead.
We use a range of support at Group level in areas such as consideration to job applications from people channels across the Group to ensure that marketing, IT shared services and with disabilities, considering their particular the voice of employees is heard.
Channels procurement and we have regular better aptitudes and abilities.
In respect of existing include, but are not limited to, employee together forums to share experience and employees who may become disabled, the surveys and team action planning, informal expertise around the Group.
Groups policy is to provide continuing feedback sessions, internal media, news Board gender diversity Senior management gender diversity Overall Group gender diversity Male: 5 83% Male: 53 82% Male: 24,870 86% Female: 1 17% Female: 12 18% Female: 4,204 14% www.
