UNDERSTANDING OUR STAKEHOLDERS Working together A world where every Delivering our vision requires tackling a range of complex issues.
journey is taken care of Some of these issues are within our control, some we seek toinfluence and others are more challenging to manage and require working in partnership with our stakeholders.
Everyone who is affected by our business, and everyone who affects it, is a stakeholder.
We are committed to ongoing stakeholder engagement to Why we engage understand expectations, needs and concerns.
This feedback forms part Policy and regulatory changes affect our bus of our decision making process, and helps us continuously improve and and rail businesses progress towards our vision and long term ambitions.
Our impact Why we engage Helping shape new policies, regulations and We always endeavour to listen to our stakeholders and respond standards for the industry such as the Bus positively to their concerns and suggestions.
Our aim is to find Services Act 2017, to the long term benefit mutually beneficial outcomes.
As active members of the communities of passengers we serve, we want to strengthen the local environment so that we can prosper together.
More information on page 10 Our impact Partnership working helps run our business responsibly in a way thatensures its viability for the long term.
As a result, we are able to maintain an engaged workforce, improve customers satisfaction and keep our investors well informed, as well as influence public policy, contribute to our local communities and have Why we engage mutually beneficial partnerships with suppliers.
Customers Understanding our passengers perception of us Customers are at the Sustainability materiality review and our services helps us heart of Go-Ahead.
We Conducting a sustainability materiality review helps us focus onthe deliver change and understand our local issues that are most relevant for our key stakeholders.
Itisimportant improve performance markets and strive to that we minimise any potential gaps between our stakeholders exceed our customers Our impact expectations and our actions and performance.
We care issues ensures the right mechanisms are put inplace to measure what Our regional bus business how our customers matters to stakeholders and focus our attentionon the areas that will consistently achieves industry feel about us and our help us achieve our vision.
leading customer satisfaction services so we can scores in regional bus deliver improvements.
Materiality matrix Of the thirty or more issues reviewed during the process, the issues More information on page 34 below are the those identified as key to the business and important to our stakeholders.
Corporate Public policy Customer satisfaction governance Safety and security Why we engage Impact on local By providing open and Investors Accessibility communities transparent information, Go-Ahead is listed on the affordability investors are able to Regulatory London Stock Exchange, Greener travel makeinformed compliance forming part of the FTSE 250. carbon emissions investment decisions We provide investors with open Technology and and transparent information Our impact innovation and encourage two-way Waste Feedback from investors Employee communication.
Feedback forms part of the boards Water recruitment and from our shareholders forms strategic discussions Supply chain skills development part of strategic Board discussions.
Local More information on page 62 community investment High Importance to stakeholders 6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 High Impact on the business Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Government By working closely with both central and local government Why we engage we bring the benefits of private sector operation: helping to Professional relationships and collaborative reduce public spending, and Strategic partners working with strategic partners is essential our experience and expertise: for the effective transport systems.
Value and suppliers helping to shape policy and chain management contributes to minimising We work collaboratively with regulatory changes.
risks and the efficient delivery of our services strategic partners including the DfT, TfL, local authorities and Our impact Network Rail, and have Engagement audits with suppliers ensure effective relationship with shared values and deliver mutually core supplies.
beneficial contracts More information on page 20 Why we engage High levels of colleague engagement, job satisfaction and a safe, supportive working Our people environment contribute directly to the Our people drive our business.
success of Go-Ahead We strive to create a diverse and inclusive workplace where Our impact all our colleagues can reach Employee engagement surveys help us their full potential.
concentrate our efforts in what matters most, engagement scores at London Midland increased by 11% More information on page 36 Why we engage Working in partnership with local organisations has a positive contribution in Communities the local communities in which we operate Our businesses are at the heart Our impact of the communities they serve.
Weve invested over 1m in local community Our aim is to provide the social projects across the country and are part of and economic benefits of the solution to reduce congestion and affordable accessible travel in improve air quality the towns and cities in which we operate.
More information on page 32 www.
