Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Being a trusted partner The challenge and our response Our principle Housebuilding is a long term business and the development of sustained business We build meaningful, long partnerships with landowners, suppliers term relationships that make andsub-contractors, is critical to our success.
us the developer of choice We continue to work with private landowners, for our partners.
We are operators and agents to identify and bring forward land for development.
Divisional land innovating with our supply teams continue to work hard to ensure that we are regarded as the housebuilder of choice by chain to drive efficiency and the local landowners and agency community.
We recognise that our suppliers and subcontractors are critical to the delivery of our strategic objectives and we invest in our Key highlights relationships with them.
We hold an annual national supply chain conference, setting Continued to work with a variety out strategic objectives and challenges.
of partners to bring forward land We also hold regular review meetings with for development our suppliers, seeking to develop long term business relationships and a preferred Continued to invest in the relationship customer status.
We have recently introduced with our suppliers and sub-contractors a new, supplier evaluation and development programme, we believe the first of its type in Introduction of supplier evaluation the industry.
This programme will be rolled and development programme out across our most important suppliers during 2017.
We work with our suppliers to help them to introduce the new technologies that we need to meet increasingly challenging building standards, improve build efficiency and address skills shortages.
We also work with our sub-contractors to help them to improve their environmental and safety performance.
Timber frame external wall panels being fixed into place at our Osprey Heights development in Inverurie, Aberdeenshire.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 35 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Our principles continued Building strong community relationships The challenge and our response Our principle We dont just build homes, we build communities.
To enable this to happen we We engage fully with put great emphasis on building relationships localcommunities and with existing communities, making sure they are involved and fully engaged in what we are customers when creating doing.
We deliver substantial benefits to local communities.
This year we provided 3,087 new developments.
school places and funded more than 40 sports, leisure, health and youth facilities.
By building Weseekto ensure that communities, homes and local infrastructure ourwork creates a positive we are also supporting thousands of jobs.
This year through direct, indirect and induced legacy that helps local employment we supported more than 53,400 jobs and contributed some 3.3bn of Gross communities to thrive.
Value Added to the UKs economic output.
Equally important is to have strong Key highlights relationships with landowners and local authorities.
In combination with close Contributed 3.3bn of Gross Value community involvement, it means that 95% Added to the UK economic output of our homes are consented locally without planning appeals.
This success is built on Won 56 Built for Life accreditations comprehensive local consultation whereby the forexcellence in community design focus is always on listening, the whole of the community is invited to participate and public Raised over 1.1m for national andlocal exhibitions are held at times when people can Our Mercia division has recently opened a community building at its Baggeridge Village development in Sedgley.
The community charities attend so we can secure the widest possible community building is being used as a workshop for the Wolverhampton and District Model Engineering Society which range of views.
operates a miniature railway in Baggeridge Country Park for visitors.
Part of building strong communities is the care we put into designing them from the outset.
By creating great places that leave Schools are the future of a community which blind auctions, to golf days, sponsored walks a legacy for future generations we enhance is why we work closely with them on a range of and even an afternoon tea on the Queens communities for years to come.
We recently launched a new health birthday.
The Barratt Charity Plan allows any seen in the success we have had with the and safety programme for schools designed fundraising for a chosen charity to be matched industry design standard Building for Life to highlight the hazards of construction sites, by up to 10,000.
These principles are designed to give 53,400 with tailored resources for both teachers several donations in response to emergencies the home buyer confidence that important and pupils.
We also support communities throughout the year, giving money to support design elements have been checked during through charitable donations and fundraising victims of the Croydon tram crash, the the planning process.
Currently we have won Jobs supported in FY17 for local initiatives.
Around the country our terrorist attacks in London and Manchester 56 Built for Life accreditations, which is more 27 divisions, commercial developments and the Grenfell Tower fire.
This has meant than every other housebuilder combined.
business and Group support functions have that overall the Group has raised over 1.1m worked hard raising money for chosen for national and local community charities.
charities, from traditional sports dinners and 36 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
