Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Safety, Health and Environment Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee Safety, Health and the Environment SHE remains our number one priority throughout theGroup and is embedded within the day to day operations of the business.
This Committee primarily oversees and provides stewardship of the Groups SHE operational performance.
Its activities help mitigate one of our key operational risks, as well as improve our performance through underpinning efficient working practices, saving direct costs associated with incidents, and supporting the culture and ongoing sustainability of the Group.
The tragic events at Grenfell Tower in London illustrate why health and safety must always remain the first priority for the building industry.
Fire safety is core to the way we plan and build our developments.
Following the fire at Grenfell Tower, we conducted a review of our sites and continue to ensure we are maintaining the highest standards of building safety.
The Committee has formal terms of reference, which have been reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference areavailable at www.
co. uk investors corporategovernance governance-policies.
The key aspects of this Committees role as defined in these terms of reference are to: oversee the Groups compliance with the SHE management system: identify and monitor SHE risks or exposures for the business and determine how best tomitigate against them: establish and maintain policies in respect of all areas relating to safety, health and the environment: review the scope of and assess the outcome of annual SHE internal and external audits Health and safety is our number and agree necessary actions with the Group Safety, Health and Environmental Director SHE Director : one priority throughout all of receive assessments from the Group SHE Director on specific incidents to gain an our business operations.
understanding of what caused it, details of the internal and external if any investigations that are being have been undertaken and details of what steps have been taken or controls put in place to mitigate against the incident recurring: and Richard Akers Safety, Health and Environment agree and recommend to the Remuneration Committee targets for any SHE performance Committee Chairman measures which are to be applied to the annual bonus scheme and monitor performance against such measures.
The Committee continues to work closely with the SHE Operations Committee and to further enhance this relationship, at least one joint meeting is held.
The joint meeting allows this Committee to gain more of an in-depth understanding of the issues from an operational perspective and to discuss them directly with those responsible for day to day management.
74 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Key achievements in FY17 Areas of focus for FY18 We strive to ensure that our people, whether employees, sub-contractors or members of the During FY18, we will: public, remain safe throughout the whole construction and sales process of our developments concentrate on the augmentation of our wellbeing and occupational health programmes and in our wider business.
We aim to arrange a SHE site visit for each Director during the andsupport our supply chain to meet this obligation: calendar year.
These visits aim to provide an insight into how SHE is managed in addition to implement a programme of random drugs and alcohol testing in line with our policy in this providing more detailed information on some of the initiatives we have put in place to further area: and improve the SHE culture on our sites.
The visit involves a site tour with the SHE Director and site team during which the challenges and objectives to managing risk on site are reviewed update our SHE management system to comply with ISO14001.
Not only do these visits provide an important role in ensuring our Board has Our most important asset is our people and therefore it is important that the safety and a full understanding of this vital part of our business, it also benefits the site teams to see wellbeing of all employees direct or indirect remains a top priority for this Committee and the theemphasis being placed on SHE by the Board.
We have continued to monitor our SHE performance targets, our key performance indicator Membership and attendance at SHE Committee meetings and our injury incidence rate, which are available in the Strategic Report and our Sustainability Report.
Our injury incidence rate continues to improve, helped by targeted campaigns and our The Directors who are members of the SHE Committee and their attendance at the two focus on identifying the root causes of incidents, and implementation of best practice across the scheduled meetings during the year are shown in Table 9.
The Groups SHE Director is also Group.
During the year we have provided defibrillators to all of our sites and offices for use in an amember and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
We have arranged appropriate training for our teams on how to use the equipment Only members of the SHE Committee have the right to attend meetings, however other and it has been added to our training programmes going forward.
individuals may be invited, at the request of the Chairman, to attend all or part of any meeting We have continued to operate the SHE management system that enabled us, in FY16, to where it is deemed appropriate.
achieve 5-star status with the British Safety Council following their health and safety audit.
Despite this rating we refuse to become complacent and continually monitor, review and amend Table 9 SHE Committee attendance as necessary our SHE policies, processes and procedures that we operate throughout our Member Role Number of meetings attended business to ensure that they remain up to date and relevant to the business.
The external verification of our health and safety approach and the quality of our policies and procedures is Richard Akers Chairman 2 2 important but, of more importance is the impact our policies have on keeping our people safe Steven Boyes Member 2 2 in the workplace.
Consequently, all employees are required to familiarise themselves with these policies, processes and procedures during their induction and are required to attend 1 The Groups SHE Director also attended 2 2 meetings during the year.
various health and safety courses throughout their time with the Group.
During FY17 the SHE Note: X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
training matrix modules have been reviewed and updated making them more specific and X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
focused on Barratt and the industry in which we operate.
In particular, our site management training programmes have been enhanced, as have some more specific items such as scaffold The SHE Operations Committee reports directly to the SHE Committee with the Group inspection.
We have also extended the availability of bespoke training on SHE matters throughout SHE Director presenting direct reports to these Committees and to the Board.
All Senior Management have also completed the IOSH Leading Safely training course.
SHE Operations Committee is responsible for implementing and oversight of the overall SHE improvement strategy for the Group.
In addition, we have launched an initiative to work with local schools to highlight the potential dangers of construction sites to their pupils.
The Working Safely with Schools initiative includes a short film and various puzzles enabling the pupils to engage with the subject area, and a Richard Akers number of other elements to enhance the learning experience for a younger audience.
We have Chairman of the SHE Committee done this because we acknowledge that construction sites hold a natural fascination for pupils and we see it as our duty to raise the awareness amongst this young audience of the dangers 5 September 2017 that may exist on a building site.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 75
