Strategic Report Corporate responsibility Operating a safe and sustainable business Operating a safe and sustainable business is one of thesixstrategic priorities weidentified in Vision 2020.
Wedeliver this through our strategy for sustainable business Responsible Business, Positive Outcomes developed in consultation witha range of stakeholders.
This strategic report comes midway through the timeline for Vision 2020, Kiers plan for growth.
Operating a safe and sustainable Sustainability is key to our strategy business is a key priority identified in Vision 2020 see page 22 for more information.
We will deliver this through our strategy for In an independent assessment of our RBPO strategy by sustainable business, Responsible Business, Positive Outcomes Business in the Community, our score improved from 87% RBPO, which was developed in consultation with a range of to91% year-on-year.
stakeholders including clients, shareholders and employees.
RBPO has four themes that directly support Vision 2020, each RBPO is not only a strategic priority in its own right but enables with five performance areas see table opposite.
In this Annual the delivery of several important objectives.
For example, improved Report we provide commentary principally on three areas safety and environmental performance helps us to reduce harm, recognised as most material by our stakeholders business function more efficiently and reduce our operating costs, cultivating ethics, safety, health and wellbeing, and customer experience, a diverse workforce supports innovative thinking, and our community and those we are required to disclose by the reporting projects help us to attract and retain high-calibre people.
Many environment we operate in.
Areas not covered in this report are sustainability strategies focus heavily on compliance and improved fully disclosed on the Kier website and in our Corporate efficiency.
While these areas will always be important, there is Responsibility Report available at www.
anincreasing emphasis on social value in public procurement contracts.
Consequently, we have designed our RBPO strategy sothat it adds to our competitive advantage, helping us win new workand create added value.
During the year, we revised some targets in RBPO as a result of early achievement of some of our original objectives and structural changes in the Group.
For more information see our Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
Understanding what is material to our stakeholders Engagement Materiality assessment Implementation 2018 2015 2016 2017 2014 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholders and shareholders Continuing engagement We started to create our strategy for a Consultation with customers, NGOs and During 2016 we introduced the RBPO sustainable business, RBPO, back in employees was carried out in March strategy to our employees through a 2014.
This was aligned to the Global 2015 and then with major institutional series of face-to-face briefings across Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines on shareholders in September.
We then began materiality assessment.
feedback helped us to refine the strategy implementation.
In 2017 we tested and recognise the most material issues.
the strategy again with institutional Our initial review included customers, shareholders.
non-governmental organisations NGOs Broad consensus on the 20 performance and employees and resulted in the areas of RBPO was achieved, with We plan to revisit clients and shareholders creation of a draft strategy that supported recognition that business ethics, during the coming financial year and Vision 2020.
It is aligned with our safety, health and wellbeing, and engage the views of external experts corporate values, and creates value for customer experience were the three suchas Business in the Community.
our shareholders and wider society.
Responsible Business, Ongoing review of 20 Vision 2020 published Positive Outcomes published performance areas 30 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our 20 performance areas Performance area 2020 target Progress Business ethics Revised target to train employees on the Code of Conduct Governance risk and opportunity Quantify risk across non-financial measures Governance Stakeholder engagement Annual independent review by BITC Reward scheme Incorporate non-financial measures in remuneration Governance reporting and assurance Integrated reporting to GRI Reporting Standards Safety, health and wellbeing Zero accident incidence rate AIR Employees engagement andretention 75% employee engagement People and communities Training, education and apprenticeships 5 training days per year per employee Society and community 10% additional social value created Diversity 70:30 male: female ratio for graduate, trainee and apprentice recruits Customer experience 90% customer satisfaction Citizenship and community engagement Revised target to reflect structural change in the Group Marketplace Sustainable supply chain Partners engaged in the Supply Chain Sustainability School SCSS Labour standards and human rights Meet core principles of UN Declaration of Human Rights Supply chain 100% compliance with Kier material standards Carbon Updated target set in 2017 30% reduced energy use by 2030 Waste 30% relative reduction from 2014 baseline Environment Water 10% reduction from 2015 benchmark Biodiversity Revised target to reflect structural changes in the Group 20% reduction in all-environment incidence rate AEIR from Environmental incidents 2015benchmark Key Achieved 2020 target On course to meet target For more information pleasesee our Corporate Responsibility Report 2017 Improved performance from 2016 Revised target at www.
co. uk Below target Good governance how we manage our business Business ethics Kier has several committees and specialist topic groups that work As part of our aim to drive greater transparency on non-financial across the business to support Vision 2020 and RBPO.
The work reporting, we regularly engage with a broad range of stakeholders.
of the Board Committees is covered on pages 70 to 83.
This has allowed us to identify which areas of non-financial performance are of importance to them.
Business ethics The Risk Management and Audit Committee recognises that was one of the top three priorities identified, notably by sustainable business is a significant non-financial risk, and this is institutional shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the reward and remuneration for senior executive teams which At Kier we want to create a culture that doesnt treat compliance incorporates non-financial performance measures for more as a box-ticking exercise, but something that is essential to any information see pages 82 to 101. good business.
This is illustrated by the approach we took last year to simplify and then roll-out our Code of Conduct.
Acopy of The Corporate Responsibility Leadership Group meets quarterly the code was provided to all employees and Kier is now delivering toreview progress of RBPO and set policy for Kier.
Each business supplementary relevant training.
Employee engagement is has a dedicated Corporate Responsibility Business Partner.
essential for a responsible and sustainable business which is Kiers specialist topic groups, which work across the whywe continue to encourage our staff to report concerns and have a confidential whistle-blowing helpline.
business, include: Balanced Business Network which works on equality and diversity: Social value and impact: 30 by 30 which looks at energy and carbon: Human rights, which includes modern slavery: and Business ethics, responsible for the publication of the Code of Conduct.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 31 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility continued Safety, health and wellbeing Safety is a major priority for Kier, which is why we have set a Safety the five basics Vision 2020 target to achieve a zero AIR.
We continue to make Five basic points that help reduce accidents and boost safety: good progress towards this goal.
In 2017, the Group AIR reduced to 130 compared to 211 and 319 in 2016 and 2015 respectively.
This is less than half the industry average figure published by the 2.
Risk assessments for every task.
Health and Safety Executive and a 38% improvement year-on-year.
Safe systems of work method statement for every There are many contributory factors for this performance but three medium and high risk task.
particular initiatives in the year have helped drive success: 4.
Point of work risk assessments the last chance to We have introduced new safety, health and environment re-assess.
management processes which focuses on the basics.
Competence our license to operate.
A Visible Leadership programme which is designed to encourage directors and senior managers to make regular visits Accident incidence rate AIR to operational projects and sites.
They are an important driver of safety.
Against a target of 3,600 visits, we undertook 5,861 500 visits in the year, a 23% increase on last year.
HSE Benchmark 400 Behavioural change programmes developed for each business 300 create a new culture and encourage everyone to take 200 responsibility for safety.
100 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Kier AIR Customer experience Customer satisfaction scores improved to 91%.
This is ahead of S-Skills on Surrey Highways the target Kier set for Vision 2020.
S-Skills is an innovative partnership between Surrey County We maintain high satisfaction rates because we work to understand Council and Kier.
Formed as a social enterprise, S-Skills customers requirements and align delivery to what they want.
enables people not in education, employment or training Wealso involve customers in the process of setting and agreeing NEETs, or with special educational needs, to carry out basic our strategy for sustainable business.
This continuing engagement highway works in the community.
This partnership achieves has highlighted the importance of the Social Value Act and the positive outcomes by: Procurement Reform Scotland Act in raising the profile of social Reducing dependency culture within communities.
impact in public sector procurement.
The expectation of public sector clients on suppliers to deliver positive impacts in the Balancing regional skills supply and demand.
communities in which we operate has increased markedly.
In the Meeting Surrey County Councils pledge on apprentices.
last few years we have been working to understand how the flow of Addressing highway management skills and ageing revenue through contracts that Kier is delivering can be focused to workforceissues.
deliver the greatest benefit to communities.
Examples include Creating a skilled, work-ready generation to build tomorrows targeting more locally-based supply chain partners, local training, infrastructure.
apprenticeship programmes and working with organisations dedicated to providing employment opportunities to those who Each year, the S-Skills Social Enterprise will generate a findit difficult to access the world of work.
socialvalue of 420,000 through enhanced skills, economic returns and positive outcomes on health and wellbeing for At Kier we operate a number of work access programmes wider society.
directly including: Nordis: a social enterprise that makes road signs.
Based in Northamptonshire, it provides meaningful employment for people with disabilities.
Making Ground: a work placement programme for ex-offenders.
Through this scheme numerous ex-offenders have been offeredplacements that have subsequently resulted in full-timeemployment.
We are also exploring how we can provide direct support to ourclients through the use or creation of social enterprises, suchas S-Skills.
32 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Recognising our responsibilities Our stakeholders have worked with us to identify material issues Diversity that help define us as a responsible and sustainable business in The future success of Kier depends on our ability to recruit and the communities where we operate.
As well as reporting on these retain the best talent.
We operate in sectors where there is strong in the preceding pages, there are certain items we are required to competition for skilled workers and which are likely to be disrupted disclose as a consequence of the legal framework which we by new technology.
A balanced business, which makes the most of operate within.
We cover these areas below.
the diversity of talent and experience available to us, will ensure we have the agility and resilience to continue to innovate and grow Greenhouse gas emissions our business.
As part of Vision 2020 we set a goal to improve the Kier achieved its 2020 target of a 10% reduction in carbon diversity of our graduates, apprentices and trainees to reflect the emissions per m revenue ahead of plan in 2015.
This year we mix in the communities in which we operate.
launched 30 by 30, which sets a new target to reduce our energy consumption by 30% by 2030.
We project that this will also result In the last year we have undertaken a number of in a 39% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
To deliver this initiatives including: plan, we have identified a number of actions we can take, some of Establishing the Balanced Business Network to champion and which will rely on greater collaboration with our supply chain promote diversity and inclusion in Kier, with Claudio Veritiero partners.
For example, we have been working with a number of our becoming the Board champion.
partners over the course of the year to identify and bring forward LGBTQ network launched.
new and efficient solutions for site based plant, accommodation and generators.
This drive for greater efficiency supports our plan Demonstrated our commitment to creating a more diverse and for improved profitability and a more efficient business.
inclusive workforce by joining peers from the construction industry at the Pride London and Manchester events supporting 2015 2016 #buildingequality.
Emission type: CO e tonnes CO e tonnes 2 2 Run a regular series of diversity events to promote and Scope 1: operation of facilities 0 0 encourage networking and awareness of the benefits of more Scope 1: combustion 112,651 108,831 diverse employees.
Total Scope 1 emissions 112,651 108,831 Scope 2: purchased energy 17,189 14,467 Established training on relevant skills such as how to identify and eliminate unconscious bias in recruitment.
Scope 2 total emissions 17,189 14,467 Total emissions 129,839 123,298 Participated in UK wide research into what drives the career choices made by men and women.
Greenhouse gas emissions 36.6 t m 31.4 t m intensity ratio Launched an enhanced family friendly policy.
Revenue m calendar year 3,552 3,928 1 Diversity Our reporting of greenhouse gas emissions is for the calendar Male 77% year 2016 to mirror our reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Female 23% Our dataset covers 94% of Kiers operations by revenue, excluding Scope 1 fugitive emissions and joint ventures joint operations where we are not in financial control.
Reporting follows the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, is in line with ISAE 3410, anduses conversion factors published by DEFRA.
Male Female Human rights All employees 12,425 3,808 During the year, we launched a programme of training and 77% 23% awareness for employees responsible for procurement of Senior management 272 29 construction materials and products.
We also undertook business 90% 10% audits against performance measures established in our modern Directors 9 2 slavery statement last year.
No issues were identified on audit and 82% 18% we will expand this approach over time so that, by 2020, we expect 90% of our preferred material suppliers to have been through this audit process.
Our confidential whistle-blowing line Ethnicity of employees also allows for any concerns to be raised directly.
White 60% Not stated 35% Black and minority ethnic 5% 1 Data is based on a spot audit at year end, and excludes locally employed overseas and McNicholas data.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 33
