Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Safety, Health and Environment Committee report The health and safety of all those who visit and work at the Groups sites, together with the protection of the environment, are key priorities for Kier.
Nick Winser Chair SHE Committee members Allocation of time Key incidents Nick Winser Chair SHE performance Justin Atkinson SHE campaigns and training Constance Baroudel SHE strategy Kirsty Bashforth Environment Health and wellbeing Amanda Mellor retired as a member of the Committee on 18 November 2016.
Dear shareholder Committee composition and meeting attendance I am pleased to present the Safety, Health and Environment The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
Committee report, which provides a summary of the Committees The Chief Executive, the Executive Director Construction and activities during the 2017 financial year.
Infrastructure Services, the Executive Director Developments, Property and Business Services and the Group SHE Director are The Group operates on several hundred sites at any one time, expected to attend meetings, unless they are notified to the contrary.
both throughout the UK and internationally: the Groups projects can be complex and are not without risk.
As a Committee, we The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary oversee the continuous improvement of the management of HughRaven.
safety, health and environment SHE risks in the workplace.
The Committee met formally four times during the year: details of I am therefore pleased to be able to report, overall, a strong attendance at these meetings are set out on page 65.
SHEperformance in 2017, with a significant reduction in the Committee performance evaluation Groupsreportable accident incidence rate AIR by 38%, as 2017 progress against 2016 evaluation compared to the prior year, and good progress with respect to reducing the Groups energy use.
Please see page 22 for details The 2016 Board evaluation identified: of progress made against the Groups strategic priority to operate an increased focus on environmental matters: a safe and sustainable business.
an increased focus on health and wellbeing: and the need to maximise the benefit of the visible leadership tours Role The role of the Committee includes: as some of the key areas of focus for the Committee in the 2017 financial year.
The 2017 Board evaluation process confirmed that ensuring that management develops and implements the good progress had been made in each of these areas and that, Groups strategy with respect to SHE matters: overall, the Committees performance had been effective during encouraging managements commitment and accountability the year.
with respect to managing the Groups SHE risks: 2018 principal areas of focus reviewing and, as necessary, approving material Group-wide Following the 2017 evaluation, the Committees principal areas of SHE initiatives, policies and procedures: focus for the 2018 financial year include: receiving reports on any major SHE incidents and ensuring maintaining a focus on key strategic issues, whilst challenging that management communicates the lessons learned from management with respect to operational issues: and those incidents across the Group: and ensuring sufficient time is set aside to consider environmental monitoring and challenging management on the Groups and health and wellbeing matters.
The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporategovernance Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 79 Corporate Governance Statement Safety, Health and Environment Committee report continued a focus on key site safety matters, including identifying hazards, Principal activities 2017 financial year working around plant and promoting appropriate safety A summary of the safety, health and environment matters behaviours.
considered by the Committee during the year is as follows: Innovation Safety The Board, and its committees, supports managements focus Key incident reviews oninnovation throughout the business.
The Committee has At each meeting during the year, the Committee reviewed key challenged management to focus on the use of innovation to safety incidents and received presentations on certain of those manage the safety risks relevant to the Group.
During the year, incidents from senior management.
In addition, the Committee theCommittee oversaw: monitored the close-out of all actions arising from such incidents and challenged management to ensure the effective the launch of a central, Group-wide portal as a hub for safety communication of any learning points across the Group.
risk management documents and advice: and Regulatory investigations the development of the Engage to Change App, which provides From time to time, the Health and Safety Executive the HSE will employees with an efficient way to give feedback on SHE conduct investigations into incidents which occur on the Groups practices within the Group.
Some of these investigations may result in court Visible leadership tours proceedings being taken against the Group and, as a committee, All members of the Committee are required to conduct visible we work with management to ensure that its approach to the leadership tours across the Groups sites during the year conduct of these proceedings is appropriate.
During the year, the and to report on those visits at subsequent meetings.
The Committee oversaw the management of the prosecution brought Committee also monitored visitswhich were undertaken by senior againstthe BFK joint venture site following a fatality at the management throughout the year.
The tours are well-received by Farringdon section of the Crossrail project in March 2014 and two the business, informative for management and have a measurable other incidents at the Bond Street section in January 2015, which positive effect on the Groups safety statistics.
resulted in a fine of 1.065m for the joint venture.
In addition, the Committee also monitored managements approach tothe HSEs Health and wellbeing investigation into a fatality which took place in May 2014 at Lidgate During the year, the Committee continued to monitor the Groups and the court proceedings relating to a trench collapse at a site in health and wellbeing programme, which aims to raise awareness Holbeach which occurred in March 2012, which resulted in a of common health issues.
The programme included a focus on 1.5m fine in December 2016. mental health, blood pressure, heart awareness and diabetes and the use of a health kiosk which tested staff on core health SHE strategy issues and visited various offices and sites around the country.
During the year, the Committee reviewed progress against the Groups SHE strategic business plan.
Performance is measured against an The Committee also oversaw managements strategic review of agreed set of KPIs, which are designed to support the Groups the provision of occupational health OH services within the strategic priority of operating a safe and sustainable business.
Group, which resulted in the transfer of theprovision of OH Iam pleased to report that, overall, significant progress was made services to an external provider.
See page 22 for further information.
Environmental matters SHE campaigns The Groups environmental performance is measured against aset A series of campaigns relating to topical SHE matters were run of KPIs, including with respect to carbon emissions, water usage across the Group throughout the year.
The Committee challenged and waste management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed management on the effectiveness of these campaigns, the Groups performance against these KPIs and was pleased to which included: note that good progress was being made.
The Committee also reviewed the statistics relating to the reporting of environmental a focus on the prevention of slips, trips and falls: incidents for example, effluent leakages or spillages and noise or a reduction in the number of buried services strikes: and dust pollution and challenged management to take appropriate action following such incidents.
During the year, the Committee approved the Kier Energy Strategy 30 by 30, whichaims to reduce the Groups energy usage by 30% by 2030.
Further details can be found on pages 30 to 33 inclusive.
Conclusion I will be available to answer any questions you may have about the Committee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on 17 November 2017.
Visible leadership tour HMS Belfast I came away realising how much there is to learn and how valuable Nick Winser these visits are for us as Non-Executive Directors to be able to keep Chair of the Safety, Health and Environment Committee in touch with the business beyond our board discussions.
20 September 2017 Kirsty Bashforth Non-Executive Director 80 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017
