3 4 8, 1 6 People and Culture RESULTS THROUGH PEOPLE Our people strategy centres on NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES recruiting, developing and inspiring employees with deep genetic and 2017 operational expertise.
Our global 2,677 team ranges from geneticists to livestock technicians, veterinarians 2016 2,669 to accountants: all playing their part in helping customers improve performance and productivity.
Our overall headcount remained 1 EMPLOYEE COUNTRY OF ORIGIN broadly level during the year, as we invested in areas of growth, whilst adjusting staffing in other areas.
2017 2016 Skill Recruitment In June 2017, our staff numbered 2,677, up 8 from 2,669 last year.
We controlled headcount tightly, resourcing areas of growth, for 30 32 example, our IVB embryo business and GSS production in the US, whilst COUNTRIES COUNTRIES restructuring other areas, such as parts of ABS and PIC Supply Chain, for efficiency.
We recruited 16 staff with PhDs this year, bringing our total of PhD qualified staff to 101.
Our talent pool is global, with staff originating from 30 different countries: during the year we recruited or assigned staff into 22 of the 25 countries in which we employ staff.
FEMALE REPRESENTATION Female Representation for 2017 31% of our staff are women, 27% in 1 1 management roles: we are committed BOARD OTHER to identifying women with potential DIRECTORS GELT EMPLOYEES and developing them into senior roles.
Investing in Our People 14% 13% 31% We continued to run bespoke 2 FEMALE FEMALE FEMALE management development programmes, together with our 6 7 PIC and ABS Sales Academies.
We mounted our largest-ever Male Female training programme, equipping employees for the launch of Sexcel, and we developed a global training programme for PIC production 1Those employees who chose to record their country of origin.
managers to introduce best-in-class 2 Of the direct reports to GELT, 34% are female 22% excluding administrative supportive staff.
com work-for-us to learn about Genus as an employer.
| 34 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 1 2 8 STR ATEGIC REPORT TRAINING INTERVENTIONS We applied rigorous individual performance conditions before 2017 making the award to those we see as key to our future success.
We saw a positive impact on morale 32,708 and are monitoring to ensure it 2016 has the desired retention effect.
TO REALISE ANIMAL Enhancing Health and Safety H&S 24, 12 7 We made significant progress this GENETIC IMPROVEMENT year, with incidents down by 10%, and ENHANCING H&S animal related incidents a specific TAKES A GENERATION: OUR target falling by 12%.
Across the INCIDENTS business we increased near miss ALL INCIDENTS TEAMS BRING A UNIQUE reporting by 61%, 266% in owned production sites, learning lessons to avoid future incidents.
To support BLEND OF EXPERTISE AND 10% colleagues working alone on farms, we introduced a lone working device RECORDABLE INCIDENTS EXPERIENCE TO DELIVER to 243 UK colleagues see case study.
More details are on our website RESULTS IN CUSTOMER 20% www.
HERDS Human Rights and Anti-Slavery ANIMAL-RELATED INCIDENTS We remain fully compliant with our policies and operate to the highest standards for our people and those who work with us directly Aligning Incentives with Business Goals We introduced new incentive through our supply chains.
12% programmes for ABS and PIC production staff, rewarding them for Looking Ahead To support the Companys growth improving productivity, quality and plans, we will be increasing safety.
We overhauled our corporate recruitment in a number of areas.
For our annual These include our embryo business, scheme, open to all salaried staff, we NEAR MISS REPORTING TOTAL COMPANY PIC supply chain capacity and simplified targets and strengthened support for the launch of Sexcel.
For our long-term scheme awarded to We will continue to invest in our selected senior leaders below GELT, people, and will run our third global we moved from performance shares 61% employee survey, seeking feedback to restricted stock, aligned to North to help us continue improving our American reward practice where the organisation and the way we work.
majority of our leaders are based.
CASE STUDIES PROTECTING LONE WORKERS PIC GENETIC SERVICES GLOBAL TRAINING ON SEXCEL We have introduced portable PICs multi-national Genetic Services We invested in our largest-ever devices to enhance protection for team is made up of world class training programme to support dairy technicians working alone geneticists and data scientists: the launch of Sexcel.
This was on customer farms.
If the device one third with PhDs.
They use developed through collaboration detects that the technician is not Relationship Based Genomic between global colleagues and moving, it relays the location and an Selection and PicTraq, our 55 year helps participants learn about the alarm to a 24 7 monitoring station, database, to identify, improve and value of sexed genetics and what activating emergency protocols.
multiply traits of commercial value is different about our proprietary Initially rolled out in the UK, we to producers, shaping product technology.
It is enabling colleagues plan to introduce these devices indices, mating strategies and to help customers understand in other geographies.
and make the most of the benefits Sexcel offers them.
