Corporate social responsibility Combining ethical investing with sound business practice Ashmore recognises the importance of Responsible investing across Ashmores alcohol, animal food products, armaments Corporate Social Responsibility CSR themes manufacturers or dealers, gambling, incorporating transparency, fairness, Socially Responsible Investment SRI pornography and tobacco.
accountability and integrity and believes is a form of investing that screens out Ashmore seeks to comply at all times that these principles are fundamental to investments in certain stocks or industries with all sanctions imposed by applicable theGroups operations.
inline with defined ethical guidelines.
government authorities, and also screens at a geographical level across all investment The Group continues to monitor best Ashmore aims to ensure that the themes for countries which are on the practice developments in all relevant areas governance bodies of the investments United Nations and EU UK Sanctions and of CSR, including its approach to investing, it makes comply with their own industry the US Office of Foreign Assets and Control community programmes, employees, and standards and best practice, treat their OFAC lists, for example during the Russia environmental management.
Ashmores employees fairly, have active community Ukraine crisis.
CSR programme and initiatives are designed programmes and operate with sensitivity to be relevant to the nature and scale of its to the environment.
Ashmore has made Environmental, Social and business and to protect and reinforce the investments in a number of renewable Governance ESG approach Groups reputation and integrity.
Ashmore energy projects in different countries The evaluation of ESG risk is an integral part intends to build upon these firm foundations including hydro-electricity, geothermal of Ashmores investment processes.
energy and sugar-based ethanol production.
Investments have also been made in a Ashmore integrates ESG factors into Consistent with the various philosophies Chinese company which manufactures wind fundamental analysis across its liquid explained herein, Ashmore is a signatory turbines with both local and growing global investment themes and scores them to of the UN Principles for Responsible supplies.
These investments on behalf of the extent they are deemed material to Investment UNPRI.
clients reflect Ashmores overall approach investment returns.
Investment approach to combining ethical investing with sound Listed equities Ashmores Investment Committees business practice.
ESG criteria tend to be focused primarily on processes ensure a consistent approach to Amongst the initiatives undertaken in equity investing because of the influence all investments within its clients portfolios.
South America is the establishment of an which shareholder interests are able to exert Ashmores experience in managing Environmental and Social Management on the management of a particular company.
investments within the Emerging Markets System ESMS for the management of Ashmore believes that the way in which has enabled it to experience first-hand investments of an investor fund in Colombia companies manage ESG factors can have the advantages of qualitatively evaluating within the alternatives investment theme.
an impact on business performance and environmental, social and governance factors This fund has been developed in a form and valuation, and should be incorporated into and incorporating them within its portfolios.
substance acceptable to the Inter-American investment decisions.
Ashmore believes that there are many Development Bank IDB and International Ashmores top down allocation model potential asset classes in emerging countries Finance Corporation IFC.
In 2014 Ashmore evaluates country metrics relative to as well as many different risk return profiles Colombia won the Colombian Association history and one year forward.
Hence, the which it will be able to offer its clients in for Private Equity award for best corporate risk premium imputed by the market to a the future.
As capital markets grow rapidly governance, as voted for by investors.
Risk premiums in Emerging Markets Ashmore aims to Ashmores funds and segregated incorporate sovereign corporate governance participate in that growth, enabling access accounts each have a specific investment concerns, as for example in Russia where to these markets by both developed world mandate which sets out the parameters stock valuations are historically amongst the pools of capital and also, increasingly, by for investment.
Within the Equities and lowest globally due to relatively higher risk Emerging Markets pools of capital.
Corporate Debt themes, Ashmore is able premiums.
Any changes in risk premiums Business conduct and integrity to screen client portfolios to meet client relative to history are analysed to determine Ashmore believes that its reputation requirements for geographic, sector and ifjustified.
To make this more explicit as an ethical, trustworthy provider of stock specific restrictions.
Stock specific Ashmore reviews ESG rankings of countries investment services is essential to align restrictions may include securities which within its mandate using third party data clients and shareholders interests.
The scoring and ranking is based Ashmore seeks to establish and maintain onESG principles as rated by World Bank, Examples of investment areas where long-term relationships with its clients and US Energy Information Administration, screening of portfolios can be offered based intermediaries and believes this to be a Heritage Foundation and Economist on or informed by client requirements fundamental prerequisite for the growth Intelligence Unit.
Ashmore also evaluates using recognised investment industry ofits business.
country exposures weekly at its Investment identifiers and coding into Ashmores Committee meetings, and considers country portfolio management system include risks in the review channels.
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report The stakeholders in a company encompass discussion and then move to the individual The score of each factor would be Impact x employees, local communities, wider countries.
This review of individual emerging Probability, with six possible outcomes: 1, 2, society, governments, supply chains, countries starts with a focus on what the 3, 4, 6, 9.
Adding the scores of all ten factors customers and the natural environment.
likely effects of the external macro factors gives a country risk score that incorporates There are a wide range of ESG issues are on market behaviour and in turn, asset both credit risk and ESG risk.
The theoretical which could be relevant for a company prices.
The team analyses and discusses the minimum and maximum risk scores are thus depending on the industry in which it ability the financial position of a country and 10 and 90 respectively, while the median operates and its specific business profile.
the willingness qualitative focusing on the is 30 and the average is 40.
These metrics ESG issues can become new sources of incentives of the policy-makers in-country are reviewed against yields and spreads to risk or opportunities for companies, and of countries to service their sovereign debt.
determine if an appropriate risk premium has a companys ability to respond to these Ability to pay is analysed looking at classic been built into Ashmores scenario analyses.
issues can therefore act as an early signal indicators of credit-worthiness and debt Within Emerging Markets fixed income of long-term competitiveness.
To the extent sustainability analysis.
This involves analysis segregated accounts, Ashmore also offers practicable, Ashmore routinely monitors of the local fiscal position, currency, interest clients the flexibility to implement their ESG the ESG performance of the companies in rates and trade data.
Currency and interest constraints related to specific countries, which it invests through on-going company rate exposures within individual countries are sectors and securities for example, visits and other information channels.
In explicitly evaluated and fundamentals such restricted lists, concentration limits etc.. addition, companies often disclose corporate as growth prospects, balance of payments governance practices through corporate dynamics, credit-worthiness, the likely Alternatives policies, stock market listings, and market effect of commodity price movements, local Ashmores Alternatives investment theme press releases for example, Brazil has a politics, economic data and local and external often involves its funds taking significant separate category for companies committed investor sentiment are analysed thoroughly.
In such to corporate governance best practice.
circumstances Ashmore is in a position Willingness to pay is more subjective and Companies may also disclose environmental to engage with the management of these can change quickly subject to the vagaries and social practices in annual reports and companies.
In many cases, Ashmore of the political cycle and the political other reports to investors.
These are then believes it to be beneficial to its investors to response to economic events.
Ashmore highlighted, as appropriate, in Investment be active in promoting its brand locally by places emphasis on the factors that affect Committee reports.
improving the livelihoods of the employees a governments willingness to pay and in those companies where it has a significant ESG metrics are used to measure, analyse, relies on scenario-analysis to determine the stake.
When undertaking initial due diligence and rank securities.
Assessments at the risks and opportunities presented by these on any investments within the Alternatives stock level tend to be qualitative and based governments assets.
Finally, the technical theme, Ashmores deal memorandum on company public disclosures, interviews factors affecting asset prices in various checklist takes into account the consideration and or company visits which are made markets are important considerations leading of ESG issues within the investment analysis to each company held in portfolios.
Ashmore speaks and decision making process, and the addition, Ashmore gathers information from regularly with appointed policy makers to investee companys own ESG practices.
market related channels, such as suppliers glean their views on significant events, such and clients.
These assessments are then as local elections, as well as to try to gauge Engagement factored into the valuation and profitability their bias towards populist agendas which Engagement is a fundamental part of metrics, which are evaluated relative to may impact ESG factors.
history, country and industry comparators.
Ashmore formalises country credit and Within mature markets, ethical investing has As a global investor, Ashmore recognises ESG considerations at least quarterly, in often been portrayed as a negative concept that legislation and best practice standards conversations between various members i. e. it involves a decision not to invest in vary between countries and regions, and that of the Investment team and the Head a certain way.
Whilst these concepts are it must remain sensitive to these differences.
In addition, the Investment well accepted in mature markets Ashmore However, at a minimum, Ashmore expects Committee will consider the assessment believes that they are not necessarily the companies in which it invests to comply for each country on an ad-hoc basis as it conducive to helping emerging economies with the national legislation that applies discusses country visit reports from portfolio develop.
In the context of developing to them.
managers returning from research trips, or countries Ashmore believes thatit is also when discussing significant events such possible to apply other conceptssuch Fixed income as elections.
Therefore, credit and ESG as engagement within the ethical Ashmores fixed income themes consist analysis are an integral part of Ashmores investment debate.
of investments in Corporate and Sovereign investment process for publicly traded fixed Debt issuances.
ESG within fixed income In the Equities theme Ashmore believes that income securities.
is fundamentally a risk management good corporate governance helps to align consideration.
Within the Emerging Markets Ashmores quantitative scorecard is a the interests of company management with fixed income space, the Governance derivation of its Risk models and assesses those of its shareholders.
Where possible, aspect of ESG is best reflected in the 10 economic and ESG risk factors for Ashmore seeks to maintain constructive political landscape.
Ashmores Investment Impact low, moderate, high, or 1, 2, 3 and dialogue with company management.
Committee meetings start off with a macro Probability low, moderate, high or 1, 2, 3.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Ashmore considers whether companies productive and may reduce the welfare of Managing Conflicts of Interest have corporate governance frameworks that the population considerably.
Conversely, Conflicts of interest can arise where: i the are in line with applicable country codes to the extent that governments pursue interests of Ashmore conflict with those of and serve shareholder interests.
Views policies that are not in the best interests of a client firm vs. client conflicts and ii the on corporate governance do not constrain that country, then this is likely to become interests of one client of Ashmore conflict investment decisions however: often the a poor investment proposition.
Hence with those of another of Ashmores clients most profitable investments can be made Ashmore takes investment and engagement client vs. client conflicts.
Ashmore has in companies where an improvement disengagement decisions on a case by case policies and arrangements in place to identify in corporate governance practices is basis, relative to the specific circumstances and manage conflicts of interest that may anticipated.
In many jurisdictions, and to the and investment criteria in the best interests arise between Ashmore and its clients extent consistent with Ashmores fiduciary of clients.
or between Ashmores different clients.
duty to its clients, Ashmore exercises voting Ashmore has a policy of independence that Ashmore does not always evaluate rights as a means to signal views to company requires its staff to disregard any personal quantitative variables in its assessment of management.
Ashmore has developed interest, relationship or arrangement which country risk but will also examine qualitative detailed guidelines to guide voting decisions, gives rise to a conflict of interest and to factors such as the relationship between but will, as appropriate, consider resolutions ensure that the interests of clients prevail.
politics and economics and their interaction.
on a case-by-case basis taking into account Ashmore has always sought to develop all available information.
Year end headcount networks locally in order to adopt a better The majority of Ashmores assets under quality of forward looking decision making management continue to be invested in fixed inthis area and to promote an understanding 252 income the majority of which is sovereign of local cultures and politics.
2016: 266 for which Ashmores ability to have an Proxy voting and corporate actions influence is generally limited to a decision Subject to specific mandate restrictions, whether or not to invest.
However, at a Ashmore is generally responsible for voting country level, Ashmore believes that it is able proxies and taking decisions in connection to exert an influence through dialogue with with proxy voting with respect to equities, governments and central banks.
In order to bonds, loans or other debt instruments held assist with the debate on the broader issues by or on behalf of the clients for which it affecting Emerging Markets, to enhance serves as investment manager adviser.
the understanding of these markets globally and to address market failures, Ashmore Where Ashmore is given responsibility engages with numerous international public for proxy voting and corporate actions, sector financial institutions with the objective it will take reasonable steps under the 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of aiding transparency and best practice.
circumstances to ensure that proxies are Global Engagement with a country, as opposed voted in the best interests of its clients.
to disengagement, is akin to many small Protecting the financial interests of its clients Local pressures every day as opposed to one is the primary consideration for Ashmore in Support big stick.
By remaining engaged over an determining how to protect such interests.
Investment professionals extended period of time it is often possible This generally means proxy voting with a to have a positive influence and to add view to enhancing the value of the securities Employees credibility.
Ashmore is also mindful of the held by or on behalf of Ashmores clients, Ashmore directly employs 252 people potential impact that the abuse of power taken either individually or as a whole.
in 10countries worldwide, excluding and corruption by governments in certain UK Stewardship Code employees in companies significantly countries can have on its reputation and Details on how, and the extent to which, controlled by funds that Ashmore manages.
the interests of its clients and continuously Ashmore complies with the principles of Ashmores people have always been its monitors, and takes into account the UK Stewardship Code are described most important asset, at the heart of such factors.
separately on the Ashmore website at everything it does.
The Groups priority Where Emerging Markets are concerned www.
com is to attract, develop, manage and retain therefore, it is believed that in certain this talent in order to deliver the potential circumstances, it may be more beneficial of the organisation which is reflected in to keep investment flowing combined with the low levels of unplanned staff turnover the influence which accompanies it in order FY2016 17: 8.7%.
Ashmore wishes to be to continue being able to help a countrys an employer which the most talented people population.
In country specific terms at the aspire to join wherever it operates.
extreme, being cut off from capital may allow undemocratic rulers to control their people by attributing blame for economic problems to foreign actions.
Sanctions may be counter- 40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 240 96 195 52 239 91 200 222 63 88 197 64 202 86 180 63 189 77 175 Strategic report Ashmore recognises that the involvement of Diversity Employee development its employees is key to the future success Ashmore is committed to providing equal Ashmore believes that constructive of the business and adopts a practice of opportunities and seeks to ensure that its performance management is an essential keeping employees informed on significant workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, tool in the effective management of its matters affecting them, via email and in the diversity of the many communities in people and business.
Ashmore ensures all meetings arranged for the purpose.
Ashmore employs over employees are competent to undertake their has consistently operated a remuneration 32 different nationalities throughout the roles, have access to training as it is required, strategy that recognises both corporate and organisation.
The gender balance is currently and can demonstrate their continuing individual performance.
Ashmore is also 67.5% 169 people male and 32.5% 83 professional development.
committed to following good practice in people female.
The performance management cycle employment matters, recognising the part Ashmore has provided data to the 2017 comprises setting objectives and an annual this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
Hampton Alexander Review and this performance appraisal against those agreed Ashmore seeks to ensure that its information is contained in Ashmores objectives.
Output from this performance workforce reflects, as far as practicable, separate Corporate Social Responsibility process is used to assist with decisions the diversity of the many communities in Report which can be found on its website at on remuneration, career development which its operations are located.
also recognises the diverse needs of its Information security employees in managing the responsibilities Information security including cyber of their work and personal lives, and believes Gender diversity security is identified as a key principal risk to that achieving an effective balance in these Number of employees the business which is subject to Ashmores areas is beneficial to both Ashmore and the governance, policies and procedures and risk individual.
Ashmore assesses, monitors to act ethically and to uphold clearly the and controls data security risk, and ensures standards of practice which its clients have 1 that there is adequate communication come to expect.
It also means ensuring that between the key stakeholders, which employees understand the strategic aims include senior management and IT, human and objectives of the Group and are clear resources, risk management and control, Board about their role in achieving them.
Ashmore works to ensure employee Ashmore has a layered security model, policies and procedures reflect best practice 6 within which multiple complementary within each of the countries where it has a technologies and processes are employed.
This means having policies and Ashmore staff undertake mandatory practices that make Ashmore an attractive training in matters of Information Security Male Female place to work in respect of the day to day including cyber security.
Ashmore routinely operating environment and culture, and also deploys security updates to its systems and 2 in respect of medium to long term growth undertakes regular vulnerability testing of for employees, personally, professionally Operating its networks and systems using a specialist and financially.
Ashmore provides an Disability Senior annual report to the Ashmore Audit and Ashmore willgive full and fair consideration Managers Risk Committee on its cyber security to applications for employment by disabled arrangements, and adopts a culture of 10 persons, having regard to their particular continuous improvement which means aptitudes and abilities andprovide equal thatimprovements can and do occur opportunity for disabled employees in throughout the year.
terms of training, career development Ashmore also affirms and or attests and promotion.
with key partners on an annual basis 1 that they have not been susceptible to 83 cyber security attacks and vendors have taken all reasonable steps to continuously All employeeB soard monitor and protect themselves on cyber 169 security weaknesses.
Ashmores approach to principal risks in 6 general is discussed in greater detail on pages 32 to 37.
Male Female Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Corporate social responsibility continued In the spirit of tax transparency, Ashmore High ethical standards Travel complies with relevant global initiatives Ashmores Board of Directors seeks Although Ashmore endeavours to make including the US Foreign Account Tax to maintain a strong corporate culture maximum use of available technology, such Compliance Act FATCA and the OECD employing high standards of integrity as video conferencing, investing in Emerging Common Reporting Standard.
Ashmore and fair dealing in the conduct of the Markets inevitably requires that investment closely monitors developments arising from firms activities, compliance with both the professionals and other members of staff the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting letter and the spirit of relevant laws and travel frequently to these countries to BEPS initiative and has implemented a regulations, and standards of good market investigate and monitor investments.
transfer pricing policy to comply with the practice in all jurisdictions where the Groups Recycling relevant international tax changes introduced business is carried out.
The Boards aim Ashmore has in place recycling programmes by BEPS.
is to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that for waste paper, photocopier toners and the Group is fit and proper to undertake Human rights other disposable materials.
Ashmore seeks its business, to safeguard the legitimate Ashmore supports the United Nations to minimise the use of paper as part of its interests of Ashmore clients and protect Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
clear desk policy and electronic scanning is Ashmores reputation.
All printing is two-sided Environment Health and safety by default.
As a company whose business is The health and welfare of employees is very fundamentally based on intellectual capital Ashmore is conscious of minimising its important to the Group.
and does not own its business premises, impact on the environment.
For this reason, Ashmore has a limited direct impact Ashmore promotes high standards of health wherever possible Ashmore chooses paper on the environment and there are few and safety at work and has a comprehensive stocks that have been sustainably sourced environmental risks associated with the health and safety policy which highlights the and which are Forest Stewardship Council Groups activities.
Nevertheless, Ashmore Groups commitment to ensuring employees FSC accredited or equivalent for its recognises that it has a responsibility to are provided with a safe and healthy working marketing materials and business stationery.
manage this as effectively as possible.
In London Ashmore carries Greenhouse gas The Group continues to promote energy out regular risk assessments of premises emissionsreporting efficiency and the avoidance of waste and provides staff with safety training Further details on Greenhouse gas emissions throughout its operations and a number of including the provision of training to fire GHGs can be found in the Directors report.
initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, wardens and first aid representatives.
glass and other waste and the use of Ashmore also engages external consultants greenenergy, are encouraged.
to carry out regular health and safety and fireassessments in its London premises.
Ashmore does not own any of the buildings where it occupies floor space and invariably There have been no reportable accidents buildings in which it does have a lease are inthe UK or overseas premises.
multi-tenanted and costs are apportioned Taxation to each tenant pro-rated according As a multi-national organisation with a to occupancy.
diverse geographic footprint, Ashmore Ashmores largest property occupancy aims to create value for its shareholders is at its headquarters at 61 Aldwych, and clients by managing its business in a London where it occupies a single floor of commercial, tax efficient and transparent approximately 19,000 square feet in a nine manner, within the remit of applicable storey multi-tenanted building.
Electricity tax rules and always bearing in mind the usage in London is separately monitored by potential impact on brand and reputation.
floor and energy efficient lighting is installed In doing so, Ashmore is committed to in the building with sensors which turn paying tax in accordance with relevant laws lightsoff when no movement is detected.
and regulations and complying with fiscal obligations in the territories in which the Group operates.
Ashmores tax strategy willbe published on the Ashmore Group website by 30 June 2018.
42 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Community Investment financial aid to active engagement with NGOs through mentoring and helping them 2016-17 Highlights expand their network of contacts.
Ashmore London Team win Ashmore employees organise a range of Charity Rowing Challenge events from wine tastings to cake bakes 22 Ashmore employees toraise funds for the Foundation.
Ashmore volunteer with local charities employees organise challenge event in Ashmore Foundation establishes support of the Foundation and over the In London, Ashmore employees continued eight new partnerships awarding years have submitted the UKs three to cultivate their relationships with local over US$ 700,000 peaks, cycled from London to Paris and charities and in December took part and Ashmore Foundation makes walked the length of Hadrians Wall.
In total, won a Corporate Rowing challenge to donation to Yemen Crisis Appeal Ashmore employees have raised in excess raise funds for Resurgo, a London-based of 220,000 for the Foundation and the civil Grant giving extended to Ghana, charity, that works with young people from society organisations it supports.
Peru and Philippines disadvantaged communities to access employment.
Ashmore continues to make an annual donation of foreign coins and Making a positive difference banknotes to the Alzheimers Society, and to Ashmores approach to community support local charities with gifts in kind.
investment represents a commitment to building relationships and having a positive impact on the communities where Ashmore operates and invests.
At the heart of this approach is the Ashmore Foundation, which consistent with Ashmores investment experience focuses on the Emerging Markets.
Approach The Ashmore Foundations focus of work is designed in response to the fact that, Investing locally in Emerging despite economic growth in Emerging Markets communities Markets, disadvantaged communities The Ashmore Foundation was established in in many countries remain affected by January 2008 and seeks to make a positive poverty and lack access to basic services and sustainable difference to disadvantaged and opportunities that are basic rights and communities in the Emerging Markets in could greatly improve their life situations.
which Ashmore operates and invests.
To Moreover, a thriving civil sector is essential achieve this goal, the Ashmore Foundation to democratic development in nascent and aims to develop long-term relationships emerging nations.
withlocally based non-government Ashmore recognises the positive impact organisations NGOs.
The Foundation seeks to develop long-term it can have on the communities where it partnerships with civil society organisations operates and is committed to creating lasting The Ashmore Foundation is staffed by and does not accept unsolicited applications, benefits in those locations where Ashmore a full time Executive Director who is preferring to seek appropriate partnerships has a presence.
Beyond support for the responsible for managing the Foundations pro actively.
Civil society organisations Ashmore Foundation, employees across all affairs.
The board of trustees consists of typically receive between US$20,000 and offices and subsidiaries are encouraged to seven Ashmore employees as well as one US$50,000 per year over a two to three engage with and support local community independent trustee.
In addition to the board year period.
This commitment is reflected of trustees Ashmore employees engage in in Ashmores policy enabling employees the governance of the Foundation through Following a review of its funding priorities to take one day annually to support sub-committees.
in2014, the Ashmore Foundation focuses charitable projects.
its support on programmes that aim to equip Ashmore supports the Foundations people with the skills and resources they Ashmore employees have taken part in a charitable activities through the provision need to increase their livelihood opportunities range of activities supporting disadvantaged of pro-bono office space, administrative enabling them to meet their basic needs and communities in their local vicinity.
In New support and a matched funding commitment that of their families and will also support York, a team of Ashmore employees for employee donations.
The Ashmore economic growth and begin to address volunteer annually with local community Foundation is supported solely by Ashmore broader societal inequalities.
organisations taking part in activities ranging and its employees globally.
Crucially, this from sorting clothes to stocking food banks.
support from employees extends beyond This year a team of seven sorted clothes for GOOD.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Corporate social responsibility continued All proposals for new partnerships undergo a rigorous assessment designed to review Mosintuwu Institute not only the proposed activities but the Indonesia organisation as a whole taking into Partnership established 2016 consideration management, governance, Between 1998 and 2007, in Poso, strategy, resources and accountability.
Central Sulawesi, communal violence The level and depth of due diligence is ensued, initially for political purposes proportionate to the size of the grant but then spread along religious lines.
Today people still bear the scars of this Since its inception in 2008, the Ashmore conflict, with mistrust and prejudice Foundation has disbursed over 4 million to towards other religions common.
70 civil society organisations in 25 Emerging Women have been disproportionately Market countries.
It has developed a number affected by the conflict and of longstanding strategic partnerships: below displacement, but have limited are case studies from two organisations participation in the formal peace making which the Ashmore Foundation has process.
Traditionally, gender roles have recently supported.
been defined by culture and religion: women are seen as second-class Investing in the Ecosystem citizens with no place in public life.
The Ashmore Foundation believes in the power of civil society organisations and This project seeks to support womens leadership through the development of social enterprises to drive social change.
income generating activities by establishing rural enterprises and garbage banks.
Since inception the Ashmore Foundation The basic premise of the garbage bank is that villagers will deposit recyclable has partnered with enterprise incubators refuge to a central point in exchange for basic food staples.
The refuse will be and accelerator programmes that enable recycled into a range of products that will be sold locally and nationally.
organisations to prove their model and accelerate growth.
British Red Cross Yemen British Red Cross launched the Yemen Crisis Appeal The Ashmore Foundation seeks to in 2015 in response to the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation.
They have collaborate with and, where appropriate, helped support immediate relief efforts, providing vital items such as medical establish funding partnerships with other supplies, water and war-wound treatment kits to those injured in the conflict.
These partnerships enable the Ashmore Foundation to bring its resources to bear in combination with the skills and IED-Vital Colombia expertise of other organisations to most Partnership established 2016 effectively support civil society.
Rural communities in Colombia have been disproportionately affected by the In the coming years, the Ashmore conflict between the government and Foundation will continue to grow and FARC.
IED-Vital works with displaced develop its partnerships with civil society families, ethnic minorities, and victims organisations in Emerging Market of the armed conflict through financial countries, exploring new opportunities education programmes.
They invest and financing mechanisms to enable in local, village-level capacity for the organisations to tackle inequality and social management of savings, credits and injustice creating a positive impact for solidarity funds through savings and disadvantaged communities.
Once established the savings groups co-create micro-franchises and www.
org collective purchasing models that seek to generate income for rural communities, Emergencies while at the same time increasing access to basic goods and services at more In addition to the main partnership grants affordable prices.
programme, the Ashmore Foundation The model is based on the strengthening of the social fabric, the capabilities of the supports those communities in Emerging groups and their participation in identifying gaps between supply and demand for Market countries that have been affected basic goods and services.
Through this partnership IED-Vital will increase coverage by natural disasters and humanitarian of their micro-franchise model, working with communities to establish 800 new emergencies.
Most recently the Ashmore micro-franchises.
This will enable at least 8,000 low-income families to have Foundation has supported families affected permanent access to basic goods and services at a fair and reasonable price.
44 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
