Strategic report Our people A premier destination for talented people We are committed to attracting, To attract and retain the right people we offer competitive rewards developing and retaining talented which includes independently benchmarked pay and benefits.
We people who put our clients at the believe that working together as a team is key to our success and so to complement pay we include the majority of our colleagues in a heart of our business Group bonus scheme, linked to the financial success of Hargreaves Lansdown and distributed on an individual performance-related basis identified via a performance appraisal system.
To encourage Our values employees to share in the success of our business we offer Put the client first: immediate entry into our SAYE scheme and over 32% of eligible Go the extra mile: employees joined the 2017 scheme.
Do the right thing: To complement the direct financial rewards we provide pension Make it easy: and contributions and from October 2017 this includes a matching Do it better.
scheme to encourage our colleagues to save for their retirement Our success is founded on delivering incredible client service and extended life cover.
From January 2017, we introduced a flexible through the skills and passion of our people who bring these values benefits scheme HL Rewards which includes health checks, to life across our business.
We take extremely seriously the extended holiday entitlements, medical health cover, health cash responsibility of looking after clients investments and only from plan, a gourmet card and child care vouchers.
Colleagues can trust and true client focus through embedded values can we build extend their benefit selections in line with personal preferences long-term relationships and deliver on our strategy to the benefit of toinclude such benefits as the government-backed cycle to both clients and shareholders.
To present ourselves as a premier destination for talented people Our people strategy we have launched a new, fully mobilised careers website which We recognise that the strength of our people is pivotal to our promotes our business, our values and our opportunities.
business and we are committed to recruiting the right talent and providing the best environment, culture, training and development Engaging our people for our people to flourish.
We believe that our people should be It is crucial that our people understand our priorities and are proud of what they achieve together, with a strong sense of engaged in the development of our business.
Hargreaves Lansdown belonging to Hargreaves Lansdown and know that we recognise the actively encourages colleague involvement.
We place emphasis crucial role that our people play in our success.
onkeeping colleagues informed of the Groups activities, the macroeconomic conditions, current regulatory issues and financialperformance.
We do this via a coordinated internal communications programme.
We also believe it is important to listen and understand our colleagues views and motivation and their honest feedback is crucial in deciding our colleague engagement programme.
This yearwe partnered with Korn Ferry to benchmark our colleague engagement against other high performing organisations and those in our industry.
We were delighted to have a 78% response rate, and followed up the survey with focus groups conducted by senior managers and directors across the business.
Over 91% of employees who completed the survey feel proud of the quality of our products and services which places us 12% ahead of the external benchmarks.
We also made progress year-on-year on improvements made to our pay and benefits, the development opportunities available for colleagues and the way that performance is managed.
In January we announced that we will be opening HL Tech in Warsaw, Poland to increase the talent pool of skilled IT colleagues into the business.
30 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Learning, development and communication 2017 total workforce To continue to engage and develop our people, we have introduced FTE 1,185 a range of new initiatives.
We opened the Hargreaves Lansdown Learning Academy where we house a newly extended induction As at 30 June 2017 programme, a career development programme, a management Company Other senior Total employees Directors1 management2 FTE qualification and team building events.
Over 30% of colleagues have attended team events focusing on building diverse, high Male 5 71% 31 84% 812 69% performing teams.
We support our colleagues in their continuing Female 2 29% 6 16% 373 31% personal and professional learning and development and encourage attendance at external and internal programmes.
This year we introduced a career plan for all colleagues, and an internal 2016 total workforce careers fair to promote the wide-ranging opportunities for personal FTE 942 growth and career development in our business.
To enhance our internal communications a new team have been tasked with As at 30 June 2016 ensuring that key leadership messages are communicated and Company Other senior Total employees cascaded across the business.
Directors1 management2 FTE Male 5 71% 28 88% 658 70% Programmes for young people Female 2 29% 4 12% 284 30% We are committed to providing training programmes for young Notes: people and now offer a suite of programmes.
This includes an 1 Company Directors consists of the Companys Board as detailed on page 36.
Apprenticeship Scheme for 1618 year olds, where young people 2 Other senior management is defined as an employee who has responsibility for planning, direction or controlling the activities of the Group, or a can train with us in our IT, digital or operational teams, an industrial strategically significant part of the Group, other than the Company Directors.
placement scheme for undergraduates, a graduate training programme, internships and summer work experience programme for school children.
We were delighted to receive external recognition for our graduate programme by being ranked in the Top100 companies for graduates.
We give full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, where the candidates aptitudes and abilities are Diversity and equality consistent with meeting the requirements of the job.
If members of staff become disabled the Group continues employment, either in We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels the same or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining and believe that diversity is a broad issue encompassing variations being given if necessary.
A full assessment of any disabled in experience, skills, age and background, as well as more employees needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are traditional diversity factors such as ethnic origin and gender.
made to the work environment or practices in order to assist them.
Commercially, and for best practice reasons, we are an equal opportunities employer and believe that to succeed as a business Human rights we need to make the most of the potential of our people whoever they are.
We have human resource policies in place to attract a As a UK-based organisation with clients and employees located diverse workforce and once working with us our people can expect within the UK, we have not provided further information about any to develop in an environment that is free from discrimination or policies of the Group in relation to human rights issues since it is harassment.
We have an Executive Committee member responsible not considered necessary for an understanding of the development, for our diversity and inclusion programme, which ensures we have performance or position of the Groups business activities.
the appropriate level of focus in this area to back up our For details of our statement on human rights, in particular those commitment with meaningful action and positive change.
views in relation to human trafficking and modern slavery, please visit our website www.
co. uk data assets pdf file 0009 11399832 Modern-Slavery-Act.
pdf 31 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Empowering people to save and invest with confidence Financial advice Our financial advisers help thousands of clients each year to make the right investment decisions to meet their financial objectives.
We have 90 qualified advisers based around the country to help people either face-to-face or over the telephone to control their finances.
Our distinct approach to financial advice means we will only recommend it if we believe clients will value and financially benefit from it.
If we dont believe this is the case, we will show them how to get set up on the Vantage platform and provide the tools and guidance for them to make their own investment decisions.
Our Portfolio Management Service, where an investment manager will fully manage your portfolio is provided to over 14,800 clients with AUA of 3.5 billion.
For more information, please see w ww.
co. uk financial-advice 32 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Personal Pick and choose the advice you need, when you need it.
Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 33
