Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Strategic report Corporate social responsibility To ensure we are getting things right with clients, we listen to them At Hargreaves Lansdown, we want to about the changes they would like to see to our services and we encourage and actively seek feedback.
If clients ever feel the need makesure that our impact on society to complain, the complaints handling team carefully investigates isapositive and sustainable one our clients complaint and endeavours to provide them with a fair resolution.
We benchmark our performance in treating clients fairly against statistics published annually by the Financial Ombudsman Our purpose is to Empower people to save and invest with Service for the industry.
The results for the 2017 financial year confidence.
Achieving this will help people to make more of compared to the last figures published by the Ombudsman show their money throughout their lifetime.
Our values are rooted that Hargreaves Lansdown is achieving good results in this regard.
in placing the client at the heart of what we do.
We believe that doing the right thing for clients and employees Going the extra mile: Ensuring our clients needs are met and makes great business sense.
expectations exceeded is very important and our breadth of offering means we have the ability to assist clients throughout For more information visit our website at www.
co. uk investor-relations  theirfinancial lifetime.
Clients have differing financial needs and goals, but listening, finding solutions and treating them as We are committed to managing the environmental impact of our individuals ensures we provide our clients with an exceptional operations, treating our employees well and maintaining a great personal experience.
Our approach to corporate social responsibility includes these key elements: Integrity: The Group prides itself on its integrity in dealing with clients and staff openly and honestly.
All employees are trained Quality We want to offer the best products and offer an excellent and made fully aware of anti-money laundering procedures which service, and are always looking for ways to improve.
must be adhered to at all times.
The Group takes the views of its Sustainability We work for the long-term, looking beyond employees very seriously and through its Whistleblowing Policy it immediate success.
encourages employees to raise any concerns about malpractice or wrongdoing within the workplace.
All concerns are treated with the utmost confidence and in full compliance with the Public Interest Our culture Disclosure Act.
We have worked hard to create what we believe to be a unique Simplicity: We believe dealing with us should be easy and working culture at Hargreaves Lansdown and our employees play a efficient.
As such, we are constantly reviewing our processes and key part in developing and driving this forward.
To identify our key services to streamline interactions and allow clients to conduct values as a business we looked to our employees to provide real their business with the minimum hassle through whichever channel insight, which ensured the values identified were organic and not they choose.
Information on our website is easy to find, application forced or artificially created.
A Group-wide survey was undertaken processes only ask for the information we really need, and if you in the year and established our values as: contact us by telephone you will be put through directly to a person Care put the client first: rather than an automated telephone system.
Service go the extra mile: Innovative: We continue to innovate around our clients needs Integrity do the right thing: through challenging ourselves to always deliver better solutions, Simplicity make it easy: and better services and a better experience.
From the new improved Innovative do it better.
mobile experience to our new HL Select funds, we are continually Putting clients first: At Hargreaves Lansdown there is an delivering new ways to help clients invest.
embedded culture whereby theinterests of clients are always put first and how they must be treated fairly.
This is communicated to Campaigning all employees in the business during their induction and throughout their careers.
In practice, this includes elements such The Group actively seeks to lobby via public consultation asensuring that: documents where they believe that investors in the UK will benefit.
Examples during the year include: all product design and information is clear and understandable: information and client support is available to clients after the Working with HM Treasury on the development of the new LISA point of sale: and a ban on cold calling to reduce the risk of pension fraud.
appropriate complaints handling procedures are in place: and Lobbying the DWP to give employees more control over their financial promotion and marketing practices are unbiased and workplace pensions and improved access to pensions for the appropriate for their audience.
27 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Environmental initiatives: Our objective of reducing waste and Employee well-being minimising the environmental impact of our business is aligned with Our dedicated people are central to delivering our values and our objectives of protecting client data, reducing costs and ensuring their well-being is therefore a key focus.
In addition to improving efficiency.
It is our aim to deal with clients and other providing competitive benefits packages and tailored learning and businesses electronically wherever possible, not only to speed development programmes, we have introduced several workshops upinformation transfer, but also to reduce the amount of paper and initiatives over the last 12 months to raise awareness of weuse.
We have invested heavily in providing a user-friendly, andpromote a healthy working environment for employees.
comprehensive website, a new mobile app and automated links to Thishas included: banks and fund providers.
The benefits will grow as more people and businesses choose to transact business and receive Healthy Living Week a wide range of activities were made information online.
We aim to increase the take-up of online and available such as fitness classes, health MOTs, singing classes paperless services, and have been successful in doing this during and mindfulness classes: the year.
Healthy Minds Week an awareness week which included 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Change workshops on mindfulness, personal resilience, mental health and nutrition: and Vantage clients registered as Personal Development Week which included motivational paperless 76% 73% 3% speakers, workshops on impact and influence and career Vantage client equity drop-insessions.
deals placed online 98% 98% 0% We also offer an Employee Assistance Programme EAP which is Clients registered to intended to help employees deal with personal problems that might use our online services 89% 88% 1% adversely impact their work performance, health and well-being.
Business travel and commuting: We do not provide company Environment cars to managers or to our network of advisers.
Advisers are spread throughout the UK which minimises travel time and carbon As a service business that is fundamentally based on intellectual emissions.
We provide a telephone advice service where a capital and conducts the majority of client transactions online, we face-to-face meeting is not required.
In January 2017, we introduced do not see ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally a cycle to work scheme which offers our employees an incentive to harmful substances.
However, the Group continues to promote travel to and from work in an environmentally friendly way and we energy efficiency and the avoidance of waste throughout also provide a secure bike park at our office enabling up to 150 staff itsoperations.
More employees are now able to work from home Running and maintaining our IT infrastructure at our head office and using laptops, which, as well as consuming less power than desktop data centres comprises the main source of our environmental computers, reduces the need for work related travel.
This supports our award winning platform which is Recycling: We continue to shred and recycle confidential waste fundamental to the success of our business.
and have arrangements for the collection of recyclable waste such Each year we compare the tonnes of CO2 emissions per employee as printer toner cartridges, cardboard, plastics, newspapers and per year to FTSE 100 companies in the same sector as us.
We also continue to recycle redundant IT results in the chart below demonstrate the relatively low impact our equipment through specialist third parties.
business has on the environment.
Greenhouse gas emissions: Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 has required all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse.
Maximum gas emissions as part of their annual directors report.
of our output of greenhouse gas emissions compared to other FTSE100 companies in our sector shows that the Groups activities Average.
produce a relatively low impact on the environment..
The Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions for the year to 30 June 2017 Minimum Excluding HL are set out in the table below.
Scope 1 emissions relate to the.
Groups fugitive emissions from the combustion of fuel and Hargreaves Lansdown.
operating activities and Scope 2 emissions relate to the Groups electricity usage.
Tonnes CO e per employee per year 28 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Our mission is to utilise the skills and time of our workforce and Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports partners to make a positive, sustainable difference in the world Regulations 2013 which fall within our consolidated financial aroundus.
We focus on four pillars: the next generation, health and statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources well-being, improving lives and local communities.
Every three that are not included in our consolidated statement.
We have used years wewill select charities corresponding to these pillars which the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard we will support through a range of fundraising events.
The charities revised and emission factors from UK Governments GHG are nominated and selected by employees and the first five are Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016. asfollows: In order to provide an intensity ratio for our emissions disclosure, Next generation we have calculated our greenhouse emissions per employee.
The The Princes Trust Directors believe that the number of employees is the best indicator Youth Adventure Trust for a Group of this size and nature for the purposes of this disclosure.
The number of employees used is the average number Well-being of full-time equivalent employees over the measurement period.
Cancer Research UK For the year ending 30 June 2017 our emissions per employee decreased by 21%.
Improving lives Guide Dogs for the Blind Global GHG emissions data for period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2017 unaudited Communities Tonnes of CO2e Great Western Air Ambulance Current reporting Comparison year year Emissions from: 2016-2017 2015-2016 Change The foundation aims to provide a centralised focus for fundraising efforts, improve support and increase the money raised for Scope 1 -Combustion charitable causes and improve links with our local communities and of fuel and operation national charitable groups.
All of the legal and administration costs of facilities 217.3 400.8 -46% will be met by the Group so 100% of the money raised will go to the Scope 2 Purchased employee nominated charities.
The day-to-day running of the energy for own use 1,546.0 1,673.4 -8% Tonnes of CO e per foundation will be by Hargreaves Lansdown volunteers.
2 average full-time More details can be found on the website www.
co. uk about-us hl-foundation equivalent employee 1.68 2.14 -21% Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to be Our tax contribution included in the FTSE4Good Index series, having Integrity and good conduct are central to our culture and this means been independently assessed according to the we aim to comply with both the spirit and the letter of the law and FTSE4Good criteria.
The FTSE4Good index are committed to conducting our tax affairs in an open and measures the performance of companies that transparent way.
meet globally recognised standards on corporate We aim to comply with all our tax filing, tax reporting and tax social responsibility.
We seek to maintain an open, honest and positive working relationship with tax authorities and we do not Community undertake aggressive tax planning ideas.
HL Foundation Investing in a better future Taxes provide public revenues for government to meet economic On 1 September 2016, the Group launched the Hargreaves and social objectives.
Paying and collecting taxes is an important Lansdown Charitable Foundation, the charitable arm of Hargreaves part of our role as a business, responsibly operating within and Lansdown.
This moved the Groups focus away from one nominated contributing to society.
Our corporation tax and employers national charity per year, the last of which was St Peters Hospice, to insurance paid in respect of the year ended 30 June 2017 was between four and eight employee nominated charities.
In addition, we pay other taxes such as VAT, stamp duty and business rates.
29 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
