Strategic Report Food producing Animal Products Key Product Cyclospray Methoxasol Octacillin Rapidexon Soludox Pet Diets Key Product Specific Vaccines Key Product Avishield ND CAP Generics Key Product CAP Generics Stock Code: DPH 47 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 47 04 09 2017 13:59:23 Adriatic Adriatic Adriatic Adriatic Australia Australia Australia Australia Austria Austria Austria Austria Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Canada Canada Canada Canada Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Finland Finland Finland Finland France France France France Germany Germany Germany Germany Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Italy Italy Italy Italy Mexico Mexico Mexico Mexico Nlands Nlands Nlands Nlands Norway Norway Norway Norway Poland Poland Poland Poland Portugal Portugal Portugal Portugal Spain Spain Spain Spain Sweden Sweden Sweden Sweden UK UK UK UK US US US US Corporate Social Responsibility Glossary Terms used within this section: DPM: Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing LTAFR: Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate MAT: Moving Annual Turnover Tony Griffin Managing Director, Katy Clough Group HR Director Dechra Veterinary Products EU A responsible approach to our stakeholders and the wider community is considered by the Board to be important to the business.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy has three pillars: Pillar Policy Objectives Our People A great and safe place to work Leverage the Dechra Values and culture Maintain high levels of employee engagement Maintain a reputation for acting responsibly and with integrity Culture of safe working practices Our Community To contribute to the social and economic Maintain and improve the knowledge and skills of veterinarians who welfare of the local communities in which prescribe and use our products we operate Contribute towards charitable causes through the donation of time, products and skills Our Environment To adopt responsible environmental Eliminating waste sent to landfill practices and to give consideration to Use energy more efficiently minimising the impact of our operations on the environment Contribute towards causes and projects which support our environment The progress in relation to the above objectives is described further in this report.
The conduct of the business towards social, environmental, ethical and health and safety issues is recognised to have an impact on our reputation and therefore the implementation and improvement of policies and systems are an ongoing priority within the business.
Tony Griffin is the nominated Director responsible for health, safety and environmental matters.
However, the Board takes ultimate responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies that create and maintain long term value for all stakeholders.
Sound business ethics help to minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance Company efficiency.
48 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 48 04 09 2017 13:59:27 Strategic Report Our People Our original people plan was developed three years ago to support the delivery of the Groups five year plan.
Significant progress has been made with the formation and development of a strong Senior Executive Team SET : embedding of a performance culture: putting in place the building blocks for talent management: aligning compensation and benefits: carrying out leadership development and building a scalable HR Operation.
Earlier this year working closely with the SET and the Human Resources leaders, the people plan was adapted to support the delivery of the evolving business goals.
Accelerate Performance: Accelerate Align employee efforts and drive productivity through effective Performance goal setting, feedback and focus on development Grow Our Own Talent: Creation Grow Our of Shared Attract retain and develop the right talent in the right place at the Own Talent Services right time Strong Culture and Values: How we do things round here Engaged and Committed Workforce: A great place to work Healthy Strong Culture Workplace and Values Healthy Workplace: Improving the working lives of our people Engaged and Creation of Shared Services: Committed Workforce Efficient infrastructure supporting commercial operations During this year we have focused on the ongoing integration of the In the year ahead we are planning to undertake our first Group-wide three acquisitions that we made during the 2016 financial year.
The employee engagement survey to provide us with a baseline understanding growth of the Group has driven a need to simplify the commercial of engagement levels and to identify any areas for improvement.
organisation structure to allow a strong focus on core sales and Our culture and Values are important to us and have helped to drive marketing activities delivering revenue goals.
This has led to the the Groups success.
During the coming year we will be working with commencement of the development of a shared infrastructure with the leadership teams around the Group to define the core leadership the aims of controlling costs, avoiding duplication of effort and competencies which we will use to recruit and develop our new and ensuring all parts of the Group are supported equally.
During the year, we have focused our efforts on: For a number of years the Group has reported labour turnover as a reorganising the Group following the acquisitions and recruiting key non-financial KPI using a standard formula as follows: roles where we identified gaps in our talent pipeline: Total number of leavers over the period 100 strengthening our succession plans across the Group identifying Average total number employed over the period both high performers and those with high potential, putting in place The Groups target is to maintain employee turnover Moving Annual structured development plans.
We have reduced the reliance on Turnover MAT at or below 15%.
During the 2017 financial year this individual contributors in many parts of the Group, and will continue to was 15.7% 2016: 13.1%, which represents an increase of 2.6%.
The develop a consistent approach to the development of our key talent: 2016 figure excludes the employees from Genera, Brovel and Putney.
strengthening the Human Resources team in North America and in The increase has been driven by the organisational restructures as we Group Manufacturing and Supply to support the business: and integrate the acquisitions.
working on the Group Manufacturing and Supply transformation It is the Groups policy to provide equal recruitment and other programme, restructuring and retraining our manufacturing teams opportunities for all employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual to prepare for the technical transfers across our sites.
orientation, religion, race or disability.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled people, where they adequately fulfil the We have continued to roll out our Human Resources system, Dechra requirements of the role.
Where existing employees become disabled, Diamond, across the Group and have enabled the second phase of it is the Groups policy, whenever practicable, to provide continuing the project which supports the automation of some of the Personal employment under the Groups terms and conditions and to provide Development Review process including goal setting and the annual training and career development whenever appropriate.
Our e-learning management system, Delta, has now we recognise that the success of the Group is dependent on our been introduced in North America, supporting the online training and ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled employees.
development of knowledge and skills of our staff.
Read Strategic Enablers People on pages 41 to 43 Stock Code: DPH 49 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 49 04 09 2017 13:59:27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Informing and engaging our employees through internal channels Health and Safety of communication is of utmost importance to the Group.
We have The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its multiple channels of communication to provide both formal and informal employees and the public.
The safety of our employees is paramount updates including a Group newsletter that is issued twice a year and that means continuing to reinforce good safety management following the half-yearly and year end results, intranets, management practices as well as raising awareness of improved ways of working.
and team meetings at the respective business units.
These ensure Management are responsible for, and committed to, the maintenance, that our employees are informed of the financial performance of monitoring and promotion of a policy of health and safety at work to the Group, as well as the sharing of updates which are relevant to ensure the care and well-being of our employees and onsite visitors.
all Group employees such as the introduction of new technology, Any material health and safety issues or incidents that occur are any management changes or restructuring, updates on corporate discussed in detail at both business unit senior management meetings social responsibility activities, and progress in relation to our strategic and PLC Board meetings.
Discussions include details of incidents and objectives.
any remedial action taken to mitigate or prevent recurrence.
Twice a Apprenticeships and Work Experience year a comprehensive health and safety report is presented at each Our Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing DPM facilities continue of the business unit senior management meetings and subsequently with the commitment to people development through a number of reported to the PLC Board meeting the following month for discussion apprenticeships: at its Skipton facility there are six apprentices and at and review by the Directors.
the Bladel facility there is one.
The employees at Skipton are taking The main sites within the Group have an active Health and Safety National Vocational Qualifications or university degrees as part of Committee comprising representatives from both management and their apprenticeships.
DPM also participates in work experience and employees.
The workforce nominates employee representatives.
currently has two people on internship, in Zagreb, who are working for These committees meet on a regular basis to carry out a review of risk one month in Quality Control and Pharmaceutical Development.
assessments and standard operating procedures as well as investigating DVP EU offers internships at its UK operations, one in sales and any concerns raised by individual employees.
Each site has the requisite marketing and one in corporate marketing.
Both internships are for one number of employees trained in health and safety legislation.
year and are usually higher education students on their placement years.
For a number of years the Group has reported Lost Time Accident Business Ethics Frequency Rate LTAFR as a non-financial key performance indicator The Board expects all of the Groups business activities to be see page 31. conducted in accordance with the highest ethical standards and in full The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries that are statutorily reportable compliance with all applicable national and international legislation.
In under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences doing so we aim to maintain a reputation for acting responsibly and Regulations RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 hours worked.
The Board has formalised these expectations into a policy measure provides information to help monitor and control accidents known as the Code of Business Conduct the Code which applies and injuries to the workforce and is widely used as a key performance throughout the Group.
This Code is circulated around the business indicator throughout industry.
The Group reports LTAFR on the same together with the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy.
basis as in previous years, that is absence or the inability of workers to The Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy was launched in the 2014 conduct their full range of their normal working activities for a period of financial year previously included in the Code of Business Conduct.
more than three working days after the day when the incident occurred.
The policy, training documents and guidance have been translated and The acquired business, Apex, was included from the first full month rolled out across all of the Dechra territories.
During this financial year that it become part of the Dechra Group.
Over the course of the last 12 the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption course has been launched on months the number of incidents has decreased from seven to six.
None our e-learning platform Delta, in nine languages, with 929 employees of these incidents resulted in a work-related fatality or disability.
having access to the course.
All new relevant employees will be To continue to improve the safety performance across both existing and required to complete this course and existing relevant employees newly acquired facilities and to reflect the priority that is given across will be required to undertake regular refresher training.
the business to safety, a proactive hazard awareness reporting initiative A Whistleblowing Policy is also in place whereby employees can report, has been introduced and rolled out across DPM.
In the first year 1,769 in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings within the business which preventative safety items have been raised and discussed across the they feel unable to discuss directly with local management.
year with 1,476 being actioned and closed out.
Human Rights Dechra is committed to upholding and respecting human rights both LTAFR within our business and from our suppliers.
However, Dechra does not currently have a separate human rights policy.
DPM Zagreb & PDRA 0.38 DPM Bladel 0.00 Modern Slavery The Dechra Annual Report, the Code and the Values set out the DPM Florida 0.00 Groups commitment to acting ethically and with integrity towards our DPM Skipton 0.93 employees and in all our business relationships.
Under the Code and Apex DPM & Dechra 0.00 Dechras Third Party Principles Policy we have specific principles and International statements that cover ethical and human rights risks related to DVP EU 0.12 anti-bribery and corruption, human resources, modern slavery, DVP US & Canada 0.00 child labour, non-discrimination and fair treatment.
including Putney Mexico 0.00 PLC 0.00 50 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 50 04 09 2017 13:59:27 Strategic Report Our Community The Board encourages the business units to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate.
It recognises that by taking voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
This is the sixth year in which the Group has operated a Donations Policy.
All employees within the Group are entitled to nominate a charity or a non-commercial organisation.
This year the number of nominations received exceeded our expectations and it was therefore decided to increase the overall donation spend from 20,000 to 30,000, which was split equally between the following 15 charities: Type of Charity Charity Country Description Animal The Rehabilitation Croatia The Rehabilitation Centre Silver trains assistance dogs to be used in the Centre Silver rehabilitation of disabled persons and children with developmental difficulties.
Vida Silvestre Jesus Mexico El Nido is the largest aviary in Latin America which is dedicated to saving hundreds Estudillo Lopez A. C. of animal species, most of which are endangered birds.
The donation will be used El Nido to support a project for the preservation of the great curassow which is a large pheasant-like bird from the Neotropical rainforests in danger of extinction.
The Trusty Paws UK Provides free preventative care to dogs belonging to the homeless or vulnerably Clinic housed of Glasgow and London.
The Underhound USA Rescues dogs from various parts of the country and transports them to the Railroad Northeast primarily Maine where they are fostered until matched with an adopter Frankies Friends USA A non-profit foundation dedicated to finding cures and saving pets with cancer and other life-threatening conditions.
The donation will provide lifesaving dialysis technology.
People Childrens House, Croatia This charity provides children and young adults with accommodation, technical Zagreb support and security, and training necessary for their development.
Gornja Bistra Croatia A special hospital in Gornja Bistra which cares for children with chronic diseases, Hospital through specialist activities and hospitalisation in cases when adequate treatment cannot be provided at home.
Jedni za druge Croatia Jedni za druge aims to prevent addiction and impulse control disorders, and to develop social and psychological rehabilitation and resocialisation.
BROEN Denmark BROEN has as objective to support socially disadvantaged children and young people with membership fees and equipment for sports or other leisure activities.
BROEN encourages children to socialise and be part of a positive community.
Nederlandse Cystic The Netherlands The Nederlandse Cystic Fibrosis Stichting fights for a better quality of life for people Fibrosis Stichting who suffer from cystic fibrosis.
Tell me your dreams Mexico This charity is focused on fulfilling the dreams of children who suffer from serious terminal illnesses.
Soncek Murska Slovenia Soncek is an association that brings together children suffering from cerebral palsy.
Their Sobota, aim is to provide as much as possible a normal life for these children, and includes many different therapies such as physiotherapy, therapeutic riding and swimming.
Lotus Home Sri Lanka Lotus Home is an orphanage for disabled girls in Sri Lanka.
Be Their Difference, USA This foundation raises money to purchase toys to donate to the childrens hospitals Inc in Kentucky.
The two major hospitals include Nortons Childrens Hospital in Louisville and Kentucky Childrens Hospital in Lexington.
Twin To Twin USA This foundation is dedicated to helping families affected by TTTS.
They provide Transfusion information for medical decisions, as well as emotional and financial support.
There Syndrome TTTS is also a huge resource for bereavement support for infant loss.
Head Office team volunteered their time on the Northwich section of the The DPM team participated in a team building event in Den Bosch, the Trent and Mersey canal Netherlands which included a donation to a local charity Stock Code: DPH 51 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 51 04 09 2017 13:59:28 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Donations in Kind In addition to the annual Group donation, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2017 financial year.
Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Help Street Animals of Morocco DVP UK continued to provide assistance to HSAM by providing supplies in 2017 Morocco HSAM of Alvegesic, Atipam and Sedator Animal El Nido Mexico Supply of veterinary products People Udruzenje Dijaliznih I Bosnia Hertz Disinfectants to patients with kidney transplantation Transplantiranih Pacijenata Financial Donations Business Unit Jurisdiction Amount Description DPM Skipton UK 750 Donations to Children in Need and The Christie Charitable Fund, Manchester specialised cancer hospital DVP EU Germany 659 Donations to Veterinarians without borders, Aulendorf carnival and Society for Cynological Research DVP EU International 44,502 Circle of Good: Donations to World Wide Fund for Nature WWF, Marine Conversation Society, Sea Life Centre Blankengerbe and The Ocean Clean Up refer to case study DVP UK UK 300 Donation to Jade the Street Vet, who provides free veterinary care in London for the pets of the homeless Genera Croatia 572 Donation to the local fire service Case Study: Our Community Dechra Academy for Veterinarians Maintaining and improving knowledge and skills in an ever changing industry is a major driver behind the ongoing demand from the veterinary profession for high quality education.
In a number of countries the number of hours that each veterinarian spends on Continuous Professional Development CPD each year is mandated by their professional organisation.
From Dechras perspective, we are keen to ensure that the diseases our products treat are diagnosed, monitored and treated, and so education forms an intrinsic part of our marketing mix.
Our educational programmes have traditionally involved speakers, often eminent Key Opinion Leaders, presenting to groups of veterinarians face to face.
We recognise that it is not always convenient for our customers to give up their evenings and travel to hear a speaker, so we have looked into ways to make education available at a time and place to suit them.
The Dechra Academy was first launched in 2010 to provide an e-learning environment for veterinarians, initially in the UK.
The attraction of anytime, any place learning was huge and the launch was very successful with thousands of veterinary professionals registering to complete the courses within the first few weeks of launch.
Now there are over 35 courses in the Academy in a wide range of different formats from e-learning modules to webcasts and when they need it and how we can increase awareness and usage of podcasts and the Academy is available globally.
The attraction of our products.
As a result, we are updating and improving the Dechra this form of learning has not waned and we continue to receive a Academy ready for launch in the next financial year.
significant number of new registrations worldwide every year.
The new Dechra Academy will include: We do still run Dechra Academy Live events, our face to face a new look and feel: meetings and webinars, but now we record these and offer them improved navigation, simplifying the user journey: and to other customers as webcasts accessed via the Academy.
increased integration with the Dechra website.
Our contribution to education has been recognised by our customers.
We are also investing in a number of new e-learning modules to In a recent survey, Dechras educational programme was highly rated ensure that we continue to meet our customers demands for by our UK customers for its quality and for our commitment to the meaningful and relevant educational content.
This ranking, along with the feedback from recent customer research, has given us a clear indication of what our customers need, CPD Habits of Vets Across Europe, February 2017, CM Research Ltd. 52 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 52 04 09 2017 13:59:29 Strategic Report Our Environment Energy and Waste Management The Group recognises the importance of good environmental controls.
It is the Groups policy to comply with environmental legislation currently in place, to adopt responsible environmental practices and to give consideration to minimising the impact of its operations on the environment.
Annual Waste Disposal Performance Bladel Florida Skipton Zagreb Recovered, recycled and reused 100.0% 43.0% 56.1% 86.6% Landfill 57.0% 20.4% Waste & Controlled Drugs 23.5% 13.4% Recycled.
Our central logistics hub for Europe the Dechra Service Center DSC has continued with its annual contribution of DKK15,000 to Energreen ApS for the construction of new green energy production facilities within Denmark.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions In order to determine our carbon emissions, we have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and have reported on emissions arising from those sources over which we have operational control the exception being the inclusion of a third party manufacturer who leases part of our facility in Uldum, Denmark.
Any acquisitions during the year are included from the first full month that they become part of the Dechra Group.
The disclosures below encompass: Scope 1: includes emission from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities excluding combustion of fuel from Company cars : Scope 2: includes emissions from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling: and Vehicle emissions.
Dechra has selected Tonnes of CO e per total million sales revenue as the intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of the Groups growth.
2 1 July 2016 to 1 July 2015 to 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 30 June 2015 Scope 1 4,018 3,434 636 Scope 2 3,890 3,130 1,740 Vehicle emissions 1,618 1,511 1,241 Total Carbon Footprint tonnes of CO e 9,526 8,075 3,617 2 Intensity ratio tonnes of CO e per m 26.5 32.6 17.8 2 As reported in last years report the increase in the 2016 financial year was mainly attributable to the production of the nutrition supplement that is manufactured at Genera.
This was explained in a case study in the 2016 Annual Report.
The intensity ratio has decreased by 6.1 tonnes of CO e per total million sales revenue.
The decrease is partially due to the continued monitoring 2 and optimising of the energy resources used at our manufacturing facilities and at the DSC.
In January 2017 DSC installed light emitting diode type LED lighting in their warehouse and administration.
On a yearly basis this change is expected to save DKK133,370 approximately 15,640 with a return on investment of 1.4 years and annual kWh saving of 112,464 kWh.
At the beginning of 2017 the Melbourne facility in Florida, US upgraded its site with a retrofitting of the current lighting fixtures from conventional lighting to LED.
On a yearly basis Melbourne expect to save a total of US$10,043 and with a return on investment of 1.7 years and an annual return on investment of 55%.
The Melbourne site has experienced a 32 tonnes reduction in CO emissions per year.
2 The change at both sites will result in an expected 50,000 hours lamp lifetime saving and a 100% reduction in mercury levels in lighting.
We are now working with a third party to make similar changes at the Bladel facility.
Case Study: Our Environment Reduce Waste The Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Amoxicillin is used in the production of Octacilline and Solamocta.
Traditionally, this API is produced by a chemical method, which uses large amounts of organic solvents, and produces a large amount of waste.
To minimise the environmental impact of this chemical production, Dechra tested and validated an alternative source who utilises an enzymatic process to produce Amoxicillin.
The benefits from using the enzymatic Amoxicillin include using fewer solvents in the synthesis, less environment pollution and a reduction of energy consumption greater than 50%.
This is a step to reduce the environmental impact from the production of antibiotics.
Stock Code: DPH 53 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Front.
indd 53 04 09 2017 13:59:30 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Case Study: Our Environment Ocean Cleanup In 2015 the Circle of Good was developed as a positioning In 2017 The Ocean Cleanup TOC was added to the initiatives for our Specific brand of pet food.
The Circle of Good supported by Specific.
TOC is an imaginative, international and includes a commitment to contribute up to 5% of its profits to ambitious scheme offering a potential solution to what was environmental causes, in particular marine sustainability.
The previously seen as an intractable problem, that is the removal underlying principle of the Circle of Good is that Specific uses of millions of tons of plastic from the worlds oceans, which the finest ingredients, foremost amongst these being fish, to damage ecosystems and enter food chains.
To clean this up create products that deliver genuine health benefits for pets.
This using vessels and nets will cost billions of dollars and take creates products that veterinarians are proud to recommend thousands of years to complete.
TOC aims to use the natural and from which owners see the benefits in their healthy pets.
ocean currents and winds, developing a network of floating Reinvesting a proportion of the profits into the environment that U-shaped screens that catch and channel the plastic to a central provides these ingredients supports the process and completes point where it can be removed from the ocean and shipped to a Circle of Good.
Computer models predict that TOC will be able to remove 50% of the plastic waste in the Pacific in just A range of activities have been supported by the Circle of Good five years.
initiative including WWF Baltic Sea in Scandinavia: North Sea Foundation in the Netherlands and Belgium with a beach Going forward, Specific is looking to source all of its fish from clean-up tour: The Finnish Association for Nature Conservation: accredited sustainable sources: it already has this for the WWF Club PME in France: The Sustainable Seas Foundation in majority of its fish oil and packaging is also under review to Sweden and Keep Sweden Tidy Foundation: and beach cleanreduce material weight.
ups with the Marine Conservation Society in the UK.
54 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
