Strategic report People Diversity Our strategy in action As a global company, Renishaw enjoys the advantages of a diverse workforce.
We benefit from the People range of experience and cultural understanding that comes from diversity in the workplace.
With over 20 different nationalities represented within our senior management group, we benefit from the variety of expertise they bring to the business.
On 30th June 2017, we employed 4,530 people across the Group, an increase of 5% Tom Silvey, like many of our since last year.
apprentices, has gone on to study There are nine directors on the Board, a part-time engineering degree consisting of seven males and two females.
The senior management alongside his work as a CNC group is made up of 58 people, of Applications Engineer at Renishaw.
which 56 97% are male and two 3% are female.
Renishaw regards its senior Tom completed his degree in 2016 management group to be the Executive with first-class honours and has since Board, the heads of each product line, sales territory, and manufacturing received the Frederic Barnes Waldron organisation that report directly into the Award from the UK Institution of Executive Board, and the directors of Renishaws subsidiary undertakings.
Communication and participation Operating out of 77 locations around the world has necessitated a culture of clear and open communication between sites, functions and management teams across the business.
To facilitate this, we operate a flat structure that allows our people to openly voice their ideas and concerns.
We are committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity and promoting a culture of openness and accountability.
To help with this a groupwide whistleblowing policy was introduced this year for our people to raise concerns about suspected wrongdoing.
The policy covers all Renishaw employees, officers, consultants, contractors, casual workers, agency workers, suppliers, customers and third parties who provide services for or on behalf of Renishaw.
People are reassured their concerns will be taken seriously and investigated as appropriate, and that their confidentiality will be respected without fear of reprisals.
We hope that in many cases an employee will be able to raise any concerns internally.
However, it is recognised there will be times when it is not appropriate, or a person will not be comfortable, raising a concern internally.
An independent third-party provider, Safecall, has been appointed to operate a confidential reporting line enabling people to raise concerns in confidence and, if they wish, anonymously.
56 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We continue to use our suggestion Our continued investment in training scheme, which we have recently is currently funding the development relaunched on a new online platform, of 131 apprentices, 57 graduates to encourage our people to share on our graduate training programme ideas that can improve business and further career development processes and their employment for employees right across the experience.
The suitability of these business.
We are also currently ideas is assessed by a committee of funding the further education of 103 employees, and then transferred to of our people across the Company in the appropriate area of the business 4,530 engineering, software and commercial for detailed consideration.
people employed across are implemented and provide benefits the Group Our online training platform, MySkills, to the business can earn a financial was launched in May 2015 and reward for the originator.
We also hold continues to be successful.
Our people regular communication meetings, from around the world participate where a member of the Board presents in the programmes it offers, which updates on each area of the business 1.9m are organised to give them control with an open-floor Q&A session.
invested in training of their own development plans with The Board presents our annual and programmes the support of their line manager.
half-yearly financial results to all It offers a broad range of courses in employees in person at our larger various languages focused on equal locations in the UK and via videoopportunities and diversity, technical conference to smaller sites.
skills, leadership management Training and development development, induction, soft skills, 100 career development, health and We recognise that our highly skilled students joined Renishaw safety, anti-bribery and corporate people are the key to success within for paid placements social responsibility.
our organisation: ensuring that they are fully trained in their fields is critical to The Academy was launched in achieving that success.
As such, we 2010 with the aim to develop future place a large emphasis on ensuring application engineers to meet the that our training programmes work growing demand of Renishaws effectively for our people and business increasingly diverse range of products.
This year, we invested a further Technical training is vital to maintain 1.9m in training.
We firmly believe our ability to provide excellent technical that work experience, as well as support, and since the inception of studying, is essential to the success the Academy, it has provided a wide of our employees.
To ensure this is range of training programmes from possible, we offer the opportunity for Face-to-Face Communication and our graduates and apprentices to Fundamentals of Manufacturing to take part in funded studies at HNC, using and programming the machines HND and degree levels alongside their and products we make.
Access to the regular working lives.
Tom Silvey, an Academy continues to be rolled out to award-winning apprentice and BEng more of our locations across the globe, graduate, said the following about his with our highly skilled trainers being experience When Renishaw presented able to offer face-to-face and online me with the opportunity to work training.
We also offer the experience alongside my studies, I knew this was gained from our internal training to the best fit for me.
The Company not customers in several key markets, with only funded my degree, but also gave courses held at customer sites or our me all the time I needed to complete own locations.
D Graduates from the 2016 intake D A key focus is ensuring that our employees have the necessary skills to offer a high level undergoing practical training.
of training and support to customers.
57 Strategic report To give potential future employees the established for many years and is ability to receive practical training and ongoing.
Health support for employees Corporate social experience alongside their academic is offered in the form of subsidised studies, we offer paid placements health monitoring blood pressure, responsibility each year for a broad range of diabetes, cholesterol and BMI.
This year we have given 100 To support the physical and mental continued 2016: 100 students the opportunity welfare of our people we have regular to work at Renishaw, 40 of whom on-site visits from two occupational stay for a full year-long placement.
physicians who are available for our There are 131 manufacturing, technical employees as required.
These doctors and software apprentices currently in also act as senior advisors to our training 2016: 120, with four 2016: 4 Group Health and Safety and HR in our German subsidiary, and the rest functions to ensure that best practice at various UK locations.
We have a inoccupational health is observed.
further 48 new apprentices joining us A total of 122 2016: 113 nearin September 2017 2016: 46 and 45 misses were recorded for the period.
new graduates starting this summer No significant repeating common 2016: 76. causes have been established.
Health and safety Community We continue to develop our health With an increasing global footprint, we D Renishaw sponsors the TransFIORmers and safety management system and recognise the positive contribution that Moto2 GP team.
we are bringing more sites online can be made to our local communities with our health and safety strategy.
through varied interactions with local Our management system has been residents, businesses, schools and designed to be in line with best not-for-profit organisations.
This is practice and the requirements of the especially true in the west of England ISO18001 standard.
We recognise and South Wales, where we are a the importance of dealing with all significant employer.
injuries, as many have the potential to have been more serious.
All injuries In many of our markets, we communicate are recorded, enabling us to manage a positive story about the role played by treatment and investigate all incidents science, engineering and manufacturing effectively with the aim of implementing to enhance the lives of the general appropriate control measures to populace and the attractive nature of a D Wales international Samson Lee right prevent reoccurrence.
We see this visits Miskin.
as vital to overcome perceptions about The total number of accidents for the career options in these areas and period was 234 2016: 296 against to ensure a strong pipeline of future a year-end headcount of 4,530 talent, not just for our own needs, 2016: 4,286.
This equates to an butalso for our wider supply chain accident frequency rate of 30.79 per andcustomer base.
Across the Group we continue to Our online incident reporting system host tour groups and have given continues to be used effectively, talks to a range of organisations encouraging employees to report all including primary and secondary incidents regardless of severity, and schools, universities and colleges, enables us to record trends more business clubs and societies.
We currently do not see any We actively support the business overall trends with the data we capture, community regionally, nationally and except that most of our incidents are internationally, through membership minor cuts.
of trade and lobbying associations There were two reportable accidents such as the Additive Manufacturing under the UK RIDDOR reporting Users Group USA, the European requirements: one severe cut to a Society for Precision Engineering & finger and one head injury leading Nanotechnology, SAE International, the to concussion.
These resulted in a Confederation of British Industry CBI, total lost time of 244 hours, or 42.5 the Dental Laboratories Association days.
This equates to a frequency UK, the Association of British rate of 0.25 per million hours worked Healthcare Industries, Verein Deutscher compared with a UK manufacturing  average for RIDDOR reportable e. V. Germany, UCIMU-SISTEMI accidents of 1.94.
PER PRODURRE Italy and the UKs Manufacturing Technologies No work-related ill health or disease Association MTA where two senior was reported, but health monitoring managers are Board members.
in the form of lung function testing, Rhydian Pountney, a member of the hearing testing and eye testing, where International Sales and Marketing appropriate for a job role, has been Board see page 71 is also co-chair 58 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information of the Advanced Engineering Working manufactured wheel carriers for the offering machining, fabrication and Group of the annual India-UK Joint Formula Student GreenTeam.
maintenance and repair services Economic and Trade Committee to industry through a highly-trained Our sponsorship of the French JETCO.
veteran and wounded warrior work Moto2 GP motorcycle team force.
It provides profits and resources We are also a member of various TransFIORmers also includes to Workshop for Warriors, a nonindustry research centres across the supply of unique additively profit school that prepares veterans the globe, some of these include manufactured titanium wishbone and and wounded warriors for advanced Canada Makes Canada, PrziGen steering column components.
manufacturing careers through training, Germany, Light Alliance Germany, certification and job placement.
Charity BazMod Germany, The Manufacturing In the UK, the Renishaw Charities Technology Centre UK and the Renishaw, Inc. has donated machine Committee RCC was formed in the Advanced Manufacturing Research tool calibration equipment to 1980s to distribute funds to charitable Centre UK.
VetPowered and runs free-of-charge and voluntary organisations and training to enable them to increase We continue to sponsor and help support the individual fundraising their machine maintenance and judge a range of regional and national efforts of all UK employees.
Following successful business award programmes that is made up of representatives from completion, the aim is to then train the help encourage and recognise Renishaws main Gloucestershire sites veterans in machine tool retrofits to business and individual excellence.
and has a particular focus on assisting enable them to earn further revenue to Rainer Lotz, Managing Director organisations that help enrich the lives support their very important cause.
of Renishaw GmbH is a Board of children and adults, from toddler Member of Germanys MX Awards, During the year, our subsidiary in India groups and sports clubs, through to whilst Head of Communications, supported Gurukulam, a school of 350 organisations that support the disabled Chris Pockett, helps judge the main disadvantaged students in Pune.
Donations are also apprenticeship, education and The children are often from travelling made to organisations located close business awards programmes in Bristol families who do not have the stability to other UK sites.
orfinancial means to send them to is administered by the RCC, which mainstream schools and the school donates monies to aid the victims of To further our aim of establishing provides education integrated with global disasters.
awareness of Renishaw as a significant vocational training, as well as shelter regional employer, we continue to During the year, the RCC received and three meals per day, which is free sponsor a wide range of festivals, fewer funding requests but still made of charge to the children and their sports clubs and organisations in donations to 230 diverse organisations families.
Gurukulam faces many the west of England and South totalling 98,000 2016: 102,000. financial challenges, one of which is Wales.
During the year this included Beneficiaries included medical research thecost of fuel wood and LPG used sponsorship of new music at the groups, junior sports clubs, cubs for cooking.
Renishaw therefore gave Colston Halls Lantern venue in Bristol, and brownies groups, sea cadets, asignificant donation for the installation Stroud Young Photographer of the Year hospice care organisations, disability of a concentrated solar thermal and Gloucester Tall Ships Festival.
sports and support groups, primary, technology based steam cooking secondary and special needs schools, system, which harnesses the power The sport of rugby has an especially counselling and carers support groups, ofthe sun to generate steam and hot high profile in South Wales and the animal sanctuaries and senior citizen water, providing an efficient and west of England, and we currently groups.
The RCC also fully matches environmentally friendly system with sponsor Samson Lee Scarlets and funds raised by employees for UK nofuel costs.
Wales and Ben Morgan Gloucester, national fundraising events such as and for season 2017-2018, we have Children in Need and Red Nose Day agreed sponsorship with Cardiff and also supports individual employee Blues, including on-ground signage fundraising activities.
and sponsorship of Tomos Williams, a promising young scrum-half who During the year, significant donations was named in the Wales squad in of 2,000 or more were made by the June 2017.
We sponsor Swansea RCC to support seven organisations City footballer Ki Sung-Yeung, who in Gloucestershire, including a new plays internationally for South Korea, memorial garden for St Marys Church plus Gloucestershire County Crickets D A charitable donation was given to the in Kingswood, a community library Tom Smith.
in Berkeley, further development of the Wotton-under-Edge community We are a technical sponsor to swimming pool, a new launch numerous student racing teams, where vehicle for the Severn Area Rescue we utilise our additive manufacturing Associations lifeboat, and a new expertise to supply key components.
centre at the Milestone special school In Italy, the Unibo Motorsport team, in Gloucester that, when opened, will based at Universit di Bologna, offer state-of-the-art facilities including competes in the Formula Student a large hydrotherapy pool with therapy single-seater car competition, whilst and sensory equipment, plus an all at Politecnico di Torino we sponsor ability play and sports area.
the 2 Wheels Polito team, which has built a motorcycle that competes in the Globally, Renishaw is highly supportive D Mr Girish Prabhune 2nd from right, MotoStudent competition.
In Germany, of its local communities.
In the USA founder of Gurukulam School, with we have also supplied additively we have started a partnership with Renishaw staff.
VetPowered LLC, an organisation 59 Strategic report To allow us to support education Education outreach activities across our key Renishaws UK-based education Corporate social regions, we offer STEM ambassador outreach team continues to work with training to all our new graduates and primary and secondary schools, and responsibility second-year apprentices.
We now have higher educational establishments, over 130 ambassadors in the Company continued to encourage young people of all and each must carry out one STEM genders, ethnicity and backgrounds activity per year, which helps to sustain to learn about engineering, discover and grow our multiple initiatives with what engineers do every day and to schools and universities, including talks encourage them to choose engineering and lectures, career fairs, after school as a career.
The team has designed clubs and STEM projects.
One of our more workshops to be delivered either STEM ambassadors recently received at schools, or at Renishaws sites in a letter from a parent whose daughter Gloucestershire and South Wales, had attended a talk on working as an that are curriculum-linked to add value engineer at Renishaw.
My daughter and context to learning in maths, had never been committed to school, physics, computer science, and design but after the Renishaw engineers talk and technology.
She suddenly knew Renishaw believes that making things, that she wanted to be developing new and understanding how products are technology with Renishaw, and the designed and made, is important in last parents evening was a delight to D Southville Primary School, winner of the influencing young people to consider experience.
Such feedback validates Super Science competition.
We have our continuing commitment to therefore developed with support from schools engagement.
the Welsh Government a Fabrication We are continuing to develop Development Centre FDC on our relationships with key universities manufacturing site at Miskin in South that have been identified as having Wales, which we believe is unique in relevant courses for our business the UK.
This includes the sponsorship Our aim is to become a key of engineering societies and educational resource for hands-on Formula Student teams.
We have learning of design, fabrication, ongoing research projects, PhD and manufacturing and engineering skills, undergraduate projects with several through which we will raise the profile universities, and often give lectures, of engineering and encourage more employability talks and attend career D Renishaw, Inc. staff at a girls into students, especially girls, to choose fairs to raise our profile.
science, technology, engineering The task of developing more engineers and maths STEM subjects.
This will is not something that we can do alone encourage more young people to take and therefore we continue to work up apprenticeships, jobs or further with leading industry organisations education career pathways in highand engineering peers to advise value engineering.
government on national policy that Since it opened last May, we have willbenefit the sector.
For example, welcomed over 600 pupils and weare members of the Royal Academy students to the FDC where they of Engineerings Diversity and Inclusion have participated in design and build Leadership Group that has been set up projects, and Renishaw workshops to help remove barriers and encourage in a state-of-the-art facility that more women and other underinspires them to think about an represented groups into engineering.
We are also a key contributor, both in We continue to build relationships and time and money, to Festomane Festival raise our profile in the regions where of Manufacturing and Engineering, we have the highest recruitment needs.
which is held each year in Stroud In Bristol, we again partnered with the district, where our Gloucestershire sites Bristol Post newspaper to run a Super are located.
The festival has grown Science competition that offers one in popularity and Renishaw hosted Bristol region school the chance to an Engineer your Future event this win 10,000 towards anything in the year where both students and parents name of science education.
The 2016 attended workshops and talks to find winning school was Southville Primary, out the opportunities for young people which intended to buy key science in engineering and manufacturing.
equipment such as magnets, circuits, Influencers such as teachers and microscopes and thermometers, and parents are key groups that we focus hold workshops with local scientists.
60 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We also have strong partnerships with the fuel efficiencies and overall impact Environment other STEM-focused organisations of the vehicles.
At our new building in We recognise that improving the including the Greenpower Education the USA we have installed two electric operational efficiencies of our locations Trust, Aerospace Bristol, Bristol Music vehicle charging points.
across the world contributes to the Trust and the SS Great Britain Trust.
sustainable growth of our business.
We have also investigated energy in The new Aerospace Bristol museum, We continue to work hard to ensure production and developed a project which features a hangar for the that the impact of our business to analyse downtime on our machine Concorde aircraft to be built, opens activities is as low as practical.
tools, which significantly contributes to in Autumn 2017 and a key aim is to By analysing our GHG emissions we our energy demands.
Machine tools advance learning, skills and training can see that our greatest impact is are designed to always be left in particularly in science, technology, from the purchase of electricity and standby mode, which uses only slightly engineering and design.
A Renishaw its associated Scope 3 emissions, less energy.
This project has enabled Equator gauging system will form part which is responsible for just over 50% us to reduce the power required when of the museums exhibits focused on of our global GHG emissions.
This is the machines are not in use, and from current aerospace technology, and followed by our product distribution the work we have carried out to date, we will use the dedicated education and business travel, at around 25% we have reduced our energy demand facilities to deliver some of our and 17% respectively.
from these machines by just over outreach programmes.
To combat this, we have in previous Our Spanish subsidiary continues to years invested in solar arrays.
We continue to look at ways to support the SpainSkills entry in the During this year, we have generated reduce our reliance on business travel global WorldSkills competition through 2.98% 2016: 3.45% of our global and to install state-of-the art videosponsorship, the loan of equipment energy needs, and are looking for more conferencing facilities at our locations.
and supplying engineers to assist the ways to invest effectively in reducing Our people are encouraged to use entrants in the successful completion our future energy demands.
As well these facilities and other technologies of the engineering sections of as our investment in solar arrays, we rather than travel if possible.
have invested just under 1m this also working with our logistics partners year in energy-saving technologies In the USA, we are also developing to measure the GHG emissions of the to increase the efficiency and lower a new programme that creates work they perform on our behalf and the energy demand of our building partnerships with educational will work with them to manage this as stock.
These projects have included establishments such as technical effectively as possible.
the installation of triple glazing, LED colleges and universities.
This year our total GHG emissions light fixtures and insulation in several of These partnerships create regional have increased by 7% but our statutory our buildings.
Renishaw bases to support our emissions have increased by just 2%.
customers whilst helping to develop We have installed new LED lighting in We continue to increase coverage of training and curriculum for the the UK which has reduced our energy our scope 3 emissions data and expect next generation of engineers and demand for lighting by around 80%, to show increases in the data reported manufacturing staff.
A pilot partnership and aim to continue to apply these as this progresses.
We have continued with Greenville Technical College technologies at new locations where to increase our business over this Center for Manufacturing Innovation, appropriate.
In the USA, we have period and have importantly seen our South Carolina, is up and running recently constructed a new building statutory GHG emissions normalised covering a variety of our product lines for Renishaw, Inc. where carpets by revenue fall by 19% and our total with two Renishaw staff based at the with a 43% pre-consumer recycled GHG emissions normalized by revenue facility to support the partnership.
the amount of parking enabling us to As part of this pilot, staff from At our sites across the globe we increase the amount of green space Renishaw, Inc. attended an event at house 4,530 people, with sites 2 on the site to around 3,200 m, thus the college to encourage girls into ranging in size from two people, to removing the need to transport and automotive engineering, organised by our UK headquarters, which houses 3 lay around 1,600 m of tarmac and the Southern Automotive Womens 1,411 in eight buildings.
Our buildings 1,500 tonnes of stone.
Around 150 middle-school and range from a 19th century Grade II also upgraded to white thermoplastic high-school girls attended from the listed cotton mill, to state-of-the-art, polyolefin TPO offering two advantages.
Greenville area who took part in handspurpose-built modern buildings, and Firstly, it is a lighter roofing system on STEM-based activities, toured offices in large and small multipurpose which allows for the building structure the facilities and heard Renishaw UK properties around the world.
to utilise less steel, and secondly, a STEM ambassador, Lucy Ackland, white TPO roof provides a reduction talk about her career journey and In the UK, Renishaw continues to to the roof heat island effect, as the many opportunities within the participate in the Carbon Reduction recognised by the LEED energy engineering sector.
Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency and environmental design standard.
Scheme and the Carbon Disclosure LED lighting has been installed Project CDP.
We use the CDP as a throughout the building which reduces benchmarking tool and are working our annual energy demand around extensively to ensure that our efforts in 100,000 kWh compared to traditional GHG emission management are fully ballast tube lighting.
disclosed and are as transparent as is expected by our people, customers, In Germany and the UK we are looking and investors.
at ways we can reduce the impact of our pool car fleets, and are looking at fuel types and car sizes to increase 61 Strategic report Renishaw is legally obliged to report on was 24,232.49 2016: 21,638.21: Scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined 2015: 22,403.09 tCO e. 2 Corporate social by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
To calculate our GHG emissions, we However, through analysis, it is evident have used the GHG Protocol Corporate responsibility that our Scope 3 emissions amount to Accounting and Reporting Standard a significant proportion of our carbon continued revised addition, data gathered for footprint.
We will continue to disclose our CRC submission, and the UK our Scope 1, 2, and significant Scope Governments GHG reporting guidance 3 emissions, and to put efforts into as the basis of our methodology improving data quality, and expanding and the source of emissions factors.
our Scope 3 data capture to present Our GHG emissions are based on a more complete picture of our GHG actual data taken from bills, invoices, emissions.
During the year, our total meter readings and expense claims GHG emissions for Scope 1 and 2 wherever possible.
For our Scope statutory disclosure was 21,245.15 1 and 2 emissions, less than 1% of 2016: 21,192.39: 2015: 20,659.07 the data is based on estimates from tCO e. Our significant Scope 3 2 averaged data sets.
2 Statutory emissions are Scope 1 and 2 as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
3 To facilitate the timely capture of information, this disclosure uses internally reported data from July to May and the June data is given as an average of the previous three months.
This will be restated next year if a significant difference is seen.
4 Total GHG emissions include Scope 1 and 2 statutory and significant Scope 3 voluntarily reported emissions.
5 Market Based electricity is used where it is available to us.
This is currently only within the UK and Europe.
Where Market Based factors are not available Location Based factors are used in their place.
Currently 87% of electricity consumed is covered by Market Based factors.
6 Well to Tank and Transmission and Distribution losses total, use Location Based conversion factors for calculations.
62 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Waste management Product compliance Our waste strategy, which was We have prepared for the Restriction started in February 2014 and proved of the use of Hazardous Substances to be effective, has continued to Regulations RoHS, which requires drive our efforts throughout the year, most of our products to be compliant resulting in a further 2,330 tonnes in July 2017.
We continue to monitor of waste being diverted from landfill.
substances against those identified Approximately 64% of all waste as substances of very high concern generated this year originated from under the Registration, Evaluation, our UK sites where we sent less than Authorisation and Restriction of 0.5% of waste to landfill, these sites Chemicals Directive.
Whilst we do continue to maintain their certification not fall within the remit of the USAs to the Carbon Trust Waste Standard.
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform These sites have been recognised and Consumer Protection Act, we by the Carbon Trust for their efforts recognise that compliance with the in moving waste away from landfill as conflict minerals assessment and a disposal option, towards recovery, disclosure aspects of such legislation recycling and reuse.
is important to many of our customers.
We also recognise we should have a Last year, we set a target of 5% for supply chain with minimum risk, that is the reduction of waste to landfill in free of unethical practices.
As such, we our global operations.
We have had a have worked to mitigate against conflict decrease from our global operations of minerals within our supply chain.
We are still reusing, recycling or Continual investigations in our supply recovering around 95% of our waste chain are carried out to help ensure around the world.
conflict minerals are not present.
Any issues we consider to be against the spirit of the Business Code are monitored, and we work with suppliers where issues are identified.
D Electric car charging point at the new headquarters building for Renishaw, Inc.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board on 27th July 2017 and signed on its behalf by Sir David McMurtry Chairman and Chief Executive 63 2,328.42 2,818.04 2,463.10 2017 2015 2016
