Strategic report Corporate social responsibility At Renishaw, CSR means focusing on material impacts that affect us and relevant stakeholders, so that Strategy update we concentrate on subjects we are At Renishaw, we seek excellence in best placed to influence or control.
every aspect of our business and are committed to managing our business This enables us to supportthe in a responsible manner.
We have a sustainable growth ofour business, duty of care to our people, and the communities in which we operate, whilst maintaining its longevity and and we seek to address the fact that our operations, products and prosperity, inanethical and socially sourcing have both direct and indirect consciousmanner.
We believe that by minimising these impacts, and operating in an ethical and sustainable manner, we can reduce risks in our Allen Roberts supply chain and have a positive Group Finance Director impact on society.
Our sustainability efforts are focused on areas where we believe we are best placed to make improvements.
These areas are resource and energy, education, community and innovation.
We are proactively addressing issues such as rising energy costs, constraints on emissions, finite resources, increasing 2017 CSR targets and progress Target: Target: Waste management: Energy consumption: 5% reduction of waste to landfill Decrease reliance on fossil fuel from global operations derived energy For more information see page 63 For more information see pages 6162 Progress: Progress: 10% 1,187,118 kWh Just over 2,330 tonnes We generated 2.98% reduction of waste to landfill of electricity generated of waste from our global of our global demand from our global operations.
operations was diverted of electricity within from landfill.
We have added more 95% 2,126,237 kWh low energy lighting of all waste diverted of electricity generated to date.
systems, reducing our from landfill.
54 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information water scarcity, the need for greater Code requires that our employees To avoid any form of discrimination transparency and skills shortages.
have the right to non-discriminatory during the recruitment process, we We have assessed our CSR impacts treatment and equal opportunities, have strict guidelines to ensure proper and have identified those most material to work in a safe and secure working consideration is given to applications to our business: these include waste environment, and to receive a from all genders, ethnic backgrounds management, energy consumption, fair wage.
We work GHG emissions and people.
closely with employees who become During the year, we have also disabled to ensure they have every developed a new bullying and Human rights and slavery opportunity to continue in their harassment training course which A review of the Group Business Code employment with Renishaw.
has been rolled out across the Group.
the Business Code was performed It explains how to identify bullying and We continue to use the Business to ensure it still upholds the standards harassment in the workplace, and Code and other policies to set we and our stakeholders expect.
how to manage any situations that expectations with potential suppliers.
During this review, some parts of may arise.
This course is the latest in a The full Business Code can be found at the Business Code were updated to series of modules aimed at developing www.
reflect our new approach to mitigating our employees and empowering them modern slavery within our supply to operate in accordance with the chains.
To ensure all our people Business Code.
are aware of the high standards we expect of them, the updated Business Code has been sent out to all 4,530 employees worldwide.
Implementation of our modern slavery and human trafficking strategy is proceeding as planned.
We have begun a process of engaging with our tier 1 suppliers to ascertain the extent of their efforts to mitigate modern slavery.
This process is underway in our main UK purchasing group and our local purchasing teams in India and China.
Further details are contained within our modern slavery statement found at www.
A strict non-discrimination policy is embedded in the Business Code, which states the minimum standards expected within the Group and from D LED lighting has reduced energy demand for lighting in the UK by around 80% image of our representatives.
The Business assembly area at Miskin.
Target: Target: GHG emissions: People: 3% reduction in GHG tCO e per million 5% of our employees as apprentices, 2 pounds turnover compared to 2016. graduates or sponsored students on structured programmes.
For more information see page 62 For more information see pages 5658 Progress: Progress: 16% 5% 11% reduction of 4,530 people employed, decrease in GHG tCO2e of our employees are GHG emissions from an increase of 5.7% emissions per m turnover apprentices, graduates owned transport.
compared to 2016. or sponsored students on 12% increase Over 230 people across structured programmes.
in Scope3 the Group on structured GHG emissions.
increase in absolute GHG emissions.
Just under 1.9m invested in training this year.
