40 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability & Responsibility review Our role in society Sustainability & Responsibility review Our vision is to create a positive role for alcohol in society, and an inclusive business that can play its part in a low-carbon and waterresilient economy.
Our 2020 sustainability and responsibility targets are designed to help us on that journey, by addressing the issues most material to our stakeholders, and to us as a business.
They are core to our growth, now and in the future.
Our sustainability and responsibility strategy performance in three interdependent areas: us coordinate our efforts.
We aim to create is designed to support Diageos overall value and contribute to the UN Global Goals Creating a positive role for growth and performance.
It aims to make at scale, bringing the maximum benefit for alcohol in society our stakeholders, and for us.
a positive contribution to society while Building thriving communities building our business by growing our A key way we achieve greater impact brands relationships with consumers, Reducing our environmental impact and create value is to work with partners strengthening our supply chain, supporting who bring expertise and scale to our Proud of our contribution programmes as discussed in this review.
our productivity, and mitigating risk.
Key to our strategy is our assessment Our brands give enjoyment to millions of Throughout our business, an important of our most material issues those which people, and we are proud of them not just focus this year has been on delivering are important to our stakeholders, the of their heritage, quality and craftsmanship, productivity and efficiency, maximising but of the value they create.
We made structural environment, and the future success of our business.
These are reflected in our risk We directly employ 30,400 people, and in changes that enabled our strategy to be register and our growth plans too.
That 2017, we paid over 7.4 billion in taxes and other better implemented in each market, means looking at what will matter to the duties to governments.
Our brands can use strengthening synergies between our world, and our business, in 2020, 2030, and their connection to peoples lives to build programmes.
Our focus on improving our even 2050.
As a result, we prioritise addressing positive social impacts such as challenging performance management systems is helping climate change, water, non-communicable prejudice, inspiring personal progress, and us drive performance in our programmes and diseases, and empowering women issues fostering inclusivity.
And our value chain as a increasing the value we create.
central to the UNs Global Goals for whole is built on interdependent relationships, Sustainable Development.
from the farmers who grow our ingredients, to Reporting our contribution Our 2020 targets help drive this strategy, our employees and contractors, to the retailers In this review, we report at a high level against which is underpinned by a commitment to and premises who sell our products.
Please see our Sustainability acting as a good corporate citizen, with & Responsibility Performance Addendum exemplary governance and ethics, respect Maximising our contribution for disclosures against GRI and the UN Global for human rights and a focus on creating Our 2020 targets each include metrics to Compact UNGC.
We measure and drive our evaluate the impacts of our work and help
