Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES continued Objective Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Deliver quality service to our clients By maintaining absolute integrity, delivering excellent Qualified as a member of the Institute of Through our membership of the Institute of Customer Service, improve our benchmarking results versus last year Customer Service customer service and fast, reliable execution with Optimise our location and people strategy to ensure better availability when clients want to interact with us transparent pricing, we strive to make our clients feel secure Delivered significant customer service and confident in trading with us.
This results in a longer, Further enhance our payment processes to improve response times and drive down costs for our clients improvements, mainly driven by the more valuable relationship.
implementation of market-leading customer Use the data which is becoming available to us from better systems to continually enhance our performance in customer service relationship management systems.
Such enhancements include a drop in our average call-waiting times from 59 seconds to 10 seconds and a reduction in our email response times from six hours to just one Improved training for client-facing staff, all of whom undergo a 12-week induction programme that includes classroom and on-the-job training, as well as a buddying programme Introduced PayPal as a payment method, acting on research that told us circa 30% of clients would welcome it Created a specialist payments team, improving client satisfaction in this area by more than 10% over the year Sustain our leadership in technology The market-leading functionality, speed and security Increased investment in technology development Make our new web trading platform available to all clients aimed at improving and personalising our of our platform and its proven resilience are essential Offer clients more opportunity to customise their IG experience though the MyIG portal service to clients.
Examples include increased to maintaining client satisfaction and enhancing client customisation options, delivery of appropriately acquisition and retention.
We will continue to invest in our Deliver further improvements that keep us at the forefront of the market, through the flexibility that the new platform allows tailored content, streamlined payment processes core online platform to stay at the forefront of the market, and enhanced consistency across all devices that Enhance the mobile solution in line with the web platform while also focusing on improving the functionality we offer clients use to trade on mobile devices.
Deliver enhanced functionality and speed in the US to support the growth of Nadex Commenced the rollout of our new web Deliver significant back-office improvements to meet the requirements under MiFID II and MiFIR trading platform, with enhanced trading and research functionality Continue to invest in cyber security to keep client accounts protected Launched our investments product in the UK as IGs first fully cloud-based offering, allowing us greater scalability without requiring investment in our own IT infrastructure | | 22 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 23 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE As well as marketing our products directly, we provide a number of Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their IG exists to empower informed, decisive, adventurous people to access opportunities in education, news and analysis services, which encourage people to positions, so that they know their maximum possible loss at the financial markets.
engage with IG and to learn about our products and how to trade outset of a trade.
Our innovative charging system encourages effectively and responsibly.
our clients to use guaranteed stops: no premium is payable for The business offers its clients opportunities to trade in a wide range We put our clients at the heart of everything we do, and we strive attaching a guaranteed stop unless it is triggered, so clients will These include the IG Academy app, the IG Live TV channel, a suite of markets, including equity indices, individual equities, forex, to ensure that we understand our clients needs and consistently frequently receive protection free of charge.
IG is the first provider of YouTube videos, and a wide range of seminars and webinars.
interest rates and commodities, through online dealing platforms.
deliver fair outcomes and positive experiences.
We have a very low to offer guaranteed stops on this basis.
During the past financial year the Group purchased the DailyFX tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, and we are committed to The business also offers its clients a share dealing platform, as well website, a leading global news, information, and education and Our close-out monitor COM liquidates clients positions when their continued investment in process, training and culture to prevent as an innovative portfolio-based product for longer-term investment discussion portal for retail traders, particularly in FX.
This is a margin has been significantly eroded and helps protect clients by unsatisfactory customer experiences and to address root causes purposes in partnership with BlackRock, one of the worlds leading further commitment by the Company to acquiring new clients and closing positions automatically.
At 31 May 2017, 99.75% of all client where any practice falls short.
providing valuable resources to educate, engage and develop its accounts were subject to the automatic COM procedure.
We ensure that commitment to our customers is embedded in our client base.
These assets reinforce our commitment to transparency, We also offer a limited risk account.
This is the default account for culture and strategic initiatives, and we regularly seek and review ensuring our new and existing clients are well informed about RISK PROFILE less-experienced clients or clients towards the lower end of the feedback from our clients.
This enables us to develop our products our services.
Clients who are eligible for our other account types and services specifically to meet the needs of active traders and IGs business model is based on generating a return from its services Our extensive educational resources also include an introduction can request a limited risk account, if they so wish.
through transaction fees charged to clients.
The level of revenue programme that promotes responsible trading.
Clients can access risk accounts are double-lock accounts.
The client knows the in any period is predominantly driven by the number of active Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of expert tutorials, which cover everything from fundamental trading maximum potential loss on every trade at the outset, and benefits clients the business serves in that period and the level of activity our order execution.
We process 100% of active client trades concepts to risk management.
We continually keep this content from the guarantee that they cannot lose more than they have on undertaken by each client.
We never requote prices and, outside our set margin engaging and targeted towards our clients needs.
This gives clients certainty on the potential downside, of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement technology enables The business does not seek to generate returns from actively taking enabling them to feel more secure and more confident to trade.
We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as regular customers to receive a better price if one becomes available as a market risk, it does not take proprietary trading positions, and its free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via the News trade is executed.
revenue is not dependent on the direction of market movements.
and Analysis section of our website.
We offer charting packages REVENUE GENERATION Clients investment requirements and appetite for risk change over In accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board, the Group and various technical analysis tools that enable our clients to screen The Groups business is conducted through four revenue-generation time, affected by factors such as family or financial commitments accepts some exposure to market and credit risk to optimise the markets for trading opportunities and to receive alerts when trading models: OTC leveraged derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives, or the need to plan for retirement, and this offers us the efficiency and effectiveness of its services to clients.
opportunity to broaden our product set to appeal to relatively manages the market risk it faces in providing its services to clients sophisticated investors.
by internalising client flow and hedging when the residual exposures Appropriateness reach defined limits, so that its returns are driven by transaction OTC leveraged derivatives Our range of products for retail clients includes share dealing and Our products are not appropriate for everyone, and good conduct fees charged and are not significantly affected by movements in The vast majority of the Groups revenue is derived from OTC investment portfolios, and clients are able to hold their investments is particularly vital in relation to marketing and client recruitment market prices.
Clients enter into derivative instruments: in ISAs and SIPPs.
Offering these services allows us to deepen to prevent poor consumer outcomes.
We seek to ensure that our contracts for difference, financial spread bets and options.
These and lengthen our relationship with our clients by catering for their As a result of its business model, the Group also faces liquidity and advertising is not reaching an inappropriate audience, and that enable them to take long or short positions, for varied durations, evolving needs.
our clients appreciate the risks involved with our products and in a wide range of financial and other markets, gaining exposure to understand how our services work.
In addition to dealing directly with clients, IG services clients The business faces operational risks, including those arising through price movements in those markets without needing to buy or sell introduced through third parties who do not have their own technology, people, process and external events.
We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we only promote our the underlying asset.
front-end offering and want to take advantage of our award-winning products to a target audience within appropriate sectors and The Group faces conduct risk relating to how it deals with its clients The Groups OTC leveraged derivatives are priced to clients by dealing technology and expertise.
They introduce their clients to us demographic groups.
We also conduct rigorous checks to ensure and with the markets.
reference to prices in the underlying markets.
When markets are and we handle all trading activity and provide back-end support.
that all promotions are clear, fair and not misleading, and that risks open, the prices of the derivative contracts are updated in real time, The introducer manages the client relationship.
IG operates in a dynamic competitive environment, and its revenue are not downplayed compared to the benefits of our products.
reflecting the prices in the underlying markets.
For the majority of is dependent on the number of active customers and the level of IG also provides services to corporate entities, including asset Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, we the derivatives, the price includes a spread around the underlying their activity.
The business therefore faces risks relating to market managers, hedge funds, broker dealers and competitors who carry out an assessment to determine whether our products are market price.
For some derivatives on single equities, clients are conditions and its competitive position.
lack sufficient scale to gain direct access to the major appropriate for them.
We actively question applicants to assess charged a commission instead, and the contract does not include hedging counterparties.
The business operates in a number of geographic markets and is whether they have the necessary knowledge and experience to a spread.
Clients are charged funding when long positions are regulated by various different financial services regulators in those understand the risks involved.
We ask clients for details of their held overnight, and receive funding when short positions are We carefully assess the risk and potential returns from introducers markets.
These regulations affect how the business is able to market income and savings, both at account opening and in rolling reviews.
and corporate entities and only partner with reputable institutions and provide its services to clients.
The regulations relating to the Based on the results of these assessments, in addition to providing that are committed to the same rigorous standards of regulatory IG is the counterparty to the OTC leveraged derivatives that clients products and markets in which the business operates are continually clear warnings about the appropriateness of the product, we may compliance as ourselves, and that fit our risk profile.
enter into, and as a result the business faces market risk.
IG supports the objectives of the recently proposed and decline to open an account, or provide an applicant with a type of accepts this market risk in order to allow instant execution of client enacted regulatory changes in many of its markets, but the business account where risk is limited.
We may also close an open account.
Client acquisition and education orders.
The business manages the market risk it faces through does face risks arising from changes in its regulatory environments internalisation allowing individual client trades to offset against Acquiring a new client begins with a targeted global marketing that may adversely impact its activities or its competitive position.
Client risk management tools each other and by hedging the residual risk in each market at effort, with online marketing managed centrally and offline We take very seriously our responsibility to help clients understand defined limits by entering into derivative contracts with its hedging activity managed by country offices.
Our sophisticated online the risks associated with trading and to provide them with tools brokers.
The Group seeks to hedge its residual market exposures marketing uses an algorithmic approach, which enables us to CLIENTS to manage this.
Given our business model, it is in IGs interest in an efficient manner by grouping its exposures into asset classes, reach larger numbers of the right prospects more efficiently.
We Our core focus continues to be the active retail trader a to develop lasting relationships with clients, as those who are and therefore does not hedge its exposures exactly, which gives rise are able to react immediately to world events, creating campaigns knowledgeable, demanding and valuable client who expects highly more successful stay with us over the long term and become to basis risk.
rapidly and rolling them out to relevant regions, with appropriate sophisticated technology and uses it frequently.
We have a number of services designed to help clients limit any losses they may make.
| | 24 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 25 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BUSINESS MODEL AND RISK PROFILE continued Through the process of internalisation and hedging, the Group This year IG has launched its new web trading platform, which Share dealing limits the market risk it faces so that its trading revenue from OTC delivers a greatly enhanced trading experience.
Its speed, The Group operates a share dealing platform, through which clients leveraged derivatives predominantly reflects the charges paid by customisation facilities and integrated news and analysis feeds are can buy and sell individual equities listed on exchanges around clients through spread, commission and funding, less the costs at the cutting edge of trading technology.
Designed to provide the world.
This internalisation is key to the Groups an intuitive, personalised experience for traders of all styles and The Group charges a transaction fee for each purchase and sale business model and profitability, as it reduces the cost of hedging knowledge levels, the new platform is at the core of the suite of transaction, and its trading revenue from this service is net of the market risk in the underlying markets.
trading tools and resources offered to clients.
execution fees the Group pays in the market.
The majority of the OTC derivatives offered by the Group are Desktop platforms are complemented by mobile apps, and the Clients fund the purchases of equities in full at the time of placing leveraged.
Clients trade contracts for difference or financial spread business continues to invest in solutions that enable a seamless the order.
This activity does not give rise to any market risk or client bets, on margin.
Clients only need to have sufficient funds in their transition between desktop and mobile devices.
Clients can also credit risk for the Group.
account to cover the margin required to enter into a derivative access extensive educational resources, in an engaging, interactive contract, not its full value.
format, via our IG Academy app.
Investments Margin is usually expressed as a percentage of the notional value For more advanced and institutional clients, the business provides The Group offers a portfolio-based investment service.
Clients are of the trade, and allows a client to use leverage to take a position a range of professional technology, including a direct market access advised, through undertaking an online questionnaire, which of in a market with a notional value that is significantly in excess of the DMA platform, sophisticated technical analysis tools and web five portfolios comprising a basket of ETFs is best suited to their funds they are required to deposit.
Leveraged derivative contracts API solutions.
investment needs, and these portfolios rebalance periodically.
therefore magnify the gains or losses a client can make relative to Alternatively, clients can choose their own portfolio of ETFs to the funds deposited.
Service reflect their investment profile.
Providing clients with the best service is at the heart of our The Group faces client credit risk, as leveraged contracts can result The Group charges a percentage fee on the value of the assets corporate culture at IG.
Our operating model and our offices in a client making losses in excess of the funds in their account, under management, and its trading revenue reflects these fees less around the world allow us to provide a 24-hour service to clients.
and they may be unable to fund those losses.
The level of margin the amount paid to the provider of the ETFs.
In addition to our global network of offices, we have operations for each contract is set according to the volatility of prices in the and development centres in Krakow and Bangalore that allow us to underlying market, and is intended to reduce the client credit risk Clients fund the purchases of the investments in full at the time of access the skills we need to support clients.
This activity does not give rise to any market risk or client credit risk for the Group.
The business offers a range of free seminars and online tutorials The Groups OTC leveraged derivatives activities give rise to for clients, and provides dedicated 24-hour support from our liquidity risk.
The business trades its hedging contracts on margin, client services team.
This team is fully trained to understand our and is required to deposit initial margin with its brokers reflecting DIFFERENTIATION BRAND, products and how they are best suited to individual clients.
Clients the gross amount of open positions with each broker.
As the gross can contact IG client services through email and telephone, and amounts of open positions change, and as market prices move, TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICE personal interaction is IGs preferred mode of communication.
The the amount of margin the Group has to deposit also alters, and the business seeks to ensure that correspondence with clients is always Group is required to deposit margin with its brokers on demand.
Brand clear and fair, and is never misleading.
The business therefore faces liquidity risk through its hedging IG is a global leader in online trading and the trusted partner for activities, and counterparty credit risk through the amounts it holds To ensure that clients are at the heart of the business, feedback 185,000 clients.
A FTSE 250 company with market capitalisation of on deposit with its brokers.
is encouraged and IG offers clear channels for comments and over 2.0 billion, the Group has a long history of profitability and complaints.
The business closely monitors its service standards The Groups exposure to any one hedging counterparty is restricted financial strength.
through key performance and risk indicators tracked in real time.
by large exposure rules, and the Group needs to maintain a number IG started in 1974 as the UKs original financial spread betting of different hedging relationships to manage the capacity it requires provider, introducing a completely new, accessible way for people to hedge.
to trade on gold, by defining it as an index.
Since then, the Groups innovative, client-focused approach has enabled the business to Exchange-traded derivatives grow, expand internationally, and broaden its product range, and The Groups trading revenue in the USA is derived from today IG is the worlds No.
1 CFD provider as well as maintaining its exchange-traded derivatives.
The Group operates a regulated considerable UK market leadership in spread betting.
The unified derivatives exchange, and clients can trade binary options contracts global IG brand was established in 2013 through the acquisition on a wide range of underlying markets, with various strike prices of the IG.
This pivotal event gave the Group the and expirations.
Clients become members of the exchange and pay framework to consolidate its global web traffic through a single a trading fee on each side of the trade: once to open, and once route in order to focus on online leadership something that is to close.
Under this model, clients do not trade on margin, and increasingly important for acquiring, educating and providing a high therefore these contracts do not involve leverage, and the exchange level of service for clients.
does not face either market or client credit risk.
Technology Prices for contracts listed on the exchange are provided by market The Groups success has been founded on developing technology makers, who are also members of the exchange and pay fees for that is market-leading and empowering for clients.
IG operates as one of the market makers to the exchange, invests in developing new tools and features for its client-facing and faces market risk as a result of this activity.
platforms a continuous process that is directed by detailed research into clients evolving needs.
| | 26 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 27 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements MAIN TRENDS AND FACTORS LIKELY TO AFFECT THE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT, PERFORMANCE AND POSITION OF THE COMPANYS BUSINESS The impact of the changing The level of investment in, and success of, regulatory environment new initiatives IG operates in a highly regulated environment, which is continually The Group continues to identify opportunities to invest in new evolving.
In the last year, there has been a series of significant initiatives to further broaden its range of products and services regulatory proposals, particularly from the UK and other European and its geographic coverage.
These investments tend to have a Union country regulators, to impose restrictions on the provision longer payback period than marketing investment, and the level of leveraged products to retail clients, which were unexpected in of investment depends on the opportunities available.
performance in any one period can therefore be affected by the extent of such investment, and future performance will be affected Over the last 43 years IGs strategy has been one of differentiation by the success of such initiatives.
within the industry, through its adherence to the highest regulatory standards and its focus on fair outcomes for clients.
IG believes in The level of volatility in financial markets robust, proportionate and consistently applied regulatory oversight IGs business model is based on generating a return from its services of the CFD sector, and as such fully supports the regulatory through transaction fees charged to clients.
The level of revenue objective to improve consumer outcomes across the industry.
in any period is predominantly driven by the number of active The timeline for the determination of the final rules and their clients the business serves in that period and the level of activity implementation in many of the geographic markets in which the undertaken by each client.
It is too early to determine One factor affecting the ability to attract new clients and the precisely how consumers will react to these new rules and what the willingness of clients to trade is the opportunities clients perceive long-term outcome for the Company will be.
IG has a history of are available to them in the markets.
Higher levels of volatility in innovation and flexibility, and a proven track record of deploying financial markets tends to generate trading opportunities, which technology and skills to adapt its business in response to regulatory support the Groups efforts to attract new clients and the level and market changes.
In the Companys experience, when tighter of individual client trading activity.
Measures of financial market regulation has been applied appropriately, client outcomes volatility, such as the VIX index, have been at historically low levels have improved: the industry has become more sustainable and over the last three years.
It is expected that an increase in the high-quality providers, like IG, have benefitted over the longer term.
general level of financial market volatility would be beneficial to More detail on regulatory change is included in the Chief Executive the Groups revenue, which is therefore partly dependent upon Officers Review on page 16. market conditions.
The level of marketing spend, the The UKs exit from the European Union effectiveness of marketing in attracting new The Group currently operates its business in the EU through clients, and the rate of client attrition branches of its UK-domiciled and regulated legal entities, under the passporting rules.
Depending on the terms and nature of the IGs business model is based on generating a return from its services arrangements under which the UK will leave the EU, the Group through transaction fees charged to clients.
The level of revenue may need to establish one or more subsidiary entities domiciled in any period is predominantly driven by the number of active and regulated within the EU.
The Group has well-developed plans clients the business serves in that period and the level of activity to deal with this requirement, although the necessity and timing undertaken by each client.
of the requirement remain uncertain.
The success of the Group The Group invests in marketing each year to attract new clients, and in establishing appropriate structures through which to continue seeks to retain clients through the provision of quality services and operating its business in the EU, including receiving relevant products.
The number of unique active clients has been increasing regulatory approvals, and the costs involved in establishing and for the last three years, with the number of new clients trading for running additional regulated entities, could have a significant the first time each year, together with the number of clients who impact on its future performance.
returned to trading, exceeding the number who stopped trading.
This trend has been a key driver of revenue growth.
The Group continues to focus on the effectiveness of its marketing, and manages the level of marketing spend to maintain an attractive payback on the investment.
The level of marketing spend in any period varies according to the perceived opportunity to spend effectively, and changes in the level of marketing spend, in the effectiveness of that spend, or in the rate of client attrition and reactivation could have a significant effect on the Groups future performance.
| || 28 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 29 29
