Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE continued The Committee considered and discussed with management and External Auditors the following primary areas of judgment and disclosure in relation to the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2017: Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Principal risks and viability Goodwill For the 2017 reporting year onwards, The Committee evaluated various reports Taking into account the assessment by In accordance with accounting standards, The Committee reviewed a paper from Based on the assessment the Group is required to review any goodwill management setting out the key assumptions performed, the Committee the Directors are required to make a from management that set out the view management of stress-testing results and risk balances for impairment and consider the used in the impairment review and an associated concluded that there should statement in the Annual Report as to the of the Groups longer-term viability.
These appetite, the Committee agreed to recommend underlying assumptions involved in calculating sensitivity analysis.
be no change to the recorded longer-term viability of the Group.
reports detailed the impact of: the Viability Statement to the Board the value-in-use of separate parts of the business goodwill value.
In addition, the Groups External Auditors known as cash-generating units CGUs.
Brexit, recent and potential regulatory provided commentary on the matter to changes The Committee observed that the significant the Committee.
proportion of the Groups goodwill relates to Outcomes of stress tests after applying the UK CGU.
The goodwill related to this CGU principal and business model risk was considered not impaired as it is highly scenarios to the Groups financial profitable and its recoverable amount exceeds forecasts, based on a four-year its carrying value.
strategic plan Other intangible fixed assets Segmental reporting The Group is required to make judgments As there is a risk of obsolescence for such Based on the assessment The Group has revisited the way it The Committee reviewed the Groups new Based on the assessment performed, the regarding the useful economic life and carrying assets, the Committee reviewed a report from performed, the Committee discloses its segments in the Annual reporting segments to ensure that they Committee concluded that the changes to the value of all its acquired and internally developed management detailing the financially significant concluded that there software and licences and domain names.
intangible assets, the rationale for their useful should be no change to the Report to better reflect the management were consistent with the way the business new reporting segments were appropriate.
economic life, their continued use within the recorded carrying values of and internal reporting structure of is managed and resources allocated.
During the year the Group completed the business and their remaining carrying value.
purchase of DailyFX assets, for $40.0 million 32.7 million from FXCM.
This was classified as The Committee was also The Group now operates with regional an intangible asset within domain names and will satisfied that the treatment of heads for the UK, EMEA, APAC and the be amortised over ten years.
There is a judgment the purchase of the DailyFX US all reporting into the Chief Operating as to whether the purchase was of an asset or assets as an asset purchase was a business.
This was also subject to an enquiry reasonable in the circumstances Decision Maker.
Accordingly the Group from the Financial Reporting Council who given the nature of the assets has changed its presentation to reflect subsequently confirmed the appropriateness of purchased, that the assets this new structure.
were not considered to be an integrated set of activities and assets and given the work required to successfully integrate DailyFX into IGs existing business.
The disclosures in Segmental tax information respect of the purchase have The Group reviewed its disclosures The Committee reviewed disclosures which Based on the assessment performed, the also been enhanced.
in relation to tax given that its legal the Group made to assist the users of the Committee concluded that additional entity structure and transfer pricing Groups Financial Statements to better disclosures would assist the users of the Corporation tax arrangements meant that the majority of understand the Groups business model Financial Statements to better understand the the Groups profit are taxed in the UK.
and how this impacts the tax charge in the impact of the Groups business model and Calculating the Groups current corporation The Committee reviewed a report from The Committee concluded regions in which the Group operates.
transfer pricing on taxable profits across the tax charge involves a degree of estimation and management that detailed the assumptions made that the corporation tax charge The Group has enhanced its disclosures judgment, as the tax treatment of certain items in calculating the Groups current corporation and provisions recorded by Groups reporting segments.
with respect to the tax charge in each cannot be finally determined until resolution has tax charge and provisions.
The Groups External the Group were appropriate jurisdiction.
We explain why this is the been reached with the relevant tax authority.
Auditors also provided commentary on this and complete.
The Group holds tax provisions in respect of matter to the Committee.
the potential tax liability that may arise on these The Committee has also reviewed the Groups unresolved items.
updated tax policy and strategies.
| | 84 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 85 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE continued Control environment Other matters addressed by the Committee focused on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment and performance of the Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Groups IT systems, and the Internal Audit function, including the objectivity and independence of Internal Audit personnel.
Information systems The Committee has considered the The Committee reviewed reports from The Committee considered the relevant Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken risk associated with information management and Internal Audit on control risk in this area to have been technology relating to super-user access ongoing monitoring of a number of key appropriately managed.
Risk management and internal control to certain legacy areas of the Groups controls designed to mitigate the risks The Committees focus is to ensure that the trading system.
associated with the super-user access.
Group continues to move away from legacy The Committee is required to assist the Board The Committee received a report from the Board The Committee agreed to systems, including the delivery of a finance in the annual review of the effectiveness of the Risk Committee including an assessment of those recommend to the Board the transformation programme.
firms Risk Management Framework and internal risks that might threaten the Groups business Annual Report statements control systems.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
relating to the effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework It considered and challenged management on and internal control systems Fair, balanced and understandable reporting the overall effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework and internal control systems The Group is required to ensure that At the request of the Board, the Committee Having assessed all of the available information its external reporting is fair, balanced assessed, via discussion with and challenge and the assurances provided by management, The Committee reviewed the relevant disclosures and understandable.
of management, whether disclosures in the the Committee concluded that the processes within the Accountability section of the Corporate Groups published Financial Statements underlying the preparation of the Groups Governance Report within the Annual Report were fair, balanced and understandable, published Financial Statements were taking into account comments received appropriate in ensuring that those statements Internal Audit from investors and others.
were fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee is required to oversee the The Committee monitored and reviewed the The Committee reviewed the It sought and obtained confirmation from effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit the Chief Financial Officer and his team performance, resourcing and effectiveness of the resourcing and effectiveness function in the overall context of the Groups that they considered the disclosures to Internal Audit function.
of the Internal Audit function internal controls and risk management systems.
be fair, balanced and understandable and and approved the risk-based discussed this evaluation with the External audit plan.
It reviewed and assessed the risk-based Internal Auditors who took this into account when Audit plan.
The Internal Audit function It reviewed and monitored managements remains effective and has It also established via reports from responsiveness to the findings and sufficient resources to deliver the management that there were no recommendations of the Internal Audit function.
indications of fraud relating to financial reporting matters.
The Committee received all Internal Audit reports and in addition received summary reports on the results of the work of the Internal Audit function on a periodic basis.
It reviewed the performance of the Internal Audit function against plan and an assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Whistleblowing The Committee considers the adequacy of the The Committee reviewed the Groups The Committee concluded that Whistleblowing Policy and agreed a number of Groups arrangements by which employees may whistleblowing processes were updates to ensure that it will remain fit for the in confidence raise concerns about improprieties operating effectively during the needs of the Group.
in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Client money and assets The Committee oversees the Groups systems The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the The Committee reviewed control environment relating to client money and controls relating to the holding and improvements made to the and assets including receiving reports from the management of client money and assets.
control environment and the Chief Financial Officer on the operation of the steps being taken to further Client Money and Assets Committee.
enhance controls in this area and considered that these were appropriate to the circumstances of the Group.
Legal entity governance The Committee is responsible for the The Committees role is to gain comfort that The Committee received decisions are made and evidenced at the establishment of a risk-based system for the regular updates on the ongoing appropriate legal entity level and that appropriate governance, operation and maintenance of the development of the legal entity mechanisms are in place for monitoring, control Groups legal entities.
governance framework, satisfying and oversight of legal entity decision making at itself as to the progress made in Group level.
| | 86 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 87 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements AUDIT COMMITTEE continued External Auditors Effectiveness of External Auditors The Committee is responsible for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and removal of External Auditors, and In assessing the effectiveness and independence of the External for assessing and agreeing the fees payable to the Groups External Auditors both audit and non-audit fees.
The Committee is also Auditors, the Committee considered relevant professional and responsible for reviewing the audit plans and reports from the External Auditors.
The main activities undertaken in relation to the external regulatory requirements and the relationship with the External audit are summarised below: Auditors as a whole.
The Committee monitored the Auditors compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional guidance on the rotation of partners, and assessed their Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken qualifications, expertise, resources as well as the effectiveness of the audit process, including a report from the External Auditor on its Oversight of external audit own internal quality procedures.
The Committee is required to oversee the work The Committee met with the key members of the The Committee approved the As part of the assessment, a questionnaire, based on criteria and performance of PwC as External Auditors, PwC audit team to discuss the 2017 audit plan audit plan and the main areas recommended by professional and governance bodies, was including the maintenance of audit quality during and agree areas of focus.
of focus, including goodwill completed by the key stakeholders in the Group.
impairment, valuation of addressed matters including the Auditors integrity, objectivity, It assessed regular reports from PwC on the intangible assets and IT systems skills and technical knowledge, the quality of planning and progress of the 2017 audit and any material and controls.
execution of the audit, the level of challenge applied and the issues identified.
Auditors understanding of the Groups business.
The results were Read more about the It debated the draft audit opinion ahead of the analysed and a report was presented to the Committee.
Following Committees role in assessing the 2017 year-end.
the review, of the effectiveness of the External Auditors, the performance, effectiveness and external audit process and an assessment of the External Auditors The Committee was also briefed by PwC on independence of the External independence and objectivity, the Committee has recommended critical accounting estimates, where significant Auditor and the quality of the the reappointment of PwC to the Board for recommendation to and judgment is needed.
external audit on page 89. approval by shareholders at the Companys 2017 Annual General Audit and audit-related fees Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of an External Auditor.
Audit-related fees include the statutory audit During the year, the Committee reviewed and The Committee considers approved a recommendation from management of the Group and its subsidiaries, as well as the 2017 audit fees to be Audit tendering and rotation on the Companys audit and audit-related fees.
audits required due to the regulated nature of competitive.
 LLP have been the Groups External our business.
Also included therein are fees Auditors since October 2010 following a tender process.
The associated with the ISAE 3000 controls opinion Committee remains satisfied with the external audit process and is relating to the Groups processes and controls currently not planning to undertake a formal retender process until over client money segregation.
it is required to under legislation for the year ending 31 May 2021.
Non-audit fees The Group is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years, with this year being the second year To safeguard the objectivity and independence The Committee reviewed and approved all During the year, non-audit for the current audit partner.
Fees in relation of the External Auditors from becoming fees of 0.5 million were paid to Permitted Services below 0.05m are deemed compromised, the Committee has a formal to PwC as discussed in note pre-approved by the Committee and are subject Audit Committee effectiveness policy governing the engagement of the 5 to the Financial Statements.
to the approval of the Chief Financial Officer.
During the year, the Committee undertook a questionnaire-based External Auditors to provide non-audit services.
These principally related to tax Fees above 0.05m must be approved by the review of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation process was The policy is reviewed on an annual basis and compliance, tax advice and Committee, through the Committee Chairman.
externally facilitated by Lintstock Limited as part of the overall this year the Committee reviewed the Groups regulatory work.
The Committee ensured that firms other than annual Board effectiveness review.
The Committee performance policy governing non-audit work against details Non-audit fees have fallen in the External Auditors have been considered, was highly rated, as was the management of meetings.
Progress of new regulations on the statutory audit of respect of each of the last three following a competitive tender process for the had been made with the standard of papers received and the public interest entities which were effective from financial years.
provision of a wide range of services, including commitment of management in this area was acknowledged.
June 2016. tax advisory services, changes to regulation, tax Progress made with the development of finance systems had The Committee continues to compliance services, risk and regulatory advice.
The Group has updated its internal process on been welcomed.
Given the scale of regulatory change facing the follow the statutory guidance engagement of auditors and review of non-audit The Committee also requested and received business, the Committee had undertaken to increase the time made to seek to reduce the reliance services to ensure that its policy is in line with an explanation from PwC of its own in-house available to Internal Audit and on discussing the internal controls on the External Auditors for new regulation.
environment, in order to ensure it responded to the continuing non-audit work.
needs and circumstances of the business.
The Committee ensured there were no The Committee approved the exceptions to fee limits and approval process per rationalisation of non-audit work the policy during the year.
among service providers by the Group.
This resulted in the Group engaging EY for global tax compliance.
Jim Newman Chairman, Audit Committee 18 July 2017 | | 88 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 89 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BOARD RISK COMMITTEE Sam Tymms, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, gives her review of the Committees Board Risk Committee membership Activity during the financial year During the year, the Committees key activities included: and attendance activities during the financial year.
Sam was appointed Chairman of the Committee on The Board Risk Committee is composed of Independent Reviewing developments to the Risk Appetite framework and 27 September 2016 in place of Stephen Hill, who continues to be a member of the Non-Executive Directors and the table below shows the Committee alignment of business and risk management strategy with the members during the year and their attendance at Committee Committee and served as its Chairman until Sams appointment.
During the year, Sam Tymms was appointed as the Discussing and recommending to the Board its support for the Chairman of the Committee, replacing Stephen Hill who remains a reviewed planned updates to the Recovery Plan and discussed acquisition of certain DailyFX assets based on identified and member of the Committee.
The current members of the Committee the Recovery Plan indicators in some depth.
Finally, the workshop mitigated risks are set out below, together with their attendance at meetings: reviewed the operational risk capital model.
Conducting a number of specific reviews including i A further training session was held in May 2017 in preparation for conduct risk review relating to the operation of the Groups share dealing business: ii technology risk review: iii the the consideration of the Risk Appetite Statement for approval by Eligible to operation of the Groups limited risk accounts: iv key risks and the Board.
The training session discussed technical aspects of the Committee member attend Attended appropriate actions for the Group in navigating the regulatory risk appetite indicators including the use of Value at Risk as well as change environment 1 ensuring the Group strategy reflected IGs risk appetite.
Sam Tymms 4 4 Developing and agreeing an IG Group Policy 2 Stephen Hill 4 4 Governance Framework Role of the Board Risk Committee Jim Newman 4 4 The Committee made a number of changes to its Terms of Reviewing and challenging the Operational Risk Reference ToR during the year by highlighting its responsibilities Development Plan June Felix 4 4 to review and recommend to the Board major risks documents Considering a proposal to measure culture at IG by assessing the including the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process Companys behaviour towards key stakeholder groups through a 1 Sam Tymms appointed as Chairman on 27 September 2016.
ICAAP, the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA and combination of quantitative and qualitative reports 2 Stephen Hill stepped down as a Chairman on 27 September 2016. the Recovery Plan RP.
Regularly reviewing the capital and liquidity position of the The Committee is scheduled to meet four times a year and To assist those with responsibilities for production of papers, a quick Company including through the ICAAP, ILAA and the RP Sam Tymms additionally as and when required.
The Committee makes reference guide was added to the ToR setting out the purpose Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Approving the scenarios and assumptions for internal recommendations to the Board and, where relevant, to other Board for which papers were to be provided and the input sought from stress-testing and recommending the documents to the Board Committees for example a report to the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
for approval on remuneration-related risks and the business of the Committee is The Committee provides oversight and advice to the Board in Receiving regular Internal Audit Reports reported to the following Board meeting.
CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW relation to current and potential future risk exposures and future Reviewing the ToR of the Committee to ensure they remain fit for Other than the Company Secretary, who attends all Committee Thanks are due to Stephen for his leadership in establishing the risk strategy of the Group.
This includes determination of overall the purpose and recommending them to the Board for approval meetings, Executive Directors, the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Committee and developing it to the extent that he was able to risk appetite and tolerance, taking into account the current and Head of Internal Audit attend Committee meetings by standing hand the Chairmanship over with the Committee well positioned to prospective macroeconomic and financial environment.
Key Reviewing its own performance and considering steps that may invitation.
Representatives from other areas of the business attend be required to enhance Committee effectiveness.
responsibilities of the Committee include: recommendations were made to the Board.
the Committee meetings by invitation as appropriate to the matter Ensuring risk mitigation consistent with our risk appetite is in The Committee has continued to focus on providing oversight and under consideration.
place and reviewing the Groups major risk exposures, identifying advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk Committee evaluation and future priorities risk trends, concentrations and exposures and material The Board Chairman, Andy Green, was invited to, and attended, exposures of the Group and future risk strategy.
In addition, its The Committee undertook an externally facilitated assessment of its regulatory changes all meetings.
focus has developed towards ensuring a holistic approach to risk own effectiveness conducted by Lintstock Limited.
Its performance management is taken across the Group.
Reviewing the scope and nature of the work undertaken by the To ensure the Committee discharges its responsibilities was highly rated as was the management of its meetings.
control functions particularly in relation to business, regulatory, In response to the areas identified for development in last years appropriately, an annual forward calendar, linked to the Committees compliance, , conduct and culture risks Improvements continued to be made to the linking of risk reporting Committee evaluation, we have continued to enhance the ToR, is approved by the Committee.
The Company Secretary assists to the key risks facing the business, and further progress would be Considering the adequacy and effectiveness of the technology professional development programme for Committee members the Chairman of the Committee in drafting the agenda for each made with the development of the operational risk systems and infrastructure and supporting documentation in the Risk and to further improve forward planning and the quality of materials Committee meeting.
Ensuring rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of the Areas for further development included balancing the use of the The Committees programme has been enhanced by the Groups business and receiving reports that explain the impact of Committees time between consideration of formal documentation development of a detailed timetable for consideration of its identified risks and threats and discussion of existing and potential risk faced by the business.
principal regulatory documents and by improving the Committees Considering and recommending for approval by the Board, the forward calendar.
In addition, the Committees calendar now Risk Appetite Statement and Key Risk Indicators includes scheduled Non-Executive Director risk workshops.
Monitoring, reviewing and challenging the ICAAP, ILAA and the RP Continuing professional development The Non-Executive Director risk workshop held in October 2016 Reviewing and approving the statements to be included in the considered initial steps relating to the enhancement of the Groups Annual Report concerning controls and risk management Risk Taxonomy.
Directors were updated on the development of Sam Tymms Considering the Groups insurance arrangements the Risk Management Framework, how the framework was being Chairman, Board Risk Committee Continuing to work closely with other Board Committees where embedded throughout the organisation and linked to the Groups 18 July 2017 risk-related input is required corporate strategy, and its Risk Appetite Statement.
The workshop considered proposed developments to Pillar 2A daily capital The full ToR for the Committee are on the Companys stress tests for market and credit risk and changes to Pillar 2B website, iggroup.
forward-looking scenarios and reverse stress-tests.
The workshop | | 90 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 91 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report, together with the Group Financial imposed from time to time.
The Directors and certain employees of Profit and dividends Insurance and indemnities Statements for the year ended 31 May 2017.
The Directors Report the Company are required to obtain the Companys approval prior The Groups statutory profit for the year after taxation amounted to The Group has Directors and Officers liability insurance in place, comprises pages 92 to 94 of this report, together with the sections of to dealing in the Companys securities.
The Company is not aware 169.2 million 2016: 164.3 million, all of which is attributable to the providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against the Annual Report incorporated by reference as set out below: of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in equity members of the Company.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
by section 234 of the Act were in force during the year ended The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 22.88 pence per Contents Page 31 May 2017.
These provisions remain in force for the benefit of the share, amounting to 83.9 million, making a total of 32.30 pence per Exercise of rights of shares in employee Directors, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur share and 118.5 million for the year.
Dividends are recognised in the Corporate Governance Report 48 to 91 or have incurred to third parties in the course of acting as Directors of share schemes Financial Statements for the year in which they are paid or, in the case the Company.
The trustees of the IG Group Employee Benefit Trust do not seek to Directors responsibility statement 95 of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The amount exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts, other recognised in the Financial Statements, as described in note 11, includes Financial instruments 124 to 131 than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
No voting Research and development this financial years interim dividend and the final dividend from the rights are exercised in relation to shares unallocated to individual In the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly develops new Greenhouse gas emissions 47 previous year, both of which were paid.
The trustees have a dividend waiver in place in respect products and services.
The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 27 October 2017 Employee involvement 44 of unallocated shares held in the trust.
to those shareholders on the register at 29 September 2017.
Political donations Policy concerning the employment of 44 Powers of the Directors to issue or purchase Certain nominee companies representing our employee benefit trusts disabled persons The Company made no political donations to political organisations or hold shares in the Company in connection with the operation of the the Companys shares independent election candidates and incurred no political expenditure in Viability statement 42 Companys share plans.
Evergreen dividend waivers remain in place on The Articles permit the Directors to issue or repurchase the the year 2016: nil.
shares held by them that have not been allocated to employees.
Companys own shares, subject to obtaining shareholders prior Directors Remuneration Policy, service contracts 64 to 79 approval.
The shareholders gave this approval at the 2016 AGM.
The and details of Directors interest in shares Share capital authority to issue or buy back shares will expire at the 2017 AGM, Articles of Association The Company has three classes of shares: ordinary shares, deferred Likely future developments 16 to 47 and it will be proposed at the meeting that the Directors be granted The Companys Articles of Association the Articles are available redeemable shares and preference shares.
As at 31 May 2017, the new authorities to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors currently Risk management and internal control 58 from the Groups website, iggroup.
com, or by writing to the Company Companys issued shares comprised 366,981,583 ordinary shares of have authority to purchase up to 36,664,907 of the Companys Secretary at the Groups registered office.
The Articles can also be 0.005p each representing 99.97% of the total issued share capital, ordinary shares.
However, the Company did not repurchase any of its obtained from the UK Registrar of Companies.
The Articles were 65,000 deferred redeemable shares of 0.001p each representing 0.02% Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the ordinary shares during the year.
amended by the shareholders by means of a special resolution on of the total issued share capital and 40,000 preference shares of 1.00 Directors to present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and 21 September 2016. each representing 0.01% of the total issued share capital.
Details of During the year, the Company instructed the trustee of the Employee Financial Statements.
The information can be found on pages 16 movement in the Companys share capital and rights attached to the Benefit Trusts to purchase shares in order to satisfy awards under to 47.
Board of Directors and their interests issued shares are given in notes 23 and 24 to the Financial Statements.
the Groups share-incentive plan schemes.
The Company also The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C 11 Information about the rights attached to the Companys shares can issued shares in respect of the sustained performance plan.
Details Details of the Directors who held office at the end of the year are set out of the Act and as noted in this Directors Report, to include certain also be found in the Articles.
Details of the Groups required regulatory of the shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trusts and on pages 50 to 51 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be disclosed in capital are disclosed in note E of the Other Information section in the the amounts paid during the year are disclosed in note 25 to the Details of Directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the shares this Directors Report.
of the Company are shown on page 77.
Changes to Directors during the year are set out below: In line with the requirements under Capital Requirements Capital Variation of rights Major interest in shares Directive IV, requiring credit institutions and investment firms to Subject to the provisions of applicable statutes, the rights attached to publish annually certain tax and financial data for each country Information provided to the Company by major shareholders Effective date of any class of shares may be varied, either with the consent in writing of the where they operate, the Groups UK-regulated subsidiaries will pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure Guidance and Name Role appointment holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares make available their Country by Country Reporting on the Groups Transparency Rules DTRs is published via a Regulatory Information Paul Mainwaring Executive Director Appointed 20 July 2016 of that class, or with the sanction of a Special Resolution passed at a website, iggroup.
Service and is available on the Companys website.
The following Chief Financial Officer separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital Disclosures required pursuant to listing as at 31 May 2017 and as at 14 July 2017.
Holders are not required Restrictions on transfer of securities rule 9.8.
4R Appointment and retirement of Directors to notify the Company of any change until the next applicable There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in the In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing threshold is reached or crossed.
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Articles, Company, other than as contained in the Articles and certain laws or Rules, the information in Listing Rule 9.8.
4R to be included in the the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Act and related regulations, such as those related to insider trading, which may be Annual Report and Accounts where applicable can be found on the legislation.
The Board has the power to appoint any person as a Director following pages.
to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director, provided the total number of Directors does not exceed the maximum prescribed in the 31 May 2017 14 July 2017 Detail Page Articles.
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM, and is then eligible to offer himself or herself for election.
of shares Percentage Waiver of dividends 92 The Articles also require that all those Directors who have been in office BlackRock, Inc. 38,756,458 10.56% 36,114,017 9.84% at the time of the two previous AGMs, and who did not retire at either of them, must retire as Directors by rotation.
Such Directors are eligible to Massachusetts Financial Services Company 36,584,986 9.97% 36,584,986 9.97% Corporate Governance Statement stand for re-election.
However, in line with the Codes recommendation In compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Artemis Investment Management LLP 18,806,983 5.12% 18,806,983 5.12% that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
1, the disclosures election, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Allianz Global Investors GmbH 18,303,673 4.99% 18,303,673 4.99% required by the DTR are set out in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Governance Report.
Cantillon Capital Management LLC 17,418,383 4.75% 17,418,383 4.75% Directors conflicts of interests In accordance with the Act, all Directors must disclose both the nature Prudential PLC Group of Companies 11,066,471 3.02% 11,066,471 3.02% and extent of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
We explain the procedure for this on page 55.
| | 92 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 93
