CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be a leading Store Manager stability with Sports Direct is currently sitting at sports and lifestyle retailer internationally.
Our established 85.0%, this is an increase of 4.6% on the FY16 figure.
Assistant Corporate Responsibility framework focuses on five key Manager and Footwear Manager stability currently sit at 80.4% areas: Human Resources, Health and Safety, Customers, the and 89.4% respectively, which is an increase of 0.6% and 5.9% Community and the Environment.
Sports Direct has developed across the positions.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we deliver on our SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY11 commitments.
These KPIs are discussed further in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report and in the Chief Executives Report FY11 - 17% and Business Review and the Financial Review, and are based FY12 - 17% solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
FY13 - 16% HUMAN RESOURCES HR FY14 - 19% The Group employs and engages c. 29,000 people, across various FY15 - 19% sectors, from Sport, Fashion, Lifestyle, Fitness and Brands, and FY16 - 22% our people are what make the Sports Direct Group such a success.
FY17 - 17% The Board is committed to ensuring that all of our people have PERFORMANCE AND REWARD the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered.
We believe that it takes every single team member to Our Share Schemes have been running since 2009, and we have make a difference and drive performance, and we are committed found them to be an effective tool in incentivising and motivating to the development and rewarding of our people to enable the employees.
In September 2017 participating eligible employees Group to achieve its future growth plans.
will be given the opportunity to vest their awards under the 2011 Share Scheme, at a guaranteed minimum value of 3 The Groups approach is focused on continual development to per share rising to 4 per share if vesting is postponed to nurture our people towards their full potential and to enable September 2018. our teams to promote from within wherever possible, rewarding employees and retaining people and investment in talent.
The targets under the 2011 Share Scheme were: The Group has several policies and systems in place to ensure 2012: Underlying EBITDA of 215m - Achieved staff welfare is monitored and maintained.
In support of these 2013: Underlying EBITDA of 250m - Achieved policies and systems, communication with our people occurs 2014: Underlying EBITDA of 260m - Achieved via Group news emails, letters, staff portal staff app and the intranet, as well as through briefings by direct managers and 2015: Underlying EBITDA of 300m - Achieved through the Groups training programmes.
Each target was successfully surpassed and during FY16 c. 4m shares vested to c. 2,000 employees.
A second, larger tranche of Our HR department is also represented at the meetings of the Listening Group and Health & Safety Committee for the shares is due to vest in September 2017, which will benefit c. 2,000 participating eligible employees, who will receive c. 14m Shirebrook campus, and is consulted and kept abreast of any issues, comments or suggestions through the Your Company, shares between them.
This means that a minimum of 42m will Your Voice portal for both Shirebrook and Retail.
be released during the vesting period.
ATTRACTION AND RETENTION The Group did not achieve the first underlying EBITDA target set by the 2015 Share Scheme and so this scheme has lapsed.
As a Group, we like to train and retain our staff to ensure that valuable knowledge remains within the Group.
The Group uses DIVERSITY a number of incentives to retain our people, including regularly Diversity within the Group is essential and we believe this plays holding employee appraisals, to identify the areas where we, an important role in a successful business.
At all times we try to as an employer, can improve.
We find that regular appraisals ensure that our people meet the diversity, cultures and values of also highlight the knowledge gaps which our employees have, our varied customer base.
The Board is aware that, whilst there and allows us to offer staff training which will develop their are a number of women among senior management, there are understanding.
no female members of the Board following the departure of Claire Jenkins.
During FY17, 17.4% of our UK salaried staff left the Group, a decrease from 22.0% in FY16.
As expected, this figure reduced Women make up 28% of our senior management team.
during the remaining 2011 Share Scheme vesting period.
While we appreciate that work could be done to ensure that the Our Share Schemes are utilised to attract, motivate and figure is more balanced, we are satisfied that the team possesses the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge.
As positions incentivise our people and potential future employees.
We have found that creating a shared goal has improved become available the necessary level of consideration will be employee satisfaction levels.
given to ensuring diversity within the team.
Our overall UK workforce base consists of 48% females.
We aim to ensure that both male and female candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all positions across the Group.
60 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 A BREAKDOWN OF GENDER DIVERSITY: Across the business, we remain focused on the need to proactively develop our teams competence base and leadership capabilities Male Female in order to meet the rapidly changing requirements of the Group.
We offer a varied portfolio of training courses for our people, the Directors 6 1 majority of which are hosted in our own facilities.
Other senior managers 532 204 The Training and Development portfolio continues to grow across the following areas: All UK workforce 9,019 8,326 Brand and Product Knowledge TALENT AND CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT Customer Service Training KEY HIGHLIGHTS: E-Learning Total workforce: c. 29,000 Home Grown Talent Management Hours invested in training: c. 65,000 Management Training STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT We continue to believe in the integration between coaching, organisational development and performance management to Our campus in Shirebrook is home to a purpose built training support any new initiative or change to improve performance centre, which ensures that staff development is at the heart of within Sports Direct.
During FY17, the training centre went from strength to strength, as we celebrated the completion of brand The training centre is a truly unique and state-of-the-art showrooms from Nike, adidas, Puma and Under Armour.
Our objective is to ensure that These initiatives have further strengthened the relationship every member of the SD family has an opportunity to develop and between the Group and our major third party brand partners.
The increase their effectiveness within the business.
facilities ensure that our staff receive the very best education about product ranges, and they achieve a depth of knowledge BRAND AND PRODUCT KNOWLEDGE which they are able to share with customers.
The brand BRAND TRAINING showroom suites are regularly used to support our sales teams during key product launches.
We additionally have the use of a The links between Sports Direct and the major brands is core to 500 seat auditorium on site.
An example of this is the training partnership between Sports Direct and adidas.
This has flourished since 2015 The aim of our Staff Training and Development Department with adidas organising many events at locations throughout the is to nurture our employees to enable them to deliver the UK, which many Sports Direct managers have attended.
requirements of the Group and its customers.
Our goal is to give The adidas showroom suite at Shirebrook contains its own every employee from all areas of the business, the opportunity to 50 seat auditorium.
be inspired, developed, motivated, and empowered to increase their contribution.
In the past year, we invested c. 65,000 hours Sports Direct is also a major user of Nike SKU Sports Knowledge in training and development.
We believe this commitment to Underground and continues to be one of the front-runners ensuring our teams have the knowledge they need to perform in terms of percentage completion worldwide.
The foundation at the highest level is paramount to the continued success knowledge this provides is taken to a higher level through the of the business.
many Nike training days in Shirebrook, which are hosted by Nike Experts.
Nike and Puma are also supporters of our training The training centre offers an experience that we are confident will centre.
inspire and stimulate all who visit.
In addition to the new brand showrooms, there are six specialised training environments, FOOTWEAR MASTERCLASS which incorporate inspiration from the following areas: The Footwear Masterclass is a three-day residential course focusing on one of the key departments within a Sports Direct Running store.
Typical subjects covered include Merchandising, Staff Football Efficiency, Best Practice, Health and Safety, and Policies and Womens Training Procedures.
We also focus on management style and behaviour, ensuring our managers become the positive role models and FY17 has also seen a review of the way that retail staff are leaders we expect.
The success of this course has allowed inducted into our stores.
Our new staff now participate in a it to also be cascaded to those responsible for the footwear welcome programme that guides them, and their manager, department at a more junior level.
through the first four weeks on the shop floor.
This provides the new member of staff with a structure that is common across all stores to help them settle into the business.
At the end of every week there is a feedback process that helps to improve the competency of new staff at understanding and completing important tasks in store.
61 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PREMIUM LIFESTYLE For leaders, or those who are being promoted into a managerial position, this programme provides training across key areas, The Training and Development Department offers training including: people management skills, developing staff mentoring initiatives to our Premium Lifestyle teams, as the demand for skills, business management skills, and training in creativity to training in this area continues to grow in line with the increasing improve business performance whilst remaining compliant with offering of fashion products in our stores across our many fascias.
the Groups policies and procedures.
The premier retail side of the business is rapidly growing, and with a number of area managers looking after multi fascia stores its Since its inception almost four years ago, the programme has important that they understand all aspects of the different stores.
seen hundreds of our junior managers attend, with in excess of 90% of those being promoted into a senior managerial position.
CUSTOMER SERVICE TRAINING This demonstrates the Groups culture and commitment to The Customer Service Training Programme continues to look developing our people.
at how we engage, inspire and equip our people to serve our customers well and sell more through good service.
It is based on MANAGEMENT TRAINING the sales through service model STARS, which is linked to the Management Induction Groups 5-star commission scheme for retail staff.
The STARS New members of senior management joining the business programme is based on five attributes that we encourage staff to and some existing managers attend our four week induction embody in approaching customers: programme.
This consists of an initial week at the training centre at our Shirebrook campus, combining a mixture of shop floor Smile based training and classroom centred activities.
Typical subjects Talk covered would be merchandising, delivery process, health and Ask safety, shop closedown process, product training, and retail business commerciality skills focussing on the importance of Recommend being World Class.
Sale The following two weeks are spent refining and honing their newE-LEARNING found skills in their own store as they begin to settle into the role, putting into practice the World Class Basics that have helped At Sports Direct we understand the importance of staff being Sports Direct establish itself as the number 1 sports retailer on engaged with the business, ensuring everyone understands the high street.
who we are, what we do and can deliver a consistent message to our customers.
The final week of the induction programme sees the new manager return to Shirebrook, as we look to develop their knowledge In addition to our enhanced welcome programme in stores, we further, going into more advanced merchandising practices as have an existing interactive induction programme for all staff that well as focussing on all elements of administration, including rota creates pride in the Group and offers consistency and structure planning, recruitment and security protocols.
in foundation training, ensuring we engage new starters and reenergise existing colleagues.
Management Refresh Programme Members of the team who need further support and coaching In order to achieve this, the training team commissioned an to improve their level of performance in store will attend the e-learning company to develop an online induction that would Operational & Managerial Refresh Programme.
This is a fivecomplement the existing face-to-face training.
It is important for day residential course that consists of shop floor operational staff to be able to access this learning on the go, so our courses training, combined with style and behaviour modules covering are accessible via tablets and employees smartphones, as well as communication, leadership and decision-making.
The current modules we offer are focussed on five main areas: Knowledge of the Company, Sales & Service, MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 Health & Safety, Merchandising principals, and day-to-day Operational Information.
Currently we have over 17,000 users who The Company respects all people and is committed to equal benefit from this initiative.
We will continue to endeavour to ensure that no slavery or human trafficking takes place within our business HOME GROWN TALENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME or supply chain, and will take immediate steps to deal with any organisations or individuals found to be involved in such practices Our talent management activities are open to the majority of so that our standards and values are maintained.
our people, and offer opportunities to those who show potential We are committed to taking reasonable steps to address the risk and ambition.
As in previous years, developing high-potential of modern slavery or human trafficking occurring in our supply employees and growing future Store Managers Leaders is a key chain or in any part of our business recognising that this is an objective.
We aim to produce a common standard of behaviour for ongoing challenge which virtually all businesses face.
We have those in leadership roles, which will strengthen and improve our a proactive policy of reporting any suspicious activity to police ability to deliver the Groups strategic goals.
which has resulted in the conviction of two individuals who were brought to justice after being reported to police by the Transline Our structured programme assists the Group to identify and develop talent, as well as continually develop our leaders.
It helps Agency and Sports Direct in February 2016.
It sends a clear message that we will not tolerate this kind of behaviour.
We have the Group to have the right member of staff in the right position a range of measures in place including videos and literature to at the right time and provides an opportunity to perform better and to progress.
It also helps retain talented and key employees educate staff about their rights and the channels for reporting any concerns confidentially.
and reduce staff turnover, as well as recruitment costs.
62 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Our Anti-Slavery Policy reflects our commitment to acting CUSTOMERS ethically and with integrity in our business relationships and to Customer service is at the forefront of our business.
We aim to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls aimed provide customers with an enjoyable experience both in-store and at reducing the risk that modern slavery or human trafficking may online and ensure all our products are safe and fit for purpose.
be taking place anywhere in our business or supply chain.
Regular external customer experience visits are undertaken in HEALTH AND SAFETY our stores and gyms to identify areas for improvement and also As we continue to grow there has been increased focus on recognise staff providing exceptional customer service.
creating a consistent method of implementing Health and Safety Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a measures and evaluating the Groups safety performance.
All written complaints are recorded, including During FY17, the Head of Health & Safety and the team have an analysis of the nature of the complaint so that trends can be undertaken a full review of Health and Safety policies and assessed and appropriate action taken.
procedures and improved accident reporting investigation and accident trend analysis are now a reality, with the introduction of We are continuously working to improve customer service at all a bespoke online Accident Incident reporting system.
levels within the Group from the retail stores, Head Office and our website.
The Groups rate of Reporting of Injuries, Disease and Dangerous Occurences RIDDOR incidents has reduced over the year.
COMMUNITY The Health & Safety team meets with the Derbyshire local authority with responsibility for Shirebrook on a quarterly Supply Chain basis and works closely with other authorities when required.
We are committed to responsible business practices in our All accidents and incidents are investigated in a timely own business and within our supply chain.
We continue to manner, to prevent recurrence.
procure goods from suppliers who have proved to uphold ethical employment and trading practices, and we have a strict Code of A newly formatted induction, handbook and training review is Conduct that we require every supplier to adhere to.
The Code of having a positive impact.
Improved Supervisor training and Conduct provides for the fair treatment of workers, ensuring a selection will support the momentum of the Groups standards safe environment in accordance with the local and national laws and performance.
and that workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do.
The Code of Conduct also prohibits child labour and the The number of accidents involving the store, office and use of illegal means or materials in the production of goods.
distribution workforce in the UK increased slightly over the period, however this was to be anticipated with the introduction We have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have of the new bespoke online accident incident reporting system demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with Sports in November 2016 providing more accurate and timely reporting, Directs standards.
Approximately 40% of our current suppliers allowing us to take any necessary actions and secure evidence have been working with the Group for 10 years or more.
worked with two leading supply chain companies in Singapore and South Korea for a number of years.
Using their local knowledge The Health & Safety team are working on continuous and experience helps benefit the business and the communities improvements enhancing the Groups Health and Safety guidance in which they operate.
Both supply chain businesses have the in training and education packs, including the Management highest social and business ethics code which aligns with our own Induction and Refresher Training Programmes.
These initiatives Code of Conduct, the BSCI Code of Conduct which is based upon are helping to raise general safety awareness and also target the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the Social specific areas where vigilance is required.
In relation to the general public we have calculated the number Sports Direct relies on both supply chain companies to inspect of accidents per 10m store turnover using a 12-month rolling the premises of all suppliers and manufacturers.
The number of accidents involving the general public inspections are carried out randomly to ensure that goods meet has reduced over the course of the year.
With enhancements to our quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance the training packs for staff, and improved communications, we with SA8000 and our Code of Conduct.
We cease immediately to are building a positive safety culture.
Indeed, one of our store work with suppliers who do not meet our criteria.
managers was recently invited to a garden party at Buckingham Palace in recognition of his swift action in administering first aid We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals to a child who made a full recovery after being involved a choking that are banned for use in fabrics.
Both supply chain companies incident at a shopping centre.
conduct random tests on fabric which are then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that Sports Direct is now a corporate member of the British Safety banned chemicals are not being used.
Council and we attend a quarterly Retail Health & Safety forum which promotes the sharing of ideas and solutions.
During FY17 there were no environmental prosecutions or work-related fatalities.
63 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Community Involvement Transport The Group engages at various levels with the local communities As the Groups existing fleet of around 100 Scania Trucks is in which we operate, and in relation to our Shirebrook campus replaced, by 2018 all vehicles will be crossed over to Euro 6 we continue to actively work with Shirebrook Forward NG20 standard using Ad Blue, which is a fuel additive stored in a working group, which aims to help Shirebrook retain its breadth of separate tank on the truck and injected into the exhaust system services, local support functions and community spirit.
By better routing of the trucks Our 500 seat auditorium is utilised throughout the year for local to stores a fuel saving was made last year of c. 100,000 Litres.
Local community organisations such as Energy Efficiency Derbyshire constabulary and county and local council groups All our newer retail stores are equipped with smart meters to make use of the facility free of charge.
This is managed centrally thus ensuring a Sport is the Groups passion.
We believe that everyone should consistent measurement across our retail footprint.
have a chance to participate in sports and enjoy the health and We have embarked on a significant energy reduction programme lifestyle benefits it brings, and to work towards achieving this we culminating in the delivery of our very efficient Warehouse C. provide a wide range of equipment and clothing to promote sports This has been supplemented with a number of pilot projects to participation amongst people of all abilities, including those who create further energy saving opportunities.
would not normally have access to equipment and facilities.
We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact Our charitable programme is compiled each year through various our business has on the environment, and we are committed to levels of the Group.
This year, Sports Direct has engaged with a reducing this both now and in the future.
We continue to comply number of local organisations in Shirebrook and the surrounding with the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment, and have area, these include: Willow Tree Family Farm, Shirebrook Town identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular Council, Shirebrook Rangers Football Club, Shirebrook Gymnastics energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
Club, Kings Mill Hospital and Mansfield Soup Kitchen.
We continue to comply with the Governments Carbon Reduction The Group Brands also supports local communities and causes Commitment, and are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon in various ways.
Lonsdale is the proud sponsor of the RAF annual footprint.
We have identified key areas where we can make a Novice Championships, The Lord Wakefields, and Everlast has difference.
The single most significant element is electricity, which also served as a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer Research makes up 83% of the footprint.
We are looking to actively reduce Foundation since 2006. energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT The carbon footprint spread across all UK sites is detailed in the We are consistently pro-active in ensuring we make a positive chart below: contribution to the environment.
Our goal is to foster partnerships that will enhance our local economy using environmental CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS 1 APRIL 2016 - 31 MARCH 2017 improvements that create cleaner safer neighbourhoods.
This happens in a number of different ways.
Our trucks are back loaded with recyclable waste when they are making deliveries to our stores.
This is supported by an onsite recycling centre which ensures we facilitate the recycling of circa 95% of our cardboard.
We are currently a triple A producer of waste KLNs Cardboard which means that we produce clean, high density bales, of a constant quality and quantity loaded correctly into either of two Electricity 83% Diesel 10% Other 7% permanently located stand 40ft containers for export and one permanently located stand trailer going to a local paper mill.
The growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore the absolute GHG emissions.
Our chosen Plastic intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions per m revenue has The recycling of plastic has transformed into a totally separate increased by 16%: which is a result in part due to efficiencies and baling operation using four new HSM v press balers handling in part due to the reduced CRC factors.
This change has stopped end of bale contamination.
Previously, we would have used the downtime available on the cardboard balers.
Currently the plastic we produce on site is of a high grade.
Metal We recycle our metal through a partnership with two local companies.
They supply 40 yard bins located at the south end of the warehouse and we load it up with scrap metal that is generated from either Shirebrook or our retail stores.
We are now actively sub-sorting different grades where possible to facilitate a faster more efficient process and a greater rebate.
64 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS REPORTING WASTE REDUCTION We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to 1 Reporting period 1 April 2016 - 31 March 2017 landfill and segregate waste to ensure that we recycle as [2] Baseline year FY15 much as possible.
Consolidation Operational control THIS YEAR WE RECYCLED: approach 5,548 units of electrical equipment 2016: 5,679 units Boundary summary All entities and facilities either 607 tonnes of waste paper 2016: 76 tonnes owned or under operational control 12,203 tonnes of cardboard 2016: 10,000 tonnes were included.
Emissions from air conditioning and refrigeration units 384 tonnes of metal 2016: 308 tonnes are excluded due to the cost of data 1,023 tonnes of plastic 2016: 710 tonnes collection.
These are expected to be a negligible % of scope 1 emissions.
All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
This is actively promoted in-store Consistency with Other than the emissions declared through high levels of staff engagement.
Financial Statements for the period 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 to be in line with the CRC Looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise Energy Efficiency Scheme, there are waste and improve energy efficiency across our stores.
no inconsistencies with Financial Statements.
Mike Ashley Emission factor data DEFRA May 2013 Chief Executive source 19 July 2017 Assessment The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and methodology ISO 14064-1 2006.
We have used the 2016 UK Governments GHG conversion factors.
Materiality threshold Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 0.5% of total emissions included.
Intensity ratio Emissions per m revenue 1 The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2016 31 March 2017 to be in line with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
2 As we have full comparative information for all energy sources for the Group, we have set the baseline year as 2015.
Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of commercial fuels using published emission factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are primarily calculated from metered electricity consumption and published emission factors.
CO2 equivalent factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Regulations.
