Our customers High-quality customer relationships Our packaging customers include many of the largest fast-moving consumer goods FMCG companies, owners of some of the worlds best-known branded products, and leading industrial businesses.
Our recycling business serves major retail groups.
12 Strategic report Our customer profile FMCG and food customers comprise just over two thirds of our business.
These customers produce products commonly sold in supermarkets, convenience stores, other retail outlets, or over the internet.
Just under ten per cent of our business is related to other consumerrelated products, for example consumer electronics, automotive or pharmaceuticals.
The remainder of our business services other industrial customers trading in products such as bulk chemicals, where packaging may help transport products safely and securely in large quantities.
Long-standing partnerships drive value for both parties Volume growth among our pan-European customers has been a consistent driver of Group growth, as large customers look for a co-ordinated approach to their packaging.
Long-standing supply partnerships drive value for both parties, as we can work together with customers to reduce their overall supply chain costs with innovative, efficient packaging.
We have worked with many of our customers for over a decade.
Our emphasis on FMCG customers means that the demand for our product is relatively consistent, as consumption of staple products tends to be less variable than discretionary items.
We have a high quality diverse customer base which is not reliant on any single customer.
Our largest packaging customer represents less than 3 per cent of Group revenue and our top-20 packaging customers comprise c. 13 per cent of Group revenue.
FMCG and food 67% 9% Grocery FMCG and Other consumer Home and personal care food related products Beverages Tobacco Agriculture 24% Other consumer Other related products industrial Pharmaceutical Electronics Automotive DS Smith corrugated Other industrial packaging customers Machinery by volume Chemicals Construction Find out more about our Our plastic packaging customers plastics and packaging Our three principal types of plastic packaging are used business on our website: www.
com by a range of customers in our key market sectors: flexible rigid foam Market packaging packaging products Beverage Pharmaceutical Automotive Fresh produce Construction Retail Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
