Sustainability review We are committed to conducting business in a socially and environmentally responsible manner Sustainability means many things 2016 17 highlights to many people.
AtDS Smith, we Reduced our Scope 2 CO emissions in 81 sites.
2 are focused on three key areas: Improved our carbon intensity by 7 per cent.
Our business Improved our CDP score to Management B 95 and achieved a Leadership A rating for the CDP Water and Forest modules.
Creating shared value through responsible recycling, paper and packaging.
Maintained our gold status in EcoVadis.
Our environment Minimising our impact, from design to production and supply to recycling.
For a more detailed discussion of these topics, Our people please see our 2017 Sustainability Report Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of colleagues and contributing to See page 24 for more about our people our communities.
Our approach Sustainability governance Our principles The Board considers risks arising from sustainability issues DS Smith is committed to conducting business in a as being among the key risks to the Groups operations.
To socially and environmentally responsible manner.
We mitigate these risks, DS Smith has taken steps to ensure believe that delighting our customers and ensuring our that adequate and effective policies and procedures for employees operate in a safe and productive workplace managing emergent sustainability issues and related, is the only sustainable approach to creating value known risks are in place, and the Board receives regular for our shareholders over the long-term.
In order to reports on performance.
Policies are periodically reviewed demonstrate these values, DS Smith subscribes to and updated, with action plans communicated to the a number of international standards and guidelines heads of each business unit.
Compliance with policies relevant to corporate responsibility and business ismonitored throughout the year.
conduct, including: The Group Chief Executive is responsible for United Nations Global Compact: addressing  issues, and through United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the the Group Operations Committee, a Group Sustainability Convention on the Rights of the Child: Committee oversees the process and sets and monitors International Labour Organisation Eight Fundamental internal targets and strategies to ensure : and related risks and opportunities are appropriately managed.
Any residual issues are brought to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Board.
The Group Sustainability Committee is chaired Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
See page 39 Our business for our risk Our material issues During the last year, DS Smith has continued to factors Last year we conducted a comprehensive materiality engage with our stakeholders in relation to sustainability.
analysis which identified seven priority issues that are Our closed loop recycling business model already of high or growing importance to internal and external provides inherently sustainable packaging solutions stakeholders.
These were: for our customers, but increasingly they are demanding more from their suppliers.
We are proud to be able to health and safety carbon and energy support them in their objectives to achieve zero waste traceability and recycling and waste to landfill, or to reduce their logistics and supply chain transparency environmental impacts through more efficient and packaging reputation better designed packaging.
fibre sourcing and supply cycle thinking availability 36 Strategic report This same review also found that aggregate Group-level Our environment targets to reduce water and waste were less appropriate Management and regulation for the current footprint and business mix.
Both topics The Group has a governance structure in place to continue to be actively managed at site level, and remain consider carbon emissions, energy usage, water the subject of both Group scrutiny as well as national consumption, waste and product responsibility.
However we found that Each production site is required to implement aggregating the performance of over 200 varied an environmental management system which production sites into a single Group-level KPI did not is appropriate to its level of activity.
At present, provide any meaningful insight into individual 148 2016: 116 manufacturing sites have an sites performance.
We have decided to manage water consumption at a The Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU has led to more granular level, and in our Sustainability Report we many production sites in a number of regions pursuing split out usage by manufacturing process.
This allows us the ISO 50001 certification for energy management.
to explain more accurately the impacts of our highestWe have evaluated the programme and agreed to roll consuming facilities, and to provide more detailed this initiative to all regions in 2017. explanations of the inter-relationships between water consumption, water purity and water stress.
Each production site that converts or trades in wood fibre or other wood derivative products is mandated Likewise, we have decided to manage waste to landfill to pursue a recognised certification programme leading at a more granular level, and in our Sustainability Report to a chain of custody for responsible fibre sourcing.
Over we split out an analysis of our waste streams by country.
78per cent of our production sites are currently certified This allows us to more accurately explain the options by a recognised certification scheme.
for our highest-producing facilities, and to provide more detailed explanations of the inter-relationships between During the year we received notification of breaches or national recycling and waste management infrastructure.
minor environmental incidents at four sites.
There were no major incidents defined as incidents of significant In the coming year, we will develop new Group-level impact reportable to local or national authorities, or targets to drive increased supply chain transparency.
incidents potentially resulting in legal prosecution We are already an A B member of SEDEX and in the reported for the period of this report.
past year, 100 per cent of our own production sites have achieved a positive evaluation using the SEDEX Our targets platform and we will develop targets for our supply chain to match the standards we are setting.
As indicated last year, our Group environmental targets were reviewed during the year as part of our materiality We have also committed to achieve 100 per cent analysis and stakeholder engagement exercise.
We of relevant production sites having a recognised, found that our long-standing carbon reduction targets accredited, responsible forestry certification had been superseded by events in the Global Climate we are on track to achieve this by 2018.
Many sites had already achieved their 2020 targets and in addition the Group had Detailed Our performance achieved its targets for 2020 in both CO and water, 2 information We are pleased to have achieved good progress four years early.
We are committed to building a is on our website against our CO e emissions targets.
The business sustainable business for the long-term, so we have 2 and in our emitted 7per cent less CO e from both Scope 1 and extended our carbon reduction target to cover the 2 sustainability Scope 2 sources, and once the emissions from energy period 2015-2030, using an updated 2015 baseline that report exported by our power stations is subtracted there is is more representative of the current business mix.
This a net reduction of 5.1 per cent emissions compared to represents a substantial extension of our commitment the previous year.
In absolute terms this represents over to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
Relative to 80kt fewer tonnes of CO e emitted to the atmosphere.
production, we now aim to reduce our CO equivalent 2 2 Relative to production this represents a 7 per cent CO e emissions by 30per cent over the 15 years 2 1 decrease in CO e emissions per tonne of production to 2030.
2 from 209 kg to 195 kg CO e. 2 2020 targets % variance Target KPI Unit 2011 2016 2020 target since 2011 status CO e per tonne of production kg CO e tonne nsp 308.1 195 -20% -36.6% Exceeded 2 2 3 Total water effluent per tonne of production m tonne nsp 3.10 2.41 -20% -22.4% Exceeded Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg tonne nsp 13.70 11.91 -20% -13% On track 1 For an in-depth discussion of this target, the calculation of the 2015 baseline and our compliance with the Non-Financial Reporting Directive please see our Sustainability Review 2017.
com 37 Sustainability review continued Of the 198 manufacturing sites where a full figures in our paper mills.
As a process, paper making year-on-year comparison is possible we also see good is water-intensive which has driven a large increase in performance.
95 of these sites achieved a reduction in water usage, but through effective treatment we are CO e emissions per tonne of production and 79 sites able to ensure that our effluent does not adversely 2 achieved a reduction in absolute Scope 1 emissions.
affect the water bodies we share with our local This is driven largely by reduced emissions from our communities.
Supporting our customers in new paper mills, which showed strong reductions in Scope 1 territories means that we have to operate in countries emissions driven by the reduced generation of power where the waste management infrastructure is less using fossil fuels in our combined heat and power mature, but we aim to use the expertise within our CHP plants.
Group to manage the waste from our mills and reduce the amount of landfill waste in the future.
Analysis of our performance in reducing Scope 2 emissions tells a similar story, with 81 sites achieving Notes on environmental performance indicators an absolute reduction.
This has largely been driven by We collect environmental data on a monthly basis, and initiatives to replace high bay lighting with LED lighting report this data for the previous calendar year in order and an increased emphasis being placed on energy to align with the generally accepted practice of industry management at our sites.
This aids sector and The figure for total production volume is 8.2 million industry benchmarking.
tonnes, 1.8 per cent higher than in 2015.
This increase Emissions figures given in the table below are is due to strong performances from our Packaging therefore all on a calendar year basis.
The environmental and Recycling divisions.
This increase in production performance data table displays the data for calendar complements the reductions weve made in CO e 2 year 2016 together with the data previously reported emissions to enhance our CO e performance 2 in 2015, re-stated to reflect the acquisitions during per tonne of production.
the year in order to show the data on a comparable In the areas of water effluent and waste we are facing like-for-like basis.
more challenges, primarily driven by high production 2015 2016 with % KPI Unit of measure restated acquisitions variance Scope 1 kt CO e 1,678 1,570 -6.4 2 Scope 2 kt CO e 355 333 -6.2 2 Emissions from energy exports kt CO e 348 299 -14.1 2 Total CO e net energy export kt CO e 1,686 1,604 -4.9 2 2 Total production kt nsp 8,059 8,209 1.9 Waste to landfill kt 87 98 12.6 3 Total water effluent Mm 19 20 5.3 CO e per tonne of production kg CO e tonne nsp 209 195 -6.7 2 2 3 Water effluent per tonne of production m tonne nsp 2.34 2.41 3.0 Waste to landfill per tonne of production kg tonne nsp 10.74 11.91 10.8 Methodology 1 The CO and CO e emissions were calculated using the UK DECC 2016 factors for all fuels and the UK national grid.
Emissions from other national grids 2 2 use the DECC factors IEA from 2015.
Where available we use the market based emissions factor for bought electricity from the supplier of energy to our business.
If this figure is not reported, the country emissions factor from the IEA is used instead.
2 Total production is the sum of printed reels and paper reels from our paper mills: plastics production all types from our plastics sites: recovered fibre and other materials collected and processed through our recycling depot network: and boxes and sheets sold to third parties from our packaging sites.
Full details on the methodology and additional facts and figures on our sustainability data can be found in our Sustainability Review 2017.
Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas has been commissioned by DS Smith Plc DS Smith to provide an independent opinion on the following environmental performance indicators: energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, raw material usage, water consumption, waste and discharge to air and water for calendar year 2016.
The reporting boundaries cover DS Smiths global operations.
Based on our verification activities and scope of work, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the reported data does not provide a fair representation of environmental performance across the DS Smith Group for the defined period.
DS Smith should be commended on its approach to environmental data collection, including the use of a central reporting system, clear responsibilities at Head Office and site levels, frequent data gathering, and the existence of an audit trail from source evidence to reported data at the sites visited.
A full verification statement including the methodology, basis for the opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of Bureau Veritass independence can be found on the DSSmith Plc website at: www.
com company sustainability our-environment performance 38
