STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility MAKING A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION MAKING A DIFFERENCE TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES WE SERVE We recently reached 3m of funds raised for Macmillan Cancer Support since the launch of our corporate partnership with them in2012.
This is testament to the thousands of our people and customerswho back our partnership and who have raised 1m inthe past year alone.
The money we raise directly funds patient care, with Macmillans nurses supporting hundreds of thousands of people diagnosed with cancer everyyear.
We were delighted to be recognised by Macmillan this year by winning aFundraising Excellence Award at Macmillans corporate partnership event.
We were also shortlisted at the Better Society Awards for the BestScheme to Encourage Staff Fundraising.
In the coming year, we are looking to grow our partnership beyond fundraising with a volunteering programme for our people and by introducing Macmillanswork and cancer training to support our team members who may be affected by cancer.
Keeping it local Miles for Macmillan For the fourth year in a row, we donated 15,000 to not-for-profit In 2016, we launched our first company-wide fundraiser, Miles for groupPub is The Hubs community services fund, which helps rural Macmillan.
The campaign aims to achieve enough miles to get to the pubsdiversify their services for community benefit.
moon 250,000 during the next three years, with team members and customers choosing to run, bike, hike and swim in return for Our team members based in Burton upon Trent have supported the local sponsorship.
From local fun runs to the London to Paris cycle ride St Giles Hospice, donating 1,000 from money raised at the offices Christmas and Mount Kilimanjaro climb taking place in the coming months, party, plus 50 chairs to the hospices outlet store after a refurbishment.
ourteam members are getting fit while raising money.
At our head office in Bury St Edmunds, the Finance Shared Services We are particularly proud of one of our team members, Julie English, department has been supporting East Anglias Childrens Hospices who is taking on the enormous task of climbing Mount Kilimanjaro EACH.
This year they have proudly presented a cheque for 27,000, later this year.
Julie works in our property team and has been given which has been raised for the charity during the past five years.
the all clear following breast cancer in 2015 so is ready to take on the challenge.
Julie has always been fit and got straight back into running during and after her treatment and is training hard for the climb.
Juliesaid: I decided I wanted to do something new and take on a We are proud to bigchallenge, so Ive signed up to do Mount Kilimanjaro as part of our Miles for Macmillan campaign.
I am terrified but I want to raise asmuch money as I can.
have raised 3m for Macmillan Cancer Support.
38 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Our developing corporate responsibility strategy is a core part of our At Greene King, we understand the importance of commitment to society and the key areas of focus that we have chosen are to: making a positive contribution to the communities Make a difference to the local communities we serve weserve.
We are privileged to run 3,000 pubs and Support young people into work two breweries.
We employ 44,000 people and we Drive the responsible retailing agenda strive to operate in a responsible, sustainable way.
Operate in a more sustainable way We are already working hard to achieve these aims, for example with ourflagship partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support and our GetintoHospitality programme with The Princes Trust.
SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE INTO WORK Apprenticeships Our award-winning apprenticeship programme has now seen over OVER 9,000 9,000team members work towards an apprenticeship qualification sinceitbegan in 2011.
This year we have also focused on introducing TEAM MEMBERS HAVE WORKED TOWARDS apprenticeships to other areas of our business outside of Pub Company.
AN APPRENTICESHIP SINCE2011... We have also been planning for the introduction of the Apprenticeship Levyand have all the necessary processes in place for this new method offunding apprenticeships in the UK.... AND WE ARE ON COURSE TO REACH OUR 10,000 APPRENTICESHIPS PLEDGE We are delighted to have been recognised this year by featuring in the government-supported Top 100 Apprenticeship Employers List.
GreeneKing was also the only pub company to appear in the RateMyApprenticeship Top70 School Leaver Employers Table 2017 and won Best Apprenticeship Strategy at the Springboard Awards for Excellence.
76% OF LAST YEARS ACHIEVERS 5 AWARDS WON THIS YEAR ARE STILL WITH US A year with The Princes Trust The Princes Trust: Adam Walch We continue to support disadvantaged young people at the start of Adam Walch felt uninspired at 18, after two years working in jobs theircareers through our partnership with The Princes Trust.
We are where he did not feel a sense of passion or enjoyment.
Then he now in the second year of our Get into Hospitality programme and discovered The Princes Trusts Get into Hospitality programme arepleased with its success.
He says the three weeks training helped shape his understanding ofhospitality and after completing the programme he was offered 8 103 49 afront-of-house role at the Caernarvon Castle in Prenton.
Adam hasnow been there for a year and said: I love what I do and work PROGRAMMES YOUNG PEOPLE RECRUITED alongside a fantastic and supportive team.
Id highly recommend the COMPLETED IN HAVE TAKEN programme to anyone looking into a career in the hospitality industry 2016 17 PART SOFAR its given me opportunities I never thought Id be able to pursue.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued DRIVING THE RESPONSIBLE RETAILING AGENDA With more than 200 years of trading history behind us, we are committed to providing customers with the best experiences.
As part of our ongoing goal to be the best in our industry, we also have a responsibility to champion healthy eating and responsible drinking.
Nutritional improvement focusing on choice We continue to review the nutritional content of our menus and are working towards full compliance with the governments 2017 salt targets.
In line with the publication of the Childhood Obesity Plan for Action report in 2016, we are reviewing the sugar and salt content of a number of our product ranges, as well as working closely with our suppliers, in order to nutritionally improve the dishes on our menus, particularly thosedesigned for children.
Furthermore, we continue to provide a range of lower-calorie menu options for customers looking for a lighter option, such as within FlamingGrill and Greene King Locals.
As a key part of the menu development process, we regularly review our menus to provide Eating Inns seabass and scallop risotto.
Allergens bringing together one process acrossthe business WE AIM TO CHAMPION Following our acquisition of Spirit in 2015, we have taken the opportunity to review our allergen policies in order to ensure we have a clear set of HEALTHY EATING AND guidelines across the business.
The full allergen information of all of our meals is now available, which our customers can request when they visit one of our pubs or restaurants, as well viewing it beforehand on our RESPONSIBLE DRINKING.
Gluten We continue to respond to the growing demand to provide a range of dishes for customers wishing to avoid gluten.
Our spring summer 2017 menu launch contained a separate menu containing no gluten ingredients to highlight further dish choices for our customers.
Our Eating Inn brand now has a range of dishes containing no gluten ingredients to choose from, such as our seabass and scallop risotto or halloumi nioise salad.
We have also recently launched gluten-free versions of two of our most popular beers, Old Speckled Hen and Greene King IPA, as we look to make beer more accessible to customers who have reduced their gluten intake for health or lifestyle reasons.
Vegan dishes A rising demand for vegan dishes means this is something a number of ourmenus now take into account, including Old English Inns, which offers a roasted vegetable bowl with cherry tomatoes as well as a chocolate and coconut torte.
We continue to further develop our vegan and vegetarian dish ranges.
40 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Enjoy Responsibly website As part of our continued commitment to promoting responsible drinking, we relaunched our Enjoy Responsibly website as part of a wider Greene King corporate website refurbishment.
It has been designed to offer information and advice on enjoying alcohol responsibly.
1,538 95.29% OF THE 1,614 PUBS VISITED IN 2016 17 BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES EARNED A FOUR OR FIVE STAR RATING It provides information such as how much is too much alcohol, howto cut down, advice on alcohol and young people plus tips for enjoying alcohol responsibly.
Food standards All of our brands promote the Enjoy Responsibly website on their We are proud that out of the 1,614 pubs visited in 2016 17 by local marketing materials.
authorities, 1,538 95.29% earned a four or five star rating.
It is paramount that weprovide our customers with consistently high quality food and so For more information, please visit www.
we actively promote excellent kitchen standards.
In Pub Company, this isachieved through training, internal and external audits and operational incentive schemes.
Promoting responsible drinking All our Pub Company premises operate the Challenge 21 or Challenge 25 programmes and team members must pass an online training course on this before they can serve alcohol.
We are proud that a number of our venues across the UK achieved Best Bar None accreditations this year.
Our pubs belong to Pub Watch and Best Bar None where access to these schemes is available.
In 2016, more than 1,000 Greene King pubs took part in our annual Christmas anti-drink-drive campaign with Coca-Cola, by offering nominated drivers a free soft drink.
Quality standards for our beers Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds and the Belhaven Brewery in Dunbar have once again achieved an A-grade rating with the British Retail Consortium confirming that our beers are always brewed to the very highest of quality and food safety standards.
OUR BEERS ARE ALWAYS BREWED TO THE VERY HIGHEST OF QUALITY.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate responsibility continued OPERATING IN A MORE SUSTAINABLE WAY Zero waste to landfill by 2020 7,900 TONNES As a 218-year-old company, sustainability is at the heart of Greene King and we have recently become the first major pub company in the UK OF FOOD WASTE COLLECTED FROM OUR to pledge that by 2020 we will send zero waste to landfill.
PUBS, SAVING ENOUGH ENERGY TO POWER 7,000 UK HOMES FOR AN ENTIRE MONTH The declaration follows the launch of Greene Kings partnership with waste management company SWR in April 2016, and its commitment to the Courtauld 2025 initiative to create a best practice waste solution.
This has already led to 95% diversion away from landfill since the agreement was signed, with almost 8,000 tonnes of food diverted from landfill across the entire estate.
Initiatives have been introduced across our managed sites, including pub teams separating waste into 395,000 TONNES dedicated bins for food, cardboard, glass and other materials before it is collected, reducing our number of general waste bins by 42%.
OF CO SAVED FROM FOOD DIVERTED FROM 2 LANDFILL, EQUIVALENT TO BOILING A KETTLEFOR OVER 700 MONTHS Energy and carbon This year, we have introduced Night Watch to reduce energy consumption by our managed pub estate.
This means between the hours of midnight and 7.00am, all electricity is turned off where possible, such as alllights, boilers and bottled fridges.
We report on this weekly, which gives us the ability to track progress and ensure that energy reduction is in placeby site.
OVERALL THE COMBINED GREENE KING AND We are also pleased to now report that all of our managed pubs are fitted SPIRIT ESTATE IS NOW ACHIEVING 95% TOTAL with LED lighting in all customer-facing areas.
The final 216 pubs had LED DIVERSION OF WASTE FROM LANDFILL lighting installed this year.
In their first full month of having LEDs, the last 216 pubs to be fitted reduced their electricity consumption by 204,000kWh.
To reduce energy used in our beer cooling systems, we have invested in eco pumps.
We have installed these in 1,100 of our pub cellars, which will cut energy use by 44% in these pumps.
Our Brewing & Brands division is continually seeking to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions.
Initiatives during 2016 included improving the energy efficiency of lighting at our Bury St Edmunds bottling plant, aiming to save 200,000kWh per year.
Better training for our drivers has also ensured vehicles are less likely to be left idle with the engine on, reducing fuel waste.
Several other projects are ongoing, such as investigating the procurement of green CO from local sources for use in our brewing 2 and packaging operations.
42 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with the generation of Water electricity consumed in our sites.
Emissions have been calculated using the We are at the forefront of the new water market, being the first Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme factor self-supply licence holder and the first to implement a switch on the 2015 for 2015 16 and 2016 for 2016 17. market database.
By holding the licence, we can continue to reduce waterused in our pubs as well as ensuring data is correct for accurate Electricity and gas figures in the table below cover the CRC reporting billing and that costs are competitive and transparent.
period from 1 April to 31 March each year, whilst all other figures cover our respective financial years.
The intensity ratio refers to turnover in our Preventing water waste is important to our business and a focused Pub Company and Brewing & Brands businesses as the vast majority of programme of water leak identification and repair is ongoing within our CO emissions relate to those businesses.
It is proving successful not just in reducing leaks, butalsoin raising awareness of the importance of highlighting leaks CO emissions by type assoon as they occur.
2 2016 17 2015 16 tonnes tonnes Other 2016 initiatives included reusing water and not allowing it to Source of emissions of CO e of CO e 2 2 drainaway, thanks to a secondary reverse osmosis plant in the brewery.
Direct emissions Scope 1 Natural gas 69,855 61,940 3 This has saved 7,800m of water the equivalent of more than three Olympic-sized swimming pools.
Gas oil 666 1,186 Kerosene 338 188 Other LPG 4,146 5,525 Greene King Brewing & Brands has achieved recertification to the Red diesel 84 78 International Standard for Environmental Management Systems.
This has acore set of values, known as the ISO 14001, for developing an effective Refrigerants 5,273 3,115 environment management system.
A work programme is already underway Owned vehicles 8,613 7,669 at Greene King to transition to the new ISO 14001 standard.
This led to asenior management forum that was a great opportunity for discussion Total direct emissions Scope 1 88,974 79,700 of a wide range of internal and external environment-related issues facing Indirect emissions Scope 2 Electricity 164,166 167,562 the business now and in the future.
Gross emissions 253,140 247,263 Mandatory greenhouse gases Turnover in Pub Company The table opposite, which has been produced in compliance with the andBrewing& Brands 000 20,177 18,851 requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Tonnes CO e per 100k turnover 12.546 13.117 Regulations 2013, shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of 2 CO equivalent CO e for our scope 1 direct and scope 2 indirect 2 2 CO emissions.
The figures below include those of Spirit Pub Company 2 from the date of acquisition, being 23 June 2015, except where stated.
Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from the fuels we use in our reusing water in our breweries, pubs, restaurants, hotels and offices such as natural gas and liquid petroleum gas.
It also includes emissions from owned vehicles 3 including company cars but excludes logistics where we outsource this brewery saved 7,800m of to third parties.
Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions in respect of our breweries, pubs and restaurants are also included, except in relation to water the equivalent Spirit Pub Company for 2015 16.
We have used the UK governments greenhouse gas GHG Conversion of more than three Factors for Company Reporting for all scope 1 emissions 2015 for 2015 16 and 2016 for 2016 17.
GHG emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning Olympic-sized units have been determined using the simplified material balance method as described in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013. swimming pools.
APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT Pages 2 to 43 of the annual report form the strategic report.
Lindsay Keswick Company secretary By order of the board 28 June 2017 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 43
