Our people DS Smith is committed to sourcing and developing the highest quality talent at all levels of the organisation.
To help talented colleagues to realise their own potential and deliver results for the business, we also seek to create an engaging workplace and a high performance culture.
Graduate trainee, Xavier 2016 17 highlights Accident Frequency Rate reduced by 19 per cent.
Engaging Managers programme now available in 24 languages and taking place in 28 countries.
Integration events for our five acquired businesses, welcoming over 800 new colleagues to the Group.
Response rate of 88 per cent for Group Employee Survey.
207 sites with zero Lost Time Accidents.
We dedicate time, effort and attention to implementing DS Smith graduate programme systems, ways of working and initiatives to create conditions in which people are eager and empowered Xavier recently completed the DS Smith graduate to contribute.
programme and has become an Operations Improvement Engineer in our paper division: Leaders of the future After finishing my studies in Spain, I joined the We see graduates as our leaders of the future and DS Smith graduate programme.
I was first based our graduate programmes introduce young talent into in Kemsley in the UK.
During my placement there the organisation to support the growth of the business, I was involved in many different projects.
The giving them the opportunity to join DS Smith on a fast one I particularly remember was focusing on track development programme.
Graduates are selected material efficiency.
It was about understanding from a number of our paper mills and packaging regions the requirements and limitations that both the all across Europe and join a two-year programme which production and planning department have.
By includes placement in another country.
understanding both and putting them together we optimise the way we plan and produce.
That As future leaders, graduates are given the opportunity helped us to reduce the off-cut and actually to gain a solid professional experience by working on completely eliminate it.
That gave us a huge strategic projects and develop their management benefit of c. 1 million per year.
For me it was an skills in an international environment.
excellent opportunity after university to lead a project and improve my communication skills.
E-commerce design challenge After one year in Kemsley I had the great opportunity, With the growing demands of consumers in the and challenge, to move to Lucca in Italy and join the e-commerce sector, e-retailers and brands are facing asset management programme which is looking to many challenges including faster order lead times and optimise the maintenance processes.
For packaging a key issue is finding the optimum range of pack sizes that fit For me the DS Smith Graduate Programme has been with the thousands of products available online.
a very rich experience and I would recommend it to any student looking to join an international To pre-empt our customers needs and meet the manufacturing company.
challenges of this growing industry, DS Smith ran a design challenge specifically looking for solutions that would have the greatest impact on e-commerce.
com people career for more on working at DS Smith 24 Strategic report The challenge was to find solutions for some key Serena Savini, OWN IT!
champion Italy e-commerce problems: reduce the range of packaging items needed in stock, reduce shipping and packaging costs and reduce the risk of product damage.
In November, seven finalists out of 69 entries were invited to Packaging headquarters in Brussels to present their solutions.
Participants from Italy, Germany, Spain, the UK and France shared their presentation and prototypes to the panel and a winner was chosen.
Culture of performance OWN IT!
champions DS Smith firmly believes that the best way to deliver our strategy is through the engagement of all colleagues in our vision, shared objectives, and values.
Over the past year we have sought to accelerate the pace with which we increase employee engagement levels and have assembled a team of internal champions to support the business in this aim.
As a team, the champions provide a sounding board for ideas, share best practices and promote the materials and training available to help managers and nonmanagers gain skills in communication, facilitation and managing change that are necessary to drive the implementation of strategy at their location.
We come from different countries, we Selected primarily for their attitude and passion have different backgrounds, we speak for creating a better workplace, the champions team different languages, we have different supports different operating businesses and works as an international network.
Their fresh approach and stories but we share something very positive energy are bringing enthusiasm to our OWN IT!
programme and transforming good concepts into practical similar.
We all believe in OWN IT!, not and applied solutions on site.
As a result of the teams only to help DS Smith to reach the vision support for the employee survey process in 2016, we have seen an increased response rate of 88 per cent and become a great company by any and the results demonstrate increased understanding of the company direction and values across the Group.
measure, but also because we believe in our colleagues and in the hidden Investing in employee communications potential that we ALL possess.
Communication is key to innovation in our business.
Breaking down silos and sharing best practice allows us to leverage the expertise in our business and provide the best service to our customers.
Because of this, Gender diversity DS Smith invested in enhancing our communication and collaboration platforms by making them accessible Board in the cloud.
In addition to greater accessibility, the developments Male: 6 also added social networking functionality through Female: 2 Yammer.
Social tools equip DS Smith employees to openly share challenges to obtain solutions in a quick Senior Management and efficient manner.
Open communities in Yammer also enable our employees to discover a wider network of colleagues and tap into resources previously closed off.
Male: 118 Female: 14 Group Male: 20,036 Female: 5,607 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 25 Our people continued The Engaging Managers Programme Employee charter Whilst it is important for employees to have DS Smith has always made quality dialogue with our communication platforms that enable them to share colleagues throughout the Group a priority.
We do this knowledge and continuously seek improvements to on a global scale with a biennial employee survey and products and processes, these behaviours are dependent through local town-hall meetings or briefings in the on, and driven by, a culture of tenacity and constructive normal course of doing business.
To enable this culture to build and thrive, have built strong relationships with our employee DS Smith has been supporting line managers through representatives through forums and works councils the Engaging Managers Programme EMP which where local, regional and European topics are shared focuses on the development of self-awareness, skills and discussed.
To strengthen our commitment to and techniques needed to create an engaging and effective dialogue we have taken this a step further open culture based on our values.
this year and drawn up an employee charter as a joint initiative between management and our European Primarily, EMP is a learning and development initiative Works Council EWC.
The wide-ranging statement but, through developing the skills of those who attend clarifies various aspects of the employee-employer the course, far wider ripples have gone through the relationship.
Viewed alongside the DS Smith values, Group.
The resulting engagement of employees and Code of Conduct and individual contracts of employment, positive environment is nowhere more evident than it will provide employees with greater clarity on what is in the relatively new region of south east Europe.
expected of them and what they can expect in return.
Joseph Reed, Snapshot Chairman of the EWC, The south east Europe region of our business Miles Roberts, achieved an employee engagement score of Group Chief 74per cent for managers, four percentage points Executive and Alan Taylor, Group above our external benchmark, and a score of Human Resources 80per cent for performance enablement, again Director interim well above external comparison.
The region has with other EWC been through a lot of change since being acquired members signing by DS Smith in 2015, including the implementation the charter.
of many initiatives and different ways of working.
Amongst all that change, the introduction of the Engaging Managers Programme along with OWN IT!
has strengthened management understanding of the values of DS Smith and how to apply them and DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer and is this has raised their own engagement levels.
In the firmly committed to both the principle and realisation coming months, these engaged managers will in of equality as set out in our Code of Conduct.
turn have a positive impact on the engagement and enablement of all colleagues in the region.
We plan The charter encompasses commitments to safeguarding fundamental employee rights, as well as establishing to support these managers in this process through ongoing learning and development activities longer term aspirations.
Examples of the pledges that DS Smith makes to its employees are to keep them safe including the development of coaching skills, improved performance management skills while working, to apply a zero-tolerance approach to child labour, to provide open access to senior leaders, and deeper emotional intelligence.
to support flexible working and to reward employees fairly and equitably, wherever they are based.
74% 80% The document also sets out DS Smiths core Employee engagement Performance enablement expectations of its employees from taking pride score for managers score for managers in their work and being a good ambassador for the business, to taking their full holiday entitlement and avoiding excessive working hours.
The creation and signing of an employee charter is a natural progression for DS Smith.
It builds on two decades of close working, cooperation and collaboration between DS Smith and its EWC and supports our drive to become an exemplary employer in our sector, said Joseph Reed, EWC Chairman, we are delighted to have signed this agreement, on behalf of all DS Smiths employees, and look forward to working with the business to drive this forward.
26 Strategic report sites, reduce exposure to hazards and to raise the safety Health and safety awareness of our employees.
We continue to believe The safety of all people employees, agency that this target, whilst challenging, is achievable.
workers, contractors and visitors is a cornerstone of our business.
We set high standards and make exacting A Health, Safety and Environment Leadership Team demands for continuous improvement in our safety coordinates Group policy and ensures that best practice performance, and as a Group we strive to ensure that and learnings from across the organisation are shared everyone who comes into contact with our operations and disseminated throughout the business.
meets quarterly to review major LTAs high potential severity incidents, and to coordinate audit activity On Saturday, 12 November 2016 a tragic accident and accident investigation.
happened at the DS Smith site in Fulda, Germany.
During work on the perimeter of the factory premises Sharesave an employee fell from one of the building roofs and was fatally injured.
This accident was fully investigated and This year has seen the maturation of DS Smiths first all appropriate remedial measures have been taken.
international Sharesave Plan, launched in 2014 as well as an invitation to join a new plan.
Our safety key performance indicators KPIs have both continued to improve.
Total number of lost time Our Sharesave 2017 personalised invitation packs were accidents LTAs, was 113 and the number of sites with translated into 26 languages.
Our performance against our KPIs Sharesave was given via augmented reality posters for the year is shown in the table below: which allowed users to watch an information video, explore the plan in more detail and provided a link to the Health and safety key online application portal.
The award winning innovation performance of using augmented reality allowed those without easy indicators 2016 17 2015 16 2014 15 2013 14 Variance access to computers, such as machine operators and 1 Total LTAs 113 120 146 171 -5.8% drivers, to access information directly through their 2 AFR 2.6 3.2 4.2 4.8 -19% own mobile devices.
Both the invitation pack and the information video The figures in the table show the absolute number included views from peers as well as the of LTAs incurred by employees of the Group during management team.
It should be noted that the number of operations has increased substantially during the We always seek feedback from colleagues after each reporting year, and the figures for 2016 17 include invitation and maturity via a pulse survey about the accidents at a number of acquisitions that had been clarity of the information provided and the ease of use.
newly integrated to the business.
There is a clear This enables us to make continuous improvements correlation between the length of time that a site has to the communication materials and the process.
been under DS Smith ownership and a consistently reducing AFR: this is mainly due to the high degree of management scrutiny and the investment in safer Julie Westcott Health and Safety Director, equipment, processes and systems that is a hallmark European Packaging of DS Smiths management approach.
There is, however, a lag between making these improvements, and the At the start of the reporting period, DS Smiths factory in Andorra, ensuing reduction in accident rates.
We remain committed Northern Spain, was one of the newest acquisitions in the DS Smith to achieving a zero accident culture, and we recognise family.
Our due diligence had identified potential for improvements that more work still needs to be done to improve our in safety standards, and the site was identified as a priority for improvement action plans.
Thanks to the dedication of the local management teams, and supported by central health and safety resources, we are delighted to announce that the site celebrated 365 days without a LTA a threefold improvement on the previous period.
The actions taken to achieve this milestone included additional training, audits and regular safety reviews.
Furthermore, numerous safety upgrades were made to machinery, the building and protective equipment.
Emilio Grin, the sites health and safety manager, said: We are all so pleased to achieve 365 days without an LTA, and we are looking forward to achieving our next milestone.
I would like to personally thank everyone involved for their positive attitude toward safety and their dedication in ensuring safety is our number one priority.
1 Lost Time Accident LTA : number of accidents resulting in lost time of one shift or more.
2 Accident Frequency Rate AFR : number of LTAs per million hours worked.
