KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 23 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT of the issued Ordinary shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 12 is to renew the auInformation on the principal risks to shareholders and manthority for a further period until the Companys Annual agement of these risks can be found in the Strategic Report General Meeting in 2018.
The price paid for shares on exon pages 46 and in note 13 to the Accounts on pages 1820. ercise of the authority will not be less than the nominal value of 12.50 per share or more than the higher of a DIRECTORS INDEMNITY 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotaThe Companys Articles of Association entitle any Directions of those shares for the five business days before the tor or Officer of the Company to be indemnified out of the shares are purchased and b the higher of the last indeassets of the Company against any loss or liability incurred pendent trade and the highest current independent bid on by her or him in the execution of her or his duties in relathe London Stock Exchange.
The authority, which may be tion to the Companys affairs to the extent permitted by used to buy back shares either for cancellation or to be held law.
in Treasury, will be used to purchase shares only if, in the opinion of the Directors, a purchase would be in the best inCARBON EMISSIONS terests of the shareholders as a whole and would result in an The Companys carbon emissions result predominantly increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining from its consumption of gas and electricity at its offices.
There are no outstanding options or warrants Using Defra DECCs GHG conversion factors for comto subscribe for equity shares in the capital of the Company.
pany reporting produced in 2014, emissions for the year to Treasury Shares 30 April 2017 were 18.1 tonnes of CO2e 2016: 16.6 tonnes of CO2e.
This equates to 0.11 tonnes of CO2e 2016: 0.10 Under UK company law investment trusts are able to actonnes of CO2e per square metre.
quire their own shares to hold in Treasury for reissue.
The Directors consider that this facility gives the Company AUDITORS more flexibility in managing its share capital.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to Resolutions 11 and 12 would provide the Directors with the continue in office as Auditors and a resolution proposing authority they need to manage Treasury shares.
Treasury their re-appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
shares will be reissued only at a premium to the net asset value of the shares at the time of sale.
STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit Notice Period for General Meetings information of which the Auditors are unaware, and each The Companys Articles of Association enable the Company Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have to call General Meetings other than an Annual General taken as a Director in order to make herself or himself aware Meeting on 14 clear days notice.
In order for this to be efof any relevant audit information and to establish that the fective, the shareholders must also approve annually the callAuditors are aware of that information.
ing of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
Resolution 13 will be proposed at the Annual RESOLUTIONS TO BE PROPOSED AT THE AGM General Meeting to seek such approval.
The approval will be Resolutions 1 to 9 are self explanatory.
effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proAuthority to Allot Shares posed.
The Company meets the requirements for electronic voting under the Companies Act 2006, offering facilities for During the year the Company continued its policy of issuing shares at a small premium to net asset value in response all shareholders to vote by electronic means.
Resolution 10 is to authorise the Directors to believe it is in the best interests of the shareholders for the shorter notice period to be available to the Company, alissue new shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,470,150, being 10 per cent.
of the total issued shares at though it is intended that this flexibility will be used only for early renewals of the Boards authority to issue new shares 1 June 2017.
Resolution 11 is to enable the Directors to issue such new shares and to reissue shares from Treasury or reissue shares from Treasury and only where merited in see Treasury Shares below up to an aggregate nominal the interests of shareholders as a whole.
of the total isRECOMMENDATION sued shares at 1 June 2017, for cash without first offering The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existat the AGM are in the best interests of the shareholders as ing shareholdings.
The Directors issue new shares or reisa whole and recommends that they vote in favour of such sue shares from Treasury only when they believe it is resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and own beneficial holdings.
for the purpose of operating the Companys premium control policy.
In no circumstances would such issue of new By Order of the Board shares or reissue of shares from Treasury result in a dilution of net asset value per share.
Steven K Davidson Secretary Authority to Buy Back Shares 10 St Colme Street During the year, the Company acquired 4,861 of its own Edinburgh EH3 6AA shares to be held in Treasury.
The Companys current authority to make market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
