Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Corporate social responsibility During the year ended 30 April 2017, Micro Focus Corporate CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2017 Social Responsibility CSR programme has developed to Environment This financial year is the second to incorporate environmental reporting that address the additional scale of the Company following the relates to the enlarged operations resulting from the acquisition of TAG, an acquisition of Serena.
This focus follows the trend of the prior organization that, historically, did not collect the data required for environmental year to 30 April 2016, in which CSR activities were planned disclosure.
In addition the group has seen further expansion through the and driven primarily by the integration of TAG.
The TAG acquisitions of Serena, GWAVA, OpenATTIC and OpenStack.
acquisition quadrupled Micro Focus workforce and trebled Micro Focus products and services help customers to reduce their carbon its revenues.
Looking forward, following the acquisition of footprint and adopt carbon friendly IT strategies by enabling greater efficiency HPE Software which is currently expected to complete on and longer life from existing technology and equipment.
In turn, Micro Focus 1 September 2017, Micro Focus CSR programme will need continues to develop its own policies to record, monitor and achieve to scale further and address the expanded operations of the improvements in its own carbon footprint.
Post Completion, Micro Focus will again more than Micro Focus energy conservation is focused on energy efficiencies to drive treble its workforce and revenues.
The CSR Committee is down total energy consumption.
The importance of reducing energy developing an appropriate programme to address the consumption levels is underlined within the Group by sharing data and seeking forthcoming integration challenges, recognize the increased employee guidance on how to reduce our consumption within the boundaries relevance and impact of the Group and monitor, improve and of our operational control.
For example, all staff are encouraged to turn off all report on progress going forward.
electrical equipment at weekends and over the holiday periods a scheme which has been adopted worldwide.
In the last reporting year we extended our CSR activities are monitored and planned in four key areas: the Environment, partnership with the Carbon Trust and entered into the UK Energy Savings Charity and Community Support, the Marketplace and Suppliers, and Opportunity Scheme ESOS as early adopters to ensure we maximize the Employees and Ethics.
The Corporate Responsibility Policy can be found on benets that an ESOS Audit can produce.
We used the audit findings in our the Micro Focus website www.
energy roadmap for driving down our carbon output during the year ended Micro Focus is committed to complying with relevant CSR legislation across 30 April 2017, achieving an overall reduction across the expanded Group.
its global operations and strives to achieve standards over and above required levels.
During the year ended 30 April 2017 the CSR committee met twice to agree priorities and progress activities and the CSR programme was reviewed at two board meetings during the year.
Karen Slatford, the senior independent non-executive director, is responsible at board level for CSR and also chairs CSR committee meetings.
Tom Virden, formerly, a non-executive director, also participated in the CSR committee to provide additional board level input until he resigned on 25 April 2017.
Micro Focus products can help customers to reduce their IT carbon footprint and these benets feature in conversations with existing customers, prospects, partners and suppliers.
Employees regularly participate in CSR initiatives and internal communications regularly feature CSR topics.
Micro Focus continues to work with the Carbon Trust and as a result of changes to our operational boundaries and increased acquisition activity Micro Focus narrowly missed achieving the Carbon Trust Standard this time round.
However, Micro Focus has continued to build on our success and is committed to reducing our environmental emissions.
Micro Focus continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the responsible investment index calculated by global index provider FTSE Group.
Outlined below is the CSR progress that Micro Focus has made in the year ended 30 April 2017 across the four focus areas.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Corporate social responsibility continued Key points for the 12 months to 30 April 2017: Greenhouse Gas Emissions GGE For this reporting year we have maintained our methodology for reporting Building on previous success in reducing environmental emissions, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
On a like for like basis, across the entire Micro Focus continued its commitment to the Carbon Trust by applying for Group, Micro Focus achieved a 3.6% reduction in energy consumption for this re-certication despite the increased level of operational activity across the reporting year.
On an actual comparison of the reported Group in FY16, due to expanded Group during the financial year: organizational boundary changes, the UK, China and the US made a strong contribution to the overall decrease in consumption from the previous period.
Micro Focus will complete its ninth year of commitment to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, underlining the Groups commitment to further This section includes Micro Focus mandatory reporting of GGE raise awareness of the importance of and manage emission reductions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and across global facilities: Directors Report Regulations 2013.
CDP scores have improved year-on-year since joining CDP in 2009.
In this Reporting year reporting period Micro Focus will once again, report a decrease in absolute The Green House Gas GHG reporting year is the same as Micro Focus year-on-year emissions within this years CDP submission.
This is the result scal year being 1 May 2016 to 30 April 2017 to align with Financial Reporting of the operational boundary changes that impacted the previous reporting and the relevant CDP Reporting timeframe.
period across the enlarged Group: Organizational boundary and responsibility Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported to CDP: In accordance with the denitional requirements of the regulations, in respect of emissions for which Micro Focus is responsible, emissions data is reported On-going commitment to promote electronic product distribution has using an Operational Control approach to define the Organizational Boundary.
delivered the Groups highest ever result for the year.
This reporting period 98.84% of software products were distributed electronically, with just over All material emission sources over which Micro Focus deems to have 1% delivered to customers via physical distribution: operational control are in scope.
These sources are dened as the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or cooling for the operation of facilities and the Further improvements across all locations either by moving to more modern combustion of fuel for that operation of facilities.
Processes are being and efficient ofce environments or by improving the ofce environments established to track other sources of emissions such as commercial ights already in use.
Part of Micro Focus decision making process when sourcing for business travel, which is not presently covered in this data.
locations is to identify LEED ratings wherever possible.
In recent years four ofce relocations have been from buildings with no LEED rating to sites Methodology with Silver, Gold and Platinum ratings: The methodology used to calculate emissions is based on the most current set of regulations published by the Department for Environment and Rural Affairs Continued landlord performance monitoring in all locations where DEFRA relating to relevant reporting periods.
For consistency, in this Micro Focus operations are sited in multi-tenant premises: reporting period our emissions have been calculated solely using DEFRAs conversion tables published on their website, rather than as in previous periods Despite the increase in the size of the Group, further progress has been where the energy companys individual fuel mix was used.
made continuing the consolidation of the data-centre power programme, thereby improving efficiencies and reducing cost and consumption.
This includes the reduction of the quantity of dedicated server environments across the wider Group to signicantly lessen the footprint impact: and Additional capital carbon projects took place in this reporting period.
Lighting upgrade projects were evaluated and delivered, including the completion of the initial pilot that took place in the Belfast ofce.
Following on from this successful project, Micro Focus headquarters ofce in Newbury is now on a pilot for evaluation.
46 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Scope of reporting emissions Intensity ratio Following the acquisition of TAG in November 2014, Micro Focus operational To achieve a global picture of emissions, whilst recognizing that not all infrastructure approximately trebled in size.
On a like-for-like basis Micro Focus locations can be in scope, an intensity ratio of CO per tonne per head has 2 energy consumption was lower in the 12 months to 30 April 2017 than during the been used.
As not all entities are revenue generating and not all can calculate previous reporting year by 0.1%, with best practice across the entire real estate emissions, this ratio should demonstrate a more comprehensive assessment.
and targeted employee communication, staff focused on reducing emissions.
2017 targets Since TAG had no environmental reporting requirements or tools to monitor During the year ended 30 April 2017, despite the complexities of the and measure energy consumption, the Company has, where possible, increased operational boundaries due to the acquisitions of Serena, GWAVA, implemented the same systems and processes that heritage Micro Focus used OpenATTIC and OpenStack.
Micro Focus improved on its target to reduce in the past to have these operational across the entire organization.
This work year on year emissions.
is helping with the ability to monitor and report on year-on-year comparisons going forward.
During this reporting year we have continued our commitment to both CDP and the Carbon Trust.
We have maintained our capital budget for investment During the year ended 30 April 2017, Micro Focus made progress on reducing in energy saving initiatives to help us drive further reductions.
We continued the merged Companys carbon footprint by reducing the overall real estate of to raise awareness locally across all sites.
the wider Group, integrating locations wherever possible.
This delivered a net reduction across all operations.
Total UK data for the Group delivered a 9.9% Year-on-year comparisons for energy consumed reduction in absolute consumption, a direct result of the integration strategy.
and carbon emissions Micro Focus reports emissions data on all locations where available, 1 FY17 FY16 Change % irrespective of the size of the Micro Focus facility.
For smaller locations Total energy consumption where no such data is available from managed serviced ofces, or where metered MWhrs 22,548 23,437 3.8% Micro Focus is part of a multi-tenant occupancy building, or where stafng levels are less than 10, the mean average per head is extrapolated out from Energy consumed metered all other locations.
KWhrs per employee 5,339 5,872 9.1% GHG emissions tonnes e-CO 9,113 9,397 3.0% 2 Locations and approach taken: GHG emissions per employee tonnes e-CO 2.68 2.98 10.1% 2 Actual emissions data used Bangalore India, Beijing China, Belfast Total estimated GHG emissions Northern Ireland, Cambridge US, Dublin Ireland, Dsseldorf Germany, Ktons e-CO 10.4 10.7 2.8% Ennis Ireland, Galway Ireland, Haifa Israel, Hillsboro US, Hong Kong 2 China, Johannesburg South Africa, Kiev Ukraine, Lisle US, Milan Italy, Mumbai India, New Delhi India, Newbury UK, Nuremburg Germany, 1 The FY16 comparatives have been restated to reect the impact Paris x 2, France, Prague Czech Republic, Provo US, Rockville US, of Serena.
Singapore Singapore, Soa Bulgaria, Stockholm Sweden, St. Albans UK and Troy US.
The following locations are out of scope due to size and or lack of availability of information: Where the data is not available, the same intensity ratio is used for the location on a headcount basis.
Average UK CO head multiplied by headcount 2 Alphen den Rijn Netherlands, Austin US, Bellingham US, Brasilia Brazil, Brighton US, Burlington US, Cape Town South Africa, Linz Austria, Lyon France, Columbus US, Costa Mesa US, Dubai UAE, Edinburgh UK, Geneva Switzerland, Hanau Germany, Horscholm Denmark, Houston US, Ismaning Germany, Lisbon Portugal, Loveland US, Madrid Spain, Melbourne Australia, Mount Pleasant US, New York US, Oslo Norway, Rome Italy, Rotterdam Netherlands, Santa Clara US, So Paulo Brazil, Seattle US, Seoul South Korea, Shanghai China, Shenzhen China, South Euclid US, Sydney Australia, The Hague Netherlands, Taipei Taiwan, Tokyo Japan and Toronto Canada.
The following locations are a multi-tenanted site which is sub-let in their entirety and is out of scope for this years report: Bracknell and Richmond UK.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Supporting the development of a Visual and Performing Arts Education Charity and community support Program to help children avoid drugs and gang life in Santa Clara: Micro Focus donated over $80,000 2016: $82,000 to selected charities and community support projects during the financial year 2017.
Participating in a community project in Troy to provide food to disadvantaged children to assist with study outside of school hours: and The Company encourages employees to help local communities and support relevant charities, chosen in line with agreed criteria and along the guidelines In the UK, supporting the following projects: of education and local community support.
A Charity Committee consisting of a range of employees from across the company manages these initiatives in Funding much needed equipment for a youth football team: two ways: Supporting two projects providing recreational space for children: Providing computing equipment to a local school in Newbury: and Firstly, on a funds-matching basis for individual employee charitable Helping a project in Northern Ireland in the Belfast area delivering pursuits and awarding community project grants to initiatives put forward computer science knowledge to children aged between nine and 11. by employees: and Throughout the financial year, employees are regularly updated about Secondly, by allocating a number of employee days per month to teams or community support and charity initiatives to keep them informed, encourage individuals to directly benefit a chosen charity or community initiative.
participation, and to provide feedback on the chosen initiatives through regular updates on the front page of the Companys intranet and a dedicated The programme focused on local community initiatives for the entire year, a charity page.
change from the usual format, encouraging staff to support projects in their communities and causes they are actively involved in.
In prior years, a portion of In the coming financial year, assuming Completion of the HPE Software the Groups charitable giving has been allocated to global causes.
This change transaction, Micro Focus will develop its charity and community initiatives has been made to recognize employee feedback.
to recognize the increased scale and impact of the Companys enlarged operations on local communities, drawing on the experience of HPE Software Out of the total level of funds raised, $80,000 supported local and national employees engagement in these areas.
causes across 11 countries in Australia, Bulgaria, China, Germany, India, Ireland, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, UK and USA.
Marketplace and suppliers This is the fifth year that the local project grants initiative has been in place Micro Focus products and services continue to help organizations lower their and in the year ended 30 April 2017, 50 charity or community organizations energy impact and often customers benefit from a lower carbon footprint.
benefited across multiple geographies across Micro Focus Group operations Our product portfolio encourages organizations to extract more value from around the world.
Projects included: their existing technology, avoiding expensive and more carbon intensive rip and replace product introductions.
In Germany, providing computer equipment to aid and promote educating children in computing: Employees and ethics During the year ended 30 April 2017, Micro Focus has continued its In India, supporting a charity project to provide four Indian schools and integration to bring together employees of TAG and those of heritage approximately 1,000 children with new shoes and another project Micro Focus.
The TAG acquisition transformed the size of the organization providing equipment such as school bags and necessary textbooks for and this has been increased further by the subsequent acquisitions of Serena, under-privileged children: GWAVA, OpenATTIC and OpenStack.
Employee numbers have grown from approximately 1,200 employees in October 2014 to more than 4,800 by the Participating in an initiative in Africa to build a community centre for year ending 30 April 2017.
The TAG integration has provided valuable education and health education purposes: experience for the Serena integration which has taken place during FY17.
Furthermore, this experience is proving very valuable in setting the platform In the US, supporting the following projects: for the forthcoming integration of new employees after the Completion of the HPE Software transaction scheduled for 1 September 2017, which will A Boy Scout Troop in its work with the homeless in the Maryland area: at least treble staff numbers.
A World Youth Foundation project helping with education and community initiatives in the Houston area: and The substantial integration initiatives progressed in FY17 have been combined Support material and resources for a community arts program in with recruitment and retention programs through multiple training and Paso Robles, California.
performance management initiatives across the organization, to support and develop employees through a time of substantial change.
These HR initiatives are designed to develop a culture that provides a rewarding and enjoyable working environment for employees who in turn are able to develop their careers in a professional and successful organization.
48 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Key HR metrics at 30 April 2017 Strategic Report This 2017 Strategic Report on pages 3 to 49 is hereby approved and signed Total number of employees worldwide 4,826 4,287 full time on behalf of the board, equivalent FTE : Total Worldwide Workforce 6,123 including temporary contractors 5,919 FTE : Percentage of women employees worldwide 1,081 2016: 957 employees 22.4% 2016: 22.3% : Kevin Loosemore Percentage of women senior management 128 employees 2016: Executive Chairman 125 employees 11.98% 2016: 13.2% : and 17 July 2017 Percentage of women governance body 37.5% including Company Secretary, three out of eight 2016: 22.2%, two out of nine.
This has increased to 40.0% four out of ten following the appointment of Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber from 15 May 2017.
Micro Focus continues to strive for a diverse range of candidates for new roles: A half year bonus was paid to 3,181 eligible non-commissionable employees.
A full year bonus will be paid to approximately 3,410 eligible non-commissionable employees at the end of July 2017: Comprehensive six monthly and full year performance management reviews of all non-sales employees were carried out.
81.9% of the employee population completed a half year performance management plan PMP, which was a small improvement on last year.
PMPs for the full year are on-going current completion is 93% with the Wingspan global performance review process now fully operational across the whole Company: International Sharesave & ESPP programme launches were put on hold following the HPE Software announcement to ensure that both organizations share schemes are integrated.
These schemes are active across 30 countries, comprising of 97.6% of our employees worldwide, and our overall participation rates remain steady at 27.8% of eligible employees: Employee communications activities have been enhanced to further support the TAG and Serena integration programmes, with an increased focus on local ofce group meetings as well as expanded Group employee communications initiatives, including a mix of All Hands meetings, improved intranet communications, targeted email updates and multiple webcasts and recordings of management interviews: An excellent record in health and safety matters for all employees no reportable incidents in the last 12 months : Commitment to ensuring compliance with anti-bribery, data protection and market abuse and insider dealing laws has continued.
This has included our Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Market Abuse and Fraud Awareness training continuing to be rolled out and completed by all employees across the Group, and the continuance of on-going compliance checks during the period: A review of the Groups compliance programme is being carried out to ensure it is appropriate for the increased size of the Group taking into account the Groups activities and risk prole.
The review encompasses all compliance areas including employee training and communications: and In October 2016 the Group published its first modern slavery and human trafcking statement on its website in accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Also the Groups Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics was updated to include an Anti-Slavery and Human Trafcking Policy.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
