Should there be a significant Core pricing is based upon Pricing is negotiated with Personal development plans The Group has an appropriate The Groups main facilities economic downturn the target levels of return with manufacturers on an annual and tailored training are business continuity plan in mature in 2020 and 2022 flexible nature of the Groups discount authority levels basis in advance of purchases conducted for all employees.
the event of disruption arising and the Group believes business model allows any allowing flexibility to ensure being made.
Variable supply Salaries are benchmarked from an IT systems failure.
that these facilities provide vehicles returned to be placed that we remain competitive terms allow us flexibility to against the market and adequate resources for Before any material system with different customers.
make purchases as required a range of incentives are present requirements.
changes are implemented Alternatively, utilisation can be throughout the year.
provided to attract and retain Further investment will be a project plan is approved The Group reviews its maintained through purchasing staff.
Succession plans are in made in marketing to ensure Whilst the Group is exposed by the Board.
A member of compliance with covenants on fewer vehicles, increasing place for executive positions.
that the value proposition to fluctuations in the used the executive team will then a monthly basis in conjunction disposals or a combination of underpinning pricing is well vehicle market, we have Regular communication and sponsor the project and an with cash flow forecasts to the two.
Although this may communicated and received sought to optimise the sales engagement with everyone ongoing implementation ensure ongoing compliance.
affect short term profitability see Strategy section on route for each vehicle.
Should across the business is vital to review will be performed by The impact of access to capital it generates cash and reduces page 10. the market experience a short our success.
The on the wider risk of going debt.
term decline in residual values, objective is always to minimise The Group Health, Safety concern is considered on page No individual customer we can age our existing the risk of business disruption and Environment and Group 24 and within the viability contributes more than 5% fleet until such time as the that could result from changes.
Internal Audit functions are statement on page 33. of total revenue generated, market improves.
responsible for delivering and ongoing credit analysis is health and safety best practice performed on new and existing and reporting any noncustomers to assess credit risk.
With regards to the UKs decision to leave the EU the Groups current hedging arrangements protect it from material foreign exchange risks and the Group has in place sufficient borrowing facilities to fund its activities with maturities up to five years.
Any impact on demand or the cost of supplies is not yet known.
30 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 31 REPORT 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four EVALUATION MITIGATION MANAGING RISK CONTINUED 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four As explained in the Strategic Report, part of our core Viability statement business provides customers with vehicles on a non-contract The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over basis which allows them to flex their vehicle requirements as a three year period to 30 April 2020, taking into account their business needs change.
This is core to the proposition the Groups current position and the potential impact of we offer, however, it does mean that there is less certainty the principal risks documented in the Strategic report.
over the future revenue streams of the Group over a Based upon this assessment the Directors have a reasonable longer period of time.
The Directors have therefore made expectation that the Company will be able to continue in assumptions on future revenue generation in the context of operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the current market conditions and prospects of the Group.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered The three year period was selected as this represents the resilience of the Group, taking into account its current the normal holding period of our core vehicle assets and position and the principal risks facing the business.
The therefore represents the Companys investment cycle.
This Plan was stress tested for severe but reasonable scenarios period is aligned to how our business model runs through its and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions that would cycle, how capital is employed in the business and therefore reasonably be taken.
The Plan was specifically stress tested how returns on investment are reviewed.
Our core banking for reasonable downturns in vehicles on hire, hire rates, facilities also mature in 2020. vehicle acquisition costs and residual values of vehicles.
The The strategy and associated principal risks underpin the outcome of this testing satisfied the Directors with respect Groups three year strategic planning process the Plan, to the ongoing liquidity and solvency of the Group over which is updated annually.
This process takes into account the period under review.
In particular, should there be a the current and prospective macroeconomic conditions significant downturn in demand for the Groups business, in the countries in which we operate and the competitive vehicle utilisation can be maintained through purchasing tension that exists within the markets that we trade in.
fewer vehicles, increasing disposals, or a combination of the two, which would generate cash and reduce debt.
The Plan also encompasses the projected cash flows, dividend cover and headroom against financial covenants under the Groups existing facilities.
The Plan makes certain assumptions about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and therefore considers whether additional financing will be required.
Headroom against the Groups existing facilities at 30 April 2017 was 260m as detailed on page 22.
The facilities have maturity dates between May 2017 and August 2022, which exceeds the period under review and provides sufficient headroom to fund the capital expenditure and working capital requirements during the planned period.
32 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 33 REPORT 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Outlined below are details of five key 2.
Our shareholders and lenders relationships and the steps we take to A description of the relationship we have engage with these groups and what they with shareholders is contained within the provide in return in order to allow us to build Corporate governance report on pages 48 a responsible and sustainable business.
We will not allow success to give way to Our lenders provide us with the funding complacency and will strive to do all we can we need in order to meet the capital to maintain and deepen these relationships requirements of the Group and day-toin order to best serve our customers, day working capital requirements.
Our provide returns to our shareholders and be a borrowing rates are competitively priced and responsible corporate citizen.
enable us to provide adequate returns to shareholders and lenders.
Our customers Our customers are vital to the ongoing 3.
Our employees success of the Group.
As a Group we are Without our employees the Group would dedicated to providing a market leading not be capable of operating.
They enable service to all of our customers.
the high levels of customer service to be delivered which is reflected in our improved All elements of our strategy, as outlined on NPS scores over recent years.
Northgate is pages 10 to 11 contribute towards this.
committed to equality, judging applications We measure how strong our relationships for employment neither by race, nationality, with our customers are through our NPS gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or scores.
For 2017 Group NPS was 41% political bias.
compared to 43% in the prior year.
Our ethical standards are communicated We will continue to work hard towards to employees through the Groups Code delivering exceptional customer service and of business conduct, which covers bribery, Relationships are vital to the Group the medium term aim is to achieve a score of competition, conflicts of interest, inside 50% in all three territories.
information, confidentiality, gifts and in achieving our aims of delivering entertainment, discrimination, harassment Our customers provide valuable insight on market leading levels of customer and fair dealing with customers and how we can improve what we do in order to suppliers.
In addition, the Groups service and providing significant build a long term, sustainable business.
whistleblowing policy and procedure enables every employee to have a voice returns to our shareholders.
and a means by which they may draw concerns to our attention.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four 34 STRATEGIC REVIEW 35 REPORT 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The composition of our employees as at 30 April is as follows: We aim to have as low an AFR as possible.
Safety AFRs are monitored against previous Our approach to safety is simple: to ensure 2017 2016 performance and if there were to be a that no harm comes to anyone engaged Male Female Total Male Female Total significant decline in performance then a with Northgate.
UK 1,286 495 1,781 1,291 496 1,787 root cause analysis, over and above the Our Safe and sound programme creates an continuous monitoring currently in place, Spain 668 370 1,038 646 348 994 environment of openness and awareness, would be performed.
Ireland 69 28 97 59 19 78 where all colleagues feel empowered to Total 2,023 893 2,916 1,996 863 2,859 Internal communications raise concerns about working practices and The Group mixes face-to-face, digital and conditions.
Regular training is provided The gender split at a senior management level is as follows: traditional communications channels in order to employees, most of which is carried to maximise the impact of communication out internally by our Health, Safety & 2017 2016 with our employees.
Male Female Male Female newsletters, staff conferences and use The Health, Safety & Environment team Directors 5 2 4 2 of Yammer.
carried out audit reviews to measure Senior managers 21 5 20 3 Training performance of safety and environment management processes at all locations We use multiple training platforms for our Providing our employees with an environment where they can flourish will ensure that our across the Group during the year and where people.
These include launching Leadership business is as good as it can be.
At its simplest level this means ensuring that everyone feels necessary identified improvements and and Operations Academies in the UK and safe at work.
Clear communication ensures that employee goals are aligned to the Group subsequently monitored compliance with the Northgate Campus online platform and regular training enables each individual to perform to the best of their ability and have these recommendations.
the opportunity to progress their career within the Group.
Safety performance across the business is Human rights measured using an Accident frequency rate Information on equality is contained above AFR.
This is calculated as the number of and our corporate social responsibility lost time incidents, multiplied by 100,000, information, including our statement of divided by the number of hours worked.
The compliance with the Modern Slavery Act, results were as follows: is contained on our website: www.
Our suppliers Maintaining a positive working relationship Our Spanish business engaged with a with our suppliers is vital to ensure that we number of community and charity initiatives have the right vehicles in the right place at over the year.
This included continued the right time to ensure customer needs sponsorship of Gavi a vaccine alliance are met.
Vehicle pricing is negotiated on and a cycling event in Madrid in support an annual basis and we maintain an active of childhood cancer.
300kg of food was dialogue with suppliers throughout the collected for a local charity as part of a year too.
basketball exhibition event with the most prominent local basketball team in Seville.
Our strong manufacturer relationships provide a competitive advantage and The communities we operate in provide the generate value to the Group.
core of our workforce, meaning that our employees understand the communities in 5.
Our communities and which we are present.
the environment Greenhouse gas emissions The Group operates from 122 locations Environment This section incorporates the mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions required across the UK, Spain and Ireland.
This The activities that we undertake also have by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 impacts on the local communities who a wider impact on the environment.
accommodate us and the environments we main measure that we use to assess our Reporting and baseline year operate in.
environmental impact is greenhouse The information presented covers the period from 1 May 2016 to 30 April 2017, with a gas emissions.
Communities comparison to the prior year.
The base year for calculations is the year ended 30 April 2014.
One of the main ways we give back to Consolidation approach and organisational boundary our local communities is through actively The emissions data presented has been derived using the operational control approach, encouraging our colleagues to engage required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports with charities that are close to their hearts.
Each facility under operational control has been included within the All charitable activity is promoted and figures.
Northgate has used the principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and championed through ongoing internal Reporting Standard revised edition, ISO 14064-1. communications.
Methodology UK and Ireland Defras current conversion factors have been used in arriving at the information supplied Amongst the many charitable activities below.
All six greenhouse gases are reported as appropriate.
undertaken by employees, the business held a company wide Christmas jumper day in Greenhouse gas emissions figures aid of Save the Children and members of Tonnes of Tonnes of one division spent a night sleeping outdoors CO e CO e 2 2 in support of Byte Night in association with Greenhouse gas emissions source 2017 2016 Action for Children.
These are only some Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 6,701 6,201 examples of the variety of worthwhile causes Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 4,189 4,766 our people invest their time in.
Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 23.9 24.5 2 The above data has been verified by an independent, UCAS accredited, third party assessor.
36 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 37 REPORT 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We recognise the need to support our Spain customers in managing a sustainable | A new e-contracting system reduces business.
We work with our suppliers to paper usage and cuts down journeys to make a fleet available to our customers exchange contracts: and comprised entirely of modern vehicles, | An increase in the number of electric and achieving the highest levels of exhaust hybrid vehicles on the fleet contributing emission standards.
WASTE DIVERSION towards emissions reductions.
Diverting waste from landfill has been a key environmental focus for our UK business A number of initiatives have been introduced Our dedication to robust environmental over the past three years.
A combination of encouragement and training in this area during the year to reduce our greenhouse principles, policies and procedures has has led to significant engagement from our colleagues and we have become one of our gas emissions.
These include: meant that we have maintained ISO 14001 waste management partners best performers in this area.
accreditation in both the UK and Spain.
UK and Ireland | Widening the roll out of LED lighting following a successful trial in one DIVERSION RATE FROM LANDFILL geographical area: | Trialling heating controls to reduce energy usage: and 99% | Continuing to increase diversion rates 87% 85% from landfill.
