Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Sustainability Our commitment Halma companies are involved in to ensure that wehave the right Health and safety themanufacture of a wide rangeof capabilities and best talent to Our commitment to safeguarding the products thatprotect and improve the matchHalmas growth ambition.
health and safety of our employees quality of life for people worldwide.
while at work is demonstrated by our This section of the Report focuses We support the concept of culture of safety and our excellent onareas of progress and our sustainability andrecognise that, health and safety record.
performance for allareas of incommon with all businesses, our sustainability which are considered to activities have an environmental be material by our stakeholders and impact.
Our strategy is not tohave Corporate responsibility and are also important to the success of capital-intensive manufacturing sustainability our business.
Halmahas developed processes and to operate close to our Our commitment to managing our meaningful key performance endmarkets in terms of geography, business activities in a sustainable indicators KPIs that reflect the sothe environmental impact of our way and minimising the environmental importance that the Group places on operations is relatively low compared impact is evidenced by our sustainability and enables the Board to manufacturers in other sectors.
performance against the Groups to monitor the Groups progress Wealso recognise that we can carbon reduction target.
inmeeting its objectives and improve our own environmental responsibilities in these areas.
performance and so resources are TheGroup's non-financial KPIs deployed to actively reduce our own Human rights and ethics aresetout on pages 18 and 19. carbon footprint.
Our commitment to respecting human rights and operating in an ethical way The areas of emphasis include health The Environment is embedded throughout our Group andsafety, employee engagement and We have an excellent long-term record and underpins the way that we work.
development, human rights, ethics and and aclear strategy for addressing sustainability.
Safety is critical to the environmental issues that affect Group and is a major priority.
We ourbusinesses and fordeveloping recognise the necessity of safeguarding products that protect the environment the health and safety of our own and improve safety at work andin employees while at work and operate public places.
so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for employees, Our products visitors and the public.
Our policy is to Many of our innovative products play manage our activities to avoid causing a very positive role in monitoring and any unnecessary or unacceptable improving the environment.
Halma risksto health and safety and the brands lead the world inanumber environment.
Halma has an excellent oftechnologies which help to minimise health and safety record and a culture environmental damage.
Our principal of safety is deeply embedded within environmental technologies are the Group.
waterleakage detection and wireless monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, Our core values are Achievement, water and effluent analysis, UV Innovation, Empowerment watertreatment and optical sensing.
andCustomer satisfaction, and We promote the use of UV water ourculture is one of openness, sterilisation which eliminates the integrity and accountability.
needto use dangerous chemicals, Weencourage our employees to aswell as making products that actfairly intheir dealings with minimise the waste ofclean water.
fellowemployees, customers, suppliersand business partners.
We recognise that our employees determine our success andwe continue to invest in, andencourage further development of, our employees each year, not only utilising the suite ofHalma development programmes, but also by providing clear leadership and decisive action.
Jennifer Ward, our Group Talent and Communications Director, champions our talent leadership and works with our teams 56 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our commitment to the development use of materials in order to minimise CO e emissions of equipment for measuring and their environmental impact.
2 tonnes m of revenue monitoring environmental changes and controlling the damaging impact The Group has identified its 50 of industrial activities is longterm.
keyenvironmental impacts as 51 48 Weare the major world supplier emissionstoair and water, water 40 inseveral of these areas.
In addition to the 39 37 Our impact information set out in this section of 36 30 The environmental effect of our the Report, wepublish data annually 31 operations isrelatively low compared onenergy consumption, waste and 27 20 to manufacturers inother sectors.
Our transportation on our website.
manufacturing model isdecentralised, permitting our operations tobelocated We support innovation and investment 10 close to their customers, which helps that drives environmental usto minimise the impact on the performance.
The ethos of being closeto our customers reflects the Apollo China, BEA, Fiberguide and 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 importance we place on the quality Perma Pure replacing lighting Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, ofour products and the service levels installations with more energy the2013 14 figures onward have been calculated to include Well to Tank WTT emissions and we provide to our customers.
It also efficient LED lamps Radiative Forcing on air travel.
It is not required makes our operations more flexible Keeler replacing their ageing torestate years prior to 2013 14 due to the methodological changes.
andresponsive to their markets and oilboilers with more efficient The figures for 2013 14 onwards have also been customers.
With operations spread gasboilers calculated on the same basis as prior years excluding Well to Tank WTT emissions and around the globe, our supplier base Medicel recovering heat from Radiative Forcing on air travel to allow for a isunderstandably fragmented.
machinery connected to cooling direct comparison over the longer time scale.
Therefore, responsibility for vetting circuits and utilisingit for heating andmanaging suppliers is devolved portfolio of companies and sales tolocal management while meeting Opportunities are also being explored revenue although we did achieve an the Groups ethical standards.
by some businesses to expand existing absolute reduction in 2015 16.
The solar installations or switch to green Group set a target of reducing its total Environmental Management energy suppliers.
carbon emissions relative to revenues System EMS by 10% over the three years from We are committed to developing and Carbon Footprint March 2010, which was met in March implementing an EMS throughout The Groups policy on carbon is 2013.
The same target was set for the theGroupto measure, control and published onour website and has been three yearperiod to March 2016 and reduce our environmental impacts.
distributed to all Halma businesses.
The Board Wehave developed performance Asenior executive in each of ourhigher setafurther target to reduce total indicators that assist local impact businesses is responsible carbon emissions relative to revenues management in implementing the forimplementing the carbon policy at by a further 10% for the period to policy and ultimately developing locallevel.
Our Finance Director, Kevin March 2019.
Our CO emissions reduced 2 anEMS.
All Group companies are Thompson, hasprincipal responsibility between 2016 and 2017 on an intensity encouraged to undertake ISO 14001 for co-ordinating and monitoring basis by 10%, although the impact accreditation, where warranted.
ofcurrency movements over the requirement toimplement an EMS will periodhas distorted our underlying be extended to the rest of the Group We are committed to reducing our performance.
On a constant currency in the medium term.
The Board recognises basis, the reduction between 2016 that a growing international business and2017 has been around 3%.
We will Group companies are also encouraged such as Halma would struggle to continue to report on our performance to improve energy efficiency, to reduce reduce absolute CO emissions year- 2 against our 2019 target each year.
waste and emissions and reduce the on-year as it acquires and grows its GHG emissions data for the period 2 April 2016 to 1 April 2017 2016 17 2015 16 CO e emissions CO e emissions 2 2 global tonnes global tonnes Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,568 3,955 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 14,458 15,083 Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT Well to Tank 16,512 13,883 Total gross emissions 35,628 32,921 Intensity measure of tonnes of CO e gross emissions per m revenue 37.0 40.8 2 57 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 emissions from manufacturing sites independent health and safety Sustainability and offices which we do notown and reviewcarried out every three years, control, andemissions considered with a view to ensuring a consistent Our commitment non-material by thebusiness.
We have approach in the quality of reporting, continued reported on emissions from Scope 1 adherence to internal processes and and 2 emissions sources with some procedures, adequate reporting and Scope 3 emissions sources included investigation and to further promote Since 2010, Halma has worked with business air travel for all years, and ourhealthand safety culture.
external providers of energy efficiency Well toTank emissions from 2013 14. and carbon reduction solutions to The health and safety performance ensure compliance with the Carbon We have also used the GHG remains above our target to match Reduction Commitment Energy ProtocolCorporate Accounting and ourlowest ever recorded Accident Efficiency Scheme CRC which is Reporting Standard revised edition Frequency Rate of 0.09 in 2014.
Aswe theUK's mandatory energy savings and guidance provided by the UKs strive to have zero accidents in our scheme administered by the Department for Environment, Food businesses, we thoroughly review the Environment Agency.
We are in &Rural Affairs Defra onvoluntary root cause of any accidents to ensure fullcompliance with the CRC and mandatory carbon reporting.
that we take preventative measures, requirements and will continue to Emission factors were used from the including further training and purchase allowances to meet our UK Governments GHG Conversion education of our employees.
During compliance obligation until the Factors for Company Reporting 2016.
2017, we are rolling out a programme schemecomes to an end in 2019.
In addition, IEA 2016 factors were of online health & safety training with used for electricity.
mandatory and optional modules Halma has complied with the Energy being offered to all employees across Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS TheGroups environmental the Group.
Topics being covered regulations andsubmitted its first performance will continue to be include: compliance report to the Environment reported both in our Annual Report health & safety at work Agency in November 2015.
Observations and Accounts and on our website.
Control of Substances Hazardous made following site energy surveys were to Health COSHH awareness shared with local management and Health and Safety display screen equipment & reviewed centrally at Group level.
The Halma companies are involved in workstation safety next four-year compliance period to themanufacture of a wide range repetitive strain injury 5 December 2019 has commenced and ofproducts thatprotect and slips trips and falls the Group will repeat the exercise of improvethe quality of life forpeople manual handling identifying energy saving opportunities worldwide.
Therefore, safety is critical working with hazardous substances over this period.
to the Group and is a major priority formanagement and to demonstrate Given the autonomous structure of The Group does not operate a fleet the Groups added emphasis on health the Group, operational responsibility ofdistribution vehicles although there and safety.
The Board has endorsed for compliance with relevant local are a number of company cars.
To the inclusion of the Groups Accident health and safety regulations resides support the Groups commitment to Frequency Rate AFR as one of our with the board ofeach operating sustainability, our policy, which is non-financial KPIs on pages 18 and 19. company.
However, the Halma plc subject toregular review, operates a Board sets the tone and minimum cap on permissible CO emissions for 2 The Group manages its activities standards expected of companies, all company-owned vehicles and toavoid causing any unnecessary inaddition toits role in monitoring vehicles used by employees who have orunacceptable risks to the health health and safetyperformance.
taken a cash allowance in lieu of a and safety of our employees inthe company car.
workplace or to the public as a result Kevin Thompson, Finance Director, of our activities.
Health and safety isthe director responsible forHalmas We comply with the mandatory performance is closely monitored health and safety compliance and he carbon reporting requirements which toensure that adequate processes, isprovided withsufficient information UK listedcompanies are subject toand procedures and reporting are to routinely monitorhealth and safety have reported on all of the emission inplace, and operating, to ensure performance across the Group.
sources required under theCompanies asafe working environment for Act 2006 Strategic Report and our employees andvisitors to our sites.
We are pleased to report that there Directors Reports Regulations 2013. werenowork-related fatalities in Halma has an excellent health and 2016 17 orprior years.
We have employed the Operation safety record and a culture of safety Control definition to outline isdeeply embedded within the Group.
ourcarbon footprint boundary: Health and safety performance is included within that boundary regularly reviewed at multiple levels areScope 1 and 2 emissions from within the Group at subsidiary manufacturing sites and offices boardlevel, at sector level and whichwe own and operate.
Excluded by the Halma Board.
Each Group from our footprint boundary are company is required to have an Injuries recorded 2017 2016 2015 2014 Days lost due to reportable work-related injuries 236 464 546 118 Total recorded injuries to all employees 314 342 298 323 Specified major injury incidents are reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
58 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Ethics Anti-bribery and corruption toforced labour, child labour, nonThe Group's culture is one of openness, Halma has a zero-tolerance policy discrimination, freedom of association integrity and accountability.
Halma onbribery and corruption which and right to collective bargaining.
requires its employees to act fairly in extends to all business dealings and Wedo not tolerate practices which their dealings with fellow employees, transactions in which we are involved.
contravene these international customers, suppliers and business This includes a prohibition on making standards.
Halma has a Code of Conduct political donations, offering or uponus vary considerably around which applies to all Group company receiving inappropriate gifts or theworld, so Halma establishes the employees and our external business making undue payments to influence core structure to ensure that Group partners.
The Code of Conduct aims the outcome of business dealings.
Our companies fully comply with legislative toensure that Halma maintains robust policy and guidance in this area and regulatory requirements while consistently high ethical standards is routinely reviewed and compliance permitting them to tailor their across the globe, while recognising that with the policy is checked as part of approach to their particular needs.
our businesses operate in markets and the half-year and year-end process.
countries with cultural differences and Compliance with, and respect for, practices.
Our Code of Conduct is being During 2017, we are rolling out antithese core requirements are updated for 2017 and, once it has been bribery and corruption training to integrated within our organisation.
translated into a variety of languages, senior management across the Group.
Everyone working for Halma is will be issued to all employees via our responsible for having due regard businesses and will be published on Responsible investment forhuman rights.
Investing in Halma shares meets supervisors must provide leadership thecriteria of many professional that promotes human rights as an Whistleblowing andprivate investors who base equal priority to other business issues.
We require our employees and business theirdecisions on environmental, All employees are responsible for partners to maintain the highest ethical and social considerations.
ensuring that their own actions do not standards of integrity and act in good TheGroup is a world leader in several impair the human rights of others, and faith.
Halma implemented a groupkey environmental technologies and are encouraged to bring forward, in wide whistleblowing policy in 2017 has a reputation for honesty and confidence, any concerns they may which applies to all employees integrity in its relationships with have about human rights.
Our Chief andHalma operations including newly employees, customers, business Executive, Andrew Williams, has acquired businesses and to joint partners and shareholders.
overall responsibility for ensuring venture partners, suppliers, customers thathuman rights considerations are and distributors relating to our Halma has been a member of the integral to the way in which existing businesses.
While we encourage an FTSE4Good UK index since its operations and new opportunities open culture whereby any issues can be establishment in July 2001.
raised and handled locally at business Halma participated in CDPsClimate level, we recognise that there will be Change Questionnaire, which assesses Modern Slavery Act times when it is notappropriate, or a how companies are incorporating Halma published its first Modern person will not be comfortable, raising sustainability into their business Slavery Act Statement in September a concern through line management.
strategy and practices, and achieved a 2016.
Since the introduction of An independent third party provider, score of Awareness C. Itisour theAct, we have worked to raise Expolink, has been appointed to intention to participate in CDPs 2017 awareness of this important agenda.
operate a confidential reporting service Questionnaire.
During the year, a guidance note was which enables employees to raise any prepared and sent to all businesses concerns they may have in confidence Social conditions can be improved raising awareness of the Act and the and, if they wish, anonymously via the forall through the creation of wealth.
issue of modern slavery in business telephone or by web-reporting.
All Halma creates wealth responsibly and supply chains.
Each business was reports are treated confidentially and allowing our employees, customers, requested to consider the potential are provided to the Group Company business partners and shareholders issue of modern slavery and human Secretary for review and to ensure that todetermine where this wealth is trafficking within their business and they are appropriately investigated bestdistributed.
In addition, we are rolling andconcluded.
Halma is committed to outModern Slavery Acttraining to ensuring that anyone raising a concern Human rights senior management across the Group in good faith is notsubject to any Halmas Human Rights and Labour during 2017 18 to ensure that our victimisation or detrimental treatment, Conditions Policy reflects the core business management understand although a malicious allegation may requirements of the Universal their responsibilities and consider the result in disciplinary action.
Declaration of Human Rights and Act in their operations.
theILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, TheGroup willpublish its next annual including the conventions relating Modern SlaveryAct Statement forthis year inSeptember 2017.
