Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our people Autonomy.
Our sustained, high level of performance has been achieved through the commitment, innovation and excellence of our people.
The strategic development of leaders across Halma is thereforecritical to ourlong-term success.
Jennifer Ward Group Talent and  Total number of employees 5,811 Employee engagement 74% HPD Executive 305 HPD Management 671 4 26 2,342 Gender diversity Figures as at 1 April 2017 Male Board of Senior Other Female 1 2 Directors management employees 1 Includes non-executive Directors of the Company 6 194 3,239 2 Defined as subsidiary company directors and above 52 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Autonomy another, is something most of our By increasing the diversity and inclusion We believe in empowerment.
Our competitors simply do not have.
of our workforce and leveraging the decentralised management structure Through collaboration and sharing insights of our diverse talent through allows local managers to be best practice we continue to deliver an inclusive environment, we enhance autonomous and responsible for market-leading innovations that our ability to compete in the worlds making timely decisions in the best create benefits for our customers.
Halma Ourefforts are directed towards supports personal and professional Our biennial HITEx Halma Innovation, developing policies and actions which development through a range of Technology and Experimentation support our long-term aims, as well as training programmes.
These Conference was held recently in San establishing appropriate measurable programmes aim to enable and Diego, California.
We believe the former evolves prepare leaders to continue to together the leadership teams of all into being embedded into corporate growtheir businesses regardless Halma operating companies and culture more readily.
provided an inspiring look at the Thevalue of this investment is shown potential future of Halma and the role As part of our Diversity and Inclusion both in our financial performance that each of them can play in realising Initiative, we have a new programme, andsuccession planning.
Company leaders came together to which encourages our operating ofthe members on our Executive learn from one another, identify ways companies to review the diversity Board have been promoted from to collaborate, share technologies or oftheir directors.
simply learn from others experience.
decide that they need greater diversity We believe that this combination of to enhance their discussions and Achievement empowered business leaders, who also decision making, they now invite Halma employees are highly motivated have access to peer companies and amember of staff to join board by the impact that they directly have thought leaders to accelerate their meetings as co-opted board on the performance of their business, performance, is uniqueto Halma members.
Co-opted board members and most importantly, the impact they andakey part of ourcurrent and are chosen for their ability to make have on the world.
We strive each day futuresuccess.
avaluable contribution to board to protect life and improve the quality discussions.
Their participation is of life of people worldwide.
Our culture Diversity and inclusion entirely voluntary and they have no of achievement is not driven by We see diversity and inclusiveness as legal responsibilities.
They usually personal egos but by a relentless an essential part of our productivity, contribute to board discussions for ambition to solve life critical problems.
creativity, innovation and competitive ayear and then another employee We invest a lot of time finding and advantage.
It is the foundation of a isinvited to fill the role.
developing the right people who have performance culture that promotes the initiative, knowledge and respect, understanding and leadership qualities tomake such a appreciation of different perspectives, difference.
To unleash their potential, we provide them with: HITEx Igniting an Innovation Culture the opportunity to make a difference our products make the world a safer and healthier place an entrepreneurial business opportunity a portfolio of cutting edge technologies and the ability to addmore in-house training for personal andprofessional development international career development opportunities performance-linked rewards the opportunity to learn from peerstackling similar challenges an environment in which success breeds success Innovation We are committed to innovation and We held our biennial Innovation canbenefit from at Halma both customer satisfaction.
Creating and focused event in San Diego, asindividuals and as businesses.
developing new products and new California over three days in ways of working gives us a competitive April 2017.
Thegoal for HITEx 2017 In changing the HITE name from edge, while delivering solutions to was to launch a new spirit for meaning the Halma Innovation some of the worlds major problems innovation and collaboration, and andTechnology Exposition to insafety, health and the environment.
tobe the start of us creating a living, HalmaInnovation, Technology learning community across Halma.
andExperimentation HITEx, We encourage the sharing of wesignified theshift in our focus knowledge and technology throughout Collaboration has always been a toward seeingmore, excluding Halma.
This ability to transfer statefocus of HITE and it is one of the lessand innovating with speed.
of-the-art technology from company powerful differentiators that we to company, from one sector to 53 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our people Grads learn, companies benefit continued Geographic diversity As our businesses continue to expand globally, it is imperative that the insights and perspectives of local markets be represented on our leadership teams.
Several Group initiatives have been implemented to support and encourage our operating companies to put leaders on the ground in key markets.
We have well-established Halma hubs in China and India and have expanded into Brazil as well.
The China hub hasintroduced innovative R&D programmes to incentivise local product development for local markets.
The class of 2015 Halma Graduates Finishing up the module, the We continue to seek ways to ensure had an opportunity not just for graduate group collated all theyd themto learn but to get some real, explored, learned and researched, that local leadership is contributing tothe global business strategies.
valuable work done on behalf of and presented to the Texecom board aHalma company, Texecom.
on the topic, suggesting several Diversity and inclusion policy potential routes to market and Initially the group were led through evena couple of product concepts.
At Halma we recognise that the diversity of the people in our business market scoring tools and how to and the inclusion of all enriches our explore market attractiveness.
They Texecom believes that running products, performance and the lives then applied these to 5 potentially experiments like this with the grads ofour employees.
We believe that transformational opportunities for will become a key part of Halmas thediversity of our workforce Texecom.
The group participated in a future growth, and having contributes significantly to our workshop on building business model ambassadors within the aimtoprotect and improve the and value proposition canvasses.
graduatecohorts will qualityof life for people worldwide.
Aseries of market sensing exercises helptospreadthe message.
followed getting real input from We are building a culture that potential stakeholders in the new encourages talented people of all business market.
backgrounds, beliefs or any form ofpersonal identity to be involved, Talent development The following courses are offered respected and inspired to develop We offer challenging personal inChina, the USA andEurope: totheir full potential.
development programmes to raise thequality of leadership throughout Innovating the Organisation Employee engagement survey Halma.
Our development programmes developing ability atManaging In 2017, we launched our first allare designed to promote personal Director and Sector Vice President employee engagement survey.
The growth, enhance leadership and level to innovate across all aspects insights provided by this survey will relationship skills.
They also offer the of the business help us to ensure that we motivate, chancefor employees from diverse Talent Mindset ensuring the engage and empower employees Halma companies to come together Group andcompany leaders have across Halma and create the culture and learn fromeach other.
the capability to maximise the that will enable our success.
Overall quality of talent on their teams we were very pleased with the results, Our objective is to provide these HPD Executive focusing on the with nearly 8 out of 10 Halma individuals with the tools and training leadership skills needed at board employees providing their feedback they need to achieve more in their level inour operating companies and 74% of them reporting to be existing role and potentially to HPD Management personal highly engaged.
We were able to advance through the organisation development, enhancing selfidentify areas of best practice in the iftheir achievements merit it.
awareness and teamwork skills group to leverage and learn from, as formanagerial roles well as a few themes to focus our HPD Graduate our graduate attention and actions.
programme recruiting and developing the next generation of leaders and technical specialists 54 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Disabled employees Applications for employment by Diversity and Inclusion disabled people are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort will be According to an August 2014 Harvard made to ensure that their employment Business Review article, women are with the Group continues and that less likely to apply for roles unless appropriate training is arranged.
they feel they meet 100% of the job Itisthe policy of the Group that the requirements.
When Mike asked Jo training, career development and why she didnt initially apply for the promotion of disabled people should, MD role, she shared: as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
It was my confidence in believing I was ready for that next step up to Employees consultation MD.
I was really fortunate in feeling The Group places considerable value so supported by Mike and the Halma on the involvement of its employees leadership team.
During the time as and has continued to keep them acting MD I was able to get involved informed on matters affecting them in every area of the business and in as employees and on the various doing so I felt more and more factors affecting the performance confident in the value I was adding ofthe Group.
This is achieved as a leader.
I enjoyed the additional throughformal and informal responsibility and realised I would meetings, internal communications, miss the additional challenges.
Mike the Group collaboration platform also worked with me to ensure I andourAnnual Report.
could commit to the role without having to compromise on work-life Employee representatives are balance, so that my family We are committed to ensuring our consulted routinely on a wide range commitments can be managed best people can thrive at Halma, ofmatters affecting their current without having to compromise on including enabling female leaders andfuture interests.
The final and most who might otherwise exclude important factor in building my themselves from consideration for Cumulative number of candidates confidence was the support and promotions and new challenges.
thathave completed each programme backing I received from the other board members and wider Fortress Such was the case when one of our HPD Executive team they actively encouraged me company Managing Director roles to take on the role and I knew that I 400 was vacated, and remained so for had earned their trust and respect the best part of the year.
In the to become their leader.
interim, Jo Smith, finance director, pictured above had stepped up to 300 Halma encourages diversity and lead the team in the void.
She 305 inclusivity, and the benefits that proved her ability to influence, 278 263 come from considering different create momentum and keep the 200 235 perspectives.
We strive to work 221 team aligned.
Mike Dakin, the withall individuals to bring their companys Chairman and SVP, best to work every day.
noticed that Jo was the right person 100 for the business and the team and over time, convinced her of that!
