Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business Review Environmental & Analysis Our Environmental & Analysis sector makes products and technologies that improve the quality and efficient use of critical resources.
Chuck Dubois Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis The areas in which we operate Revenue % of Group Profit % of sector total Spectroscopy and Photonics We create world-class spectrometers and spectral imaging systems that are used to determine the nature of a target.
Our products are used to both transport and characterise light.
23% 20% Water analysis and treatment We help the world improve the quality of drinking wateras well as industrial process water.
Performance Group Environmental monitoring KPIs 2017 target Our technologies are used to 1 Revenue growth 16.0% help monitor air and water pollution, as well as to 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 3.5% 5% ensurethat water networks 1 Profit growth 20.8% operate efficiently.
1 Organic profit growth constant currency 5.9% 5% 2 Return on Sales 19.0% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 6.9% 4% Contribution to Group m 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 219 189 164 167 152 Profit 42 34 27 32 30 4 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior yearfigures.
4 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets, reorganisation costs and acquisition items see note 1 to theAccounts.
48 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sector progress summary Market trends and growth drivers used as an indicator of the presence The Environmental & Analysis sectors ofall potential pathogens in surface The Environmental & Analysis sector achieved record results with good long-term growth is sustained by three waters.
This is especially important in key drivers: developing countries and rural areas.
organic revenue and profit growth, continuing the progress made last year.
Itis estimated that severe pathogen rising demand for life-critical pollution affects around one third of resources such as energy, water Global emphasis on climate change all river stretches in Africa, Asia and andfood Latin America, putting the health of and pollution monitoring continues increasing environmental tostrengthen the position of our millions of people at risk.
monitoring and regulations environmental applications.
We grew worldwide population growth, significantly in emerging markets, Population growth has outpaced urbanisation and rising standards particularly in the Asia Pacific region, gainsin sanitation and drinking water of living led by environmental monitoring coverage, especially in urban areas.
Our water businesses Only 26% of urban sanitation and Globally, water demand is predicted to had a successful year with a strong wastewater services effectively prevent increase significantly over the coming performance in North America.
human contact with contaminants decades in all sectors from agriculture Ourphotonics businesses continued along the entire sanitation chain.
Our and industry to energy production.
tofindnew applications in a variety water testing systems help identify the Accelerated urbanisation and the ofdiversified markets and industries.
contaminants in these water networks, expansion of municipal water supply while our UV systems disinfect drinking and sanitation systems, particularly in The acquisition of FluxData and waste water in major cities around developing regions, also contribute to strengthened our technological the world as well as being the primary the rising demand.
At the same time, capabilities, greatly increasing the method of disinfection for many limited water resources are increasingly number of opportunities for the bottled water plants.
stressed by over abstraction, pollution sectorin spectral imaging and sensing.
Outdoor air pollution is a major We completed the restructuring environmental health risk affecting Two thirds of the worlds population ofourphotonics coating business, everyone in developing and developed currently live in areas that experience Pixelteq, by transferring key countries alike.
In 2014, 92% of the water scarcity for at least one month technologies and assets into Ocean world population lived in places where a year.
About 500 million people live Optics, while OceanOptics Asia was the World Health Organization air inareas where water consumption folded back into the Ocean group quality guidelines levels were not met, exceeds the locally renewable water under a strong leadership team and and ambient air quality outdoor air resources by a factor of two.
We expect to pollution in both cities and rural areas products monitor surface, municipal see the benefits of this restructuring was estimated to cause three million and waste water conditions, helping in thecoming financial year.
For improve water conservation both in example, in China only25 of 190 cities developing and developed countries.
studied could meet the countrys National AmbientAir Quality Water quality testing applications use Standards.
our products to assess the presence of faecal coliforms, which originate from human and animal excreta, and are 49 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 applications.
Process spectroscopy We continue to grow well in the Business Review isforecasted to grow at6% annually developed countries.
While growth in until 2020, but some ofthe newer pollution monitoring in some regions Environmental technologies that we employ such might not be as significant as in the & Analysis asRaman spectroscopy and spectral emerging markets, there are other imaging are forecast to grow at niches that we continue to serve continued evenfaster rates.
Performance in the USA was We provide systems that assist in the Geographic trends particularly strong this year, as our precise detection of contaminants as We sell into a wide variety of diverse lifescience and research products well as other products that aid in the market niches.
These niches exhibit continued to grow sales, as did some calibration of pollution monitoring different characteristics thatvary ofour water monitoring businesses.
Further, our gas according to each specific countrys Designing products in, and for, emerging conditioning equipment is ideally requirements, their economy and markets is important to our growth, suited for stack emission monitoring theirregulatory environment.
although we continue to develop of gases such as SO and NO as well 2 x products for our core markets too.
as for measuring the fine particles th The China National 13 Five-Year Plan is PM which are believed to be 2.5 having a profound impact on the Strategy thegreatest risk to health.
These environmental landscape of China.
Our products improve the quality applications are also beginning to find Stricter compliance measures for ofair, water and food for everyone success in India, which overtook China urbanair quality, standardisation of the ontheplanet.
They enable the in air pollution levels in cities in 2015. regulations around industrial pollutant development and manufacture of emissions and ultra-low emissions of products that improve our health Our recent acquisition of FluxData coal-fired power plants are all aimed at andwell-being.
Our growth strategy hasstrengthened our position in improving the quality of air, especially centres on market-led new product spectroscopy and spectral specific inurban areas.
Similarly, other control development, geographic expansion imaging.
By looking at specific plans are being enacted for water and and collaboration between the spectral bands, they provide much soil pollution.
For example, there is companies in the sector.
Through this more information in far less timethan continued emphasis on improving rural we will enhance our ability to help traditional methods, thus allowing for access to clean water and improving solve the problems our world faces.
higher efficiency and decreased waste.
the water distribution network and wastewater treatment.
We continue to seek, foster and invest Applications include inspection during for growth in emerging markets.
industrial processes including the In India, emissions monitoring and Revenue from countries outside the production of food and beverages, concerns over air pollution are UK, the USA and Europe has grown pharmaceuticals and agriculture.
The increasing and we have designed 55%in the past five years, as we have non-invasive nature of the technology products that specifically address the captured larger opportunities thanks is also best suited for security needs ofthis market.
We expect that to more stringent regulations driven applications such asdetection of stronger water monitoring protocols are by a demand for environmental explosive or hazardous chemicals, next.
We are ready to supply products protection, safer food and water, non-invasive medical diagnostics, and suited totheir needs, benefiting from andbetter health and sanitation.
environmental and remote sensing ourexperience in China.
Water stress forecast ratio of withdrawals to supply, 2040 Low 10% Low Medium 10%20% Medium High 20%40% High 40%80% Extremely High 80% Source: World Resources Institute 50 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Most of our companies provide This year, and following the geographic United Nations sanitation facts sensors that are a data collection consolidation of our photonics point.
Data availability coatings business Pixelteq in hasdramatically changed in the last 2014 15, we transferred its core few years, and our companies are technology and assets to Ocean increasing their efforts in exploring Optics.
This restructuring benefited new ways to capture, manage, the sectors full year adjusted profit manipulate and utilise data.
by0.5m in 2016 17 and will also add 1.5m in 2017 18, while simultaneously Talent management and development improving key returns metrics.
This 783m has been a major contributor to the restructuring resulted in exceptional continued success of the sector.
The costs amounting to 1.9m, which are people do not have access introduction of a Sector Talent Director included within the adjustments to tocleanwater has supported our sector-level initiative theIncome Statement.
to achieve stronger and more diverse company boards across the sector.
The acquisition of FluxData during theyear opens up many new growth We are targeting acquisitions in opportunities.
Prior to joining Halma, segments that tie to our existing FluxData worked with two of our technologies and or market knowledge, existing businesses and we expect have good long-term growth drivers that number to rise as they become and defensible positions through fully integrated.
people worldwide lack Forexample, our most recent Outlook proper sanitation acquisition, FluxData, extends our Global population growth, population spectroscopic capability into spectral ageing and increasing standards of imaging to provide more valuable living will continue to drive demand information to our customers.
forbasic energy resources, cleaner air, safer water and food, and Performance improved health.
Our products and The sector grew revenue by 16% companies are well-positioned to 1,000 to219m 2016: 189m and profit continue to take advantage of these by21% to 42m 2016: 34m.
At long-term growthdrivers both in children die every day due to constant currency, organic revenue developing anddeveloped countries.
preventable water and sanitationgrowth was 4% andorganic profit related diarrhoeal diseases growth was 6%.
Return on Sales We will continue to improve improved to 19.0% 2016: 18.3% and collaboration between our sector was within the Group target range.
companies interms of technology, 1.8bn processes, andsales and marketing, people are using a source of drinking toimproveefficiency, innovation andperformance.
water thatisfecally contaminated Our acquisition pipeline is growing Source: United Nations andwe expect to add complementary businesses in the coming years.
Case study Intelligent water monitoring for Smart Village project in India Water is not just needed for Although population trends are still drinking, but is vital for all kinds moving from rural areas towards offood production.
Sensorex cities, we are also seeing the ishelpinga pioneering 'Smart 'urbanisation' of rural areas Village' in India maintain its water bringing modern technology and quality and improve the efficiency, infrastructure to smaller and more yield and reliability of its shrimp remote locations as the connected farming industry.
world becomes more portable, scalable and accessible.
The aim of the project is to see how the integration of connected, digital Our expertise in water quality technology can help the over 3 billion monitoring, as well as data capture people who still live in rural and digital connected technologies, communities worldwide.
positions us well to help make this future a reality.
