12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE OUR BUSINESS MODEL We create long-term value through the eff ective use of our resources and OUR RESOURCES & RELATIONSHIPS relationships.
We manage these in line with our core values of Inspiration, Innovation, Integrity and In Touch.
FINANCIAL Generating returns for our stakeholders These values in uence how we behave through eff ective management of our financial resources and they run through everything we do they make the M&S diff erence: making every moment special through OUR PRODUCTS & CHANNELS the products and services we off er our Maintaining our channels and supply chain infrastructure to meet customers in the UK and internationally.
customer demand OUR INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL Strengthening our brand through creation and protection of our intellectual property THE M&S DIFFERENCE 1 LISTEN & RESPOND 2 STRATEGY & PLANNING 3 DEVELOP & DESIGN Activities: Our customers are at the heart Activities: Effi cient implementation of our Activities: By fostering talent and of everything we do, and our strategy strategy is key.
This year, changes to our encouraging entrepreneurialism among today is more customer-focused than ever organisational structure saw us streamline our people, we can continue to develop before.
By understanding what drives their our senior management team and bring high quality products for our customers.
behaviour, both within M&S and externally, each channels merchandising operations Our product developers are experts in their we can ensure we work to deliver the together, increasing effi ciency.
We also elds, whether they are food technologists products and experiences that customers revised our operating model, which will or experienced tailors.
This year we strengthened the data give our two business units Clothing & sets us apart and with talent ranging from and analytics team within our Customer Home and Food clear pro t and loss Michelin-trained chefs to Masters of Wine, Insight Unit CIU, which gathers and accountability.
Through our Smarter our Food team is among the best in the interprets customer data, as well as a Working programme, we created a new business.
We now design 68% of our wealth of external sources.
The CIU then technology hub which will roll-out clothing ranges in-house and buy our ensures that its insights are used across signi cant technology improvements clothes by product category rather than our business units.
Through the CIU, we can to increase our digital savviness across sub-brand.
understand each customers needs and the business.
Outcome: The talent in our Food team relationship with M&S wherever and Outcome: Successfully implementing our underpins the innovation that our however they shop.
strategy allows us to improve our financial customers love.
By developing and Outcome: By listening to customers and performance through increased pro ts designing clothing in-house, we have responding to what they tell us, we can and strengthened cash ow.
reduced product proliferation, designed create products and shopping experiences ranges characterised by a more consistent that are relevant to them.
colour palette and re ned our quality through improved t, upgraded fabric and better nishes.
G N I N N B A R L A P N D & Y & G S E E T L A L R T S S O D U N R O C P E S E & R B U & Y N E T S I L D 13 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 FIND OUT MORE Read about how our business model creates value on p14-15 Read about how our business model works on p16-17 OUR RESOURCES & RELATIONSHIPS PLAN A OUR PEOPLE INSPIRATION Aim to excite and Developing our employees inspire our customers and their knowledge Core purpose OUR STAKEHOLDERS IN TOUCH INNOVATION MAKING Listen actively Aim to improve Building and nurturing relationships with EVERY MOMENT and act things for the our customers and suppliers, and in the SPECIAL thoughtfully better communities in which we operate NATURAL RESOURCES INTEGRITY Strive to do Sourcing responsibly and using the right thing natural resources effi ciently PLAN A 4 SOURCE & BUY 5 BRAND & SELL 6 SERVE & ENGAGE Activities: A strong, ethical supply chain is Activities: We constantly evolve how we sell Activities: We build on our privileged position crucial in creating sustainable value.
We work our products to suit customers changing of trust among customers with high levels with our suppliers to ensure continuous lifestyles.
Customers today are increasingly of service.
This year our Making Every Moment social and environmental improvement, looking for deeper engagement with brands: Special employee engagement initiative whether it relates to sourcing cotton or they want richer and more meaningful saw 70,000 store colleagues receive training shing more sustainably.
They want moments that matter.
in giving better customer service and to being more transparent about our supply We therefore work across departments making the shopping experience eff ortless chains, and our interactive Supplier Map and channels to create great customer for customers.
In understanding our details all the clothing, home, beauty and experiences.
For example, our stores are now customers better, we can become more food factories that supply M&S.
All 3,000 of laid out in product areas, more aligned with relevant more often.
We also serve and our suppliers must adhere to our Global M&S.
com is evolving from a engage with our customers via our Sparks Sourcing Principles, which cover working purely transactional experience to a place of loyalty scheme.
Through Sparks, they share conditions and workers rights.
We comply inspiration and personalisation.
Our Spend their passions and preferences with us, with the Groceries Supply Code of Practice It Well campaign re ects the unique feeling so we can introduce new services, products GSCOP and help build global approaches that our customers have about M&S and our and channels that we know will interest to ethical sourcing through organisations high quality own-brand products.
We also serve and engage with the such as the Consumer Goods Forum.
making doing the right thing synonymous communities in which we operate.
with the M&S brand by committing to all our Outcome: An eff ective sourcing strategy Outcome: Good service and engaging with products having a Plan A story to tell by 2020. creates sustainable value by driving our customers in a way that is relevant to effi ciencies and margin improvement, Outcome: Our own brand creates value by them drives higher sales and customer while using our scale to deliver great distinguishing us from our competitors and loyalty.
This creates long-term sustainable quality at every price point.
our Plan A ambitions make sustainability value across the business.
E V E L O E P G A & G D N E E S I & G E N V R E S FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
