44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE OUR STAKEHOLDERS: HOW WE LISTEN & ENGAGE Our rich network of stakeholder relationships upholds the values on which M&S was founded.
These remain vital to building a sustainable business.
Webcasts We have been Ongoing engagement Annual Governance Event Annual perception study providing live webcasts of Members of our senior The Chairman hosts this Each year the Board receives our AGMs and preliminary management and Investor annual day of dialogue an independent report from and interim announcements Relations teams held 406 and debate between Makinson Cowell into our for over ten years.
meetings with 245 diff erent directors and the Company's major investors' views on our Annual Report and institutions during 2016. largest investors.
Accounts We go beyond our obligations to provide a holistic and engaging view of the business.
Business Involvement Group BIG Engagement with Annual General Meeting our employees is facilitated AGM Our 2016 AGM was through BIG, our network well attended and all our of elected employee proposed resolutions representatives from each Institutional Director breakfasts were passed, with votes store and business area.
Discussions between directors investors in favour ranging from and groups of employees from 90.53% to 99.99%.
all levels within the business.
SHAREHOLDERS Listening groups In early 2017 our colleagues shared their views on a range of customerfocused questions.
Your Say survey Our March 2017 employee survey Shareholder Panel showed that engagement Regular discussions was up by 3%.
between the directors and groups of private shareholders.
EMPLOYEES Quarterly Skype updates Private Our quarterly CEO CFO Performance Overview trading updates are shareholders Our annual business broadcast via Skype to our overview designed and store management teams.
written speci cally for the private shareholder.
Monthly CEO updates We have introduced a monthly CEO update to c. 50,000 employees via social media.
SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES The main purpose of building We are always looking for ways to develop The Boards engagement with the Companys up a great business should our engagement with shareholders.
This year 85,000 employees is facilitated through not be merely to make money.
we introduced our regular Shareholder our Business Involvement Group BIG, A company has its responsibilities, Panel, where a small group of private a network of 3,500 elected employee not only to shareholders but shareholders is invited to participate in representatives from across all parts of the also to the staff, the customers face-to-face discussions with members business.
Local BIG teams regularly feed of the Board and senior management.
back to National BIG, whose chairman in and the whole community in For our large institutional investors and turn represents the collective employee which it trades.
Unless it gives investor advisory rms, we continue to hold voice through regular meetings with the satisfaction, and even happiness our Annual Governance Event.
Our 2016 Chairman and CEO, plus attendance to all concerned, it will fail in event was hosted by the Chairman and at our Board.
However, employee attended by the Senior Independent engagement extends far beyond BIG: one its aims in the long term.
Director, the committee chairmen, Group example from the year was a collaborative LORD SIEFF DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF M&S, 1964 Secretary, and a senior representative exercise where we asked our store from our Plan A team.
colleagues what we all needed to do 45 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Spark Something Good Business community Over the last two years, engagement We help shape 4,000 employee and our business environment by customer volunteers have responding to government helped over 240 community and industry consultations Marks & Start Training, projects across 12 cities.
and contributing to industry work placements and Global Community discussions and events.
employment have been Programme We continue provided to thousands of to improve the lives of over disadvantaged people.
40,000 people across our global supply chain.
A PLAN A Sparks Card 5.6m Our pioneering social customers now receive and en Pl vir a o n nmen A tal tailored off ers plus sustainability programme the chance to engage continues to underpin the way with a Plan A charity we do business at M&S.
Over 2m has COMMUNITY been raised to date.
Marketing We created our 2016 Christmas With Love campaign in direct response to feedback from thousands Consumer Barometer of customers.
Each month we listen to c. 70,000 customers to create a snapshot of consumer sentiment.
Exhibitions and events Our Marks in Time exhibition Customer Insight Unit CIU and programme of events Our CIU gathers feedback brought M&Ss heritage through surveys, reviews and to life for 38,000 people focus groups to learn what during 2016 17. customers want from M&S.
CUSTOMERS C Schools programme Our award-winning programme has reached 12,000 pupils since 2012, having recently broadened its reach through videoconferencing.
M&S COMPANY ARCHIVE M&S Crunch Costs In 2016 we Partnership with University Our archCo ive sa mfp egu an ar y ds M&Ss asked all our employees how of Leeds Now in its fifth year, heritage and shares it with the Archive we could drive down costs our strategic partnership public through exhibitions and and ineffi ciencies.
We used the delivers collaborative events as well as online.
20m saved to add over 3,000 research projects and unique colleagues to our stores.
Customer Research Reminiscence work Panel Our dedicated We provide support to panel of c. 231,000 people with dementia and Making Every Moment customers gives us their carers through drop-in Special We held an extensive valuable input on sessions and the newly programme of in-store products in development.
events to nd out from our employees how we could make every moment special for our customers.
CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY diff erently to Make Every Moment Special Our Customer Insight Unit constantly 2017 marks the tenth anniversary of for our customers.
Through 75 regional gathers feedback from our customers to Plan A, our social and environmental leadership events and 1,500 events involving understand what they want from M&S.
Central to all our store employees, we found new insights are shared with the directors and Plan A is our goal of creating a positive ways to help empower our people to put are critical to informing strategy.
During impact in society and improving people's customers at the heart of the business the year, customer feedback resulted in a lives, be they employees, customers, more about this on page 8.
Engagement number of store improvements including workers in our supply chain, charity can also start in the community: Through additional staff on shop oors.
We also partners or local communities around the Marks & Start we off ered work placements engage with our customers to create world.
Find out more at marksandspencer.
to over 2,900 disadvantaged people in marketing campaigns that are relevant to com plana.
This year also marks the fifth 2016 1 7.
Over 65% of those who completed the them, such as Christmas With Love in 2016 anniversary of the M&S Company Archive, programme went on to nd work, either with and the creation of Spend It Well.
For more whose educational and social activities M&S or other employers.
For further details on customer insight and engagement, see have enriched the lives of thousands of about how we engage with our employees, Market & Customer Insights on pages 6-7 local people.
Visit the Archive's website at see 'Employee Involvement' on pages 81-82. and 'Engaging Our Customers' on page 25. marksintime.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
