0 2 2 3 4 7 22 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE OUR PEOPLE OUR PEOPLE We took action this year to simplify and employees appropriately and continue modernise our business in line with our strategy to attract the best people to serve our to put our customers at the heart of customers.
While no change is easy, these everything we do, keep things simple and were necessary actions to build a robust work as one team.
We reduced the number platform for future growth.
We are a more of roles in our UK Head Offi ce by 590 relevant and agile company as a result.
alongside moving 400 IT and Logistics roles We implemented customer-facing changes out of central London.
By increasing the number of employees a fairer, simpler and more consistent in our stores, we can better serve our approach to pay.
The changes, which took customers.
Having more people on the BE YOURSELF eff ect in April this year, saw us increase basic shop oor has had a discernible impact pay for our Customer Assistants to a level M&S has always taken employee on customer satisfaction levels and our well above the National Living Wage and wellbeing seriously.
We have an peoples engagement levels, creating move to a single approach for premium established wellbeing programme, a virtuous circle of improvement.
We also moved to a more which includes a dedicated online Your Say survey showed that employee consistent and sustainable approach to Mental Wellbeing area on our employee engagement increased again to 81%.
It also pensions for all M&S employees and closed online portal with tools and materials highlighted areas where employees want the UK fide ned bene t pension scheme to from mental health experts designed to see an improvement we learnt we future accrual.
These changes were made to support M&S employees and line need to do more to demonstrate the following an extensive consultation process managers alike in both prevention and opportunities for development and this with all employees through our National support.
We also had a series of activities will be a focus in the year ahead.
Business Involvement Group BIG, bringing inclusion and wellbeing together M&Ss network of elected employee In November, we outlined a reshaping of under Dare to Be Yourself, with a series representatives, and through town hall our UK store estate.
Although this programme of events led by our expert diversity meetings and listening groups in our stores.
is in its early stages, over the next five years partners representing gender, ethnicity, The feedback gathered in these sessions it will lead to change for some of our people.
LGBT and wellbeing looking at research, directly in uenced the outcome, which Our aim is to redeploy as many aff ected insight and views on the important link demonstrates the importance of BIG.
colleagues as possible and to create more between wellbeing and inclusion.
We now have a pay and bene ts package jobs as we continue with our Food store apprentices this year.
They will gain that is among the best in UK retail, which opening programme.
Through constant experience in diff erent parts of the business, means we can both reward our store dialogue we will keep our people informed every step of the way they will be the first including digital, and will nish the programme with a recognised quali cation.
to know of any changes that are planned.
The programme will provide the first steps Our 85,000 colleagues are the heart and to a career in retail.
At M&S we want to instil soul of M&S, and we have put in place a clear an anything is possible culture and we have strategy for our People that underpins great role models in a number of our senior our business strategy.
We want to develop team who started their careers in our stores.
and attract great talent at all levels of our A Our Marks & Start programme for people business.
We want a winning culture, a diverse and inclusive workforce, and we want a t and who face barriers getting into work went from strength to strength, helping over 2,900 exible organisation that allows our people MAKING EVERY MOMENT SPECIAL people, around half of whom were under to ourish.
By fostering talent in a structured IN OUR COMMUNITIES 25, take their first steps into work.
way at every level of M&S be that on the shop oor, in our school leaver or graduate Our people believe in doing the right No business can stand still: we are focused programmes or at more senior levels, thing, not just saying it.
Spark Something on continuous improvement and being our people can realise their full potential.
Good is M&Ss way of helping customers an agile and exible organisation that is and colleagues make a real diff erence.
Our new Retail Apprenticeship programme constantly evolving.
Our long-term growth This year, we took Spark Something Good will rely on us having talented, dedicated is a prime example of fostering talent.
to another seven cities, with over 4,000 people at our core.
Launched in May, we will take on 400 retail customers and employees volunteering on more than 240 projects.
Were also EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AS AT 1 APRIL 2017 sparking something good by working Total employees Total senior managers Total Board to beat cancer our colleagues and Female 61,340 Female 67 Female 3 Male 23,869 Male 90 Male 7 customers raised 3.2m for Macmillan Cancer Support through a series of activities such as our involvement in 157 85,209 10 the Worlds Biggest Coff ee Morning in stores across the country, and 2.8m for Breast Cancer Now.
