AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AVEVA IS COMMITTED TO SUPPORTING ITS EMPLOYEES AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD, AND THIS REPORT CONTINUES TO DEMONSTRATE THE BROAD RANGE OF ACTIVITIES AVEVA AND ITS EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATE IN.
Internal Stakeholders Engagement levels remain high and To embed and reinforce our AVEVA is a diverse organisation with we use feedback from our Global corporate policy against the employees in over 30 countries and Ambassador Network to improve and acceptance or payment of bribes, from many different cultures.
develop information that both informs we continue to enhance and and motivates our employees.
As of 31 March 2017, we have a headcount of 1,707 2016 1,706, Our Global Ambassador Network Each year, every employee completes and our male female ratio is continues to provide a channel for our the Global Corporate Governance 75% 25% 2016 75% 25%.
employees to provide feedback to the and Group IT Compliance training senior management team, and helps us to ensure that we maintain our Keeping employees informed of to gain cultural insights from the areas high ethical standards.
We review business priorities and changes in which our employees are based.
monthly operational challenges remains a primary focus within in the key regional hubs to AVEVA.
As a global organisation, it is To help our largest regions stay ensure local governance.
important that everyone feels part of informed on both corporate and AVEVA and that we share information regionally-focussed news, we operate Employee Engagement across all teams and regions.
This editorial teams to manage the Employee feedback is a priority is achieved through regular internal networks regional communications.
at AVEVA, and we are constantly communication initiatives, such These updates receive excellent seeking ways to improve the way our as people stories, successes and readership rates and feedback has employees provide feedback to both competitions, with the aims to be shown they are a great tool to support managers and our Executive team.
inclusive and to celebrate our diversity.
our employees in their roles.
In April 2017, we introduced a new Gender split External Stakeholders micro survey tool designed to Transparency and disclosure are frequently seek employee feedback Female Male fundamental to our relationships with and opinions on key topics.
Whilst 11% customers, partners and suppliers.
retaining our traditional full bi-annual survey, this tool will be a way of gaining We maintain open, honest and supplementary employee insights on a fair discussions with each of our regular basis.
Due to the nature of the Directors stakeholders to reinforce our reputation tool, managers will have instant access as a trusted and ethical organisation.
to results, and can quickly plan actions, changes or interventions as necessary.
22% To protect the interest of our customers, our expanded Anti-Piracy We have also increased the accessibility and Compliance team monitors the and visibility of the Executive team illegal use of AVEVA software and through global roadshows and Executive team enforces compliance within our terms briefings for all employees.
AVEVA continues to on specific business updates, these invest in both people and technology to sessions are an informal way for ensure compliant use of its technology.
the Executive team to meet and 25% Whilst illegal use of our software is an discuss key updates, and to answer ongoing challenge, AVEVA is becoming any questions employees may have.
much more successful in the detection Between April and June 2016, there Employees of such cases and the subsequent were 18 meet-and-greet sessions enforcement of licence terms.
held in various global locations, reaching nearly 75% of employees.
STRATEGIC REPORT 33 Our well-established learning and There have been so many highlights development programmes continue this past year but one that particularly 90% to provide a range of opportunities demonstrates our colleagues for our employees.
This includes enthusiasm for supporting the local Employee retention rate online language studies, technical communities we operate in came development and management & from our team in Hyderabad.
We also 5,000 have compliance e-learning in place In October 2016, the Hyderabad office Hours of technical training which is monitored regularly.
came together to support a local completed school, and the generosity behind Last year we saw: their actions was truly remarkable.
As 5,000 hours of online technical well as organising a very successful AVEVA Talent training PluralSight completed clothes drive, additional items To support our ambition to attract 4,688 hours of classroom training were purchased by the team for and nurture young, talented people 33 colleagues completing donation, such as brightly-coloured we continue, through our graduate management development hair clips, remembering how much and award-winning apprenticeship 42 graduates and 12 apprentices they had loved them as a child.
schemes, to encourage young start their careers with AVEVA people to start their careers with us.
An increased uptake of coaching A member of the team also In recognition of our commitment opportunities for managers at all approached a local street seller they to young talent we are on the UK levels, including the Executive team.
had frequently passed on their way to top 100 Apprentice Employer list.
work and arranged for him to come to AVEVA in the Community the school with a variety of different It is also crucial we attract students 2016 17 has been a very active year items so the children could be given from Science, Technology, Engineering for Corporate Social Responsibility something that fitted them.
Nearly and Mathematics STEM subjects as at AVEVA, with colleagues from 50 new dresses were purchased that early as possible both through our across the globe taking time out to day which will have made a huge work experience and membership support a variety of local, national boost to the street sellers income.
of specific science and engineering and international causes.
groups, including the BCS and the There was also a more serious Engineering Development Trust.
AVEVA At AVEVA we encourage and celebrate side to the visit, with the team was also present at the Big Bang Fair, our employees charitable efforts, spending some time teaching where over 100,000 attendees came and share exceptional activities the children about hygiene, and to hear more about careers within carried out via our corporate intranet.
joining in on a maths lesson.
our core industries and we have We operate a programme of matched sponsored a number of innovation funding, and in addition, during the awards to inspire the next generation year we donated 45,000 to local and of talent to continue their projects.
In January 2017, we were also honoured to be AVEVA is also an active member, included in the FTSE4Good index, in with our CEO as Executive signatory, recognition of our efforts to operate in of the WISE Women in Science and an ethically responsible manner.
This membership will enable us to become widely recognised as a company supporting diversity and inclusion, fairness and equality and inspiring women into technical and senior roles.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Carbon Emissions On the rare occasion that the AVEVA is committed to minimising information was not available for a its carbon emissions, increasing particular AVEVA office, an estimate the use of recycling opportunities has been produced based on the ratio and reducing the use of valuable between the local office size and our natural resources.
We are continually UK offices, which we believe offers improving the way in which we capture the best available comparison.
and record our emissions data.
The 2016 financial year serves as the For the purposes of this report, the baseline for our targets.
For our carbon emissions have been calculated intensity ratio we have measured according to the Environmental our carbon usage as it relates to our Reporting Guidelines: Including business performance, citing tonnes mandatory greenhouse gas emissions of CO e million of revenue.
In 2017 2 reporting guidance issued by the this intensity ratio increased to 15.14 Department for Environment, Food tonnes CO e million 2016 13.80.
2 and Rural Affairs DEFRA, and by applying DEFRAs conversion factors.
We have aimed for the Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions to be captured for all of our UK and overseas offices between April 2016 and March 2017.
Tonnes of CO e 2 Emissions from: 2017 2016 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,046 789 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 2,223 2,106 Scope 3 Transmission and distribution losses 500 446 3,769 3,341 Intensity measurement Scopes 1 and 2 Tonnes CO e m revenue 15.14 13.80 2 Scope 1 Tonnes of CO e equivalent Tonnes of CO e by region 2 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 2,000 1,800 Scope 2 1,600 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 1,400 purchased for own use 1,200 Scope 1 | 1,046 Scope 3 1,000 | Scope 2 2,223 Transmission and distribution losses 800 Scope 3 | 500 600 400 200 0 Americas Asia Pacic EMEA Greater China Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 This Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Philip Aiken Chairman 23 May 2017 GOVERNANCE REPORT 35 GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTENTS Governance 36 Corporate Governance 41 Nominations Committee Report 42 Board of Directors 44 Audit Committee Report 47 Remuneration Committee Report 67 Other Statutory Information
