26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Sustainable business Sustainable business Mobile and digital technologies play a powerful role in todays societies and in building a better tomorrow, improving lives and livelihoods and creating new business opportunities and industries.
Our sustainable business strategy includes What we do matters but so does how we work.
A new strategic approach a significant focus on corporate transparency, Our strategy covers the principles and practice Our businesses play an integral role in the daily with particular emphasis on four areas that that ensure we operate with integrity at all lives of our 516 million mobile customers and are the source of greatest public debate times and remain committed to the highest are a vital part of the national infrastructure and concern.
upon which the economies of our 26 countries of operation depend.
Our sustainable business Taxation and total economic Energy innovation and strategy is founded on Vodafones longcontribution.
Our voluntary tax greenhouse gas emissions standing commitment to responsible transparency report the first of its behaviour in everything we do.
At the centre All businesses, big and small, have a critical kind in our industry includes detailed of that strategy, launched in 2016, is our role to play in helping to reduce greenhouse disclosures on a country-by-country actual intention to work towards three significant gas GHG emissions in order to limit cash paid basis.
Each goal has global temperature rises to well below 2C.
the potential to deliver meaningful socioThe communications industry as a whole Our transparency disclosures on matters economic benefits for our customers and for requires significant amounts of energy related to digital human rights include wider society.
Importantly, each goal has been in the form of electricity and diesel for our approach and principles on law derived from, and will be achieved by means back-up generators to transmit vast enforcement agency access to private of, our core long-term business objectives.
amounts of data from billions of people, communications, freedom of expression, Our three transformation goals are: devices and machines.
censorship and the digital rights of the child.
womens empowerment: we are strongly During the year, we began to develop a new Supply chain integrity and safety.
committed to diversity and inclusion global energy strategy intended to bring about Our disclosures related to our sourcing and have set ourselves the ambition a significant increase in the efficiency of our own and supply chain reflect the Groups drive of becoming the worlds best employer operations, coupled with a focus on increasing to ensure responsible and ethical behaviour for women by 2025.
We also intend the adoption of lower-carbon and renewable among our suppliers and sub-suppliers and to bring the benefits of mobile enabling energy sources.
Our networks account for most ensure safety in our operations.
access to education, healthcare and of the energy consumed in our businesses mobile money services to an additional Mobile, masts and health.
We provide and are the main source of our GHG emissions.
50 million female customers in emerging objective and accessible information Customer demand for data increases every markets, including women in some of the to address public concerns regarding year.
This in turn increases the amount of energy worlds poorest communities: electromagnetic fields from mobile phones we need.
However, our focus on energy and base stations and explain our approach efficiency working with our equipment energy innovation: our focus is to to compliance with international standards suppliers means that the rate of growth in our optimise energy efficiency in, and reduce across all of our operating companies on our power requirements is much lower than the rate greenhouse gas emissions from, our own corporate website vodafone.
of growth in demand for data.
At the same time, we are working to help our customers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by two tonnes Our sustainable business strategy for every tonne we generate from our own operations: and Purpose We connect everybody to live a better today and build a better tomorrow youth skills and jobs: we intend to apply our expertise in digital technologies to help young adults enhance their skills and Transformation secure employment as industries and Womens empowerment Energy innovation Youth skills and jobs companies embrace digital ways of working.
We also intend to increase opportunities for young people to gain work experience Transparency within our businesses.
Taxation and Supply Mobile, masts Digital rights total economic chain integrity and health and freedoms contribution and safety Principles and practice Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 27 During 2017, our total greenhouse gas Our goal is to help our customers reduce their We are also fully mindful that other forms emissions were the same as the previous CO e emissions by two tonnes for every one of human rights and other risks can arise 2 year, at 2.59 million tonnes of CO e carbon tonne of emissions from our own operations within our own businesses and supply chain, 2 dioxideequivalent of which India accounts by March 2018.
We are well on track to meet including labour risks, unsafe workplace for0.52 million tonnes CO e despite an increase that goal: as of the end of March 2017, we were conditions, environmental degradation and 2 in the size of our network in response helping our customers to save 1.9 tonnes bribery and corruption.
We continued of CO e for every tonne of CO e we generated 2 2 Our 2017 Sustainable Business Report to improve our overall energy efficiency profile through our own activities.
com sustainability report2017 during the year and achieved a 37% reduction sets out our progress against our global in the volume of GHG emissions produced Human Rights transformation goals and details our approach per petabyte PB of data carried to reach Communications technologies play to mitigating the risks referred to above.
an average of 1,140 tonnes CO e per PB 2 an important role in underpinning We have also published a Slavery and the best performance recorded to date.
human rights, enabling citizens to share Human Trafficking Statement and a Conflict information, communicate and learn.
Our efforts to reduce our GHG emissions are Minerals Report, in line with our statutory Some of our most salient human rights risks only one aspect of our Energy Innovation goal.
relate to the citizens right to privacy and In parallel, we continue to innovate to help freedom of expression.
Our Digital Rights our customers minimise their energy needs, and Freedoms Reporting Centre available particularly through the development of IoT on vodafone.
com sets out our policies and services, devices and processes that use principles regarding a range of these issues.
network intelligence to optimise performance and minimise energy use a field in which In March 2017, Vodafone became a Board we are a world leader.
member of the Global Network Initiative GNI, a multi-stakeholder body bringing together communications and technology companies, Greenhouse gas GHG emissions civil society, academics and investors who million tonnes of CO e 2 share a commitment to privacy and freedom 2015 0.36 2.13 2.49 of expression.
2016 0.40 2.19 2.59 2017 0.40 2.19 2.59 Scope 1 emissions over which we have direct control Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity Total of Scope 1 and Scope 2 Note: Calculated using local market actual or estimated data sources from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations.
Carbon emissions calculated in line with GHG Protocol standards.
Scope 2 emissions are reported using the market-based methodology.
For full methodology see our Sustainable Business Report 2017.
GHG emissions per petabyte of data carried by our mobile networks tonnes of CO e 2 2015 3,120 2016 1,820 2017 1,140 Note: Figures include all data carried by our mobile networks with an adjustment to include only part of the data carried in India, where only base stations under our operational control are included in our GHG emissions totals.
Ratio of GHG emission savings for customers to our own GHG footprint Business Women Connect in Tanzania In Sub-Saharan Africa, access to financial services can be extremely challenging 2015 1.4 and women often find it harder than men to access land, equipment and other 2016 1.7 assets that would enhance their capacity to grow their businesses and improve their livelihoods.
2017 1.9 Our programme in Tanzania, Business Women Connect BWC, uses our mobile 2018 Target 2.0 money services, M-Pesa and M-Pawa, to help women micro-business owners Note: increase revenue and access loans via their mobile.
BWC was launched in 2016 Figures include all data carried by our mobile networks.
in a partnership between TechnoServe, Vodacom, ExxonMobil Foundation, Emissions savings for customers have been calculated the World Bank and the Centre for Global Development.
Since its launch, based on GeSIs ICT Enablement Methodology.
the programme has trained nearly 3,000 women in the use of M-Pawa while nearly 2,000 participants have also received business skills training.
All data includes our operation in India see our Sustainable Business Report vodafone.
