Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Sustainability Marketplace We are committed to building our As an investment company, we are committed to business for the long term.
To this end, a long term investment strategy and to maintaining we consider the impact of our business effective relationships with those companies in which we invest.
We take board seats in our unquoted on the marketplace, workplace and investments and use these to maintain close environment.
relationships with managements of those companies.
Additionally, we hold frequent meetings with managements and review internal documents, such as management accounts and reports.
We also make considered use of our voting rights.
As a consequence of our involved investment style, we would expect to vote in line with management recommendations, but are prepared to abstain or vote against recommendations where we consider they are not in the interests of our shareholders.
We continue to meet with our shareholders and listen to any concerns they may have.
Workplace Caledonia has in place a set of polices intended to protect employees from unlawful discrimination, offer them a working environment where they have a right to be treated fairly, with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
These policies assist in ensuring that the company meets applicable health and safety standards and treats disabled employees in accordance with its statutory obligations.
These policies are communicated to employees by way of a staff handbook provided at the time of joining, with periodic updates thereafter.
In addition to a grievance procedure, which allows employees to raise concerns either formally or informally, there are formal whistleblowing arrangements in place, which enable members of staff to raise any issue of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the companys business, confidentially and independently of line management.
A formal performance appraisal process, through which employees may be set objectives on an annual basis and their achievement against those objectives assessed at the end of the year, is intended to ensure that employees have a clear view of their performance and the ability to develop their potential within the company through additional training where necessary.
Together with team meetings and company-wide briefings, this provides staff with the opportunity to be closely involved in the success of the business.
32 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: NEW P32.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Equality and diversity Greenhouse gas emissions We believe that a diverse workforce will create the Caledonias carbon footprint has been estimated in optimum environment in which our business will thrive line with the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Corporate and grow.
Accounting and Reporting Standard GHG Protocol and Defra guidelines.
We are committed to creating an inclusive environment where our employees can develop and contribute fully.
The sources of greenhouse gas emissions shown in the table below are from the companies included in the In formulating and implementing our employment and consolidated financial statements.
We do not have recruitment policies, we ensure that they are at all times responsibility for reporting any emission sources from compliant with all relevant UK legislation.
Recruitment, companies that are not included in our consolidated development and promotion are based solely on financial statements.
suitability for the job to be done.
We will not discriminate GHG on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, age, race, emissions Operational scope Source of GHG emissions in year Unit nationality, disability or political or religious belief.
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel 20 Tonnes The table below provides the gender split at different direct emissions and operation of CO e 2 levels within the business.
facilities Air conditioning Male Female Female number number % refridgerant loss Board 9 1 10 Company car use Senior managers 7 3 30 Scope 2 Electricity purchased 41 Tonnes All employees 30 28 48 indirect emissions for own use CO e 2 Scope 3 Business travel 429 Tonnes indirect emissions CO e Environment 2 Total 490 Tonnes Caledonias environmental impact is limited.
However, CO e 2 any measures taken to reduce this impact demonstrate Key performance Scope 1, 2 and 3 10 Tonnes the companys commitment to improve the environment indicator normalised to full time CO e per 2 and can have direct benefits through reductions in costs employee equivalent FTE for energy and consumables.
For Caledonia, the bulk of its energy saving will come from the refurbishment of Cayzer House, which will replace the systems for maintaining the office environment as well as replacing the fabric of the building with modern, more energy efficient, materials.
Other measures undertaken include: the use of electronic communications to save paper, printing consumables and energy recycling of office waste, used paper and other consumables.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 33 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
