Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Our people Our continued investment in our people is a The talent, cornerstone of the Groups ability to create shareholder We continue to invest in the professionalism and value.
In support of this, Pennon has started work on skills and career progression a new Group-wide people strategy and will roll this commitment of our out before the end of the 2017 18 reporting year.
people is key to Health and safety thedelivery of our Our policy is to provide and maintain a safe working Workplace strategy environment while preventing injury and ill health strategicobjectives.
Our goal is to attract and retain talented people with wherever possible.
We continue to target the knowledge, skills, values and behaviours required improvement through training programmes to deliver the Groups long term goals and objectives.
focusingon behaviours and attitudes as well as risk Underpinning this, and in line with human rights awareness and risk control and the ability to learn principles, we have a range of policies covering health from accidents or near misses.
As the reporting of and safety, equal opportunities, diversity, ethics and near misses has increased, RIDDOR injury incidence employee relations.
All elements of our workplace rates have dropped across the Group.
Viridor strategy apply to both our permanent and temporary reported an improvement for 2016 and South West workers and we expect suppliers and contractors Water achieved a better performance on a like-forto comply with relevant legislation and tohold like basis excluding Bournemouth Water.
Earlier this year, Pennon announced a new vision andstrategy for health and safety, designed to raisestandards, prevent harm and create a culture ofsafety across its businesses.
We call our new health and safety programme HomeSafe and it represents a wide-ranging agenda of consolidation and improvement, which focuses on people, process and the physical environment.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
Abdul Warsame carrying out maintenance at Ardley ERF 18 Code of Conduct Community initiatives We believe fully Our Code of Conduct sets out the principles we believe Our employees are enthusiastic participants in engaged staff should guide our actions.
These principles apply equally theGroups volunteering programmes.
Viridor facilitate better to permanent and temporary employees and we expect employees volunteered 99 days, including activities safety, greater our suppliers and contractors to comply with equivalent with Somerset Wildlife Trust to transform a neglected guidance.
Employee training courses have been areaclose to the River Tone in Taunton, Somerset.
productivity and developed around the Code of Conduct that focus on Throughout December, Viridors Manchester Trafford higher customer specific aspects relating to legal and ethical behaviour.
Park team helped out Key 103s Cash for Kids Mission satisfaction.
Christmas appeal, collecting donated toys from Employee engagement Greater Manchester residents.
We believe motivated and engaged people South West Water staff took part in educational valuetheir own health and safety and that of their outreach programmes alongside the regions Wildlife colleagues, drive greater productivity, and aspire Trusts and participated in Keep Britain Tidys todeliver higher levels of customer satisfaction.
Since 2010, South West Across the Group, over 3,800 of our people 78% Water has supported 830 beach cleans which have completed annual employment engagement surveys, collected more than 120 tonnes of rubbish.
in line with previous years.
Importantly, for the first time, we brought together all of the leaders across Diversity and equal opportunities the Group to discuss the results and agree key The Board continues to promote equality of actions.
These actions are focused on engaging our opportunity and diversity across the Group in all people in our strategy, supporting our people better areas, including gender and ethnicity.
Although some as we evolve as an organisation, and providing more progress has been made on diversity in certain areas opportunities to engage in two-way communication.
across the Group, this still remains a key area of focus and diversity specific actions are being reviewed as Employee development part of the wider sustainability agenda.
We continue to invest in the skills and career progression of our staff through a range of schemes Gender diversity and training opportunities, ranging from operational In South West Water 27% of the workforce is female upskilling programmes to management training.
an increase of 2% from last year.
We do have some In the water business, this included specialist areas of under-representation for example in our craft trainingfor our call handlers in a range of skills and industrial group where the proportion of women including a programme with the mental health is less than 1%.
We are committed to focusing on this charityMIND, designed to help call handlers as an area for improvement in line with the industry.
recognise if a customer is struggling to pay their The majority of Viridor s employees are male 85%, billsowing to stress or depression.
This has helped reflecting a traditionally male-dominated industry.
toimprove our management of income recovery, The ratio is similar across senior management with which during 2016 17 was our best-ever.
Of those employed directly by Pennon, In Viridor, we have continued to support 24 individuals 45% are women.
We are committed to improving undertaking a foundation degree specifically designed senior management gender ratios in time across the for the business, and launched a management Group through initiatives such as informal mentoring development programme which 76 of our senior programmes and family friendly policies.
leaders completed during the year.
A working group is ensuring Pennon complies with new legislation on gender pay equality that requires certain companies to publish information on theirgender pay gap and report this data to the UKGovernment.
