QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Resources and environment 33 Resources and environment Our aim is to deliver continuous improvement in our environmental management so that we play our part in protecting the environment.
With increasing pressure on natural resources, climate Our Group greenhouse gas GHG emissions are change and global ambitions arising from the Paris captured to meet the requirements of the Companies Agreement and the UN Sustainable Development Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors report Goals, we play our part in protecting the environment Regulations 2013.
The table below provides a summary and support the sustainability requirements of of the Groups GHG emissions from 1 April 2016 to our customers.
31 March 2017, giving a summary of Scope 1 fuel combustion and operation of facilities and Scope 2 Graduates participated in Environmental stewardship purchased electricity emissions and an intensity ratio a workshop designed to raise Our overall aim is to deliver continuous improvement per m of revenue.
We have adopted a financial control awareness of our approach in our environmental management.
We are on target to approach and have used the latest emissions factors to energy management and successfully transition to ISO 14001:2015 and are due from the UK Government, and the International Energy to grow our network of Energy to achieve certification in the next financial year.
Our overall emissions have reduced by 13,192 Champions.
One of the speakers of this, has been our ongoing commitment to review tonnes of CO tCO e against the FY14 base year our 2 2 joined the workshop by video policy and process and communication with our people.
first year of GHG reporting for the Group.
In FY17, we conference, to demonstrate our In FY17, we assessed climate change risks on some saw a 10% reduction against the previous financial year improved facilities.
Commenting on the day, a graduate said: of the main sites we operate and identified appropriate through a combination of new building management Throughout the workshop mitigations.
We continue to be active members of the system projects, changes to operational activity, a as you understand more MOD Industry Sustainable Procurement Working milder winter and changes in GHG emission factors.
about consumption, the easier Group to ensure that we understand the sustainability We have made improvements to our GHG calculation it becomes to think of ideas agenda of a key customer.
During FY17 we supported methods and have identified some minor new emission that may seem small but could the successful delivery of Unmanned Warrior through sources.
We have therefore corrected the FY16 data have the potential to have a close working and collaboration with QinetiQ project reported below compared with previously reported big impact on our usage.
teams, industry partners and customer representatives.
Our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions have been This involved sharing knowledge and experience to help externally verified by an independent third party, Carbon meet and exceed our customers expectations, ensuring Credentials, against the ISO 14064-3 standard.
The local areas of conservation were not affected and in verification statement can be found on our website.
For more information on GHG verification FY18 will see the launch of a new three-year health, www.
com about-us  safety and environmental strategy.
Through continuing to mitigate our main environmental impacts and FY17 FY16 FY15 risks, and ensuring environmental considerations Total Scope 1 are addressed through the supply chain, we will emissions tCO e 21,245 23,691 26,534 2 continue to improve our environmental performance.
Total Scope 2 The development of a stakeholder focused emissions tCO e 31,210 36,857 39,668 2 communication plan will enable us to improve the Total Scope 1 transparency of our environmental performance and and 2 emissions embed our environmental approach into our whole tCO e 52,455 60,548 66,202 2 culture to meet the expectations of our stakeholders.
Intensity ratio tCO e per m 2 Greenhouse gas emissions and energy management of revenue 67 80 87 Managing our energy reduces our impact on the environment and it improves our operational efficiency.
In the UK business last year we achieved certification to Energy use in the UK currently forms 81% of our total ISO 50001 BS EN ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management emissions and were 42,416 tCO e in FY17.
We set a 2 System in recognition of the systems and processes target of a 17% reduction in our GHG emissions due to in place to manage our energy consumption.
We have UK energy use by 2020 from a 2013 baseline of 53,567 used the framework to improve our approach to energy tCO e. At the end of FY17, we surpassed our target 2 management and strive to embed energy efficiency with a 23% reduction against the base year.
We have best practice across the UK business.
We continued committed to carry out a review of our existing GHG our Energy Matters programme, communicating with target, using a science-based targets assessment our people, growing our network of Energy Champions framework, and this will inform our decision on and empowering our Energy Engineers to identify our future approach.
and implement energy saving projects.
As part of transformation, the modern working environment programme has seen significant improvements in our video conferencing capability which can support a reduction in travel.
We meet the requirements of ESOS the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme through a combination of ISO 50001 certification and an energy audit report produced by our appointed ESOS Lead Assessor.
We continue to submit voluntarily to the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change Programme, and are registered for the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC scheme.
