24 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Our people The people behind our business Our people are behind every aspect of our strategy and are committed to delivering superior network performance and providing a great customer experience.
And we want all of our business activities and The core of the programme ensures front line A diverse and inclusive decisions to be informed by an understanding staff act with empathy for customers, take organisation that earning and retaining the trust of our ownership to solve their problem and for team 1 This year we employed an average of 108,271 customers, our employees and all other leaders to coach performance.
people with 136 nationalities as well as over stakeholders must be integral to everything 24,485 contractors.
Our senior leadership So far, more than 39,000 contact centre we do.
team includes 21 nationalities, bringing agents and team leads have completed the together a diverse set of experiences and training, as well as over 4,000 retail store Doing whats right opinions to help us achieve our goals and managers and advisers.
We recognise that ethical conduct is just better understand the needs of our customers.
Training our senior leaders has also been key and as important as high performance and that Our commitment to diversity and inclusion all leadership teams participated in a Customer failure to operate ethically will impact our begins at the top, with clear leadership Experience Leadership programme: a two-day business.
Our Code of Conduct outlines from the Vodafone Group Plc Board and workshop focused on listening to customers and the behaviours we expect from every single is embedded at every level of every business understanding external best practices.
This is all person working for and with Vodafone.
through The Vodafone Way, the Code part of our approach to ensure the needs of our Our Business Principles are the foundation of Conduct and our Business Principles.
customers are understood and everyone leads of how we do business and set out the values by putting the customer first.
we want everyone who works for or with Living The Vodafone Way Vodafone to respect.
Together, these elements The Vodafone Way underpins our culture and Attracting and developing ensure we protect Vodafones reputation, sets out the type of organisation we want great people our people and our assets.
At the centre of The Vodafone Way can be found on The Vodafone Way, Code This year, we invested more than 80 million is a focus on three core principles: speed, of Conduct and our Business Principles in employee training and development.
We want our people at vodafone.
Those programmes take many forms, from to respond swiftly and effectively to challenges structured learning and formal training and opportunities, especially those that affect Focusing on our customers through to coaching and mentoring.
We want them to do so while Over the last year, we have focused avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy and costly Our Discover programme for graduates on improving customer experience through and cumbersome internal processes.
accelerates the careers of high performing a new Vodafone Way of CARE training initiative.
graduates, with over 890 people recruited onto this programme during the year.
After the programme, a number of Discovers join People and Culture our international programme, Columbus, with the purpose of building leadership skills through a challenging two-year assignment The outside their home country.
Vodafone Way These programmes are acknowledged and welcomed by our employees.
In the 201617 Global People Survey, 81% of employees surveyed said that they benefited from opportunities to learn the skills they needed to do their jobs well, a one percentage point increase in responses to the same question in the survey in the previous year.
Vodafone culture We also look for ways to innovate and digitalise our recruitment and selection process to attract the best people.
This year, we worked with HireVue to design a new end-to-end graduate experience embedding Code of Business psychometric assessments into a video conduct principles interview platform for a unified, world-class candidate experience.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 25 1 Employees by location % Spain 4.7% Italy 5.9% Vodacom Other 7.0% 31.8% Digital workplace training and development the Vodafone University Germany During the year, we launched a range of new digital collaboration tools as well as digital 13.8% learning resources supporting a truly digital workspace.
One of these initiatives is the Vodafone University, accessible to all employees at any time on any device.
The Vodafone University brings together our specialist and professional courses covering areas such as sales and marketing, leadership, technology and customer service.
Vodafone University UK 15.8% India 21.0% programmes have been developed with the support of leading academic institutions including the London Business School, Harvard University and Imperial College and are 1,2 Average number of employees number also accredited by external training providers.
2015 101,443 2016 107,667 2017 108,271 HireVue has enabled us to reduce average We have robust policies and processes in place time to hire from 23 to 11 days and to reach to manage risks and if incidents occur we work out more effectively to younger recruits.
hard to identify and address their root causes.
1 Employee engagement index Our focus in the year has been on our top five Recognising performance 2015 77 safety risks more information on health and We reward people based on their performance, 2016 79 safety on our company website and we work potential and contribution to our success.
with our people and our suppliers to ensure 2017 81 This year, to drive simplification, empower our expectations and risks are understood and line managers, and encourage more futurepreventive actions are in place.
focused and developmental conversations 1 Employee turnover rate % Improving employee wellbeing has also been between employees and line managers a key area of focus.
This year we launched our we trialled a move away from our previous 2015 18 fourth annual Global Wellbeing Challenge performance dialogue rating system.
2016 19 on World Heart Day in October 2016.
The simplified system was piloted with our 2017 18 4,027 employees took part in a wide range senior management team and, if deemed of exercise activities.
Together, they covered successful, will be rolled out globally in the a total of 302,096 miles equivalent to going near future.
12 times around the world, to the moon and Nationalities in top senior 1 We continue to benchmark roles regularly a quarter of the way back over 56,000 miles leadershiproles to ensure competitive and fair remuneration more than last year.
2015 24 in every country in which we operate.
We 2016 24 also offer competitive retirement and other Increasing employee benefit provisions.
Global short-term incentive 2017 21 engagement plans are offered to a large percentage of Every year, all our employees are invited employees and global long-term incentive 1 Gender of employees % to participate in a global survey which allows plans are offered to our senior managers.
Our us to measure engagement levels, identify ways arrangements are subject to company and to improve how we do things and compare individual performance measures.
ourselves with 30 other large companies.
Female Male Creating a safe place to work The 201617 survey demonstrated that 87% 37% 63% of employees who responded are proud We want everyone working with Vodafone to work for Vodafone, one point higher than to return home safely every day.
Our overall Engagement Index of our efforts, we deeply regret to report score demonstrating our employees 11recordable fatalities during the year.
willingness to recommend Vodafone Notes: Traffic accidents in emerging markets as an employer and their desire to continue 1 Includes India.
continueto be our main area of exposure.
2 Employee numbers are shown on a full time employee working with us rose by two points to 81%.
A statutory view is provided on page 154.
