Strategic Report Key Strategies INSPIRED PEOPLE Implementing new ways of working, while committed to unique culture and values.
Burberry has established the Inspired People strategy A global programme in the second half of the year to ensure that the business has the right capabilities in focused on reigniting these values across the business, place to operate effectively to meet its strategic objectives, and included the following.
and that its people continue to be motivated and inspired Burberry established a Change Champions group, to deliver outstanding results for the brand.
This will be as well as holding events and providing extensive achieved through effective engagement, changing ways of communications to ensure employees understand working, reinforcing culture and behaviours, and continuing the changes taking place within the Company and to lead the industry in responsibility.
Key areas of focus include the following.
Alongside the existing global employee engagement Evolve operating model and improve ways of working: calendar, retail conferences were held in key markets, Redesigning Burberrys operating model to simplify sharing new strategies and ways of working.
Exceptional employee contribution across all areas Evolve culture and employee engagement: Building of the business was celebrated through the annual on Burberrys unique values and culture and continuing Burberry Icon Awards, which received more than to engage in the communities where Burberry operates.
Enhance talent and reward programmes: Introducing Craftspeople in the supply chain were celebrated best-in-class talent development and management in the September campaign, which showcased the approaches.
artisans who make Burberry products.
Employees continued to be connected to creative brand moments.
Ensure a responsible mindset and actions: Focusing on the delivery of the next phase of Burberrys global Enhance talent and reward programmes responsibility plans.
Burberry focused on identifying and meeting the critical capabilities required to deliver the Companys strategies.
Progress during the year It also continued to foster a culture of recognition to support Evolve operating model and improve ways of working high performance and retention of talent through reward Burberry is redesigning its operating model across all and enhanced training and development opportunities.
regions and functions, and has agreed a transition and Key achievements include the following.
change management plan for phased implementation.
The revised model aims to deliver the following.
The Companys first cohort of Burberry Apprentices graduated during the year, having gained qualifications A smaller and more streamlined central organisation.
and experience in roles across retail, internal Balancing global versus local operations to ensure manufacturing and distribution in the UK.
that the needs of local customers are met while A review of employee performance and talent increasing global consistency.
management, resulting in a simplified approach.
A successful pilot of this new approach took place, with the full rollout commencing in 2017 18.
The redesigned operating model will provide increased accountability, a greater focus on a standardised global In 2016, Burberry was ranked by LinkedIn as one ways of working and better collaboration between of the UKs Top 10 attractors for employment and regional and central teams.
Evolve culture and employee engagement Ensure a responsible mindset and actions A critical priority is to support and nurture Burberrys Burberry has worked towards completion of its 20122017 unique culture, underpinned by strong employee responsibility strategy, while finalising ambitious plans engagement and Burberrys values of Protect, Explore and goals for the next five years.
Burberrys distinct culture reflects a global, section on pages 47 to 51 for further details.
united mindset: a pioneering, creative spirit: and a responsible approach to everything it does.
44 Strategic Report Key Strategies Strategic Report Responsibility Responsibility Led by its core principles of Protect, Explore and Inspire, Burberry continued to promote responsible employment practices and to drive environmental responsibility across its operations and wider supply chain, while investing in the communities where its employees live and work.
