40 Acquisitions Strong heritage in driving value from acquisitions.
MACHINE LEARNING CLOUD-BASED AUTOMATED, INTEGRATED ANTIVIRUS ANALYTICS SECURITY AWARENESS In FY17 Sophos acquired neuralSophos acquired a start-up The threat of phishing, which network based machine learning company that had created a exploits human trust and and behavioural monitoring real-time security monitoring and behaviour to instigate an attack technology to enhance malware analysis technology that leverages on an organisation, is growing detection through artificial machine learning to monitor in sophistication and volume.
Invincea, Inc. a nextusers and devices for anomalous Sophos has acquired technology generation endpoint security behaviour, significantly enhancing to help customers address the company based in the US, had the ability to identify malicious or human side of corporate security.
developed its portfolio to prevent, suspicious activity.
Sophos has since launched Sophos detect and remediate zero-day and Phish Threat, an automated The technology will deliver further sophisticated attacks.
security training product that can capabilities around user and significantly reduce the potential Sophos expects to rapidly integrate entity behaviour analytics and for phishing to be successful in Invincea technology into the synchronized security intelligence a company, through consistent endpoint product line, and make it through the Sophos Central training and awareness.
available through Sophos channel management platform.
41 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 42 Corporate Governance Statement 46 Nomination Committee Report 54 Audit and Risk Committee Report 57 Disclosure Committee 64 Annual Statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman 65 Directors Remuneration Policy 67 Annual Report on Remuneration 77 Directors Report 88 42 BOARD OF DIRECTORS PETER GYENES KRIS HAGERMAN NICK BRAY Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Experience: Peter joined the Experience: Kris joined Sophos in Experience: Nick joined Sophos Sophos Board in 2006, bringing 2012 as Chief Executive Officer.
in 2010 as Chief Financial Officer, experience with corporate growth Kris was most recently CEO of bringing more than 20 years and value creation to the Groups Corel Corporation, and prior to experience in the technology vision for integrated threat that group president, data centre sector, extensive international management leadership.
He has management at Symantec, where operational skills and significant four decades of experience in he led a business of more than public company experience on both technical, sales, marketing and $1.5 billion that represented nearly the London Stock Exchange and general management positions 30 percent of Symantecs global Nasdaq.
Nick was most recently within the computer systems and revenue.
Prior to Symantec, Kris CFO at Micro Focus International software industry globally, and was EVP and GM, storage and plc, where he was instrumental in was most recently the Chairman server management at Veritas the company tripling revenue and and CEO of Ascential Software Software where, during his tenure, increasing market capitalisation Corporation.
He has also served the companys revenue more than from circa 200 million to in excess on the boards of Applix Inc. doubled, before its acquisition by of 1 billion.
He has also held Group BladeLogic Software, Epicor Symantec.
Earlier in his career, Kris CFO roles at Fibernet Group plc Software Corporation, Lawson was founder and CEO of BigBook and Gentia Software plc, as well Software, EnerNoc, Cimpress and prior to that, Affinia.
Kris also as senior financial positions at NV, Intralinks Holdings, Inc. and held positions at Silicon Graphics Comshare Inc. and Lotus Software.
Qualifications: First class BA in Qualifications: BA in Mathematics Qualifications: BA in Russian and Civil Engineering, Aston University, and an MBA, Columbia University, Economics, Dartmouth College, an UK and a qualified Chartered New York.
Cambridge University, and an Other current roles: Director of Other current roles: Non-executive MBA, Stanford Graduate School of Carbonite Inc. Pegasystems director of fide La Rue plc.
Inc. RealPage, Inc. and is trustee emeritus of the Massachusetts Other current roles: None Technology Leadership Council.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 43 SANDRA BERGERON EDWIN GILLIS ROY MACKENZIE Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Experience: Sandra joined the Experience: Edwin joined the Experience: Roy joined the Sophos Sophos Board in 2010.
He is a partner of more than 20 years security, previously served as a director and Apax Partners technology and operations and board advisory member of the audit committees telecoms team.
He joined Apax expertise having previously served at BladeLogic, Endeca, Equalogic Partners in 2003 and has been as a director of TraceSecurity Inc. Inc. Plex Systems, Responsys involved in a variety of technology Tipping Point, Netegrity, Nuance Inc. and Trizetto.
Earlier in his focussed investments including Communications, TriCipher Inc. career, Edwin held senior roles at Epicor Software Corporation, NXP and ArcSight Inc.
Earlier in her Symantec Corporation, Veritas Semiconductors, and King Digital career Sandra spent 10 years at Software, Parametric Technology Entertainment.
Previously, Roy McAfee, Inc. holding a number of and Lotus Development worked at McKinsey & Company, key executive positions.
Corporation and spent 15 years Inc. focusing on consulting clients with Coopers & Lybrand as a CPA in the high technology sector and Qualifications: MBA from Xavier and general practice partner.
also held product management University, Cincinnati, Ohio and positions at Psion Computers.
a BA in Business Administration Qualifications: BA in Government, Cum Laude, Georgia State Clark University, Massachusetts, Qualifications: MBA, Stanford University.
an MA in International Relations, Graduate School of Business and University of Southern California an MA in Engineering, Imperial Other current roles: Director of F5 and an MBA, Harvard Business College, London.
Networks, Inc. and Qualys Inc. School.
Other current roles: Director of Other current roles: Director and Duck Creek Software, Inc. and chairman of the audit committees Exact Holdings NV.
of AppNexus Inc. LogMeIn Inc. Sprinklr, and Teradyne Corporation.
Key to Committee Membership: Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Disclosure Committee
