A d v i s s e r s C r e i o t s i o s r r t o e n h l s i s t SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW Our people our investors, our advisers consultants who help us Corporate Culture achieve our KPIs: our retailers: our customers: and With total assets under management of 1.3 billion, the local authorities of the towns we are invested in.
the Company has a relatively lean yet highly At the heart of this group are the people within effective number of employees with a total the NewRiver team.
At NewRiver, we have a high headcount of 52. satisfaction and retention rate, allowing us to attract Led by the Board, since the Companys inception and retain talent.
in 2009, NewRiver has a prided itself on its strong entrepreneurial and inclusive culture that fosters Defining our Core Values collaboration, transparency and diligence.
This rebranding process included internal and The team includes a range of skillsets and expertise external interviews to understand how the Company across management, property, development, is perceived by some of these stakeholders and finance, corporate, FP&A, marketing and support the outcomes clearly identified the strength of teams all working towards creating maximum value, the Companys team culture, ethos and focused achieving our KPIs and delivering results.
From this exercise we were able to define the core values of the business operating as one Core to the success of this is the unique collegiate team, deploying the various skillsets from across culture of the business.
Ahead of the Companys the business in a collaborative, supportive and move to the Main Market, we undertook dynamic way alongside our valued partners and a lighttouch brand refresh, evolving to become stakeholders.
In this way, we are reputed for our NewRiver REIT plc from NewRiver Retail Limited.
high standards and our detailfocused, high quality outputs underpinning our drive to deliver beyond Our Stakeholders expectations.
We are brave and ambitious in our During the brand refresh process we defined pursuits to achieve our clear objectives: and we are who the Companys core stakeholders are, the six smart and trusted in our execution of driving the identified stakeholders are: the NewRiver team: business forward.
Beyond Brave expectations One NewRiver Team Trusted Smart Gender split in the business Senior Executive Employees management directors Total Male 16 11 3 30 Female 20 3 0 23 Total 36 14 3 53 58 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 u a C e u A t e m l o v a R c e n o n r L I s s u l t a n t s STRATEGIC REPORT NewRiver ESG Story Creating Vibrant Environments NewRivers ESG Strategy: NewRiver is invested in over 400 local towns and Creating Vibrant Environments communities up and down the UK.
As a significant The NewRiver portfolio is convenienceled and stakeholder in these localities, we have an important communityfocused and the vision for our ESG role and responsibility to our convenienceled and strategy reflects NewRivers customerfirst approach, communityfocused portfolio to help make them managing our assets as though we ourselves are thriving retail and leisure locations.
We focus on building partnerships with all our key stakeholders, including As part of our commitment to creating vibrant our investors, retailers, consumers and local and sustainable environments, NewRiver authorities to ensure our goals and aspirations are appointed Cushman & Wakefield to help develop aligned to deliver mutual objectives.
a comprehensive Environmental & Social Governance ESG programme to ensure the We have identified five key priorities that strengthen business is conducting activities that enhance the core offering of our business that link directly to NewRivers reputation, provides social benefit, our key stakeholders: drive cost efficiency and increase the longterm Within this strategy are a number of targets to value of NewRivers business.
measure progress and include the following Since appointing Cushman & Wakefield in 2015, key areas: NewRiver has developed a comprehensive 1.
Employee empowerment Environmental & Social Governance ESG strategy for the business and is undertaking a number of 2.
Performance and risk control initiates and measures within this.
Effective asset management responding to occupier needs 4.
Customer satisfaction We have made excellent progress on these targets in Year 1, with almost all criteria met.
Given NewRivers strong performance on our ESG 5 2 strategy during our first year as a MainMarket Customers Investors listed company following our move up from the AIM Maximising Inspire, appeal market, the business is committed to setting longer performance and and retain term targets that can be tracked over the coming controlling risk years and this is one of NewRivers key objectives with Cushman & Wakefield for FY18.
Key achievements that NewRiver has accomplished in the last year include: 1 Our people Shopping Centre Energy Audits Generating Empower our Savings Totalling Half a Million Pounds employees Cushman & Wakefield have carried out 19 detailed asset energy audits for NewRivers largest shopping centres by area, highlighting a range of energy 4 3 efficiency and cost reduction opportunities in the Local authorities Retailers areas within NewRivers ownership.
& communities Manage assets A catalyst for efficiently Implementation is already underway and planned to be carried out throughout FY18.
positive change responding to occupier needs NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Appointment of Co-operative Power as new Annual energy cost savings Energy Broker The Company carried out a substantive tender for an energy broker and appointed the Cooperative 500,000 Power as the Companys new energy broker in January 2016.
The audit programme has highlighted over The mobilisation of Cooperative Power has 500,000 in terms of potential annual energy cost progressed well.
Additionally, Cooperative Power savings thus far.
Key efficiency measures include: have led on an Automatic Meter Reading rollout 1.
Data collection management monitoring: across all sites supplies which fall under the using this to minimise wastage and generate P272legislation.
NewRiver have extended this quick savings rollout to over 50 additional supplies to better track, monitor and report consumption data within 2.
LED Lighting & controls upgrades lighting their portfolio.
represents the single biggest energy cost across the portfolio Cooperative Power are currently mobilising a 3.
Replacing HVAC heating, ventilation and new data platform which will allow all energy air conditioning fan motors with a new data and documentation to be stored in one Electronically Commutated Motors that sit within place with multiple access rights including the the HVAC systems, and or b variable speed managing agent, all centre managers and NewRiver drives with the aim of providing thermal comfort themselves.
The benefits of this platform feed and high indoor air quality into the audit process, daytoday management, regulatory reporting and wider ESG performance.
Replacing ageing electric water heaters with new, more efficient models Health & Wellbeing: UK Green Building 5.
Thermal destratification fans in malls with treated Council Retail air, a method to ensure temperature equalisation NewRiver is looking to further develop its already throughout the building comprehensive Health & Wellbeing metrics 6.
Energy submetering framework in line with UK Green Building Council Retail framework.
At present, NewRiver collect and 7.
Solar PV opportunities report on a number of Health & Wellbeing metrics In order to deliver economies of scale, for all of their shopping centres.
This includes additional value measures will be procured perceptual metrics such as cleanliness andsecurity, and or implemented across multiple assets the quality of key facilities, cosmetics of the where appropriate.
shopping centre and parking facilities.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Shopper Economic Metrics GRESB The Company has also advanced data sets NewRiver submitted its maiden entry to the GRESB relating to economic metrics via their consumer Benchmark in FY17, demonstrating our portfolio surveys, conducted by CACI to determine and level commitment to assessing ESG performance monitor average spend per person, dwell time and against real estate competitors both in the UK and frequency of visits.
A workshop was carried out with globally.
GRESB offers a consistent framework to the UKGBC to collate and organise this data into collect and compare key ESG indicators and related a clear health & wellbeing framework with a plan performance metrics across global real estate and ofaction for improvement.
NewRiver have taken the results and incorporated these into their ESG action Legislation & Risk Mitigation plan for FY18.
Cushman & Wakefield have been working with NewRiver on a number of legislative risks including the Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards which comes into force in 2018 and requires Energy Performance Certificates to be carried out for a number of NewRivers portfolio units.
Cooperative Power and Cushmans have collated data for Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting, which isreported on the next page.
60 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Greenhouse Gas Emissions Activation Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and We will raise funds and the charitys profile through Directors Reports Regulations 2013, the Company a combination of sporting, educational, family, is required to report annual greenhouse gas retailer and community events appropriate to our emissions.
The details for the financial year ending sector and shopping centre communities as well 31 March 2017 appear in the table below.
as activating our PR, design and communications expertise to deliver this.
As well as raising funds Sources of greenhouse gas emissions 2016 17 tCO2e and profile, charitable programmes can have an Scope 1 important role in driving teamwork and ensuring Gas, refrigerants and car fuel 1,432.03 social responsibility is on the agenda locally.
Scope 2 Our FY17 charity of the year was Pancreatic Cancer Landlord controlled electricity 11,799.08 Research UK, in memory of our greatly respected Total footprint 13,231.11 and successful Development Director Franois Nairac.
Franois played a huge role in driving Intensity measure tCO e sq ft 2 forward our 1.9 million sq ft development pipeline Emissions per sq ft 0.119 which includes the major regeneration of key UK communities creating better social environments, We have used the operational control method to improved amenities, enhanced retail and leisure, outline our carbon footprint boundary.
Occupiers more homes and importantly, creating new jobs.
usage or emissions are not included as we do not We are delighted to say that through various events have control over those items.
Emissions from we have raised 27,000 for Pancreatic Cancer.
vacant space has been included.
We have measured emissions based on the FY17 Fundraising GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting Standard revised edition and guidance provided by the UKs Department for Environment, Food and Rural 27,000 Affairs DEFRA on mandatory carbon reporting.
The emissions factors and conversions used were from raised for Pancreatic Cancer Research UK the DEFRA greenhouse gas reporting tool.
Giving Back Since NewRivers inception, we have always been very charitable and supportive to good causes both local to our assets and on a national level.
Werecognise that with the Companys rapid growth we have a big opportunity to leverage our scale and raise funds and increase the profile of charities in a more concerted and strategic manner and this financial year we developed a dedicated Charities Strategy.
The annual strategy is twofold: 1.
Raise funds for a single charitable cause at a corporate and portfolio level with an agreed fundraising target set at the beginning of the year 2.
Each NewRiver shopping centre will support a single charity important to the local community they belong to, with a fundraising target set at thebeginning of the year.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Snapshot of the charities we have supported Way of the Roses Our flagship fundraiser saw 24 riders cycle coast to coast on the Way of Roses, beginning at our shopping centre in Morecambe and finishing at our shopping centre in Bridlington.
Theteam, affectionately named Nairacs Rogue Riders, cycled 170 miles, scaled 3,225 metres and endured torrential rain, multiple flocks of sheep on the move and very tight quads to raise 26,938 for Pancreatic Cancer Research UK.
The home team which involved many of NewRivers partners as well as staff covered the same mileage on static bikes located at NewRivers offices.
Age Concern: The Ridings Shopping Centre, Wakefield Why it matters: Most people will feel lonely at some point in their lives.
Age UK cites this as a deeply personal experience that in many cases will thankfully pass, but for a growing number of people, particularly those in later life, loneliness can define their lives and have a significant impact on their wellbeing.
With 30% of the NewRiver shopper base being aged 65 or over and The Ridings Shopping Centre in Wakefields percentage being even higher at 34%, the centre wanted totackle loneliness amongst older people in Wakefield.
What we did: In collaboration with Age UK Wakefield District, the centre hosted a Find Friends Afternoon Tea Event for Valentines Day providing complementary hot drinks and cakes and hosting bingo and table top games.
Age UK Wakefield District had an information stand highlighting their local services and had 63 interactions, with the hope that these people can enjoy some longerterm benefits from the event.
The Wakefield Friendship Centre also distributed flyers about their fortnightly events.
The impact it made: Over 120 people aged 55 attended, one of whom had not been out socially for three years.
Age UK connected with 64new clients.
The event secured 3 minutes of coverage on BBC Look North News that evening and received excellent feedback from attendees, retailers and wider shoppers.
The centre received several letters from local people praising the event and enquiring about similar events.
The event has spurred the centre to work more closely with Age UK Wakefield, planning a series of similar regular events, under the event brand Cuppa Club, tohelp older people avoid loneliness.
62 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Childrens Rights: The Avenue Shopping Centre, Newton Mearns Why it matters: Mearns Primary School has been the right to have friends.
One winner was selected from recognised as a Rights Respecting School by UNICEF each class including the nursery, to create eight posters since 2009an initiative encouraging schools to place the which were then displayed in the windows or our retailers.
UN Convention of the Rights of the Child at the heart of its Shoppers were then invited to partake in the Childrens ethos and curriculum.
One of the assessment criteria for Rights Treasure Hunt to find all eight Childrens Rights in Mearns Primary this year was measuring how the school the centre.
promotes childrens rights within the local community so The impact it made: The Principle Teacher was The Avenue partnered with the school to help achieve this, overwhelmed by the support and profile the campaign forming the Mearns Global Citizens Committee, led by the achieved, meeting the objective of demonstrating the pupils and centre management.
pupils ability to be a Responsible Citizen.
With eight What we did: Pupils at Mearns Primary School were invited retailers partaking as well as 187 children in the treasure to participate in a competition to create a poster illustrating hunt, the campaign brought together the various one childrens right, such as the right to an education or community stakeholders.
One Great Day FY18 Charity of the Year For the past two years NewRiver have taken part We are delighted to announce that our FY18 in a growing charity campaign called One Great NewRiver Charity of the Year is Great Ormond Street Day a nationwide shopping centre event that Hospital GOSH, an important medical institute that takes place in the summer to raise money for touches the lives of hundreds of families up and Great Ormond Street Hospital GOSH.
In FY17 down the UK, including many of the towns we are NewRiver contributed to the total fundraising sum, invested in.
with NewRiver Shopping Centres hosting their own One Great Day community events as well as the Corporate team not only partaking in but winning the inaugural London One Great Day Race, to be the fastest property team!
The strategic report on pages 1 to 63 has been approved by the Board of directors and signed onitsbehalf by: David Lockhart Chief Executive Officer 15 May 2017 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
