Environment Corporate responsibility Our solutions put us at the heart ofa greener, cleaner future for ourcommunities.
During 2016, transport contributed 23% of 2 global energy-related carbon emissions.
Sustainable transport has a vital role in helping Our approach to maintain global temperatures at or below We recognise our responsibility the 2 degrees Celsius level, at which the most asa leading transport operator serious consequences of climate change can 3 be avoided.
toprovide sustainable travel solutions for our customers and Our vision is to provide solutions for an First Bus celebrates increasingly congested world, driving a shift thecommunities we serve.
Low Carbon Vehicle toless carbon-intensive modes of public Our approach to corporate responsibility transport such as bus, rail and coach, which Operator of the Year covers our commitment to the environment, produce less harmful emissions per person, customers, safety, community and our people.
First Bus has led the industrys drive and reduce congestion in the communities Across our business, we work to embed long tointroduce cleaner vehicles, improve weserve.
However, the pace ofinvestment in term programmes and partnerships ineach of fuel efficiency, reduce emissions and clean technology must take place at a rate that these areas, with targets and established improve air quality in towns and cities maintains the affordability of public transport, plans and policies.
In support ofour corporate across the UK.
ensures high levels of utilisation and reduces responsibility strategy, our environment overall carbon emissions.
Judges at the Low Carbon Champions strategy will be refreshed during 2017 18 and Awards, which celebrate innovation and Meeting the growing demand for transport will detail our plans to reduce our direct and best practice in the UKs accelerating whilst also minimising emissions of indirect impact on the environment.
drive to cut carbon emissions from the greenhouse gases and local air pollutants, We have detailed policies in place across road transport sector, were impressed iskey to the successful delivery of the FirstGroup that ensure a cohesive approach to by our vehicle trials at Millbrook, a Sustainable Development Goals agreed by corporate responsibility.
In addition to the core vehicle testing facility in Bedfordshire, theUnited Nations in 2015, and forms part areas mentioned above, these policies also and commended us for our pursuit of ofFirstGroups focus on the environment.
1 cover our approach to human rights across emerging low emission technologies.
Investment in greener road and rail fuels and our business, including our supply chain.
We currently operate 12 electric buses technologies, and validation of emissions These policies will be updated during 2017 18. in York and two in Bristol: four hydrogen through independent testing, were significant Our focus on managing our impacts on the fuel cell buses in Aberdeen: and drivers of our work in 2016 17 and will continue environment, safety and investing in our inBristol we recently trialled a to drive our longer term environmental plans.
people, customers and communities, reflects biomethane vehicle that ran on Carbon emissions and air quality the areas where we have a material impact fuelprocessed from human waste.
In North America, the American School Bus and believe we can make a positive difference.
In 2015 we announced what was the Council reports that each yellow school bus In each of these areas, we aim to exceed 4 UKs largest single order 355 vehicles takes 36 cars off the road in the morning and regulatory requirements, and work with expert of the latest Euro VI engine buses evening peaks.
In comparison to short-haul networks and groups to learn from best which, compared to those they replace, flights, opting to travel by Greyhound in North practice, helping us to respond to the current produce 95% less nitrogen oxide America can provide a carbon saving of 124g and future needs of our stakeholders.
We 5 emissions and help improve airquality.
2 constantly strive to find new, innovative ways to meet changing expectations and become Since 2012, we have invested around In the UK, in cities such as Leeds, where the provider of choice for those we serve, 300m in almost 1,600 new buses, FirstGroup is the largest bus operator, cleaner optimising our resources and investing in the bringing the size of our DfTcertified Euro VI engine diesel and alternative fuel future of our people and communities.
Low Carbon Bus fleet to around buses offer significant reductions in roadside 1,000 one of the largest in the UK.
emissions of fine particles PM and nitrogen Through our environment and corporate oxides NOx, improving local air quality.
responsibility strategy, and the support of our more than 100,000 employees, we know we The topic of air quality has become can make a positive, sustainable difference to How does travel by FirstGroup increasingly significant, and in the UK we our customers and their communities through vehicles compare with other modes?
perform our own independent testing to verify our day-to-day operations.
gCO2 e passenger air emissions data for our bus fleet.
The Mode kilometre planned implementation of Clean Air Zones in First Bus 88.26 five UK cities highlights the importance and relevance of reducing pollutant emissions, and Greyhound 32.39 1 See our statement on Human Rights and Modern our continued investment in low emission Slavery on page 53.
First Rail average 51.26 vehicles ensures we are strongly positioned.
2 International Energy Agency, Energy Technology Car medium diesel 113 Perspectives 2016.
Carbon footprint methodology 3 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 5th All FirstGroup data refers to 2016 17.
CO e We have reported on all the emission sources 2 Assessment Report: Synthesis Report 2015. refers to carbon dioxide equivalent.
required under the Companies Act 2006 4 http: www.
org issues UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Strategic Report and Directors Reports .
Company Reporting 2016 DECC Defra Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our 5 based on 177g CO e per km, normalised Environmental Protection Agency 2014 Emission 2 consolidated financial statement.
We do not for1.56 passengers per car according to Factors for Greenhouse Gas Inventories.
EPA have responsibility for any emission sources that NTS0905.
Short Haul flight 156g CO e per passenger km.
2 Greyhound 32g CO e per passenger km.
are not included in our consolidated statement.
2 38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol Our carbon footprint in tonnes of CO2 e : Data extracted from Corporate Accounting and Reporting www.
com 2017 2016 17 2015 16 Standard, applying the operational control CR Data which was included approach to our organisational boundary.
We Scope 1 2,338,164 2,324,947 within Carbon Clears have used emissions factors from the UK Scope 2 location based 61,567 72,776 independent limited assurance scope.
Government conversion factors for GHG Scope 3 9,031 13,489 com 2017 CR Assurance for Out of Scope 9,530 13,585 Company Reporting 2016, various World full assurance opinion and for Resources Institute GHG Protocol tools 2015, notes on the breakdown of Total tonnes CO2 e 2,418,292 2,424,797 the US Environmental Protection Agency thistable.
2015, Canadas National Inventory Report Total tonnes CO e per 1mrevenue 428 464 2 Reporting period 1 April 2016 2015 and the Association of Issuing Bodies to31 March 2017, in line with Scope 2 marketbased 46,128 57,023 theGroups financial year.
Scope 1 Direct emissions from: vehicle use Our performance in 2016 17 In 2014 15, we reported that 81% of our annual owned and leased : fugitive refrigerant gas The majority of FirstGroups carbon dioxide First Bus mileage was completed with engines emissions: heating fuels used in buildings: emissions 95% result from fuels and of Euro III standard or higher: in 2016 17, this and road and rail fuel use.
electricity used to power our road and rail has increased to 93%.
In addition, our mileage Scope 2 Indirect emissions from electricity vehicles.
In 2016 17, our absolute fleet carbon from electric, hydrogen, diesel-electric hybrid used in our buildings, and to power our emissions were broadly flat overall compared and the latest Euro VI low carbon engines has electric rail and bus fleet.
We report both to 2015 16, with a small increase of 0.98%.
more than tripled since 2015 16 to 23.4m location based emissions taking into miles.
This investment positions FirstGroup In 2016 17, we ordered more than 300 new account the UK grid average and market asone of the UKs largest operators of buses for our UK fleet, all equipped with the based emissions.
latest Euro VI engine technology.
These engines Scope 3 Indirect emissions from: First have been independently proven to produce First Student home to school transport offers Travel Solutions: business travel by air: and up to 95% less nitrogen oxide emissions than the lowest passenger km carbon emissions North America and UK waste recycling and 1 previous generations of engines and are ofany of our fleet.
First Students fleet has disposal.
therefore now helping in the effort to improve achieved a 4.87% reduction in CO2 e air quality within many towns and cities across compared to 2015 16.
Out of scope Indirect emissions from the UK.
More than 230 of these new vehicles burning bio fuels in our First Bus vehicles, in are also Low Carbon Emission certified, which line with Defra reporting guidelines.
have also been independently proven to For more information, see our reporting produce 30% less greenhouse gas emissions 1 Based on American Schoolbus Council Data of guidelines at www.
com 2017 compared with older vehicles.
Reporting Guidelines FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 toallow greater visibility and cross-divisional Corporate responsibility sharing of our formally documented local continued community engagement plans and associated best practice activities.
This, and our continued focus on engagement, will support employees at every level of the organisation to continue to engage with our communities inaconsistent and effective way.
At Greyhound, better utilisation, streamlining Community investment ofroutes and fuel efficiency measures have An important part of our approach to resulted in 32.39g CO e per passenger 2 community engagement is the investment km an improvement of more than 3% wemake in our partnerships with charitable since2015 16. organisations who share our ambition of Across our rail operations in the UK, keeping our communities prospering.
we continue to support Network Rails In total, FirstGroup and our employees gave electrification projects and are rolling out our 1.83m during 2016 17 as measured by the new electric trains on GWR routes, with the LBG model on community impact.
Around delivery of our new bi-mode trains for TPE 60% of our community investment is focused routes starting in 2018.
Continued support for on two key areas: health and education.
This energy efficient driving techniques across our year we supported more than 1,000 charitable Second successful year rail operations has improved performance organisations through corporate donations levels compared to last year across the rail for Prostate Cancer and gifts in kind, including the donation of division.
Overall, CO e emissions per 2 advertising space and vehicle hires, event UKpartnership passenger km have fallen from 52.38g CO e 2 sponsorships, and tickets.
per passenger km in2015 16 to 51.26g CO e 2 FirstGroups three-year partnership with per passenger km.
Our employees take us even further into our our employee-chosen charity Prostate communities, giving their time and effort to Cancer UK began in April 2015, with a Significant improvement in our propertyfundraise and support the causes they are target of reaching 1m by March 2018 in related carbon footprint a 22.8% reduction in passionate about.
This year we again offered cash, gift in kind donations, such as gas use and a 12.8% reduction in electricity our UK employees matched funding for their advertising space, and volunteering.
has followed warmer winter weather requiring fundraising efforts, matching up to 200 per The partnership provides numerous less energy-intensive heating and changes to person to registered charities.
In addition, opportunities for employees to take our property portfolio.
more than 1,050 UK employees took part in partin raising both vital funds and This year, we are able to report for the first our payroll giving scheme, donating more than awareness for the charity.
timethe carbon emissions related to the 97,000 to charity through their pre-tax pay in One such opportunity is overall volume of our wastes and their final fate the past year alone.
ProstateCancer UKs flagship event in recycling or disposal.
In First Bus and First Our flagship UK charity of choice partnership Brew and Bake, which aims to bring Rail, we are seeing an improving trend in levels with Prostate Cancer UK continues to go from together friends, family and colleagues of recycling and waste diverted from landfill.
strength to strength, with a total partnership over tea and cake to raise funds to help value of more than 920,000 in the two years beat the most common cancer Our communities to 31 March 2017.
The selection process for amongst men.
FirstGroup promoted the our next employee-voted charity of choice will We are proud to serve our event toall UKemployees, providing begin in late 2017, with a new partner joining toolkits including posters, cake labels communities across the us on 1 April 2018. and bunting.
As wellas raising funds, UK, NorthAmerica and beyond.
the initiative also raised awareness of We use our expertise, passion and support adisease that affects onein eight men Safety tomake a positive impact wherever we work, in the UK.
Dedicated to Safety, always front helping to meet our ambition of being the FirstGroup and Prostate Cancer UKs ofmind safety is our way of life.
preferred partner of the communities we serve.
aim is to reach as many people as Dedication to safety is one of our five values, Community engagement possible, helping to start lifesaving and it signals that our commitment to the Community partnership and engagement journeys across the UK.
As part of this, safety of our passengers, our employees and lieatthe heart of our business.
Developing, we are funding the production of one all third parties interacting with our businesses sustaining and improving long term million Know Your Prostate guides, remains unwavering.
partnerships with our key stakeholders which are being distributed across iscritical to our ongoing success.
theUK to help educate and raise Every year our trains and buses carry more awareness of the symptoms of than two billion passengers more than 10 This year, we continued to provide regular prostate cancer.
billion miles, and we are responsible for more community engagement training and support than100,000 employees.
Sadly there was one for our managers across the Group.
In addition, During the first two years of the employee fatality in First Student this year, and we used the results of our stakeholder and partnership April 2015 March 2017, nine passenger fatalities seven of those in customer surveys to further tailor and enhance FirstGroup employees fundraised the tragic incident at Tramlink in Croydon in our training and engagement activities.
This is in addition November 2016 which is covered in detail also implemented a new online engagement tocorporate donations and gift in onpage 6 of this report.
We feel the impact tracking tool this year, which helped to drive kindadvertising, bringing the total ofthese tragic events throughout our entire anincrease in the number of engagement partnership value to date to more organisation and they strengthen our resolve activities taking place across our businesses.
than 920,000. to achieve zero harm to our employees, In the coming year, we will launch a new online passengers and anyone else we engage community engagement planning system, within the course of our business.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Safety leadership supervisors are required to take, including Our Executive Safety Committee is chaired by dailytouchpoints and weekly debriefs.
the Chief Executive, and meets six times per Strategy in action year to review the Groups safety strategy and This year, First Student has strengthened the performance, procedures and practices itsnew driver training, and has begun ofthe divisions and operating companies.
implementing turning and manoeuvring Italso assists the Board Safety Committee clinicsacross the division.
inobtaining assurance that appropriate operational systems and processes are in In First Transit, driver training clinics are being place to manage safety risks and to promote delivered at every location across the division, asafety focused culture.
Our Board Safety focusing on addressing the most common Committee reviews the safety performance causes of collisions, with more than 6,000 ofthe Group on behalf of the Board, oversees drivers trained to date.
the management of the Groups operational Health and wellbeing In Greyhound, sideswipes have been identied safety risk prole and promotes a positive as the largest single reason for collisions.
ofour employees safety culture throughout the Group.
More Asideswipe incident occurs when the side information on our Committees can be found As a responsible employer we want to ofa vehicle comes into contact with another on page 62. support our people to stay healthy and that is driving next to it, in the same direction.
active, both physically and mentally.
Be Safe To tackle this, training is being targeted in Each of our businesses supports Be Safe is our Group-wide commitment to built-up urban areas where these incidents employees through local initiatives safety, to: most frequently occur.
targeting the issues most relevant to drive continuous improvement towards First Bus is delivering a refresher of Smiths itsworkforce.
zeroharm System driver training, and has developed One of the biggest health challenges anonline tool to monitor and manage driving make safety a personal core value for forour drivers is how to eat well and performance in an objective way and allow all employees maintain a healthy weight during life on forany interventions to take place at an the road.
Greyhounds Rolling Strong programme To achieve this, there are robust safety An online version of our competency provides drivers with on-site support management systems, and a clear focus on management system, covering our driver from a wellness coach who visits our ensuring compliance with policies, processes population, was rolled out in GWR, TPE and terminals and training schools to give and procedures.
Our behavioural change Hull Trains during 2016 17, allowing assessors free biometric readings, face to face programme builds on this, by focusing on the to collect and access competency consultations, and advice on simple management data on tablets or laptop preventative actions to reduce health computers during frontline site inspections.
risks and make better food choices.
Also, new driver training modules are being Aspart of the programme weve developed to support consistent safety changed the menu at driver training standards and behaviours.
schools to offer healthier options.
Initiatives in technology Greyhounds Healthy Hound initiative We continue to innovate and explore the use also supports employees to lose weight oftechnology to enhance safety performance, Our First Bus eet is fully and stop smoking.
learning from other businesses and sectors, compliant with the Disability and sharing best practice across our operations.
TPE has introduced health monitoring Discrimination Act equipment at its main employee The majority of the road eet is now equipped locations to help employees track key with safety sensors and recording devices.
In indicators including blood pressure, positive reinforcement of safety critical Greyhound and First Transit, video and audio body fat, BMI and heart rate.
Regular behaviours through regular touchpoints recording is triggered when acceleration assessments and advice are provided dailypositive safety coaching interactions exceeds specified thresholds.
This information by specialist occupational anddebriefs weekly collective discussion is used to improve driver behaviour, prioritise health professionals.
andfeedback on the touchpoints delivered drivers requiring further support, commend ateach of our locations.
high-performing drivers, and support incident Our initiatives also recognise the investigation.
To support safety behaviour change, we have For example, TPE has rolled out mental delivered tailored training to more than 5,000 First Student uses a eet management system health awareness workshops to help managers and supervisors this year, bringing that logs speed and routes through GPS, managers and colleagues recognise the the total to almost 8,500 employees now aswell as reporting faults, thereby contributing signs that someone may be struggling, trained.
Touchpoints take place across the to road safety.
offer appropriate support and learn Group every day, and nearly 20,000 debriefs First Bus uses a sensor that not only provides about coping techniques.
have occurred since the programme began, in-vehicle feedback to drivers, but also including by the Chief Executive and by Good mental health helps ensure better compiles driver safety scores and trip history.
customer service, employee motivation, This feeds into a database that makes it simple performance and safety.
To embed further our Be Safe programme, for managers to monitor driver performance in2016 17 we developed a set of Principles and improve driver standards.
This database tohelp every employee across the Group to isnow also being implemented in our North understand how they can demonstrate our American divisions, commencing with Dedicated to Safety value.
supported by Rules of Engagement, which make clear the actions that all managers and FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Employee engagement Corporate responsibility Diversity snapshot at 31 March 2017 Our Your Voice survey measures employees continued satisfaction with the way they are managed, Female the pride they feel in working for the business, Male and how likely they are to recommend us to Total employees others as a great place to work.
Our First Rail Our people 2015 39.6% 60.4% businesses once again scored well, with With more than 100,000 employee engagement scores between 1 Senior managers employees, our people are 66-92% compared with an external UK 2017 20.6% 79.4% attheheart of our success.
The First Bus score 2016 18.0% 82.0% of 61% represents a 4% improvement on its Our employee programmes cover a range 2015 survey.
2015 17.3% 82.7% ofareas, and we are constantly looking to Engagement scores in our North American 2 seewhere we can improve our offering.
Board Directors divisions ranged from 66-74%, against an Be First awards 2017 11.1% 88.9% external benchmark norm of 72%.
Our annual Be First awards celebrate 2016 11.1% 88.9% In the second half of the year, we simplified employees who have made a significant 2015 11.1% 88.9% thesurvey to make it quicker and easier for contribution to our business over the past year.
1 Using the Companies Act definition of any employees to complete, whilst still preserving Individuals and teams are nominated employee who has responsibility for planning, the ability to track progress with previous years directing or controlling the activities of the Company bycolleagues for the way their everyday and compare results against internal and or a strategically significant part of the Company.
behaviours and actions reflect our vision, external benchmarks.
2 We have improved the diversity of our Board strategy and values.
Two employee recognition Directors since 31 March 2017, with the recruitment Since introducing the new streamlined events, one in North America and one in the oftwo new Board Directors in May 2017 leading survey, and encouraging completion online, UK, bring together nominees and senior toa20:80 female to male gender split.
participation rates have increased, with our management to celebrate success and learn First Bus response rate climbing 3% to 73%, where best practice examples can be shared management roles has increased again, significantly ahead of the external UK across the Group.
from18% to 20.6% since last year, another benchmark norm of 66%.
Linking to our rise from 17.3% in 2014.
To encourage employees to get involved, employee-chosen charity of choice, Prostate theGroup donates 5 per nomination to our More broadly, around 35% of all management Cancer UK, we made a donation to the charity charity of choice, Prostate Cancer UK.
This roles across the Group are now held by women, for each completed survey.
Response rates year we were pleased to see an increase in an important foundation for further increasing forTPE were up 12% to 86% and GWR 9% thenumber of nominations to 705, more than the number of women in senior management.
double the previous year, resulting in more More than 56% of the workforce in our First than 3,500 being donated.
Student division is female, with more than Apprentices and graduates 25,000 women employed across a variety of In 2016, 66 new apprentices began their driving, supervisory and management roles.
careers in engineering and operational roles During the year our businesses have led a with us, 26% of them female, indicating variety of initiatives to improve diversity and gradual progress in the proportion of women inclusion.
For example, GWR has been part of beginning technical careers with FirstGroup.
Our partnership with Prostate the UK National Inclusion Taskforce to improve Our UK graduate programme also continues Cancer UK is valued at more leadership opportunities for Black, Asian and to help us attract engineering and leadership than920,000 since we Minority Ethnic employees, and will continue talent, with seven graduates joining in 2016 launchedin April 2015 contributing to the Taskforce in 2017. across our First Bus and First Rail divisions.
We have also partnered with the Dame We continue to see a rise in female applicants, Hannah Rogers Trust, Mencap, the Our North American divisions will benefit from with 43% of hires into our graduate Department of Education and Oxfordshire the new simpler survey in their next survey programme being female in 2016 17.
County Council to offer 12 month supported cycle in 2018.
During the year we have expanded our internships to young people with learning Diversity and inclusion programme to include three graduate disabilities.
These placements provide high A diverse and inclusive organisation is better opportunities in our Group Finance team, quality, valuable work experience, and build able to serve our customers and communities, whowill join us during 2017. confidence and independence.
and to attract and retain the best available talent.
Our graduates and apprentices benefit Ruth Collins, Mencaps Education and Our full gender diversity snapshot for 2016 17 fromexposure to a range of areas within the Employment Service Manager, said Around is shown above.
business, allowing them to identify the area 80% of working age people with a learning inwhich they wish to specialise.
This year, our disability in the UK could work, but fewer than The passenger transport industry remains graduates took part in a fundraising challenge 10% are currently in employment.
Traditionally, fewer women for our UK charity of choice, Prostate Cancer GWRs make a huge difference by developing have applied for driving jobs, or studied the UK, raising thousands of pounds between the skills they need to enter the job market.
science, technology, engineering and them and raising awareness amongst mathematics subjects which lead to careers in We have also supported employability skills ouremployees and customers.
many of our engineering and operational roles.
sessions with Clean Break, an organisation that aims to help female ex-prisoners to develop We remain committed to changing the gender the skills and confidence to move into jobs.
demographics of our business, and we are pleased that the proportion of women in senior 42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance Improving local environmental performance We are at the forefront of deploying low carbon and alternative fuel vehicles across the industry, helping to improve air quality for the local communities in which we operate Increased use of alternative fuels Mileage by vehicles using alternative fuels is continuing to grow across First Student and First Transit.
In response to customer demand, we offer a range of options including biodiesel, electric and gas vehicles such as liquefied natural gas LNG, liquefied petroleum gas LPG and hydrogen.
As well as reducing the fleet reliance on fossil fuels, these vehicles help to improve local air quality through reduced or negligible emissions.
More than 18% of our mileage in First Transit and 14% of our mileage in First Student is now completed using alternative fuels.
Investing in low carbon vehicles Following our order of more than 300 Euro VI buses during 2016, ourfleet of DfT-certified low carbon vehicles in First Bus stands at around 1,000 one of the largest inthe UK.
These vehicles produce 95% less oxides of nitrogen NOx emissions compared to buses withEuro V engines, and as a resultwill help improve air quality inthe towns and cities in which FirstBus operates.
Innovative vehicle trials to measure air quality impact Our award-winning vehicle trials at Millbrook, a vehicle testing facility inBedfordshire, help us to better understand the impact First Bus hason local air quality.
We complete a number of tests over and above manufacturers recommendations, working with potential suppliers to identify areas for improvement in both engine and vehicle design, encouraging fuel efficiency and New electric trains emissions reduction.
These vehicle trials help us to understand which GWR have begun the roll out of a fleet of new models and manufacturers we wish electric trains, as part of their commitment to to invest in, and lead to positive deliver more capacity and faster, more frequent competition between potential services.
The trains started to enter service in contractors, with learnings that can September and offer at-seat power sockets, air be applied across their businesses.
conditioning, extra luggage space and free Wi-Fi for customers.
They replace diesel vehicles, improving local air quality and reducing noise pollution around stations and depots.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43
