Strategic report Pe ople TalkTalk has a unique culture founded on living our values everyday and our mission to deliver simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity for everyone.
Mark Dickinson Chief People Officer Building a Great Place to Work 2.
Next Generation Working The feedback from our 2016 engagement survey continues to inform Most of our colleagues are based in the North West of England our Great Place to Work strategic priority and this year supported intwosites about ten miles apart.
For some time we have wanted our focus on four key areas: Future Organisation evolving our structure aworkplace where our people can give their best, a place where and making sure we have the right skills and capabilities for the theycan collaborate, communicate and do great work in a flexible, future: Next Generation Working creating a working environment modern, attractive environment.
We have secured 1,200 sq m of that is frictionless, flexible and collaborative: Culture being clear theSoapworks by Media City in Salford Quays.
This will be our new about the values and behaviours we need to be successful: and North West site and will provide a great place to work for everyone Operational Excellence ensuring that we continually monitor and there and will help us to attract the great talent we need for our improve the areas that colleagues expect us to deliver every day.
growth as a business in the Northern Powerhouse.
We move in Thejourney will continue in the year ahead, but some of the Junethis year.
highlightsso far include: Getting the best out of how people work is just as important as wherethey work and we have made great strides in all our locations 1.
Future Organisation increating a more flexible, better balanced work and lifestyle We constantly review our organisation size, shape and capabilities.
environment where this is at all possible.
We use a methodology called Future-back to help us predict which skills and capabilities we need to develop or acquire to keep us Giving people the tools to further support our next generation competitive or put us ahead of our competition.
Across 2016 we working styles and enhance collaboration across the business has developed a series of organisational priorities centred around also been important this year.
We have rolled out Microsoft Office improving our Technology function, how we make best use of our 365 to all of our colleagues.
Office 365 will provide our people data and gain better insights for the benefit of our customers, and withthe latest suite of Microsoft applications, providing a mobile, we started a transformation of our Finance teams.
In the year we evergreen, cloud-based and more secure user experience, and hired almost 900 new colleagues including our most successful newways to work more closely with their team members, no matter graduate programme to date.
Soapworks, Salford Quays 26 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 3.
Culture TalkTalk has a unique culture founded on its values and a clear mission These six newly articulated values will be formally relaunched inthe to deliver simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity for everyone.
business in May 2017, and embedded through the development of Following a review of our culture over the last 18 months encompassing supporting behaviours aligned to each value.
Once designed, wewill feedback from our people, the findings from our internal post-cyber integrate these behaviours throughout the colleague lifecycle to incident review conducted with PwC in2015 and the results of our reinforce our culture, ensuring that we are recruiting, developing and Great Place to Work survey in early 2016 this year, we undertook a celebrating our people for demonstrating the qualities that are most full review of our company values tomake sure they are fully reflective important for our continued success.
of the organisation we wish to be.
As a result of this review, in which we held workshops with all of our senior leaders, and diverse groups of colleagues and partners, we have rearticulated our values as below, to make them clearer, and introduced a new sixth value We deliver our commitments, to place even greater emphasis on accountability and quality of delivery.
Simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity for everyone Which we deliver, living our values everyday We always save Every customer We zig when the We can be We do the We deliver our our customers matters world zags ourselves here rightthing commitments money Business is about The price has to If somethings more than just We want to get be right but that worth doing, making money it right for our doesnt mean People from its worth doing customers no compromising on It'sabout having When we spot all walks of life properly.
That matter who they service the courage an opportunity, thrive here that means we always are, or how long to stand up for were not afraid difference makes take ownership, Weprovide theyve been with whats right for to challenge and us stronger, more identify clear our customers us, we focus on our customers, innovate fun and a better priorities, plan withaffordable, the things that colleagues, place to work thoroughly and reliable products mean the most partners, deliver flawlessly and services tothem shareholders and from start to finish thatjust work local communities Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 27 Strategic report Pe ople continued 4.
Operational Excellence Colleague performance and development In May 2016, we communicated our strategic priorities for the year This year we have focused on enabling performance through learning.
ahead with an All Hands tour of every site in the UK and abroad.
In February 2017, we launched a new, pioneering Learning Management Wealso hosted an All Hands webcast between sites in November System Workday Learning a central source of learning material tocheck in on the progress of our priorities.
and courses for all colleagues.
Accessible online from anywhere, In the autumn, we also hosted an annual off-site festival called the thissystem provides centrally created content and user generated Great Getaway, where colleagues and their families come together content, enabling colleagues to share their own knowledge and for a day of fun activities and musical acts as means of recognising skillswith their peers, driving collaboration.
their contribution to the business.
Throughout 2017, we will continue to focus on investing in technical skills, Colleague recognition as well as lifting the digital literacy and capability in the organisation.
Celebrating those colleagues who champion our culture and go above We will also be reviewing our people leader programmes to ensure and beyond is very important to us and we continue to recognise the that we continue to up-weight manager and leader capability.
individuals who are living our values through our On The Spot award Colleague benefits and share ownership scheme.
Once a year at our All Hands event, we also recognise the We continue to offer a comprehensive range of voluntary benefits, Superheroes amongst our colleagues and partners who have made enabling colleagues to make choices to suit their lifestyle.
We evaluate an outstanding contribution to the business over the past year.
In 2016, these on an annual basis, and this year we offered our colleagues 15 TalkTalk Superheroes from around the world were rewarded with even greater flexibility, with the ability to opt in and out of certain atrip to London, where highlights included a dinner with members of benefits throughout the year as their circumstances change.
our Executive Committee, a trip to see the Big Data exhibition at the Throughout 2017, we will also begin to focus on a more holistic Science Museum and a VIP experience at the Great Getaway festival.
approach to colleague wellbeing, with benefits, education and Gender and diversity resources tailored to our four pillars of wellbeing: Financial, Mental, Our people come from different backgrounds and cultures, Physical and Lifestyle.
creatinga vibrant working environment that thrives on new ideas Share ownership remains an important part of our culture and over andfresh thinking.
45% of our people currently participate in our Sharesave and Share The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is Match Schemes.
Having so many of our people as shareholders highlighted in our Equality Policy and clearly articulated in our corporate creates great engagement and alignment with the interests of our value We can be ourselves here which guides the respectful way investors.
We strongly believe in our colleagues being advocates for we behave towards each other.
We believe that people from all walks our products and continue to offer free home phone, broadband, of life thrive here that difference makes us stronger, more fun and fibre and TV to all colleagues, as well as half-price mobile packages abetter place to work.
and TV content offers throughout the course of the year.
From our 2016 Great Place to Work survey we know that 80% of Colleague consultation One Voice forum ourpeople feel they can be themselves at work, which we believe One Voice is a consultation and information forum consisting of gives us a competitive advantage.
Furthermore, we scored 90% 80nominated colleague representatives, management and members against the surveys diversity metrics around the fair treatment of of our People Services team.
The forum meets regularly to discuss ourpeople.
Abreakdown by gender of the number of people who how the key issues we face as a business might affect our colleagues, were Directors of the Company, senior managers and other to share feedback and discuss other relevant colleague matters.
colleagues as at 31 March 2017 is set out below: Colleague communications and events Senior All We have a number of formal and informal channels that we use to Di rec to rs management coll e a gu e s keep our colleagues up to date, energised and engaged.
Our online Female 3 25 753 collaboration tool, The Wire, remains a critical communication Male 13 61 1,543 toolfor the business.
The tool supports blogging at all levels of the organisation, so colleagues can share what they are working on and 1 Includes Non-Executive Directors.
We have continued to run We Talk sessions on TheWire which involve hosting an online Q&A on a specific topic sothat colleagues can ask any related questions and have them answered by a subject matter expert.
We provide all colleagues with an overview of all the key business news from The Wire every Friday, inan email publication called Re:Wired.
We also issue biweekly email communications to all People Managers with all the key information they need to support their teams.
28 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 The move to Soapworks is all about offeringour people a vibrant and modern environment they can be proud of.
It has been designed to offer our people more choice and flexibility about how and where they work, and offers a range of different working environments whether they wanta creative space to collaborate with colleagues, or a quieter area to concentrate Soapworks has it all.
Wecant wait to move in and welcome ourNorth West colleagues there this summer, and to become a key part ofthegrowing Techcommunity in SalfordQuays.
Mark Dickinson Chief People Officer
