Corporate responsibility A successful approach to corporate responsibility is an essential part of securing a sustainable business which thrives both today and in the future.
Dairy Crests Corporate Responsibility CR strategy is designed to cover our business activities and is reflected in our new four strategic pillars of Climate, Colleagues, Consumers and Community.
2017 marks the 10th anniversary of our CR strategy.
During this farmers and our progress on CO and waste reduction.
2 time, we have enjoyed a number of CR achievements and awards: For our Colleagues pillar we have improved our industry this strong heritage sets us up well for future success.
leading health and safety performance and the well-being In the last year we have reviewed our objectives, and how programmes for our employees.
we will approach current and emerging issues.
An important Our commitments to health and nutrition contained in our change following this review was the simplification of our pledges Consumers pillar are supported by growth in Frylight volumes and and the introduction of four strategic pillars Climate, Colleagues, additional Cathedral City Lighter product formats.
Our extensive Consumers and Community which are championed by our research programmes continue, including the exciting area of Executive Committee: this means that the spirit and intent of the animal health benefits from functional ingredients such as GOS.
pledges within the pillars are more alive than ever before.
Finally, in delivering our Community pillar, we continue to In this section we report on what we have achieved in the first support our local communities.
We have been very busy working year of our five year CR programme.
We will describe areas of with The Princes Countryside Fund, Macmillan Cancer Support and focus in our Climate pillar including our engagement with our Crisis at Christmas, and promoted employee volunteering days.
Greenhouse Gas report 2016 17 Scope 1 and 2 emissions reduced in 2016 17 by 71% compared to the In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic previous year driven by the changes summarised in the chart below.
Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 our greenhouse gas GHG emissions are quantified below.
136.3 2016 17 2015 16 Scope 1 11,438 79,050 tonnes CO e 2 Scope 2 27,581 57,256 tonnes CO e 2 total scope 1&2 39,019 136,306 tonnes CO e 2 kg CO e per tonne 2 intensity ratio 64.40 81.37 throughput 83.8 5.7 3.9 Emissions from Biomass fuel 26,102 22,033 tonnes CO e 2 6.3 2.4 39.0 We follow the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate emissions from the combustion of fuels Scope 15 16 16 17 1 and from purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2.
Divestment and outsourcing: Carbon emission factors are used to convert each activity that gives full year effect of the divestment of the Dairies business on 26 rise to GHG emissions to a carbon dioxide equivalent CO e using the 2 December 2015 reducing Scope 1 emissions fuels used in processing latest UK Government conversion factors for company reporting.
sites and depots and road fuel used for distribution and business travel The GHG data reported below relates to emissions from activities in and Scope 2 emissions electricity used in manufacturing sites and the operational control of Dairy Crest Group plc from 1 April 2016 to depots compared to April December in this reporting year 31 March 2017 consistent with our financial reporting period.
outsourcing of primary transport for distribution of finished products to Fowler Welch on the 5 June 2016 reducing Scope 1 emissions from scope 1 emissions data includes material sources of fossil fuels used HGV road fuel and refrigeration for the remainder of this reporting year at manufacturing sites and depots and road fuel used in the transport and distribution of intermediate and finished products.
Road fuel used operational changes at manufacturing sites: in company cars operated by Dairy Crest for business travel is also the biomass boilers at Davidstow returned to high levels of utilisation included.
Minor losses of refrigerants used in cooling equipment have experienced in previous years providing around 80% of the heat to the been converted to tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and are included creamery and reducing Scope 1 emissions from the use of fossil fuels.
In 2016 17 on-site renewable energy represented 41% of total energy 63% of fuel used by manufacturing sites.
scope 2 emissions data includes purchased electricity used in the carbon intensity of electricity imported from the public grid manufacturing, distribution and in offices.
reduced by 11% compared to the previous year based on annual We employ a per tonne of throughput denominator as the most emissions factors issued by DEFRA reducing Scope 2 emissions effective measure of relative performance.
This measure is consistent changes to portfolio of production at Davidstow with the introduction with our internal target setting process and how we communicate of new functional ingredients at Davidstow and associated site relative performance.
infrastructure, such as new and enhanced assets for the treatment of Consistent with the GHG Protocol emissions from biologically process waste water which increased relative energy use and hence sequestered carbon are reported separately from the other Scopes.
both Scope 1 and 2 emissions These comprise emissions from combustion of biomass fuel at our The overall effect of the changes described above on the emissions creamery in Davidstow that significantly reduce Scope 1 emissions intensity metric was a year-on-year decrease of 21%.
Emissions from combustion of biomass fuels are not included in the emissions intensity ratio reported above.
22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Divestment of Dairies Outsourced transport Biomass utilisation Grid factor Portfolio change Climate As a leading dairy manufacturer we are determined to play an active role in mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate change, reducing waste and looking after our natural 40% of resources.
total energy use comes from Targeting 50% biomass boilers of water from recycled sources 80% waste Working with The segregation target Grocers Waste Not exceeded Want Not campaign responsible stewardship on farm fossil fuels.
Energy from the biomass boilers represented more Our well-established farmer support package consists of our than 40% of total energy use, meeting our pledge for more than Farm Business Centre, field based Farm Business Managers, our one third of total energy to come from on-site renewables.
farmers portal plus independent advisory and audit services.
The combined effect for our manufacturing sites was a lower We work closely with Dairy Crest Direct DCD, our farmer than forecast increase in relative energy use of 2% with an associated representative body, and actively supported their successful reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 13%.
This represents application to become the first Dairy Producer Organisation in significant progress towards our pledge to reduce emissions from the UK.
our direct operations by 20% over the next five years.
Our Davidstow Farm Standards have proven an effective way to reflect the shared priorities of Dairy Crest and our direct Water stewardship supplying dairy farmers.
These standards are designed to reflect Securing sufficient, high quality freshwater is essential to best practice on farm and ensure the highest quality of milk our business strategy.
We have invested in advanced water supply.
Each of our direct supplying farms achieves a ranking treatment technologies to enable the re-use of process waste under the standards.
Our pledge is to assist and support farmers water at Davidstow reducing long-term reliance on freshwater in achieving the highest ranking which is currently achieved by imports.
Towards the end of the year, higher recovery rates meant around 70% of our supplying farms.
that around 45% of water used came from recycled sources.
We are engaging with other stakeholders and supply chain Maintaining high water recovery rates at Davidstow is key to the partners in the South West to assess further cost effective best achievement of our pledge for more than 50% of the water required practice standards for example in relation to environmental to manufacture our products to come from recycled sources.
controls that support local healthy eco-systems.
Reducing demand for water also remains important to us and we continue to prioritise efficiency projects such as enhanced low carbon manufacturing cleaning of process equipment and plant areas.
We are committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with our direct operations by reducing energy demand reducing waste and switching to less carbon intensive forms of energy.
In 2016 17 we again achieved our short-term objective to send Our site teams continue to make good progress in improving zero waste to landfill and acknowledged that this was an early, the efficiency of generation and use of energy with relative energy albeit important, stage of achieving our pledge to increase the use reducing across Kirkby, Frome and Nuneaton by 4%.
A wide value generated from unavoidable non-edible wastes.
Our focus range of projects included investment in low energy lighting, heat remains on reducing non-edible wastes at source, converting recovery from air compressors and efficient refrigeration systems.
wastes into by-products and moving materials up the waste At Davidstow the introduction of new processes to hierarchy.
manufacture functional ingredients and the new and enhanced We track the proportion of operational wastes segregated on assets for the treatment of process waste water has increased site and were pleased to exceed our target of 80% segregation by relative energy demand.
Our investment in detailed metering of the year end.
demand patterns will help us further to optimise energy use for We have worked with WRAP as part of the Courtauld 2025 these new processes.
agreement and The Grocers Waste Not Want Not campaign to Around 80% of the heat required by the Davidstow creamery reduce household food waste.
was provided from biomass, significantly reducing energy from Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 23 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy CONTINUED Colleagues At Dairy Crest we continually work to improve the excellent safety record we have achieved, we engage with our people and fully utilise their expertise.
We are developing our approach to Diversity and Inclusion to strengthen our skill base, and we continue to develop our people to drive our business forward.
OUR VISION Our success has been built on our links to the countryside, our dairy heritage and the people in our business.
From this, we will grow through a shared passion to create exceptional food, loved by every generation.
WE LEARN WE LEAD We take time to listen, We drive for success and deliver at pace understand and learn WE RESPECT WE CREATE We value people we We seek new ideas to WE CARE work with and are grow our business stronger together We act responsibly with a passion to do Through our refreshed Corporate Responsibility pledges, Dairy Crest employees the right thing have a volunteering day each year to help support local causes.
safety is always first engaging employees We have seen over the years that a commitment to health and Creating an environment where all employees understand they have safety is key to building a great business.
Our track record a key role to play in the Companys success is crucial to achieving during 2016 17 shows further improvement on an already strong the objectives and targets we set.
2016 17 has seen a number of performance.
people initiatives aimed at further engaging our employees.
At the end of March 2017, we have reduced our Lost Time An employee roadshow, presented by members of the Accident Frequency Rate from 0.19 to 0.13 due to a 43% reduction Executive Committee, visited all Dairy Crest sites and offices.
Over in the number of reportable incidents against the 2013 baseline.
a 6 week period, 80% of employees attended the presentation Having set ourselves what appeared to be a challenging objective which covered important topics such as our refreshed Vision of a 50% reduction in Accident Incident Rate by 2018 versus the and Values, CR pledges, our business plans and our progress to 2013 baseline, we have achieved 69% reduction in the last year.
The roadshows were very well received by employees with Encouraging employees to report near misses is key to structured feedback reporting high levels of engagement.
achieving sustainable long-term change in safety behaviour.
We continue to develop our other employee communication Against our target of 100:1 ratio of near miss and behavioural channels with a weekly news roundup, regular business conversations versus all types of accident by 2018, we achieved a performance updates and our staff intranet.
ratio of 423:1, an improvement on last years 175:1 performance.
Feeling valued and part of the wider Dairy Crest team is key to Another important way of engaging our teams in safety is employee engagement.
We support this in three ways: through our cultural change programme, encouraging employees All employees have the opportunity to be part of a bonus or to Stop, Think, Assess, Review STAR and complete STAR incentive scheme which is linked to either personal, site and or cards where they see safety related conditions or actions.
By company performance: discussing and addressing these issues, we have created greater Dairy Crest runs share save schemes whereby employees can levels of dialogue, involvement and a safety first culture.
To build invest in Dairy Crest and take a real ownership role.
Two share on this programme in 2016 we introduced the STAR safe system of save schemes are currently in operation with circa 40% of staff work SSoW conversations, where front line managers initiate a investing their money, up to 500 a month: and conversation with a work colleague, based on the recognised safe Our Reward & Recognition scheme continues to benefit system of working.
Through this discussion better and safer ways employees who go the extra mile.
Bronze and Silver awards, that of working have been identified, reducing our risks and injuries.
attract a monetary benefit, recognise excellent behaviour in line with our values.
Silver award winners are selected by a committee Well-being for our people of staff to receive one of three prestigious Gold awards.
In 2016 17 2016 17 has seen continued growth in free well-being checks for 462 Bronze and Silver awards were awarded.
employees with 256 members of our staff receiving this valuable service that is open to all.
investing in learning Our well-being days continue to attract high staff attendance.
In 2016 17 Dairy Crest has maintained its focus on induction Comprised of practical health and safety advice for work and training and manufacturing compliance skills development.
These home, these events are run across the business and receive very now achieve consistently high levels of compliance with our positive feedback from our teams.
internal targets for timing of completion, respectively 99% and Our busy Occupational Health team also delivered 924 98% at year end.
mandatory health checks throughout the year.
24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Colleagues GENDER PROFILE Gender prole All employees Male 69% Female 31% Senior management Male 76% Our Procurement team enjoying a volunteering day Our very first Eden engineering apprenticeship at Brooklands Museum.
trainees at their graduation ceremony.
Female 24% An important emphasis this year has been on management key metric.
With regard to absence, this now sits at 2.7%, slightly development for all our team leaders, from first line to Director above last years level of 2.6% but in line with our objective to level.
The training provided focussed on the skills required to maintain absence below 3%.
enhance high performance from individuals and teams and included coaching skills, feedback, objective setting and development Diversity and inclusion planning.
This programme was attended by 150 managers from Businesses are more sustainable and perform better when they all disciplines within the business.
We are in the process of attract and develop talent from the broadest possible base.
It is evaluating the outcomes of this programme and defining next this understanding that drives our Diversity and Inclusion agenda.
steps, however, initial feedback has been very positive and we We also know that people are at their most productive when they aim to build upon this to ensure continued improvements in the can achieve an appropriate balance between work and home life.
management and development of our employees.
At Dairy Crest we wish to employ and grow a diverse workforce To enhance access to learning further, Dairy Crest has who feel they are treated flexibly with regard to their ways of launched a new Learning Management System mydevelopment working according to business needs.
incorporating e-learning programmes on a diverse range of Employees are encouraged to reach their full potential business topics, including Dairy Crests specific environmental regardless of their age, gender, marital status including civil awareness module and how to tool kits.
This new platform allows partnerships, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual Dairy Crest to drive blended and dynamic learning initiatives across orientation or religious affiliation.
Dairy Crest does not tolerate the business.
discrimination or harassment on any of these grounds.
To help us The Dairy Crest Talent Management Review is undertaken achieve our aims our polices include the right to apply for flexible annually and is the foundation of our talent assessment process and working hours, a sabbatical, support with taking time off to study, succession planning.
As recognised in the CR pledges, there has and we provide maternity pay above the statutory minimum and been additional emphasis this year on identifying all business critical full pay during paternity leave.
roles and the succession and development plans for these.
This will During 2016 17 we have refreshed our Diversity and Inclusion continue into 2017 18 to ensure Dairy Crest is in the best position to programme, the objective of which is enshrined in our CR pledge secure and retain the right skills for the business.
to develop employment policies and working practices that Dairy Crest continues to invest in apprenticeship programmes encourage a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Already we have to provide a pipeline of talent into key skill areas.
Our Eden reviewed the Diversity training and development provided and will apprenticeships develop competence in the core areas of dairy look to enhance this during 2017 18.
Further action will include a processing, manufacturing and engineering.
Dairy Crest currently review of policies and communications.
supports three technology apprentices and five engineering apprentices.
Our first two Eden engineering trainees graduated this Working with trade unions year and both went straight into shift engineer and maintenance Dairy Crest has enjoyed good relationships with the recognised engineer roles within the Group.
unions, USDAW and Unite, for many years.
We acknowledge Turnover of employees has stabilised during 2016 17 and the positive role trade unions can play in the development of our now sits at 15%.
Although some turnover of staff is positive in business and the constructive way we have worked together.
refreshing our skill base, the current level is higher than desired and DairyCrest will be looking to the Employee Survey, undertaken in April 2017, to help identify any areas where we can improve on this Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 25 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITy CONTINUED Consumers We are committed to providing healthier, tasty products that make it easier for consumers to light & bright future choose healthier foods and to play our part in helping to improve the nations health.
Healthier choices Demineralised Whey and Gos Dairy Crest has continued to invest in its portfolio of lower fat Our plant at Davidstow is now producing high quality ingredients options.
Market data shows that volumes of the lower fat variants for infant formula manufacturers and is showing high levels of of our cheese, butters and spreads brands grew by 1% from consistent quality.
We produce demineralised whey, which forms 2015 16, and now account for 13.8% of our overall branded cheese, the base of infant formula, and GOS, a lactose based prebiotic butters and spreads volumes, an increase from 13.2% in 2015 16. that has been shown to help aid digestive health in infants.
Collectively, along with Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, In addition, we have commenced an extensive research our lower fat variants reached a retail sales value of 84.0 million, programme with universities and commercial partners to illustrate an increase of 3.2% over 2015 16. the benefits of GOS in animal and human nutrition.
GOS may Cathedral City has expanded its extensive range of lower fat improve animal health, as well as food uptake, potentially leading options, with the addition of two new variants Cathedral City to the need for lower levels of antibiotics in the animal husbandry Lighter snack bar and Cathedral City Lighter spreadable.
helped retail sales of lower fat options from Cathedral City to grow to 34.1 million.
sustainable, ethical sourcing Our lower fat spreads Clover Light, Utterly Butterly Lightly Dairy Crest works with its suppliers to exceed best practice and Country Life Lighter spreadable have a collective retail sales around areas including quality and traceability.
We can trace milk value of 20.0 million, and sales of our no artificial ingredients and raw materials from farms and suppliers through to finished Clover have been strong, out-performing the spreads market.
Frylight enjoyed another impressive year reaching a record Thanks to our Davidstow Farm Standards, all milk supplied retail sales value of 29.9 million, a growth of 19%, allowing it to to us meets the strict international standards for the production become the UKs biggest oil brand.
It is now bought by over a of infant formula.
In 2016 we commenced a project to review fifth of UK households, and its contribution to healthier cooking the Davidstow farm audits with a view to further developing and was recognised in winning the 2016 IGD Health and Wellness enhancing the standards in 2017. product award.
Since 1 April 2016 all palm oil used in our spreads products comes from RSPO certified sustainable sources, more than four innovation and quality years ahead of our original committed date.
Our dedicated Innovation Centre and partnership with Harper Adams University gives us the opportunity to develop even more reducing our packaging impact healthy products.
In 2016 we won Most Innovative Contribution to To avoid sending waste to landfill, we are investing in new ways Business-University Collaboration at the Times Higher Education of packaging our products so they are not only made with less Awards in recognition of numerous research-led projects that material and more recycled material but also that the packaging Dairy Crest and Harper Adams University are engaged in together.
Our colleagues take enormous pride in the quality of the food We are pleased to report that all of the tubs and lids used in we produce: this is a founding principle at the heart of our quality our spreads business are now recyclable.
Our quality management systems are regularly reviewed and audited by our own technical teams and third parties to ensure they comply with industry standards.
26 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Community Our community programme supports and enhances the communities in which we work and live.
Our three key priorities are supporting rural communities working with The Princes Countryside Fund, supporting local communities and employee volunteering.
supporting rural communities In 2016 17 we spent over Dairy Crest recognises that the countryside continues to face significant challenges across a wide range of complex social and economic issues.
100,000 supporting Dairy Crest has a long standing relationship with The Princes Countryside Fund.
The charity, set up by HRH The Prince of Wales over 75 local good causes in 2010, exists to improve the prospects of family farm businesses and the quality of rural life.
The Funds vision is of a confident, enabled the homeless charity to support approximately 4,000 robust and sustainable agricultural and rural community which is homeless guests attending the ten Crisis London centres.
In total appreciated for its vital contribution to the UK.
36,000 meals were served across the eight days that the Crisis Dairy Crest donated 50,000 to the Fund in 2016 17 through centres were open.
brand partnerships with Davidstow cheddar and Country Life Dairy Crest also donated 40kg of Cathedral City cheddar for butter.
We are also sponsors of The Princes Dairy Initiative, the Chelsea Pensioners Ceremony of the Cheeses to enjoy over launched in 2012.
The initiative has brought the dairy sector the festive season.
together to take practical action to support the sustainability of a Dairy Crest operates a staff lottery which is open to all diverse British dairy industry.
This year staff have supported over 30 charitable causes through financial donations including Surrey Search and Rescue, Metro Blind Sport, The Stroke Association, MS Society, Cerebral Palsy, Lady Taverners and Macmillan Cancer Support.
Dairy Crest also participated in the Calling London 2016 Winter Coat Drive helping reach a target of 3,500 coats which were distributed across London.
supporting local communities employee volunteering Dairy Crest is committed to supporting local good causes All Dairy Crest employees are encouraged to take up their in the communities where we work and live that improve fully paid volunteering day each year.
Measured as people health, education, youth engagement, employability skills, the days equivalent compared to total number of employees, this environment and the countryside.
represents more than 1,000 volunteering days per annum.
Each Dairy Crest site is allocated a community budget.
Dairy Crest staff voluntarily deliver healthy, fresh food to In total, during 2016 17, we spent over 100,000 supporting over vulnerable people in our local communities through Meals On 75 local good causes.
We also support release time for staff to volunteer with We are proud to have supported local schools, care homes, the Fire Service and other services.
hospices, scout and girl guiding groups and health charities to We host visits to our sites for local schools, The Womens name but a few.
Institute and young Farmer Groups.
Staff also volunteer at various During December 2016, we donated 318 cases of Cathedral local events including providing support at days out for children City cheddar, 71 cases of Country Life spreadable and 3,000 with special needs.
slices of Cathedral City to the 45th Crisis at Christmas.
This Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 27 Strategic report
