Strategic report R egulatory environment Our business activities, and those of BT, our largest supplier, are subject to the laws and regulations of the EU and the UK.
At the EU level, we are regulated by a variety of legal instruments and policies, collectively referred to as the Common Regulatory Framework, regulating the establishment and operation of electronic communications networks and theprovision of electronic communications services, such as telephony, internet access and, to some degree, television services.
The Common Regulatory Framework does not generally address issues We rely upon a number of wholesale products from BTOR to be able of content.
The Common Regulatory Framework primarily seeks to to offer services to our customers.
The key wholesale products are open European markets for communications services and comprises: LLU the copper connections into homes businesses, Generic Ethernet Access GEA access to BTs FTTC network and Ethernet Directive 2002 21 on a common regulatory framework fibre links used to connect exchanges to our core network and also forelectronic communications networks and services: to connect some business customers.
The price and terms of these Directive 2002 20 on the authorisation of electronic are set by Ofcom though atriennial market review process which, communications networks and services: particularly in the case of LLU and Ethernet, gives us reasonable certainty of future costs.
Directive 2002 19 on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities: and We, along with other communication providers, are required to comply with various regulation and legislation.
Our compliance with regulation Directive 2002 22 on universal service and users rights relating is monitored internally by the Regulatory Compliance Committee.
toelectronic communications networks and services.
These Directives are supplemented by EU Directive 2002 58, Electronic communication services regulating the processing of personal data and the protection Ofcom Strategic Review of Digital Communications ofprivacy in the electronic communications sector.
Following a consultation in July 2015, Ofcom published the initial conclusions from its Strategic Review of Digital Communications In the UK, the Common Regulatory Framework is implemented through theStrategic Review in February 2016, designed to take a longer i the Communications Act 2003, which regulates all forms of term, more holistic view than the triennial market reviews.
communications technology, whether used for telecommunication or broadcasting: and ii the Wireless Telegraphy Act 2006, which In July 2016, Ofcom proposed its solution that BTOR should be set up regulates radio communications including with respect to the as a wholly owned subsidiary of BT referred to as legal separation, spectrum, licensing arrangements, usage conditions and charges, though it is keeping open the option of structural separation which licence bidding and trading, and enforcement and penalties.
Ofcom CEO, Sharon White, has stated may be the cleanest and ThePrivacy and Electronic Communications Regulations 2003, most clear-cut long term solution.
We have been vocal in urging asamended, implemented EU Directive 2002 58, regulating the theregulator to take a bold approach, and the Government has processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the called on Ofcom to take whatever action is needed to correct the electronic communications sector.
competition problems identified, and to promote the growth of thedigital economy, however radical a change that might be.
We are also subject to regulation under the UK Broadcasting Acts Whilstlegal separation will reduce BTs ability to abuse its vertical 1990 and 1996 and other UK statutes and subordinate legislation, integration as accepted by Ofcom and should therefore benefit including the Competition Act 1998, the Enterprise Act 2002 and us, we are clear that we believe only structural separation can theEnterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013. deliverthe maximum benefits to the UKmarket.
The UK telecommunication market is regulated by Ofcom, which, Full structural separation would guarantee BT could not use its ownership amongst other objectives, sets the charges and other terms for of BTOR for the commercial benefit of its retail division through wholesale access to infrastructure and associated services provided preferential product design and pricing : nor could it divert BTOR by BT, where BT is deemed to enjoy Significant Market Power.
profit away from improving network performance for customers Mostofthe wholesale products we purchase from BT are provided inorder to finance other corporate priorities.
Ofcoms objective is to serve consumers interests more competitive retail market would also act as an incentive for through encouraging investment and ensuring that these wholesale alternative infrastructure investment.
products enable effective competition in retail markets, sothat consumers and businesses benefit from a choice of attractive In November 2016, Ofcom announced that it intended to mandate services and retail service providers.
legal separation of BTOR from BT after BT failed to offer voluntary proposals that would address competition concerns to Ofcoms satisfaction.
Such separation will require BTOR to become a distinct company with its own independent board of directors and ownership and control of its assets and resources.
Ofcom specifically stated that if legal separation could not be made to work, then full structural separation remains an option.
14 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 In March 2017, Ofcom announced that BT had offered voluntary Duct and pole access commitments and that on the basis of these Ofcom would not Ofcom set out in its Strategic Review that it would improve wholesale mandate legal separation.
The voluntary commitments establish access to BTs ducts and poles so that BTs rivals could use these BTOR as a separate legal entity with its own board though BT assets to rollout their own FTTP networks.
In December 2016 and ispermitted to continue to influence BTOR's decision making.
April 2017, Ofcom outlined further proposals that would make using Furthermore, BTOR will not own the assets it uses.
Ofcom has BTs duct and poles more feasible including: allowing them to be committed to monitor the new arrangements and if they are used for providing leased lines: requiring BT to upgrade its assets noteffective review whether to impose structural separation.
atits own cost to enable third party access: and charge controls onthe prices BTOR can charge for access to ducts and poles.
Broadband services Ductand pole access could benefit us by reducing the cost and LLU charge control and service standards increasing the speed of the roll-out of our own FTTP network.
In March 2017, Ofcom published the Wholesale Local Access Market Review WLAMR which proposed regulation for Metallic Path Facility Universal Service Obligation MPF and GEA.
Ofcom has proposed thatthe rental price of the MPF The UK Government is attempting to drive the deployment of superfast variant that TalkTalk usesshould reduce from 85.29 to 81.98 per broadband to 95% of the population of the UK by the end of 2017. line per year in 2020 21 which reflects in part the implementation of Tosupplement commercial FTTC roll-out, the Government has the revised cost attribution methodology that significantly reduces funded the Broadband Delivery UK programme, which is focused BTs costs allocated to regulated products and increases the costs ondelivering broadband to areas that the market will not serve allocated to other BT divisions.
There are material reductions ofitsown accord.
proposed in some other MPF services such as migrations andnew In November 2015, the then Prime Minister David Cameron announced providers.
Ofcom has also proposed materially improved minimum anintention to introduce a broadband Universal Service Obligation quality standards that BTOR will be required to meet.
USO, with the ambition to give people the legal right to request a Ofcom expects the new regulation to be imposed from April 2018. connection to broadband speeds of 10Mbps.
The Digital Economy Thisleaves, for certain aspects of the regulation, a gap between the Act 2017 gives the Secretary of State an explicit power to introduce end of the previous regulation March 2016 and the newregulation anew broadband USO of at least 10Mbps and require Ofcom to coming into force.
Accordingly, Ofcom has proposed regulation that review the USO to ensure it continues to meet minimum connectivity reduces the MPF price in this period and continues the previous requirements.
Ofcom reported to Government in December 2016 minimum quality standards.
on the key factors affecting the USO.
The USO has cross-party political support, and a new Government is expected to launch a GEA charge control consultation on the scope of the USO, along with draft secondary BTOR provides wholesale access to its fibre infrastructure legislation, afterthe 2017 General Election.
We are working closely predominantly FTTC, on an equivalent basis to all communication with the Government and the Opposition on the issue.
BTORs wholesale product is called GEA.
We use GEA to provide our fibre broadband products.
Currently the price of GEA is Business Connectivity Market Regulation not regulated.
TalkTalk had previously called on Ofcom to introduce In May 2016, Ofcom published the final statement of its Business margin squeeze regulation, establishing a minimum margin between Connectivity Market Review BCMR, which sets regulation for the BTORs wholesale GEA price and BTs retail price.
In March 2015, dedicated fibre connections which are used by businesses, and as Ofcom confirmed that margin squeeze regulation would come into backhaul connections for LLU and mobile networks.
The regulation effect from April that year.
included: price reductions averaging 40% over the next three years, minimum service standards for Ethernet circuits provisioning Ofcoms WLAMR proposes imposing a price cap on GEA for the first where quality has been very poor for over three years and an time.
The specific proposal is that only the price of the 40 10 GEA obligation for BT to offer a dark fibre access product to be launched product is regulated since 40 10 is the product most used by BTs by October 2017.
The new regulation will benefit us in several ways, external customers and a price cap on 40 10 will constrain the price including: immediate cost reductions, the opportunity to lower of other GEA products such as 80 20 an approach known as costs further through using dark fibre, the ability to innovate our anchor product regulation.
The proposed price for 40 10 GEA in products and an improvement in provisioning quality, which will 2010 21 is more than 40% less than todays price: 52.77 per year increase customer satisfaction.
TalkTalk appealed a particular versus 88.80 today.
The regulation is expected to come into force aspect of Ofcoms BCMR decision regarding how the dark fibre price from April 2018. reflects non-domestic rates costs.
TalkTalk won its appeal with the result that dark fibre prices will materially reduce.
BT and CityFibre also appealed various other aspects of the BCMR decision.
These appeals are currently being heard by the Competition Appeals Tribunal.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 15 Strategic report R egulatory environment continued Electronic communication services continued Other material current or potential regulation Mobile telephony Brexit EU roaming regulations for mobile telephony services On 23 June 2016 the UK voted to leave the European Union EU.
As an MVNO, we are subject to EU regulations relating to prices for TheUKGovernment has been considering how the vote will impact roaming services.
These regulations set limits on certain wholesale thefuture of telecoms regulation in the UK, including what aspects and retail tariffs for international mobile voice roaming, SMS tariffs and ofthe Common Regulatory Framework will be replicated in the data roaming within the EU, provide for greater levels of transparency GreatRepeal Bill.
Final decisions will be subject to the outcome of retail pricing information, and impose measures to guard against ofthe 2017 UK General Election and the subsequent negotiations bill shock in respect of data roaming.
In November 2015, the EU passed onthe UKs withdrawal from the EU.
Weare working closely with legislation on the maximum retail roaming surcharges that can apply theGovernment on the issue.
from 30 April 2016 and the removal of roaming surcharges from Appeals reform 15June 2017.
The European Commission adopted the implementing The Digital Economy Act 2017 strengthened the regime for legal regulation on fair use and sustainability on 15 December 2016 and appeals against Ofcom decisions.
The Act imposes a higher standard thewholesale roaming regulation is due to come into force in for appealing Ofcoms decisions, thus putting Ofcom on a similar midMay 2017.
We are implementing the required changes to footing to other UK sector regulators.
We are supportive of this ourroaming tariffs.
change, as astronger, more confident regulator will be beneficial Switching tous.
The Digital Economy Act 2017 introduced measures confirming Child online safety Ofcoms powers to introduce policy to make it easier for consumers The Digital Economy Act 2017 introduced new powers designed to switch between telecommunication and TV providers.
Ofcom is toprotect children from accessing pornography online.
The Act due to publish next steps on switching reforms for triple play services enables Government to appoint a regulator that can compel ISPs including telephone, broadband and pay TV in autumn 2017.
It is also toblock access to pornographic websites that do not have adequate consulting on proposals to reform switching of mobile communications age verification mechanisms in place.
We have worked very closely services and is due to publish a further consultation in spring 2017 withthe Government and the proposed regulator, the British Board before publishing a policy statement in autumn 2017.
We are of Film Classification, ontheissue and support the new powers as a supportive of a simpler, more customer friendly switching regime, proportionate waytoprotect children online.
which we believe will favour a value for money connectivity provider such as ourselves andare working closely with Ofcom on the issue.
Investigatory Powers Act The Investigatory Powers Act 2016, which consolidates and Television and video-on-demand regulation updatesexisting legislation governing the retention and sharing of In the UK, we are required to hold individual licences under the communications data, received royal assent on 29 November 2016.
Broadcasting Acts 1990 and 1996 for any television channels We worked closely with the Government on the details of the legislation including barker channels which we own or operate and for the and continue to monitor how the Act will apply tothe business.
provision of certain other services on our cable television platform, Illegal file sharing such as electronic programme guides.
These television licensable We, along with other major ISPs, have voluntarily agreed to send content service TLCS licences are granted and administered by educational notifications to customers who have an IP address Ofcom.
Under these licences, each covered service must comply assigned to their account which has been detected as being used witha number of Ofcom codes, including the Broadcasting Code, forillegal peer-to-peer file sharing.
Along with BT, Sky and Virgin andwith all directions issued by Ofcom.
Breach of any of the terms Media, we sent the first notifications to customers in early 2017. ofa TLCS licence may result in the imposition of fines on the licence Separately, and pursuant to various court orders, we are required holder and, ultimately, the licence being revoked.
toblock access to certain sites that are used for illegal file sharing As a provider of On-Demand Programme Services ODPS, we must andfor trademark infringement.
comply with a number of statutory obligations in relation to editorial Overall trends content and notify Ofcom of our intention to provide ODPS.
Failure Overall, the regulatory climate for telecommunication services providers to notify Ofcom or comply with the relevant statutory obligations in the UK is one that increasingly favours challenger businesses such mayresult in the imposition of fines or, ultimately, a prohibition asourselves.
Ofcom and the UK Government have consistently stated onproviding an ODPS.
over the last twelve months that they see competition as a driver of the Ofcom previously imposed a Wholesale Must Offer WMO obligation investment in telecommunication infrastructure that they seek, and are on Sky, following a finding that Sky had market power in the wholesale now acting to deliver that.
Thecombination of recommendations in supply of certain premium sports and premium movie channels.
Ofcoms Digital Communications Review including significantly tougher TheWMO required Sky to offer Sky Sports 1 and 2 on a wholesale oversight ofBTOR, access to dark fibre, ducts and poles, and a change basis to other retailers at regulated prices.
In December 2015, inthe appeals regime are all actions that favour challenger businesses Ofcompublished a statement withdrawing the WMO obligation such as ourselves, and curb the supplier power that BThas over us.
onSky since it considered that it was no longer necessary, though itwould reassess the need for regulation if supply did not continue tobe provided on reasonable terms.
This change in regulation does not directly affect us since we have commercial arrangements with Sky, which we have recently successfully renewed.
16 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk's Fixed LowPrice Plans Thesuccess of our Fixed Low Price Plans demonstrates that our commitment to makingour service simple, affordable, reliableand fair is the right thing for our customers and the business.
Tristia Harrison Chief Executive Officer
