Financial review, Riskand Corporate responsibility Corporat e responsibility A responsible employer 3i is committed to achieving its strategic Recruiting, retaining and developing our talent is one of our and investment objectives while behaving most important priorities.
We work towards that objective by responsibly as an employer, as an investor communicating openly and consistently with our employees, providing training and opportunities for career advancement, and as an international corporate citizen.
rewarding our employees fairly and by encouraging employees Wetake responsibility for our actions, togive direct feedback to senior management.
We are a meritocracy and our employees are recruited, promoted carefully consider how others will be affected and rewarded on the basis of merit, ability and performance.
by our choices and ensure that our values We recognise the importance of providing a supportive working and ethics are integrated into our formal environment and of providing a healthy work life balance for all business policies, practices and plans.
3i has a suite of human resources policies and procedures covering areas including recruitment, vetting and Our corporate responsibility strategy performance management, equal opportunities and diversity, family-friendly policies, medical insurance and health screening, isdened by three key priorities: health and safety and exible working, and appropriate processes to monitor their application.
Summaries of a number of these 1.
Recruit and develop a diverse pool policies can be found on our website.
Invest responsibly Whilst 3i does not have a formal human rights policy, our policies are consistent with  human 3.
Embed responsible business practices rights principles.
We comply fully with applicable human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate, for example throughout the organisation covering areas such as freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, equal remuneration and protection against discrimination.
For all matters relating to human rights, we comply with local laws, and if those laws provide lesser protection than UK law, we apply the principles enshrined in UK law.
3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance and disciplinary procedures, an employee assistance programme and an independent, external whistle blowing hotline service.
This section aims to provide a brief summary ofourapproachto corporate responsibility.
We are committed to ensuring that the businesses we invest in comply with all applicable laws in relation to their employees For more information, please see our Corporate amongst other things and, where appropriate, that they work responsibilityreport, available on our website.
towards meeting relevant international standards such as the Further information on our approach to corporate ILO Fundamental Conventions where those are more stringent.
responsibility, including summaries of relevant policies, We also encourage our business partners and suppliers to adopt canalso be found on our website.
the same standards with respect to human rights.
Corporate responsibility report May 2017 For more information, visit www.
com corporate-resp pons onsibilit ibility y 54 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Equal opportunity and diversity Employee engagement 3i is fully committed to being an equal opportunities employer, We encourage a culture of open communication between our and is opposed to all forms of unlawful and unfair discrimination.
employees and senior and executive management.
We benefit We believe that there are great benets to be gained from having from being a small organisation, operating in a relatively at a diverse and varied workforce.
We do not set specic diversity structure, with few hierarchies.
The members of our Executive targets, but seek to ensure that our corporate culture and policies Committee have an open-door policy and know most employees create an inclusive work environment that helps to bring out the by name.
best in any qualied person.
We promote and facilitate the ownership of 3i shares among 3is Equal Opportunities and Diversity policy establishes that all employees through variable compensation or share investment 3i employees temporary and permanent, contract workers and plans.
As a result, most of our employees are shareholders in the job applicants are treated fairly and are offered equal opportunity Company and feel invested in the success of the organisation.
in selection, training, career development, promotion We pride ourselves on the engagement and the sense of and remuneration.
ownership we have fostered over the years, which has resulted Achieving better gender diversity is important to 3i, and we inlow unplanned turnover rates.
believe we are making good progress in that respect, within the 1 2 83% Participation in UK SIP 10% Unplanned employee turnover rate constraints imposed by being a small organisation with limited staff turnover.
At 31 March 2017, 3i had a total of 241 employees.
1 Proportion of UK-based employees who subscribe to a Share Incentive Plan available toUKemployees only.
The breakdown by gender was as follows: 2 During the year, 3i sold its Debt Management business, which employed approximately 3 50people, to Investcorp, and closed its Stockholm operations.
The impact of these number Total Male Female changes is excluded from the calculation of the employee turnover rate.
All 3i employees 241 142 99 1 3i Group Directors 963 Graduate training scheme 2 Senior managers 38 28 10 Our graduate recruitment scheme, designed to develop our next generation of world-class investment professionals and business 1 Includes non-executive Directors who are not 3i employees.
We are a small organisation, 2 Senior managers excludes Simon Borrows and Julia Wilson who are included as Directors of 3i Group plc and includes 23 people who were directors of undertakings however we believe this programme is important in fostering included in the consolidated Group accounts, of whom 19 were male and four were female.
Our first five graduate analysts joined us 3 We sold our Debt Management division with effect from 3 March 2017.
The average number of employees for FY2017 was 281. in 2015, a further five joined us in September 2016 and a further three will join us in September 2017.
The top performers on The McGregor-Smith review on Race in the Workplace, published the programme are offered the opportunity to be fast-tracked on 28 February 2017, highlighted the under-employment and directly into our business.
under-promotion of people of Black or Minority Ethnic BME background in UK businesses and makes the case for more A responsible investor inclusive organisations.
The review noted that, while one in eight of the UK working age population in 2015 was from a BME With fewer than 250 employees globally, as a company we have background, BME individuals made up only 10% of the workforce a relatively small impact in terms of the environment and other and held only 6% of top management positions.
The review corporate responsibility issues.
However, with assets under contained a number of wide-ranging recommendations, including management of approximately 10 billion we recognise that our one for listed companies and all businesses and public bodies decisions as an investor potentially matter to a broad range of with more than 50 UK-based employees to publish a breakdown people.
We are, therefore, committed to investing responsibly of their UK-based employees by race and pay band, and to and believe that: publish aspirational targets and report against these annually.
the effective assessment of ESG matters has a positive effect These recommendations have not been made mandatory.
on the value of our investee companies and of 3i Group itself: As at 31 March 2017, the representation of UK-based BME compliance with local laws and regulations may not be enough employees as a percentage of total 3i employees was ahead to meet global expectations, deliver value and enhance our of the one in eight proportion of people of BME background reputation and license to operate: and in the UK working age population.
In addition, the proportion it is vital that we seek to identify all material ESG risks and of employees of BME background as at 31 March 2017 in mid opportunities through our due diligence at the point we invest tohigher salary brackets also exceeded one in eight.
and effectively manage those risks and opportunities during the period of 3is investment.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 55 Financial review, Riskand Corporate responsibility Corporat e responsibility continued UNPRI Governance Since 2011 we have been signatories to the UN Principles Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its activities forResponsible Investment.
and is critical to the delivery of value to our stakeholders.
For full details of our governance structure and processes, please see Our Responsible Investment policy theCorporate Governance section of this report.
We have a clear and comprehensive Responsible Investment Transparency RI policy which is embedded into our investment and portfolio monitoring processes.
In our experience, companies with high As a publicly-listed company, 3i operates within a framework ESG standards are typically better run, better at identifying and of formal legal and regulatory disclosure requirements as managing their business risksand generate better earnings well as meeting the high expectations for transparency of growth.
This policy sets out the businesses and activities in our shareholders, fund investors, staff and the media.
We are which 3i will not invest, as well as minimum standards in relation committed to communicating both our financial and non-financial to ESGmatters which we expect new portfolio companies to performance in a clear, open and comprehensive manner.
meet, or to commit to meeting over a reasonable time period.
Anti-bribery and corruption The policy applies to all our investments, irrespective of their country or sector.
3i does not offer, pay or accept bribes and we only work with third parties whose standards of business integrity are substantively Our RI policy has been integrated into our investment and consistent with ours.
We expect the businesses we invest in to portfolio management processes and procedures and is operate in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and, supported by detailed guidance notes, a global network of where appropriate, work towards meeting relevant international specialist external advisers and dedicated internal resource.
standards where these are more stringent.
This includes, in 3i commits to use its inuence as an investor to promote particular, upholding high standards of business integrity, avoiding acommitment in our investee companies to: corruption in all its forms and complying with applicable antibribery, anti-fraud and anti-money laundering laws and regulations.
comply, as a minimum, with applicable local and international laws and regulations and, where appropriate, relevant Modern slavery international standards such as the IFC Performance Standards 3i published its slavery and human trafcking statement, and the ILO Fundamental Conventions, where these are more asrequired by section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, stringent than applicable laws: inSeptember 2016 and will update this statement by the mitigate any adverse environmental and social impacts and endofSeptember 2017.
3i is committed to ensuring that: enhance positive effects on the environment, workers and relevant stakeholders: and there is no slavery and human trafcking in any part of its business or supply chains: and uphold high standards of business integrity and good corporate governance.
the companies in which it invests are similarly committed toensuring that there is no slavery or human trafcking in any For more information on our approach to Responsible Investing, part of their business or supply chains.
including a summary of our Responsible Investment policy, pleasevisit www.
During FY2016, we commissioned KPMG to conduct a review of 30 portfolio companies being those which are not directly A good corporate citizen subject to the Modern Slavery Act themselves based on public records to identify whether any might have a higher risk of As a company, we strive to embed responsible business practices exposure to slavery or human trafcking.
This review found no throughout the organisation.
Good corporate citizenship is reports of, or references to, slavery in any of the 30 companies achieved not only by having robust policies and processes in reviewed.
Of these, 12 were identied as operating in countries place, but also by promoting the right values and culture within orsectors with an inherently higher risk ofexposure to slavery our organisation.
10of these companies are in 3is residual India Asia portfolio.
All employees are assessed annually against our corporate We will carry out further work to better understand the potential values and have a responsibility to be aware of, and abide risks in relation to these companies.
by, 3is compliance, behaviour and environmental, ethical and social policies and procedures.
For more information on our values, policies and processes, please see our Corporate responsibility report.
56 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Environmental impact Community This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory Success in our business relies on being able to recruit, motivate obligation to report greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant and retain a talented group of professionals, drawn from a diverse to Section 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and and representative background.
We believe that diverse teams Directors Report Regulations 2013. drawn from different sectors of society have a broader outlook and are better equipped to originate attractive investment During the year to 31 March 2017, our measured Scope 1 and 2 opportunities and manage our portfolio.
We therefore focus emissions location-based totalled 959.8 tCO e. This comprised: 2 our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on young people and on education, aiming to equip young people from Scope FY2017 FY2016 all backgrounds with the tools and opportunities to pursue a 1 191.0 252.4 successful career.
The charities we partner with are supported 2Location-based 768.8 854.2 on the basis of their effectiveness and impact.
We also support 1 2Market-based 174.8 544.4 staff giving and sponsorship through matching donations.
1 Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and emissions from Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 2017 totalled purchased electricity are calculated using the market-based approach using supplier- 288,000. specic emission factors are reported in tCO2 rather than tCO2e due to the availability ofemission factors.
Further details of the charities we support are available in our Corporate responsibility report.
This is equivalent to 3.4 tCO e per full-time equivalent employee, 2 based on an average of 281 employees during the year External benchmarking 2016: 4.0tCO e: 276 employees.
Overall our Scope 1 and 2 2 emissions decreased by 13% in the year.
We believe that it is important to evidence our commitment to operating responsibly and to show how we are performing.
Our emissions have been veried to a reasonable level of Accordingly, we provide information to shareholders and other assurance by an external third party according to the interested stakeholders.
We quantify and report our organisational GHG emissions in Sustainability indices alignment with the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas We have been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in Indices and of the FTSE4Good Index Series since 2001 and 2011 alignment with the new Scope 2 Guidance, which is the most respectively.
In addition, 3i became a member of the Ethibel significant update to the Corporate Standard since its inception.
Sustainability Index ESI Excellence Europe in September 2016 and was reconrmed as aconstituent of that index in March 2017.
We consolidate our organisational boundary according to the operational control approach, which includes all our ofces.
We have adopted a materiality threshold of 5% for GHG reporting purposes.
The GHG sources that constituted our operational boundary for the year to 31 March 2017 are: Scope 1: natural gas combustion within boilers and fuel combustion within leased vehicles: and Carbon Disclosure Project The Carbon Disclosure Project is an international, not-for-profit Scope 2: purchased electricity and heat consumption for our organisation providing a framework which enables businesses to own use.
disclose their greenhouse emissions and other metrics voluntarily.
In some cases, where data is missing, values have been estimated 3i has been making annual submissions to the Carbon Disclosure using either extrapolation of available data or data from the Project since 2006. previous year as a proxy.
In 2016, 3i was the winner of the Most improved award for CDP The new Scope 2 Guidance requires that we quantify and report responders based in the UK, having improved its score from 94D Scope 2 emissions according to two different methodologies in 2015 to ALeadership in 2016. dual reporting : i the location-based method, using average emissions factors for the country in which the reported operations By order of the Board take place: and ii the market-based method, which uses the Simon Borrows actual emissions factors of the energy procured.
Chief Executive Whilst we have a very low footprint on the environment, we are 17 May 2017 committed to reducing it further.
In our London ofce, where approximately two-thirds of our employees are based and For more information, please see www.
com which accounts for 80% of our overall electricity consumption, www.
com products indices FTSE4Good wepurchase all of our electricity from 100% renewable sources.
org content ethibel sustainability index excellence europe.
html 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 57 Chairmans introduction 59 Board of Directors Corporate and Executive Committee 60 The role of the Board 62 Relations with shareholders 67 Nominations Committee report 68 Governance Audit and Compliance Committee report 69 Valuations Committee report 74 Directors remuneration report 77 Additional statutory and corporate governance information 95 58 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
