Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Our people and our values Investing in a diverse team, built on core values SSEs current and future success depends upon the talents, skills and motivation of the people it employs.
The strategic development of human capital value is therefore critical to SSEs long-term success.
Key workforce metrics Responding to strategic challenges: skills shortages 2016 17 2015 16 and greater diversity 1 Total number of employees Number 21,157 21,118 The strategic human capital challenges SSE has articulated regularly in recent years 2 Retention rate % 86 89 remain key.
The strategy is to anticipate 3 Total recruitment Number 3,227 2,763 the skills gaps that are looming in the early 2020s by attracting a wide and diverse Employee gender female % 31.4 30.9 range of entry level talent into SSEs pipeline Average age Years 40 40 programmes.
These pipelines include 4 Employee engagement index % n a 77 employability programmes, apprenticeships, higher level technical skills trainees and Learning and development expenditure m 18.9 17.2 engineering graduates.
6 Total number of training interventions Number 103,688 63,052 7 The solution to the second strategic Investment in pipelines m 9.4 12.7 challenge, a lack of diversity, is complementary 8 UK Productivity GVA per capita 172,000 129,670 to the first.
Because of the skills gap SSE has 9 Productivity compared to UK average n:n 3.1:1 2.4:1 a unique opportunity to become a more inclusive employer, improve its attractiveness 10 Whistle-blowing cases raised Number 88 41 to a diverse set of applicants and to build a pipeline of new talent that more closely 1 Total headcount at 31 March 2017, including employees within Windtowers Ltd. reflects the communities SSE serves.
2 Excludes end of fixed term contracts and internal transfers.
4 Total expenditure in learning and development, internal and external, including talent pipelines.
Creating a workforce for the future 5 Externally facilitated company-wide employee engagement survey, not available until July 2017.
SSE offers a range of structured programmes 6 Including targeting courses, workshops, seminars on e-learning packages.
7 The total cost of providing apprentice, graduate, technical skills and employability training programmes.
designed for school leavers, apprentices, 8 Based on SSEs direct contribution to UK GDP and directly employed employees, analysis undertaken by PwC.
These 9 Ratio of SSEs UK labour productivity to the UKs national productivity source: PwC.
10 Number of cases reported to SSEs independent whistle-blow line.
pipelines introduce hundreds of young people into SSE every year and represent the single most important way SSE builds its future workforce.
While the financial investment in its Talent pipeline Development training pipeline programmes in 2016 17 was 1,277 trainees 103,688 interventions 9.4m, representing a fall in investment since 2015 16, the number of individuals participating increased to 1,277 from 859 in 2015 16.
The increase is dominated by a concerted effort to develop existing employees working in customer service, progressing from Level 2 to Level 3 qualifications, supporting SSEs strategy to continue to differentiate itself on the basis of sector leading customer service.
Apprentices 436 IT graduates 13 Craft 3,969 S afety, health and the Technical skills Employability Development 7,712 environment 4,997 trainees 64 programme participants Legislation and S ales and service Business graduates 25 Barnardos and Career policy 1,421 74,051 Engineering Ready 31 Safety rule Misc 9,254 graduates 26 Customer service authorisations 2,284 apprenticeships 682 SSE plc Annual Report 2017 20 1.
3. is published, once again, in its Sustainability Talent pipelines Sustainable employment ethos Report available on see.
This exercise There were 1,277 trainees on a pipeline At the centre of SSEs human capital strategy proved to be very instructive to SSEs strategy programme in 2016 17.
See pie chart on is an ethos about the way in which the talents to improve inclusion and diversity and page 20. and abilities of people flourish.
This approach supported the formation of its strategy gives a signal to its employees that they of in, on and up.
Beyond this focus on pipelines of new are valued and that worthwhile, rewarding talent, SSE invests in its people through careers can be built with SSE.
In return, In: The first level of the inclusion and talent development, management training, SSE looks to its employees to be engaged, diversity programme is to attract more technical training, customer service motivated and committed, delivering for women applicants into SSE.
Some progress development and the delivery of particular both customers and shareholders over was made in 2016 17.
The proportion of issues based knowledge and skills through the long term.
women being recruited externally has risen electronic learning techniques.
This from 33% in 2014 15, to 37% in 2015 16 and development activity is predominately to 39% in 2016 17.
It is worth noting that the delivered internally, ensuring the skills A focus on career progression short term impact of attracting higher and knowledge learnt are bespoke and and recruiting senior positions proportions of entry level women, may designed for SSEs particular circumstances.
from within actually influence the gender pay gap in a negative direction.
Nevertheless, SSE Development training believes the longer term prize of an 103,688 training interventions were delivered organisation more reflective of the society internally in 2016 17.
A preference for direct it serves is more important.
Furthermore, employment as opposed to SSE understands that the barriers to a career 2016 17 saw a step change in the way out-sourcing core work in the energy industry are deep and cultural, SSE delivers continuous learning and therefore SSE has a role to encourage development across its workforce.
The non-traditional entrants into the industry establishment of a new Learning and has a partnership with Teach First to Management System has provided the A preference for direct influence the uptake of STEM subjects by opportunity to deliver significantly more employment and a presumption girls in schools in England and Wales.
There has against offshoring work outside been greater focus on training for of the UK and Republic of Ireland On: Retaining women within the compliance, and significantly more organisation is particularly important individual interventions supporting higher given the relative success, so far, of efforts quality customer service.
The ability to track to attract more women entrants.
There are and monitor employee participation and Career progression many initiatives targeting this group from the efficacy of training programmes has Through 2016 17, 3,826 employment enhanced flexible working practices and alsoimproved.
vacancies were filled across SSE.
Of those investment in connected working 3,826 vacancies, 16% were filled from technology to the development of STEM Furthermore, the momentum in delivering internal applicants.
However, at the most and senior women networks.
Most recently SSEs Smart Meter programme increased senior levels, where talent and succession maternity, adoption and paternity benefit significantly in 2016 17.
The nature and is managed closely, 34 vacancies were offerings have been significantly enhanced.
demand of the programme means there filled.
Of those, nearly 60% were awarded Whilst this includes a substantial increase is a shortage of smart meter operatives in to internal applicants.
in the level of paid leave, it also sees the the labour market: therefore SSE is both introduction of a gradual phasing in the redeploying existing meter reading employees Out-sourcing return to work for maternity and adoption and recruiting individuals with the aptitude There is a clear preference to directly deliver leavers, with no reduction in salary.
New to be skilled smart meter operative installers core work in house.
On the occasions where ways of flexible working are being piloted and putting them through a comprehensive it is necessary to use external contractors to for employees moving to SSEs new training and assessment programme.
In support peak demand or transitional change, Forbury Place development in Reading, 2016 17 583 smart meter operatives were SSE insists on a number of core standards in with a view to this being rolled out across recruited to SSEs Smart Meter programme.
relation to health and safety and conditions the widerorganisation.
In 2016 17, SSE took the decision Inclusion and diversity to extend its Living Wage commitment in its Up: Creating the conditions whereby SSEs efforts to improve its inclusiveness supply chain.
Rather than simply ensuring more women are present in the highest have prioritised gender representation in that regular contractors working on SSEs levels of the organisation is expected to the short term.
Further disclosure relating sites receive the real Living Wage, as required take time.
A number of initiatives are in to other protected characteristic contained by the Living Wage Foundation from 1 April place, in particular, the establishment of within the Equalities Act, including disability, 2017 every new contract will include a a Shadow Board of diverse emerging can be found in the Sustainability Report 2017. requirement to ensure that everyone UK talent for SSEs Wholesale business has In relation to gender diversity, the proportion based providing regular services to SSEs proved to be an interesting pilot due to of women within SSE has, once again, risen customers will receive the Living Wage.
be rolled out in new areas of the SSE group marginally from 30.9% to 31.4%.
The first target set is a simple one, where the proportion of women SSE chose to be an early adopter of the draft earning over 40,000 will rise to 25% by gender pay gap regulations in 2015 16 and 2025.
In 2016 17 the proportion was 12.8%, published its full disclosure in its Sustainability representing a rise of 8% since 2015 16.
The full disclosure for 2016 17 21 Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Our people and our values continued commitment but it is also understood that Redeployment Reinforcing an ethical employee benefits make an important Change is an ongoing feature of the energy business culture contribution to both employee engagement market and SSE must be able to respond to Code of ethical business conduct and the attractiveness of SSE as a place to changing conditions and markets.
To remain In 2016 17 SSE published a new code: choose to work.
competitive and efficient SSE has had to Doing the right thing: A guide to ethical review and either restructure or cease several business conduct for SSE employees.
Employee benefits: a significantly operations in 2016 17.
In all instances, it has The new code is a development from the enhanced package of employee benefits sought to fully consult with those employees previous version as it more explicitly outlines was established in 2016 17.
A more impacted and to offer opportunities for the steps employees should take to ensure flexible and family friendly package retraining and redeployment where possible.
that their day-to-day actions and decisions includes significant improvement to One such example of this is the Retail are consistent both with SSEs values and parental benefits, more flexibility for shops in the north of Scotland.
SSE engaged proactively with the unexpected situations and a new gradual opportunities are available to employees Institute of Business Ethics to ensure the return to work offer for returning affected by change in the organisation, a new code reflected best practice.
This package has been number of vacancies are advertised internally implementation of the code is ongoing, deliberately designed to reflect modern only.
In 2016 17, 306 vacancies were opened with regular issue driven awareness lives and support SSEs efforts to become to internal applicants only.
raising campaigns alongside the delivery a more inclusive and diverse organisation.
of a range of training packages.
There has also been a strong focus An engaged workforce on delivering additional health related Teamwork is one of six enduring values that Creating a culture of speaking up benefits to support employee wellbeing.
guide employees in their day-to-day working Building on the establishment of a new lives in SSE.
It is underpinned by an ethic of whistleblowing policy in 2015 16, SSE Sharing success: SSE actively encourages mutual respect and is defined as: worked throughout 2016 17 to actively it employees to own SSE shares, offering promote the Speak Up policy, alongside both an employee Share Incentive Plan Teamwork: we support and value our awareness raising of Doing the right thing: SIP and a Sharesave scheme, with colleagues and enjoy working together A guide to ethical business conduct for participation rates at 73% and in an open and honest way.
As a result, the number 41%respectively.
of whistle-blowing reports has more than SSE has undertaken an annual survey of doubled between 2015 16 and 2016 17 SSE pension schemes: SSE has taken employee opinion for many years.
This increase is welcome as it measures to help employees plan and of the survey in 2016 17 considered feedback confirms that the efforts to promote Speak save for their financial future and has and decided to adjust the frequency of the Up are having an impact.
Analysis is being proactively enrolled new employees survey to every two years to allow sufficient undertaken to carefully track trends and an onto its pension schemes since 2005. time to understand, plan and report back on aftercare process is being introduced to get 97% of SSEs employees in 2016 17 chose progress with action plans to all employees.
feedback on the experience from those to save for their future through one of The next survey is being run in the early reporting issues through this approach.
The objective of the new negotiations have improved the value survey is to gather instructive data on SSEs Human rights that employees get from these schemes, business culture, as well as gather signals on SSEs Human Rights Policy outlines the with affinity benefits and reduced issues such as inclusiveness, engagement fundamental principles that guide SSE, management charges.
recognising that in both its direct employment and through its supply chain, human rights Fairness at work Headline results from that survey will be must be actively respected and protected.
SSEs Human Rights policy specifically published on sse.
com beingresponsible The policy also outlines SSEs commitment respects the right of its employees to join a in the summer of 2017. to meeting the provision of the UKs Modern trade union.
SSE recognises four trade unions Slavery Act and SSEs second Modern Slavery and a Joint Negotiating and Consultative Rewarding employee contribution Statement is published on sse.
Committee JNCC continue to provide the Performance management is undertaken structure by which industrial relations are comprehensively throughout SSE.
66% of SSEs employees are objective is to create a framework for covered by the negotiating arrangements More information: SSE is committed continuous feedback and improvement under the JNCC.
to the ongoing development of in line with business goals.
Above all, this workforce metrics and works with approach is designed to ensure the safe SSE has a range of employment policies a number of stakeholders to provide operation of SSEs businesses and the in place to ensure that all people, including more data that supports its human reliable provision of service to customers.
those with disabilities, are dealt with fairly capital strategy.
More information Alongside assessing performance against during the recruitment process, and that and disclosure can be found in SSEs agreed objectives, the process assesses the all people have access to training and Sustainability Report 2017. extent to which each individual, including development opportunities with SSE.
the senior management team, demonstrate their support for SSEs core values of Safety, Believing that its employees deserve at Service, Excellence, Sustainability, Efficiency least to earn a rate of pay that enables them and Teamwork.
to live a decent life, SSE continues to be an accredited Living Wage employer in the The opportunity to grow and develop a UK and pays its employees in Ireland the career has the greatest impact on employee Irish Living Wage.
Creating a workforce for the future SSE offers a range of structured programmes designed for school leavers, apprentices, trainee engineers and graduates.
These pipelines introduce hundreds of young people into SSE every year and represent the single most important way SSE builds its future workforce.
In 2016 17 the number of individuals participating in SSEs talent pipelines was 1,277.
