Directors Report Corporate governance Stakeholder engagement and responsible stewardship advisory panels: and the considerations and The Board recognise that in their investment The Board and SSEs stakeholders work of the Safety, Health, and Environment decisions, many shareholders consider In order to agree the strategic priorities Advisory Committee.
Further information a range of environmental, social and for the Group, and apply judgement and on the role and activities of SSE in relation governance matters and the Board seeks challenge to the ways in which these should to the above is detailed on pages 28 and 29 to understand what these are, such that they be delivered, the Board must understand of the Strategic Report and within SSEs can be considered and applied as appropriate the concerns and needs of both SSEs Sustainability Report which can be found in their decision making.
This constructive shareholders and its wider stakeholders.
shareholder dialogue is achieved through This is supportive of the Boards duty to a structured investor relations programme promote the success of the company as set Shareholder dialogue comprising meetings and bi-annual out in Section 172 of the Companies Act The Board is committed to maintaining roadshows, as well as ad hoc conferences, 2006, and is achieved in part through a constructive dialogue with shareholders discussions and correspondence on a number of engagement activities.
These its ultimate owners to enable reactive basis.
Details of some of these engagement activities include: regular communication of the Groups objectives, investor relations activities and the related ongoing dialogue with stakeholder groups: strategy and performance, and to develop resources are set out in the table below.
promoting the creation of, and attending, an understanding of shareholder views.
dedicated forums, focus groups and Shareholder engagement Website and Roadshows, Consultation and Results and routine Annual General shareholder shareholder meetings engagement announcements Meeting communications and feedback SSEs website is an The Executive Directors In 2016 the Chairman Following publication of AGM 21 July 2016 important source aim to meet or have and the Chair of interim and preliminary Full director of information for calls with SSEs top 30 the Remuneration results, in November attendance.
shareholders, shareholders twice Committee held and May respectively, 3 Special resolutions which includes: annually, as well as meetings and calls presentations are held in passed.
share price attend a number of to consult with large London and attended by 17 Ordinary information: investor conferences shareholders on SSEs large shareholders resolutions passed.
Stock Exchange where they typically remuneration matters.
and energy utility announcements: meet with groups of The same is being analysts.
The results AGM 20 July 2017 investor investors.
The Chairman offered in 2017. presentation is also Full Director presentations: and Senior Independent available online and by attendance planned.
shareholder Director also attend a Senior management dial-in, both real-time 3 Special resolutions services: and selection of investor and the investor and after the event.
relations team engage Chairman and Executive 15 Ordinary details.
throughout the year Directors attend and resolutions The Board receives with a range of investors present results.
Shareholder circulars, updates on SSEs and analysts, which this including the Annual shareholder year included presenting Other routine At the 2016 AGM Report and Accounts, engagement and at a Local Authority announcements attendees included and Notice of Annual analyst commentary Pensions Fund Forum designed to ensure a number of General Meeting, are at each Board meeting, Conference.
ongoing engagement shareholders as well sent to all shareholders and is provided with with investors include: as representatives of at the requisite time.
independent investor the Q1 Trading shareholder bodies, These are provided feedback collated by update: such as the Aiming for in electronic form by SSEs Brokers twice the Q3 Trading A investor coalition and default, however, any a year.
This follows update: and the Local Authority shareholder wishing investor roadshows pre-close Pension Fund Forum.
to receive hard copies which take place in announcements can contact Capita November and May.
in September The AGM includes Asset Services, SSEs During this reporting and March.
time for the Chairman Share Registrar.
year, the Board also and Board to answer heard directly from questions from one of SSEs largest attendees.
shareholders as part of a pre-Board briefing.
Stakeholder engagement and Board oversight The Board recognises and embraces its and decision making.
The diagram below within each of SSEs business areas.
responsibility to take account of the sets out the different elements of direct Taken together, these help to provide interests of stakeholders people, Board level engagement, and includes insight surrounding the way in which groups and organisations who have an details of the feedback it receives from business is being conducted and to interest in SSE and the energy sector as a a range of well established stakeholder ensure that it is both responsible whole in the course of its deliberations engagement activities which take place andsustainable.
Society the Guide cover the different cornerstones of SSEs interactions In line with their role to promote SSEs responsibility within and impacts upon its stakeholders, including amongst others, society, during 2016 17, the Board approved 24 Group Policies the areas of: Climate Change: Safety, Health and the and the revised guide to ethical business conduct for SSE Environment: Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility: employees, which had received input during development Inclusion and Diversity: and the SSE Group Taxation policy.
from the Institute of Business Ethics.
The Group Policies and Government and regulators Society The Board met directly with the energy regulator, Ofgem, during the reporting year, and welcomed the opportunity to engage and allow better common understanding of priorities and areas of concern.
The Board also welcomes engagement from policy makers and the opportunity to oversee SSEs responses to consultations.
These can relate specifically to SSEs different business Energy areas, as well as general governance Customers and business developments, for example, in 2016 17 Board members fed views into the All Party Corporate Governance Group report, The Boards Providing the energy Role in Determining Culture.
people need Employees A key aspect of Board members site visits, attendance at teach-ins, and one-to-one meetings and briefings, is the opportunity that they provide for engagement with SSE employees.
In addition the non-Executive Directors attended the SSE employee safety conferences and a number of employee leadership events.
The Chairman also chaired an event which captured views on SSEs corporate Suppliers and contractors Customers culture from a cross-section In 2016 17, the Safety, Health, The Chairman and the Chief Executive meet ofemployees.
and Environment Advisory annually with the Chairs of a number of Committee provided Customer Forums, and receive feedback and In addition to the ongoing employee additional focus to the area insight surrounding the areas which have been engagement, in 2017 18, the Chairman of sub-contractor safety, and highlighted as important by SSEs retail energy and the Chair of the Remuneration the Board approved the customers.
The Board also provided oversight and Committee intend to meet directly with updated SSE Modern Slavery support surrounding SSEs treating customers fairly employee representatives, which will Statement and a revised commitments for 2016 17, which were developed provide the opportunity for further Procurementpolicy.
in consideration of this feedback, and in recognition understanding of the matters relevant of SSEs customer needs.
77 e s n n i i e v e l m t a s e E n d i i r h c L n e e t v e l g i a o p v g a n - s e d g n r o i s E f N n h m o a g p r r l o e c p y h e u e o e s s l o t d o p e l s r m o s e e t e u t r s g r s s o e n s d i i l d o h G n e S o r a E p h s S y e e R k Directors Report Corporate governance Stakeholder engagement and responsible stewardship continued Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Report Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Members and meetings present the report from the Safety, Health Attended and Environment Advisory Committee Member Position Member since scheduled SHEAC.
Jeremy Beeton Non-Executive Director 2011 3 3 During this reporting year, members of the Sue Bruce Non-Executive Director 2013 3 3 SHEAC have taken the opportunity to visit Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director 2016 3 3 various operational sites throughout the 2 UK and Ireland, which has allowed us to Colin Nicol Senior Executive 2016 2 2 meet a number of front-line employees, 2 Jim Smith Senior Executive 2016 2 2 and gain insight into the culture relating Mark Patterson Senior Executive 2013 3 3 to safety, heath and environment across 3 SSEs businesses.
Jim McPhillimy Senior Executive 2008 1 1 4 Paul Smith Senior Executive 2008 - - These meetings and visits have provided a backdrop for our increased focus on the 1 All non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent by the Board.
unique challenges facing each of SSEs 2 Colin Nicol and Jim Smith joined the SHEAC on 31 May 2016.
3 Jim McPhillimy retried from SSE and as a member of the SHEAC on 31 October 2016. business areas through the framework of 4 Paul Smith retried from SSE and as a member of the SHEAC on 31 May 2016. the Enduring Goals.
The Enduring Goals were rolled out in 2015 16 and subsequently updated in 2016 17.
They are designed to improve safety, health and environmental performance across the Group and I am pleased to report that overall performance has improved during 2016 17.
Looking forward over the next 12 months, the SHEAC have agreed to continue work in this area, through the review and implementation of, existing and new initiatives to drive improvements in the following Enduring Goals: Contractor Safety: Safety Family: Operational Safety: and Occupational Health and Well-being.
I hope you find the report that follows an interesting explanation of our work and SHE performance during the year.
Jeremy Beeton CB Chairman of the SHEAC 16 May 2017 S SS SE p E pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 78 78 1.
SSEs total recordable injury rate for way, helping employees make a speedy Role SSE and Contractors was 0.22 per 100,000 return to health and to work.
During 2016 17, The SHEAC advises the Board on matters hours worked in 2016 17, compared to 0.23 the average number of days of sickness relating to safety, health and environment.
in 2015 16. absence from work was 9.8 days per person.
The remit of the SHEAC is set out in its terms of reference which were updated during the In this financial year there have been 102 Environment year, and include responsibility for: incidents that have harmed individuals and Developing and upgrading the energy ensuring adherence to SSEs safety, most tragically this includes a fatality on infrastructure in the UK is an essential part of health and environmental policies: one of our major construction projects.
providing the energy people need.
With the setting Group targets and monitoring This compares to 113 incidents for the transition towards a low carbon economy, it is performance against these targets: same period in 2015 16.
On balance, this increasingly important that this infrastructure developing strategy to drive performance shows some progress: but it has sufficient capacity to deliver greener improvements in performance: also still represents a significant number of energy.
Developing, building, owning and promoting a culture, and enhancing incidents and accidents.
operating this infrastructure can have both the awareness, of safety, health and positive and negative impacts on peoples environmental management: and One area of continuing concern is the number lives.
It is therefore important to develop these making recommendations to the Board of serious incidents involving company projects responsibly, listening to stakeholders where action or improvement is needed.
vehicles with 19 Class 1 Road Traffic Collision and responding in a balanced way.
Accountable incidents in 2016 17, compared Composition with 29 in the previous year.
Following on from SSEs main environmental impact arises from The membership of the SHEAC currently the successful implementation of Project Drive emissions of CO associated with electricity comprises three non-Executive Directors, two 2 in 2015 16 SSE has continued to improve the generation, and the reporting of greenhouse Senior Managers with significant operational management of road risk in 2016 17.
This has gas emissions is set out on pages 18 and 19. responsibilities in Wholesale and Networks had a positive impact on driving related safety SSEs focus remains on minimising the and the Group Safety, Health and and the management of road risk will continue impact of operations and adhering to Environment Manager.
Members of the to be a key area of focus going forward.
environmental based permit conditions SHEAC are appointed by the Board following associated with its operations and minimising recommendation by the Nomination Health the impact of operations and projects.
During the year, Colin Nicol and SSEs Health and Well-Being Action Plan Jim Smith were appointed to the SHEAC and provides the basis for workplace health Further information relating to safety, health replaced Jim McPhillimy and Paul Smith, both programmes and initiatives, all designed to and environmental performance during of whom retried from SSE.
The Chief Executive help promote the physical and mental health 2016 17 is contained on pages 1 to 53 and routinely attends meetings and the Deputy of employees.
SSE deals with sickness also included in SSEs Sustainability Report Company Secretary is Secretary to the SHEAC.
absence in a sympathetic and constructive which is available on the SSE website.
The SHEAC provides a leadership forum for the non-Executive Directors to share their knowledge and expertise with senior The Enduring Goals management.
Jeremy Beeton brings a SSEs first priority in everything it does is to prevent harm to people or places.
In support depth of experience from his background in of that, SSEs first core value is Safety we believe all accidents are preventable, so we do engineering and major construction projects.
everything safely and responsibly or not at all.
Due to the diversity of operations across Sue Bruce provides valuable insights from SSEs businesses, this core Safety value is supported by a set of Enduring Goals, which various senior roles in the public sector.
Helen provide a framework for each business to focus attention on its unique safety, health and Mahy brings a wealth of knowledge from her environmental challenges.
The work of the SHEAC is designed around these Enduring career in the energy industry.
Goals which are set out below.
Meetings and activities in 2016 17 Safety Family Being our brothers keeper with everyone During the year, the SHEAC had three 1 working to high standards.
meetings, with one of these being held at Clyde Windfarm.
The SHEAC has Driving Creating a company of lower risk drivers.
2 an annual work plan with standing items covering safety, health and environmental: Process Safety Carrying out our duty of care diligently performance: incidents and trends: risks and 3 and preventing major incidents.
Other matters which the SHEAC has focused on during the year include: Contractor Safety Working with our contractors 4 strategy to improve SSEs SHE performance to be best in class on Safety.
over multiple years: contractor safety: Occupational Health Protecting our teams health and promoting decommissioning and demolition: driving: 5 and Well-being their well-being.
The Board and Committee evaluation process which was Environment Protecting the environment and operating 6 carried out during the year confirmed that in a sustainable way.
the SHEAC continued to operate effectively.
Crisis Management Staying well prepared and responding 7 brilliantly when things go wrong.
Performance in 2016 17 Safety Operational Safety Ensuring a robust safe system of work.
SSEs overall safety goal is 100% injury free 8 working by those working for and on behalf 79
