s s s r o e t e c a l h u o t g r e p g r d n c n i i a t t c t a n e r e p c m s S n o e r u e p R p m U v p o o l e s i G w e i d r n s e r a g n f d b o c r u o s n g y n t o i r o i a n t s o a c e s t g i d i o n f r d a s o o g o t r s o b g l w n a t t i Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Working in partnership with our stakeholders Collaborating to achieve sustainable outcomes for customers SSEs success depends on its ability to engage and work constructively with a range of key stakeholders, to improve the outcomes it can achieve for customers, shareholders and society as a whole.
For SSE, stakeholders are people, groups and organisations who have an interest in SSE and the energy sector as a whole.
SSE and its stakeholders have a common Government and regulators: SSE Suppliers and contractors: Working with agenda in ensuring the energy sectors in the recognises the central role of governments suppliers and contractors can reduce the UK and Ireland are delivering for customers: and regulators in the energy sector, and its costs of, and enhance positive economic, are reliable and sustainable: and are dealing Political Engagement Policy can be viewed social and environmental outcomes from, responsibly with economic, social and at sse.
SSE has a structured environmental issues.
Non-governmental organisations NGOs : approach to engaging with its most NGOs focus on social, environmental and strategic supply chain partners, with a Customers: Customers are at the heart of other energyand business-related issues new framework of category management everything SSE does.
In addition to engaging which affect energy customers, bringing to ensure a more coherent approach with customers through the day-to-day a specialist, distinctive and influential view toprocurement.
provision of services, ongoing research and to those issues.
SSE actively seeks their Employees: SSE depends on employees to surveys and customer forum and insight and advice through meetings, deal with customers and other stakeholders consultation events, SSE engages with five consultation and other programmes.
on a day-to-day basis and to respond first other key stakeholder groups: hand the issues that customers face and contribute to how those issues are resolved.
SSEs objective is to create a framework for SSEs principal stakeholders continuous engagement, feedback and improvement for employees see Our Society people and our values on pages 20 to 23.
Shareholders: Shareholders own the Company and have a wider concern to ensure SSE is a responsible company that considers shareholders concerns its decision-making, especially on environmental, social and governance matters.
SSE has a structured investor relations programme, covering financial, operational and environmental, social and governance issues.
Energy All of this means that in making operational, Customers investment and strategic decisions, SSE depends on the knowledge and insight which stakeholders can bring to support robust business decisions that are in the long-term interests of customers and Providing the energy people need investors alike.
This, in turn, means that SSE is better able to fulfil its core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way: and it means that SSE acts as a responsibly-minded business in pursuit of its financial and other business objectives.
For these reasons, SSE will continue to engage and work constructively with a range of key stakeholders in 2017 18 andbeyond.
Putting stakeholders at the heart of Networks decision-making At a time in which the energy networks must be more responsive to stakeholder and customer needs, in March 2016 Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks has established an independent Stakeholder Advisory Panel.
With membership from charities and external industry bodies, it works alongside the Board for SSEs Networks business to help scrutinise key areas of business performance, the commitments made under the RIIO-T1 and RIIO-ED1 price controls and future plans.
The Panel consists of a Chair and six members, recruited to reflect a broad range of external interests, skills, knowledge and experiences.
Through its work, the panel brings stakeholder insight and challenge to SSENs decision-making and long-term In September 2016, SSEs three electricity networks businesses adopted a common trading name as Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks SSEN.
This, alongside the Advisory Panel, responds direction at the highest level, helping to to the RIIO price controls which incentivises all network operators to engage effectively with their drive improvement in key processes and customers and stakeholders.
Working with communities and assessing our impacts when developing and constructing onshore wind farms Developing and upgrading the energy vicinity of a project.
Its focus is always infrastructure in the UK and Ireland is to understand, and where possible act an essential part of providing the energy upon, any issues or concerns raised by the people need.
As a responsible developer community in order to refine and improve and operator SSE therefore strives to plans and SSE works hard to ensure there is develop projects responsibly, listening to extensive two-way communication between stakeholders and responding in a balanced its project liaison team with those living near way.
This is particularly the case for SSEs a project.
It also produces several reports onshore wind farm developments, as SSE to quantify the material economic, social knows that developers must try to minimise and environmental impacts of its projects.
the upheaval and associated impacts to In 2016 17 SSE produced a sustainability local residents.
Thats why engagement impact report for the Galway Wind Park, A Sustainability Impact Report found that is a major part of SSEs development which found that Irelands largest onshore Galway Wind Park a joint venture between plans and why SSE has always sought to wind development would add 88.7m SSE and Coillte will add 88.7m to Irish GDP and grant over 150,000 to local community engage constructively and openly with to Irish GDP and support 1,657 years of groups during construction.
the communities living and working in the Irish employment.
Engaging customers to ensure Retail services and products meet their expectations Launched in 2012 SSEs Retail business has meter rollout.
The Forum members and four independent Customer Forums that chairs meet regularly with senior managers provide honest feedback on the companys in the Retail business and, from time to time, products and services, thereby enabling the with members of the SSE plc Board.
business to factor their views into decisions.
The Forums are made up of customers and are based in Newcastle, Perth, Cardiff and Havant.
Each is chaired by a representative of a leading consumer group, for example Citizens Advice.
There were 13 meetings in total in 2016 17 and the topics discussed included how to simplify the presentation SSEs Retail business has taken the guidance of new products, how to improve our and advice from its Customer Forums since 2012.
This helps it develop products and telephone customer service and what services to meet customers needs.
customers think of aspects of the smart 29
