Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION EMPLOYEES We rely on the combined efforts of around 1,000 employees to manage relationships with both our Members and Partners, and deliver a consistently high quality of service at all times.
We pay considerable attention to recruiting, developing and retaining people with appropriate skills.
We continue to recruit new members of staff through our own Assessment Centre designed to give the Company greater control over the recruitment process and to ensure we select the very best candidates for our positions.
Once they have joined, new starters go through a structured training programme to ensure that they are fully equipped to resolve any queries from our membership and to provide the high level of service that we demand.
Everyone who successfully completes this programme celebrates their achievement at a quarterly Academy graduation ceremony, where they are presented with a certificate and Champagne by the Chief Executive.
This year we have introduced our own Technical Advisor Apprenticeships, working with an accredited provider.
This is proving to be very successful and we believe will play an important role in our long-term recruitment plans.
The combination of valuing and developing our staff, our service-oriented culture and the day-to-day reinforcement of our core values are key competitive advantages in enabling us to attract and retain a motivated, talented and diverse workforce.
We continue to invest in our people, evolving and refreshing our Manager and Team Leader development programmes, which are accompanied by selective executive coaching.
We have recently launched a new online learning portal to assist in the development of all our employees: the content of which is under continual review.
We promote from within where possible into both specialist and managerial roles.
Our monthly employee recognition awards known internally as Piggy Awards enable the Company to celebrate and reward employees who have gone over and above in the performance of their role.
We actively seek to engage all our employees in changes that may concern them, rather than just a representative few on a committee.
Focus groups are held on a continual basis to ensure that any changes we have introduced continue to encourage our staff to perform to their best.
Regular lunches and teas are held with staff across the Company, hosted by members of the senior management team to ensure that they are kept abreast of employee concerns.
We also keep employees informed on a regular basis of the financial performance of the business and other matters of potential concern to them, through the Company intranet, ad-hoc emails, the monthly Company newsletter and quarterly breakfast forums with the Chief Executive.
Our intranet Babble provides a channel to communicate with staff as well as a platform for hosting communities and forums.
Amongst our many communities we boast a Book Club, Film Club with regular film showings in our auditorium, Guitar Club, Football Teams and an Art Club.
We are particularly proud of our Art Club that curated an exhibition composed of works of art from members of our staff, which are exhibited across the Company.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 31 PEOPLE AND ORGANISATION CONTINUED We operate an open-door policy throughout the business and provide employees with various mechanisms for providing feedback and making suggestions.
This year we continued our tradition and held our very own Dragons Den competition, The Piggies Pen to elicit innovative suggestions for improving our business from our staff, and were delighted with the high number of entries from both individuals and teams within the Company.
We have an active staff social committee which organises a wide range of events, supported by the Company, including the annual summer and Christmas parties quiz nights and many other ad hoc fun events.
This year we also hosted our first Santas Grotto and Panto for all our staff and their children.
We also have a Fun Fund set aside for individual departmental social events.
We promote staff wellbeing, through an employee assistance helpline, periodic at-desk massages, healthy meal options in the staff restaurant and a cycle to work scheme.
Each September we run our Fit Pig Week to promote health and well-being within the Company with a range of fun events and initiatives, such as offering well-being check-ups.
We now have a nurse who comes in periodically to assist our staff with general well-being and health issues.
Our headquarters building has been designed to offer our staff a much-enhanced working environment.
In addition to offering state of the art facilities, the offices include design features to inspire our staff and encourage collaboration.
Spacious and light, there are break out rooms on all floors and a recreation suite that boasts a wide-screen TV lounge, pods for relaxing in, plenty of seating areas and a library area with table-tennis and pool tables.
We host a brasserie style eatery, complete with its own Deli Bar.
This subsidised restaurant is an ever-popular benefit for our staff and provides a great venue for the staff social events.
With the exception of our logistics team, all our employees work together in Network HQ, our new Head Office building in London.
We provide a wide range of other staff benefits including a discount on the services we provide, employee loans at preferential interest rates, a generous Christmas bonus scheme, Gourmet Society dining membership and recognition for 5, 10 and 15 years service.
The Company operates an HM Revenue and Customs approved employee share option plan, under which employees are granted options to purchase shares in the Company which are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The exercise price is the market price at the time of granting the option.
Our policy is to issue options to all employees after the satisfactory completion of their probationary period, and additional options when 10 years service has been completed and in other appropriate circumstances e. g. promotion.
As at 31 March 2017 there were outstanding options over 2,325,716 shares which had been granted to staff, representing approximately 2.9% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company also operates a Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme under which employees are offered the opportunity to participate in the future growth of the Company through share option arrangements.
We were pleased that over 85 members of our staff participate in the scheme.
Employees returning from maternity leave with children less than 12 months old are able to benefit from a company contribution towards the cost of an external childcare service provider of their choice.
We also provide facilities for staff to purchase childcare vouchers in a tax-efficient manner using a salary sacrifice scheme, in accordance with HM Revenue and Customs guidelines.
32 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We encourage all employees to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme operated by Aviva.
Participants can choose their own contribution level, which is matched by the Company within certain limits, depending on length of service.
As a result of pension auto-enrolment the Company is contributing to the pension funds of virtually all employees, on a monthly basis.
We actively facilitate Access to Work grants for employees who have a disability, health or mental health condition providing the practical support to enable them to continue working effectively.
DIVERSITY Full and fair consideration is given to opportunities for employment, training, career progression and promotion on the basis of each individuals ability, attitude and track record, irrespective of their gender, ethnic origin, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
The table below sets out a breakdown of the gender diversity at various levels within the organisation: 2017 2016 MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Board 6 1 6 - Senior Managers 13 4 14 6 Employees 641 401 569 353 The Boards position in relation to the Code requirement to set out any existing measurable objectives in relation to Board diversity is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 41.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 33
