Corporate Governance continued As part of my induction as a new Board member, I visited the Corporate Responsibility Mattoon and Coles grain elevators after the industrial accident Committee Report to observe the revised processes and targeted investments being implemented there.
I also visited the Decatur, Lafayette South and Sagamore plants and was able to see first-hand how committed the teams there are to safety and how receptive they are to safety risk management improvements.
Implementation of the comprehensive Group-wide safety review will enable the next level of safety risk management.
Before taking over as Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, I held meetings with the President Global Operations: VP, Safety: the Group VP and CIO: VP, Group Audit and Assurance: and VP, Sustainability to discuss items on the Committees agenda.
I propose to hold meetings of this nature with regular management attendees of the Committee and other senior operational leaders in advance of future Committee meetings.
I believe that these meetings will provide me with an invaluable opportunity to discuss risk areas and help me to ensure that the Committee has the appropriate information to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Looking ahead, the Committees priority for the 2018 financial Jeanne Johns, Chairman of the Corporate year will be safety, focusing on the effective implementation Responsibility Committee of the recommendations from the Group-wide safety review, including the external experts report.
We will also continue to devote significant time to product quality, cyber security Safety is the primary focus of and sustainability.
Jeanne Johns Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Dear shareholder Committee This is my first report as the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank William Camp for his significant contribution to the work of the Committee during his tenure and for the time Committee governance he has taken to share his knowledge and experience of the Company with me during this period of transition.
As we Responsibilities move forward, we will continue to focus on the key areas The Committee assists the Board by overseeing the Groups of responsibility safety, product quality, cyber security approach to corporate responsibility, including the effectiveness and sustainability.
of policies and procedures relating to a safe working The Group has no higher priority than safety and safety is the environment, product quality, environmental performance, primary focus of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
employee relations, equal opportunities, legal and ethical Sadly, our safety performance during the year was overmatters, and cyber security.
Further details on its shadowed by an industrial accident at one of our grain responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, elevators in the US, in which one of our employees and a local on the Companys website, www.
As well as investigating the root causes of this tragic incident, the executive management team, with the full Composition support of the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Typically, the Committee comprises four Directors.
Jeanne Committee, instigated a comprehensive end-to-end review of Johns was appointed to the Board and the Committee with the Groups safety programme and safety culture.
This ongoing effect from 26 October 2016.
The Company Secretary is the review started in January and is being supported by leading secretary to the Committee.
As part of their review, these experts will visit over 30 manufacturing and other locations.
The review will be completed in the summer with a full report to management and the Board.
Throughout the review process, the Committee will have regular updates on key themes emerging from it, and will review the actions taken by management to address the reviews findings.
72 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Meetings during the year Product quality Meetings generally take place around the time of scheduled The VP, Global Quality updated the Committee on the status of Board meetings.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings global quality key performance indicators: regulatory priorities during the year and attendance during the year was as follows: for the quality organisation: and the result of certain recall simulation activities in the business.
Number Number of Cyber security of meetings Directors as at Date of appointment meetings eligible to The Committee is responsible for overseeing the policies and 31 March 2017 to the Committee attended attend systems to address cyber security threats.
Updates on cyber William Camp security matters were provided to the Committee twice during Chr 1 July 2011 4 4 the year in addition to regular updates to the Board.
Jeanne Johns 26 October 2016 2 2 1 Diversity and inclusion Lars Frederiksen 1 April 2016 3 4 Sir Peter Gershon 1 July 2011 4 4 The Committee received an update on the actions taken to embed the Groups diversity and inclusion initiatives, and the Douglas Hurt 1 March 2015 4 4 priorities of management for the next 12 months.
Dr Gerry Murphy 1 January 2017 2 2 1 Dr Ajai Puri 1 April 2012 3 4 Business practices 1 Unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
The Committee considered the effectiveness of the independent confidential reporting line.
Further information on The Committee has also met once since the end of the this is on page 63.
The Committee also reviewed the Companys financial year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
Modern Slavery Statement which was subsequently approved The Chief Executive: VP, Group Audit and Assurance: and VP, by the Board.
Group Safety are normally invited and attend each meeting.
The President Global Operations: the VP, Sustainability: the Group Environment VP and CIO: and the VP, Global Quality attend and present to The VP, Sustainability provided the Committee with updates on the Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues the Groups environmental performance and initiatives and the being discussed.
Committee approved new targets for 2020 see page 48.
Effectiveness Community The Committee Chairman and Company Secretary led a review The Committee discussed the delivery of the annual charitable of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed and community involvement programme and the proposed by the Committee.
This concluded that the Committee programme for the year ending 31 March 2018. continued to operate effectively and identified a number of areas for increased focus during the forthcoming financial year.
Internal control and risk management In September, the Committee reviewed progress made in the Work undertaken during the year Companys business continuity management programme and The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration those areas of focus for continued improvement over the at each meeting.
This is regularly reviewed and updated.
work undertaken by the Committee in the 2017 financial year During the year, the Committee received regular reports from fell under the following main areas: management and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance in respect of the policies, systems and controls in place in respect Safety of the risks falling within the Committees remit.
In addition, At each of its meetings, the Committee discussed an update the Committee reviewed the output from the annual review of from the VP, Safety covering matters such as the development the effectiveness of controls falling within its terms of reference and implementation of initiatives to refresh the Groups and then reported to the Board on this review.
In addition to the updates into the incident at one of our US grain elevators in 2016, during the course of the year, the Committee identified areas for additional safety reporting to be produced by management for review at routine Committee meetings.
