t R n e m a p o l e v w e d d n a n m g i s e D a t R e t e a i l r i a l s F i l l i n g a n d d i s t r RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN A GLOBAL MARKET Corporate Responsibility This section sets out how RPC has discharged its responsibilities to its key stakeholders including its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
THE PLASTIC PRODUCT LIFECYCLE Closed loop process Responsible procurement reduction in waste to landfill Research & development of new materials such In-house recycling as biopolymers Sustainable raw material source Lightweighting Consideration of target demographic Use of recycled material Reduction in product waste Product protection Recyclability Sustainability Reduce Energy consumption Increased shelf-life Waste Product protection Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection Efficient transportation 44 i b u t i o n l a s o g p n s i i l d c y n c o e i t R a r e n i c n i M e s a u e n R u f a c t u r i n n o g i t c e l l o c l a s o p s i d e s U STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 SUBSTITUTING MATERIALS USING RECYCLED PLASTICS PRODUCT DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT AND Plastics robustness and reliability at light weight The use of recycled plastic, sourced from either INNOVATION make it the ideal alternative to many traditional a post-consumer or post-industrial origin can materials, ensuring safety and practicality also improve the environmental impact of plastic LIGHTWEIGHTING are notcompromised in the achievement products.
The replacement of virgin plastic with The light weight of plastics makes a significant of a reduced carbon footprint and improved recycled material diverts used plastics from contribution to raw material usage, transport sustainability profile in both the packaging and landfill and incineration and also reduces the efficiencies and can contribute to a reduction in non-packaging markets.
the carbon footprint of a product.
For the packaging market, RPC has developed a The Group manufactures a variety of products At RPC investments have been made in raw number of packs which provide a lighter weight using recycled plastics, predominantly PP, PE, materials, tooling, process changes and machinery and safer alternative to heavier materials for PET and HDPE.
Some examples of products to be able to manufacture lighter packs, films applications such as sauces, baby food and manufactured incorporating recycled content andproducts that offer the same or improved catering ingredients.
The use of plastic for include packaging for products such as paint, technical performance delivering enhanced packaging can reduce the environmental impacts food, drink and personal care items, bin liners sustainability benefits while ensuring products are through reducing resource consumption, reducing and agricultural film, storage boxes and garden still fit-for-purpose throughout all stages of the carbon footprint in comparison to heavier packs appliances.
The Group continues to research and supply chain.
develop ways in which either to increase current recycled content levels in products or to develop PRODUCT PROTECTION For the non-packaging market the use of plastic in new applications that can use recycled plastics.
applications such as vehicle parts, transportation, Product protection is a key role of many of RPCs In addition, we are working with various partners storage solutions and outdoor furniture can also plastic solutions and can make an important to explore the feasibility of closed loop initiatives provide a durable, low carbon alternative contribution to preserving products and that provide a commercially-viable means of to traditional materials.
collecting and recycling used plastics.
For some market areas RPC has also developed Food waste is a global problem with around RPC Group also recycles plastics for use in applications where oil based plastics have 1.3 billion tonnes of food wasted every year second-life applications, see page 48 for been substituted with biopolymers.
The use of all over the world.
RPCs food market solutions more information.
biopolymers can improve the environmental can help to reduce food waste through design performance of plastic products through the use features such as re-sealable packs and individual of renewable materials or by providing alternative or smaller size packaging that allows effective disposal scenarios for plastic such as portion control.
Food waste has at least ten times the environmental impact of packaging.
Technology such as barrier bottles, jars, films and trays work to halt the effects of oxygen, light or moisture on the product to aid a reduction in food waste and prolong the shelf-life of food.
In many non-food markets, plastics robustness and longevity are also ideal for keeping a wide variety of products safer for longer and avoiding unnecessary waste for markets such as paint, DIY, personal care and cosmetics.
RPC also manufactures long-lasting bulk transport and storage solutions for both food and non-food products such as seafood, meat, recycling and by-products that maintain protection of the product throughout the supply chain.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN A GLOBAL MARKET Corporate Responsibility Continued ELECTRICITY USAGE packaging for the pharmaceutical and healthcare MANUFACTURING OUR PER TONNE KWH T markets increases the complexity of the DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL manufacturing processes which partly offsets IMPACTS energy efficiency measures that have been put 1,965 0.8 % ENERGY EFFICIENCY in place.
Plastic conversion is by nature an energy intensive WATER EFFICIENCY 2,028 process that represents a considerable cost to the 2,014 2,001 1,981 1,965 Water is an important part of the manufacturing business.
Energy consumption also represents process, primarily as a cooling agent.
RPC aims the majority of direct environmental impacts from to reduce the impact on the environment by the Groups manufacturing operations: this can be monitoring how much water is used for each seen in the greenhouse gas emissions reporting tonne of product manufactured to ensure on page 47.
RPC is continually working to improve the Improvements have been made across the energy efficiency of manufacturing processes Group to reduce water usage or to reuse it WATER USAGE through projects ranging from lighting within a closed loop system which reduces PER TONNE L T alterations to replacing older manufacturing evaporative losses.
machines with more energy efficient models This year the Group water consumption per tonne and the implementation of renewable sourced 795 13% before the effect of acquisitions has reduced in energy.
Over the last few years an increasing comparison to 2016: however due to the more number of RPCs manufacturing facilities have 795 737 737 708 702 water intensive nature of acquisitions during been accredited with the ISO 50001 Energy the year this has resulted in a net increase in Management System.
provides the framework to improve energy efficiency through target setting and increased WASTE AND RECYCLING measurement and monitoring of energy use.
Polymer is a valuable resource and manufacturing 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 This year the Group kWh tonne electricity sites operate at a high efficiency in terms of consumption has decreased in comparison to last salvaging raw materials.
The Group undertakes a number of energy cannot be reused is segregated and collected saving initiatives in its manufacturing sites, for recycling.
The same applies to many other including replacing machinery with more energy materials that are handled throughout the Group efficient equivalents at the end of their use.
such as scrap metal, cardboard boxes tubes, Although energy efficiency and the reduction wooden pallets and shrink wrap.
A number of our of electricity usage per tonne is a major focus manufacturing facilities are certified as zero waste of the Group there are a number of areas that to landfill or are working towards this.
The Group strategy DISTRIBUTION to lightweight packaging adversely affects the electricity KPI as the same amount of energy Transport of finished products is an area over is required to run the processing machines, which RPC does not have a significant amount but with a lower throughput of materials.
of control as it is dependent on where the goods Lightweighting benefits are seen at other stages need to be delivered.
The Group is focused on of the packaging lifecycle such as reduced raw ways of improving distribution, for example, by material consumption and lower transportation increasing full loads of deliveries, identifying impacts.
Alongside lightweighting the Group areas where back loads could be used in the strategy to increase the production of higher transport network so that vehicles are not empty added value products such as multilayer on return journeys and co-ordinating logistics packaging for the food market and complex within geographic regions.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING 3 METHODOLOGY 3 INCLUDED ACTIVITIES 3 EMISSIONS Emissions were calculated on an operational GHG emissions from the purchase of electricity Absolute emissions have increased due to control approach using The Greenhouse and combustion of fuel.
acquisitions in the period and the inclusion of Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and the full year impact of previous acquisitions.
Reporting Standard with additional guidance The intensity ratio has decreased as a result of and emissions factors derived from DEFRA and increased focus on electricity and fuel usage DECCs UK Government conversion factors for coupled with the Groups increased revenue.
Company Reporting and the IEAs CO emissions 2 from fuel combustion.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e 2017 2016 Scope 1 emissions Fuel combustion 20,828 11,196 Scope 2 emissions Electricity 552,919 369,630 Total GHG Emissions 573,747 380,826 Intensity ratio: Tonne of CO per 1m of revenue 209 231 2 RETAIL AND USE STAGES Through acquisition the Group now operates The unique characteristics of plastics allow recycling facilities that guarantee the value of them to make a strong contribution to resource The primary role of packaging within the retail plastic is maintained for second-life applications efficiency.
Plastic products are lightweight, environment is to protect, secure and deliver versatile, durable and recyclable and contribute and ensure that circular economy practices the product contents.
The Group strives to offer to energy and resource savings in many markets.
are encompassed by the business.
For more customers the most appropriate sustainable RPC supports the view of a circular economy in information on the recycling capabilities of the solution for their product in order to minimise Group see page 48. its requirement to be more resource efficient and environmental impact at this stage of the supply increase plastic recovery and recycling.
The foundations for this have been achieved Litter and marine litter is also an area of at the design, development and innovation stage as increasing focus within the plastics industry.
At RPC, typical examples have included the detailed on page 12, which determines the impact Although packaging comprises only a small development of reusable packaging, the recycling throughout the rest of the supply chain.
percentage of litter with most attributable of plastic packaging and products and the use of to chewing gum and cigarette ends it is an recycled material in new products.
Design also END-OF-LIFE SOLUTIONS area where the sector aims to reduce the makes a critical contribution to ensuring that environmental impact of packaging.
RPC is a products are able to play a key role in the circular The Groups desire to improve the performance of signatory to Operation Clean Sweep which aims economy throughout their lifecycle - manufacture, the plastic products it manufactures at its facilities to reduce the leakage of plastic pellets from distribution, use and end-of-use.
does not end when the item leaves manufacturing plastic conversion facilities.
RPC has taken a proactive stance with RPC is active in industry-wide programmes to work on litter through the various organisations customers in designing plastic packaging and further enhance plastics sustainability.
A recent and trade associations that it is a member of.
products to optimise reuse and recyclability as pilot scheme tested the feasibility of establishing well as to ensure end-of-life collection.
a closed loop recycling solution for used plastic RPCS ROLE IN THE CIRCULAR paint containers: and RPC bpi recycled products ECONOMY The use of post-consumer recyclate PCR and are part of the New Plastics Economy, a three year post-industrial recyclate PIR diverts end-of-life A circular economy as opposed to a linear initiative led by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation, plastic from landfill and also reduces energy economy make, use, dispose is one in which which aims to develop a global and coordinated demand in comparison with the sourcing of virgin resources are used efficiently to extract maximum system for plastics in line with circular raw materials.
If it doesnt make economic or value.
These resources should then be recovered economy principles.
environmental sense to recycle then the Group and regenerated into new products or materials at supports energy recovery from plastics through the end of their lifecycle.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 ESSENTIALLY RECYCLING During the year RPC made two acquisitions that incorporate recycling capabilities into the Group: RPC bpi recycled products and ESE World.
For further information on these acquisitions see pages 19 and 23.
Plastics recycling diverts used plastic from the waste stream and provides a valuable raw material resource for second-life applications in a variety of products.
RPC bpi recycled products is Europes leading polythene film recycler, annually recycling over 70,000 tonnes of plastic waste from industrial, commercial, agricultural and domestic sources.
They have the recycling experience and infrastructure to collect waste plastic from across Europe, and supply recycled, second-life products including refuse sacks, plastic wood and construction membranes.
ESE World manufactures a range of waste and recycling bins.
They also operate a recycling service for waste bins that are no longer in use which has resulted in the successful recycling of over four million units.
Mobile units are used to granulate the disused bins with the material then being transported to ESE production facilities to be converted into new bins.
This process reduces transportation of bulk items and therefore contributes to reduced costs and CO emissions.
2 The introduction of these two businesses to the RPC Group highlights our commitment to a sustainable, circular future for plastic.
48 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 STRATEGIC REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN A GLOBAL MARKET Corporate Responsibility Continued CODE OF CONDUCT HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEES AND ETHICS TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT The Group aims to act responsibly and with RPC supports human rights and expects sites to integrity, respecting the laws and regulations comply with the relevant legislation, including that The Group continues to support the training and of all the countries within which it operates as relating to the workplace of the jurisdiction development of both existing employees and well as internationally accepted standards of or country in which they operate.
Many of our sites have their own responsible business conduct.
The Group requires The Group recognises that it has a responsibility apprenticeship schemes, including those at high standards of professional and ethical conduct to ensure that human rights are upheld in the Bremervrde, Kutenholz and Oakham.
from all employees, officers and directors.
While the supply chain is generally The Groups Code of Business Conduct is available COMMUNICATION located in the countries or regions in which to all employees and can be read in full on the the Group operates, RPC aims to engage with The Group established a European Works Groups website www.
suppliers who source products or materials from Council in 1998 which meets once a year and a Each business within the Group is expected to at risk countries to promote compliance with steering committee that meets four times a year.
operate with policies and procedures which are relevant local legislation.
The European Works Council brings together consistent with the Groups values and standards.
employee representatives from across the CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS In all dealings, all employees and other persons Groups operations to discuss business matters acting on behalf of the Group are expected to: The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its with senior managers within the Group including relationships with customers and suppliers, Board members.
This involves the provision of 3 engage in honest and ethical conduct, including toprovide customers with standards of product information concerning the Group, consultation the ethical handling of actual or apparent and service that have been agreed and to pay and discussions.
In addition there are national and conflicts of interest between personal and suppliers and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
site-based works councils and employee forums professional relationships: that discuss more local business matters.
It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to 3 maintain effective procedures to prevent the quality management standard ISO 9001 and An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued confidential information being misused or used encourage operating units to gain accreditation regularly in five languages.
Employees are for personal gain: to any specific standards required by the markets encouraged to make their views known to the 3 advance the legitimate interests of the Group, served or by customers such as the British Retail directors and senior management of the Group.
having regard to the Groups values and Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP standards, as set out in the Code of conduct: Food Packaging Standard.
Currently 91 of the GENDER DIVERSITY Groups manufacturing operations have ISO 9001 3 comply with all applicable laws, rules and accreditation and 59 operating units have regulations in every country in which the BRC IOP accreditation.
Group operates: TOTAL MALE MODERN SLAVERY 3 treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: 69% The Modern Slavery Act 2015 introduced changes 3 maintain high standards of integrity in business TOTAL FEMALE in UK law that focused on increasing transparency relationships with suppliers: and 31% in company supply chains.
Its principal purpose 3 encourage the use of those suppliers who was the consolidation of existing criminal offences operate with values and standards equivalent relating to modern slavery including slavery, to the Groups.
servitude, forced and compulsory labour and human trafficking, provide law enforcement agencies with Board Male 5 Female 2 The Group does not employ child or forced labour enhanced tools to address the issue and increase Management Male 266 Female 49 in any of its operations.
A child is as defined in the protection for victims.
All employees Male 16,452 Female 7,364 International Labour Organisation Convention.
The Board has approved an appropriate slavery and human trafficking statement that reflects RPCs particular risk profile, the complexity of its supply chains, and the industry and jurisdictions where it operates.
The full statement can be found on the Groups website.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BEING RESPONSIBLE IN A GLOBAL MARKET Corporate Responsibility Continued Work is ongoing in the establishment of The two day event included lectures and HEALTH AND SAFETY best practice in the more recently acquired workshops along with a participative planning REVIEW OF THE YEAR technologies and the Group is engaged in the event for the audits and the auditor apprenticeship sharing, adaptation and adoption of these programme.
The resulting training and discussions The Group continues to place safety at the improvements as necessary.
Specific training will help to improve the resources and best forefront of everything that we do and strives to events and partnerships with key RPC safety practices, shared via the RPC intranet, and to learn develop a perpetual safety culture, in which all personnel are beginning to show positive results.
employees make our operations safer places to work and to visit.
The development of the Groups divisional The safety conference proved to be an excellent structure is delivering improvements as it rolls opportunity to explain the vision of RPC as an Developing and improving this culture is a out the RPC safety system to more and more attractive business to work for because of the continuous process.
Another year of growth parts of the Group.
RPC also learns from the overt interdependent culture of safety and healthy and the integration of additional businesses processes and activities that are already in place working, ensuring that we can attract and retain into the Group presented us with the challenge in the new businesses.
The Group also acquires the best people in our businesses and further of transferring our culture and requirements talented professional safety practitioners in some develop through their enthusiastic involvement for safety as well as presenting us with the of the new businesses.
This results in a two in our daily business.
opportunity of learning from the knowledge way development process and RPCs open and and procedures residing within ACCIDENT STATISTICS collaborative approach ensures that the Group the acquired businesses.
as a whole is the key beneficiary.
The Group shows an improving trend in the Each new business and individual site is Reportable Accident Frequency Rate RAFR RPCs focus on safety is one of the most benefiting from the step by step implementation defined as the number of accidents resulting noticeable differences experienced by new of the RPC Safety System.
However, the in more than three days off work, excluding employees upon acquisition and sets the scene combination of different manufacturing processes accidents where an employee is travelling to for integration.
As this is often the first experience and the different emphasis and focus placed on or from work, divided by the average number of RPC for many people it is both positive and health and safety culture by new members of the of employees, multiplied by 100,000 of 534, a easy to understand and accept.
This helps to pave Group still remains, although we are seeing real sustained improvement on the result of last year: the way for further business improvements and improvement in the behaviour and the visibility of 925.
Following the disappointing performance of engagement as we all move forward together.
the safety culture at all sites as a direct result the acquired businesses in 2015 16, the overall of these efforts.
In March 2017 the annual safety conference Group has shown a marked improvement with was held and attended by 150 colleagues from RAFR improving by 42% to 534. throughout the Group.
As has been the case in recent years, the events primary objectives REPORTABLE ACCIDENT were to build on the safety network, forging FREQUENCY RATE links between safety managers by region and technology and to train them in both the 534 requirements of the RPC Blue programme 42.3 % as well as the specific areas in the business 1,197 1,169 that sees the highest levels of risk or where sites have the greatest difficulty in building 925 753 sustained compliance.
534 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 50 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 SAFETY WEEK 2016 17 Work with Willis to develop and deliver RPCs The auditor apprenticeship programme and safety auditing programme: RPC Blue continues.
the two person audit - carried out by a lead Safety week is the highlight of the year and a real After a period where change in this area has auditor and an apprentice auditor is proving opportunity to reaffirm commitment to safety and been kept to a minimum, further to the increase beneficial, both to the quality of the audits and an opportunity to make step changes in all parts in the scale of the Group, the opportunity has the knowledge and experience of the auditors.
been taken to fully review our audit programmes.
The Group is building the bench strength of The hugely popular competition to come up with Following this review a number of amendments quality auditors which is essential as the Group an appropriate slogan for the week was won have been made as set out below: continues to grow in line with its published by a safety manager from the newly acquired strategy.
The number of lead auditors has more 3 The baseline audit, that sets out the basic GCS business.
The slogan Our Safety My than doubled, however these individuals remain in requirements many of which go further than Priority was chosen due to its fit with RPCs clear their site roles, enabling the knowledge acquired local legal compliance expected as a member understanding that safety remains the first priority as part of the audit process to be transferred of the Group, has been reviewed and updated.
for all employees at whatever level and underlines between sites and implemented.
This builds on It will remain the benchmark for new sites upon the expectation that everyone should be looking the culture of site ownership of all improvements acquisition and for the first two years operating out for colleagues safety at all times.
which has historically proven to be the best way as part of RPC.
of embedding improvements for the long term.
Safety week itself was a great success, and 3 Tier Aand Tier B audits have been removed served as an introduction for those businesses and replaced with a new Advanced Audit that were new to the Group including GCS and which strikes the right balance of breadth and BPI.
The level of participation was at an all-time depth, removing some areas which sites found high and demonstrates that the commitment to to be confusing.
Larger sites will be audited safety is becoming embedded in the culture.
over two days to ensure that all aspects of the audit can be covered in depth.
ASSURANCE 3 An audit calendar is in place and every site RPC continues to conduct the Safety Climate will be audited annually, with new sites being Survey, a statistical tool which provides an audited as soon after acquisition as possible.
indication of the level of our safety culture at all sites and which provides an ability to provide 3 The audit process will become tablet based analysis down to a departmental level.
The FY which will enable more detailed audits and 2016 17 saw the results of the survey being greater use of photography to provide the used to drive improvements in the usability of audit more quickly and in a more detailed procedures - making it easier to do the job safely.
This will increase the value gained This is a large task when done properly and from the audits as this is directly attributable improvements, as a direct result, can be seen to improved understanding at site level and in this area at those sites where the survey has the step changes made following the audit.
been carried out in successive years.
Those sites The audit reports, accident statistics and that were new to the Group undertook the survey climate survey continue to be amongst the for the first time in safety week.
Focus on this is main drivers in the safety improvement plan for important as improvement can only be achieved each site.
by working closely with the people who are involved in the day-to-day delivery of our business, listening to them and developing their ideas into workable procedures that can be applied to all employees.
This focus is likely to continue for some time.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 RPC THE ESSENTIAL INGREDIENT 52
