Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Why it is important to engage Ways we engage Stakeholders key interests Understanding our customers Satisfaction surveys Value for money Customers needs and behaviours allows us Rewards Customer service to deliver relevant products and services, retain customers and also Commercial website Convenience attract new ones.
It also identifies opportunities for growth.
Social media engagement Range Interactions with our colleagues 3-Gears training programme Career opportunities Colleagues are the main ways that customers Listening: surveys and colleague Pay and conditions experience the brand of the groups Company.
Our colleagues are Training and development fundamental to the achievement of Accelerate management our customer experience ambitions Innovation development courses and are the cornerstone of our Colleague engagement service and services proposition.
Recognition and reward Apprenticeship programme Engaging with our supply chain Far East trading office Quality management Suppliers means that we can ensure security developing mutually beneficial Cost efficiency of supply and speed to market.
Our relationships brand relies heavily on the high Ethical Trading policy Logistics efficiencies and standards of our carefully selected suppliers, in order for us to deliver environmental management market-leading products and Supplier conferences services.
Infrastructure As a publicly listed company we Annual reports Future-oriented information Investors need to provide fair, balanced and RNS Risk information understandable information to instil trust and confidence and allow Annual General Meetings Operating and financial informed investment decisions to performance be made.
Investor presentations Dividend Corporate website Access to Management One-on-one meetings Ensures continued viability of the Community investment Impact of Group activities on the Communities business into the long-term.
We initiatives wider community aim to contribute positively to the Media channels communities and environment in which we operate.
Ensures transparency of Product videos and peer reviews Reliable range, product and Media information on the business.
pricing information TV and radio advertising As a business-to-consumer campaign Transparency of reliable and company, we need strong timely Group information omnichannel exposure to connect Email and PR customer with customers and our wider engagement stakeholder audience.
Improving Twitter, Facebook and Youtube content Policies and regulatory changes Cycle to Work policy Transport policies and schemes Government may provide opportunities and campaigning CO reduction strategies 2 pose risk to our operations.
DAB Radio working groups Working closely with the Government ensures that our Driver training and vehicle safety products and services evolve.
enhancements Engaging with VOSA, DVLA, TSI, ASA and HSE 14 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 14 07 06 2017 16:36:21 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Fast Fact Nearly 50% of Retail store management vacancies filled internally Fast Fact CSR Achievements we won Retail Weeks CSR Initiative of the Year for our work at Onley prison Read more on Corporate Social Responsibility on pages 30 to 35 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
