30 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance Emission Control Technologies Divisional Summary Business Light Duty Vehicle Catalysts Heavy Duty Diesel Catalysts What We Do Manufacture catalysts which control harmful emissions from cars Manufacture catalysts which control harmful emissions from diesel and other light duty vehicles powered by all types of fuel powered trucks, buses and non-road machinery How We Develop high technology catalyst formulations and systems to meet legislated limits for emissions around the world Add Value Societal Improved air quality and fuel eciency Benets Respiratory health benets Global Drivers Environmental Factors Population Growth Health and Nutrition Climate Change Urbanisation Ageing Population Regulation Increasing Wealth Customer Car companies Heavy duty truck and engine manufacturers Prole Global customer base Local Chinese producers Global customer base Major BASF BASF Competitors Umicore Umicore Cataler Haldor Topse Employees 4,948 Locations 13 manufacturing facilities in 12 countries Nine technical centres in eight countries 2016 17 Sales 1,400 million 824 million The division is focused on maintaining differentiation through technology by Strategy investing in R&D.
This investment is vital to ensure Emission Control Technologies Maintain differentiation can continue to develop high performance leading edge catalysts for its customers.
through technology by A deep understanding of markets and customers enables the division to provide investing in R&D the right solutions for its customers in evolving markets driven by tightening legislation.
Strong relationships and a good understanding of customers needs A deep understanding of are crucial to the divisions success.
markets and customers The division is focused on operational excellence and sustainability to optimise Operational excellence and raw materials and plant efficiency.
This enables it to produce the best quality sustainability products at minimum operating cost whilst ensuring the highest standards of environmental, health and safety performance.
Deliver superior growth The division aims to deliver superior growth.
It targets markets that are driven by global trends, such as environmental regulation and increasing wealth, applying its expertise in leading edge catalysis to generate growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
31 Performance in 2016 17 Year to 31st March % change, 2017 2016 constant million million % change rates Sales excluding precious metals sales 2,224 1,913 16 4 Underlying operating profit 318.2 272.2 17 2 Return on sales 14.3% 14.2% Return on invested capital ROIC 30.7% 28.3% However, sales growth, and Johnson Sales of catalysts for gasoline Sales outperformed vehicle Mattheys outperformance, was primarily powered vehicles showed good growth production in almost every market due to new business for higher value on the back of a shift in mix to some despite a year of limited changes products.
This is the result of our strength larger engine platforms for luxury in legislation in the technology required to meet Euro vehicles and increased demand from Very strong growth in our European 6b and the tougher real world driving some of our customers as a result of Light Duty Vehicle Catalyst business emission standards RDE.
While RDE will sales growth of their vehicles.
driven by sales of higher value not be applicable to new models of cars While in the year, diesel vehicles catalysts across diesel and gasoline, until September 2017, with the increased as a proportion of total vehicles and share gains in diesel catalysts public focus and scrutiny on emissions, produced in Western Europe declined we have seen our customers increasingly only one percentage point to 51%, In our Heavy Duty Diesel Catalyst shift towards more advanced NOx control we expect the decline in diesels share business, sales outperformed in systems for diesel vehicles.
As a result, in Western Europe to accelerate over every region, driven by new business there was increased demand for our time, with demand for smaller diesel wins in North America and Asia, advanced selective catalytic reduction cars initially being most impacted.
and sales of higher value catalysts SCR catalysts which have a higher in Europe value.
The move to advanced SCR The global focus on clean air will catalysts will benefit sales in 2017 18 drive growth for our business over and through the medium term.
the medium to long term as tighter emissions legislation continues to be introduced, particularly in Europe Estimated Light Duty Vehicle Sales and Production and Asia.
Year to 31st March 2017 2016 % millions millions change Light Duty Vehicle LDV Catalysts North America Sales 21.1 20.9 1 Our LDV Catalyst business provides Production 18.0 17.6 2 catalysts for cars and other light duty Total Europe Sales 20.2 19.3 5 vehicles powered by both gasoline and Production 21.8 21.0 4 diesel.
The business delivered a good Asia Sales 43.8 39.9 10 performance in which it outperformed Production 49.3 45.6 8 the growth in global vehicle production.
Global Sales 93.9 89.1 5 Our European LDV Catalyst business Production 94.4 89.0 6 performed strongly and sales grew 13%, Source: LMC Automotive.
well ahead of the 4% growth in vehicle production.
Sales of catalysts for diesel powered Johnson Mattheys Light Duty Vehicle Catalyst Sales by Region vehicles, which account for approximately % change, 80% of our European LDV catalyst sales, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates grew strongly in the year.
This was in part driven by the full year effect of the sales Europe 847 698 21 13 of higher value catalysts to meet Euro 6b, Asia 339 282 20 6 which applied to all car production from North America 214 202 6 -8 September 2015 and which imposed Total 1,400 1,182 18 7 tighter emissions standards on oxides of nitrogen NOx from diesel vehicles.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 32 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance However, diesel engines continue to offer In order to provide sufficient capacity Heavy Duty Diesel HDD Catalysts greater fuel efficiency and lower CO to satisfy anticipated requirements for On Road 2 emissions compared to their gasoline tighter European emissions legislation in Our on road HDD Catalyst business, counterparts, particularly for larger the medium term, and also to enhance which provides catalysts for trucks and vehicles.
They enable car manufacturers our global efficiency and operating buses, outperformed truck production to meet the significant reduction in fleet flexibility, we plan to invest approximately across all regions.
average CO limits which will apply in 90 million in the construction of a new 2 Our US HDD Catalyst business 2020 and therefore, we expect diesel manufacturing plant in Poland.
This outperformed a weak US market, where to remain an important powertrain plant will commence production in total truck production was down 18%, technology.
Consequently, with the summer 2019. driven by a 30% decline in production tighter RDE legislation and the business In Asia, our LDV Catalyst business of the larger Class 8 trucks.
Our sales wins Johnson Matthey has already performed well with sales up 6%.
In declined by 15% as we benefited from secured, we expect to see continued China, while our volumes outperformed the launch of a new Class 8 platform strong sales growth in our European LDV the strong 14% growth in Chinese vehicle and strong demand for catalysts for diesel catalyst business over the short production, our sales growth was lower.
We expect Class 8 truck to medium term.
This was due to a change in customer production to stabilise in the first half of We are also well positioned in our mix as we increased the number of 2017 18 given our improving order book.
technology for catalysts for gasoline platforms supplied to local car Sales in our European HDD Catalyst engines and will benefit from growth in manufacturers but reduced sales to business were up 15%, supported by 7% gasoline vehicle production and tighter global car manufacturers.
Although growth in truck production and positive legislation.
Euro 6c legislation, which this change in mix negatively impacted mix as an increasing proportion of our requires a reduction in particulate sales, margins were maintained as the sales related to higher value products, emissions from gasoline vehicles, will associated manufacturing costs were both coated and extruded.
apply to new models from September also lower.
We continued to work with Our HDD Catalyst business in Asia 2017 and to all production from customers ahead of the introduction grew very strongly from a low base.
Certain gasoline cars, of China 6 legislation from 2020 and Truck production in China was up 47% such as those with direct injection, are completed the expansion of our research following enforcement of truck loading expected to require additional advanced and development facilities there.
Johnson coated particulate filter catalysts to meet businesses in Japan and South East Asia Mattheys strong reputation for working the new standard and we estimate this grew slightly ahead of flat markets.
with customers in a rapidly changing will initially apply to up to a quarter of Sales in our North American legislative environment resulted in new gasoline cars sold in the European Union.
LDV Catalyst business declined 8%, business with local truck manufacturers.
The addition of a coated particulate filter underperforming vehicle production Our sales to China more than doubled.
catalyst will significantly increase our which was up 2% in the year.
This We expanded capacity in the year ahead average sales value per vehicle for these was expected as a number of sales of the move from nationwide China IV cars.
During the year, we secured agreements came to an end.
However, legislation to China VI in 2020. contracts with customers to supply sales in the second half benefited from Euro 6c platforms and these will begin new platform wins, which will drive to phase in from September 2017. sales growth next year.
North America Sales 478 550 -13 Production 456 558 -18 EU Sales 445 413 8 Operating Profit Production 569 534 7 Underlying operating profit was up 2%, Source: LMC Automotive and return on sales at constant rates declined only slightly in spite of higher initial manufacturing costs associated Johnson Mattheys Heavy Duty Diesel Catalyst Sales by Region with producing more advanced catalyst % change, systems.
Return on sales is expected to 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates be broadly maintained in the year ending 31st March 2018 as we balance continued North America 397 405 -2 -15 investment in China with improvements Europe 249 196 27 15 Asia 85 44 95 64 in the manufacturing efficiency of our Other non-road and stationary 93 86 8 -3 advanced catalyst systems.
Total 824 731 13 -1 Return on Invested Capital ROIC improved to 30.7% from 28.3% driven primarily by the benefit of translational foreign exchange.
