Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy centres on four key areas: Colleagues: finding, supporting and developing great people throughout their Halfords journey Community: helping to keep families safer on their journeys and encouraging an active lifestyle Environmental Management: managing our impact on the environment in a responsible and ethical manner Responsible Trading: building and maintaining the highest standards amongst our suppliers The CSR Policy is available at www.
com investors governance Colleagues: Colleagues Finding, supporting and developing great people throughout their Developing, rewarding and retaining our colleagues, ensuring they are Halfords journey fully engaged to drive our long term We aim to be an inclusive employer of choice, giving colleagues equal sustainable growth ambitions opportunities to prosper within rewarding and inspiring teams.
We strive to ensure all colleagues enjoy their work and have opportunities to consistently amaze our customers through their friendly expertise.
In support, we continue to invest in our 3-Gears, apprenticeship and leadership development programmes and actively look for ways in which we can promote and increase the diversity of our workforce.
c. 10,000 A great place to work For the fourth year running, Halfords Retail has featured in the Number of colleagues Sunday Times 30 Best Big Companies To Work For list, this year moving up five places to take 13th place and scoring in the upper quartile for questions relating to Recognition for my Contribution, Wellbeing, My Team and My Manager.
80% Friendly expertise As a business, one of our central strategies is to offer great products Employee Engagement Score that are delivered with great service.
This is one of the five key strategic pillars of our business.
We refer to it as Service in Our DNA.
To achieve the highest possible levels of service we invest heavily in training our colleagues.
As part of this investment we have developed a qualification programme called 3-Gears.
This plays a 33% key role in enabling retail colleagues to achieve industry recognised qualifications.
They are rewarded as they progress through the gears Retail Colleague turnover by gaining experience and qualifications.
All colleagues complete Gear 1 within three months of starting.
Awards: Gear 2 involves a nine-month programme leading to an expert level of knowledge with a specialism in either Auto & Leisure or Cycling.
By the end of FY17 we had nearly 70% of the eligible headcount trained to Gear 2 level.
Colleagues can also complete Gear 3 if nominated which gives them technician status in either Auto or Cycling and enables them to complete complex fits and repairs.
So far, we have around 10% of eligible colleagues trained to Gear 3 level.
We continually enhance and update our training programmes.
This year we delivered additional training following new car seat legislation and our colleagues who work in our in-store Bikehuts benefited from specialist training on electric bikes e-bikes.
In accordance with our aim to lead the way in the repair of electric and hybrid cars, we also began a programme to have a trained mechanic at each of our Autocentres in 2018.
We were one of the first to deliver a new Institute of Motor Industry IMI Level 2 award and our aim is to train more than 300 colleagues to become MOT testers every year.
30 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 30 07 06 2017 16:37:12 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We have a policy of continuous improvement to support ongoing development.
We use a blended learning approach which encourages colleagues to attain more skills and progress their career throughout Case Study: Scoring a try their Halfords journey.
In 2017, thousands of colleagues took advantage of our ongoing development programmes.
We operate a with Dallaglio RugbyWorks programme named Aspire, which is a guided learning suite that offers individuals the opportunity to take their careers further and become leaders.
Since it began, 420 colleagues have benefited from the The scheme opened my eyes to a Aspire programme to graduate to new roles as an Assistant Manager possible career path.
Ive got it all or a Store Manager.
One of the additional benefits of Aspire is that mapped out and found the direction over 80% of store manager vacancies are filled internally.
I found out about the Right job, right person, right time scheme through school.
Ive always We recognise the value that diversity brings and we continue on our wanted to do something practical and journey to address the balance in some inherently male-dominated have had an interest in cars so this areas.
We understand that this will take time but in recent years we seems ideal.
Mason Kerry, Dartford have made great progress on our gender strategy.
Women now represent 50% of our Board, 40% of our senior management team and 23% of our total population of employees which is an increase Halfords Autocentres began operating an from 22% in 2016.
We have also introduced development resources apprenticeship scheme over 22 years ago and now aimed specifically at supporting women.
runs one of the largest motor schemes in the UK, In our retail business, we continue to invest in our apprenticeship with 213 of the current cohort at differing stages programme and will be launching the new apprenticeship standards of their three-year programme.
In addition, our traineeship programme for NEETS not in education, employment or training has resulted in the placing The true value of apprenticeships lies in how they provide people of 159 trainees to date.
with the opportunity to develop skills that they might not have been able to achieve through education alone.
Our work at Onley Prison where we train inmates to build and repair bikes, with a view to offering future employment for those who In 2016 the Autocentres team started working with Dallaglio successfully pass our qualifying criteria, has been a great success.
RugbyWorks to take on young people who have participated in We are very proud that this programme won Retail Weeks CSR its social inclusion programme.
The charitys coaches work with Initiative of the Year.
We have built on this success and during the young people across the UK, between the ages of 14 and 17, year opened a second Cycle Academy at Drake Hall Womens Prison.
who are outside of mainstream education.
Upon release, one of the graduates of our Cycle Academy started as a bike technician at one of our stores and is now training to be an assistant manager.
Diversity Total Women Women on the Board 22% 50% 23% 50% 2017 2017 2016 2016 Women in Senior Management Team 31% 40% 2017 2016 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 31 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 31 07 06 2017 16:37:12 Corporate Social Responsibility Community: Community Helping to keep families safer on their Using our knowledge and expertise to journeys and encouraging an active benefit the communities around us lifestyle We know that parents recognise the great benefits that are derived from cycling, but we are also aware that they can be concerned about it because they want to ensure it is as safe as possible and that both they, and their children, are able to fix things should any problems occur.
To improve their confidence in these areas we have organised workshops where our colleagues can share their knowledge and expertise and so give customers the confidence to get out on their over bikes.
The majority of workshops focus on primary school children, an age when they are often starting to cycle without adults and are also doing the Bikeability programme.
Kids bike workshops 30,000 In FY17, over 18,500 children and their parents attended free in-store People benefited from free workshops bike workshops.
These workshops significantly help to improve their skills in basic bike maintenance and cycling safely, giving parents and children greater confidence to go out cycling more.
School bike workshops Our colleagues also went out to primary schools to teach bike maintenance and safety to pupils in their final year.
Complementing the Government scheme known as Bikeability, which teaches children how to ride a bike safely, our Gear-Up workshops teach basic bike maintenance and so help children to cycle more safely by recognising, and so being able to avoid, safety hazards.
These are important skills for pupils who are preparing to make the transition to secondary school.
Over 5,100 pupils benefited from the programme in FY17.
getting your bike ready for the road Congratulations to... 32 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 32 07 06 2017 16:37:13 For successfully completing your Gear-Up workshop with Halfords.
indd 1 18 05 2016 12:08 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Partnering with organisations British Cyclings Breeze We understand the fear many adults have of getting back on a bike Case Study: School kids after years out of the saddle so, to help, we partnered with British Cyclings Breeze network.
In addition to promoting the womens wheeling for joy with free network to customers on our website and through emails, in FY17 we ran bike maintenance workshops in partnership with Breeze, with bikes from Halfords over 1,600 women attending.
The partnership has also provided the opportunity for colleagues to become Breeze champions.
For some families, buying a bike can be too Cub bike workshops much of a stretch when theyve got other, more Through our partnership with the Scouts Association, in FY17 we immediate household bills to pay.
To help address helped over 3,300 Cubs achieve their Cyclist Activity Badge.
In this, schools across the country are benefiting from addition to running an in-store workshop, a resource pack also supports Cub Leaders, guiding them through requirements for Cubs a scheme to help encourage more children, who to achieve their cycle badge.
may not necessarily have access to bikes, to cycle.
In a virtuous cycle the bikes are donated by members of the public, they are then re-conditioned at one of our cycle workshops in Onley and Drake Hall prisons, which train prisoners to be professional cycle mechanics, before being donated along with new helmets to disadvantaged schools.
So far, over 400 bikes have been donated.
com 33 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 33 07 06 2017 16:37:15 Corporate Social Responsibility Environmental Management: Environment Managing our impact on the The environmental resources environment in a responsible and Halfords uses in its operations.
ethical manner We know that our work has an impact on the environment and that we have a duty to manage that impact in a responsible and ethical manner.
We do this through identifying all significant environmental impacts and putting processes into place to prevent, reduce and mitigate them.
To meet our commitment of protecting the environment, we aim to: comply with all relevant environmental legislation: operate our business in a way that protects the environment: 94% promote environmental awareness to colleagues and enlist their Retail waste diverted from landfill support in improving the Companys performance with training and instruction: minimise waste by making sure processes are as efficient as possible: 91% look to reduce energy and water usage: Autocentres waste diverted from landfill promote recycling internally and with our suppliers and customers: minimise the environmental impact of our logistics activities: and continually develop our environmental management system.
274,000 Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Batteries recycled by Retail and Autocentres 2016 2017 1 Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions tCO E tCO E 2 2 Retail Combustion of Gas 6,488.28 7,035.65 Autocentres Combustion of Gas 3,329.25 3,339.91 30,000 2 Cars on Company Business 889.22 911.45 Bikes recycled to date Retail Directly Purchased Electricity 28,507.45 18,448.01 Autocentres Directly Purchased Electricity 4,648.26 3,379.41 TOTAL 43,862.46 33,114.43 Fast Fact Companys Chosen Intensity Measurement: tCO E per 1m Group Revenue 42.90 30.24 2 1.
Carbon Trust Conversion Factors Energy and Carbon Conversions 2016 An additional 5 update 2.
An estimate based on previous usage, taking as a basis the Average Petrol new Cycle Republic shops were Car and Diesel Car Carbon Trust Conversion Factors Energy and Carbon opened in the year Conversions 2013 update 34 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 34 07 06 2017 16:37:16 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Case Study: Testing Case Study: environmental enhancements Smart Solutions The opening of our new Derby store, to In 2013, we introduced national trade-in events.
begin testing different concepts, provided an These are run in addition to our ongoing bike opportunity to introduce new environmental donations at over 75 shops.
features, including: We invite customers to donate their unwanted bikes to charity and so support a sustainable and life changing cause.
Our core charity LED lights throughout on motion and daylight sensors: partner is Re Cycle, who divert unwanted bikes from landfill disuse back of house lights on motion sensors, warehouse and donate them to people and communities both in the UK and lights also include auto dimming to help reduce energy in Africa.
This programme really does transform the lives of those consumption levels: and who benefit from it.
air movement fans low energy high performance air In February 2017, a team of colleagues from Halfords, who had won movement fans installed, reducing running costs and moving our Journey of a Lifetime competition, went to see for themselves air more efficiently.
the benefit that the donated bikes have provided.
Fundraising, collecting bikes, loading a container and following it over to Gambia, they met with partners there on the ground, as well as delivering bike workshops to local children.
Commenting on the adventure, the teams leader Stephen Roche, said: It was a fantastic experience and great to see the real difference every single bike makes.
We loved the trip from start to finish!
Our partnership with Re Cycle has raised nearly 400,000 and has changed the lives of over 180,000 people in Africa from the 30,000 bikes donated, diverting over 450 tonnes from potential landfill waste.
Responsible Trading: Responsible Building and maintaining the highest Management standards amongst our suppliers Building and maintaining the highest We are committed to maintaining the highest standards amongst our standards amongst our suppliers suppliers.
We are strongly opposed to the exploitation of workers and we will not tolerate forced labour, or labour which involves physical, verbal or psychological harassment, or intimidation of any kind.
We will not accept human trafficking or the exploitation of children and young people in our business and undertake all possible steps to ensure that these high standards are maintained.
We regularly review related policies to ensure that they remain up-to-date and fit-forpurpose.
com investors governance STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
