Corporate Social Responsibility A modern company with old fashioned values Our values are what set us apart.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Theres lots here about grass roots and pipelines.
In short, we select who we think are AO people, train, encourage and give them the chance they need.
As we continue to grow as a business we have repositioned our Responsible retailing The Board considers that the development, well-being and engagement activities and worked towards the objective of building relationships and driving collaboration across the business.
All our safe-keeping of people is central to supporting its strategy and this, coupled with our social and environmental credentials, development programmes now have an element of this placed in them and we encourage this through activities such as team building away is fundamental in creating a sustainable business.
days and incentives within the office.
People are our business Creating the right environment for our employees We continue to do what we believe is best for our employees, providing an environment in which they can really flourish and the ability to develop their skills.
We want to encourage people as much as possible to collaborate and have open spaces for employees to share and create ideas and the new facility at Bergheim has been built to mirror the style of our facilities at Parklands and Crewe.
We believe this type of environment really fosters the entrepreneurial spirit, creating a can-do attitude for all our people.
And we empower them to do what they think is right, based on our values, rather than apply rigid rules that they must adhere to, giving them autonomy and ownership.
Investing for the future Our recruitment model at AO is simple we always strive to recruit at This year weve updated our employee benefits AO Perks, enhancing a grass roots level and nurture talent through our leadership pipeline.
our parental leave policies, helping with eye-care funding and placing a We continue to initiate programmes specifically designed to build and real emphasis on employee wellbeing, giving employees the opportunity nurture a future AO talent pool, strengthen our culture from within to purchase medical cover and gym membership at reduced rates and and to aid our succession planning to meet our needs as the business supporting employees through difficult times through our employee grows.
These programmes are aimed at enabling technical capability welfare programme.
Weve also arranged for a number of corporate and behavioural development aligned to the business goals.
discounts to be available to our employees, ranging from car-lease hire, cinema tickets, air travel, hotels, cruises, electronics and event tickets.
Our investment in emerging talent has seen an increased focus on apprenticeships across the business.
We now run apprenticeship Were also enhancing our learning and development function to be able programmes across all core areas of our business including digital, to deliver online training modules and skills workshops.
marketing and finance and have c. 40 apprentices in junior roles.
As part of this programme to develop the next generation of leaders, Recently we supported National Learning at Work Week putting the we enrol our apprentices on the Duke of Edinburgh DofE scheme.
spotlight on the importance and benefits of learning and development This focuses on instilling the values and behaviours that make AO at work.
We held sessions where, for example, employees shared some what it is and what it will be in the future.
It enables employees to of their technical expertise in areas such as Excel, social media, develop their own skills while also enabling them to give back to the analysis and computer programming and also delivered local community.
Following the success of the DofE scheme during mindfulness workshops.
the year we rolled it out to our full business with an additional 60 employees taking part in our DofE Diamond Challenge.
Employee engagement nurturing our AO Culture Last year saw a huge focus on how we ensure our employees are Once again, our Star Programme has been rolled out across the inspired by the vision of our business and feel a part of what we are business during the year, aimed at front-line non-manager trying to achieve.
We focused our attention on how we communicate employees who have been identified as talent and have the potential these key messages to our employees and increased our efforts to be future managers at AO.
The programme included Team Building, through a number of communication channels, including a reformed Business and Charity Projects, Business Updates and Self-Development businesswide state of the nation delivered in territory by both our with Skills Workshops designed to create lasting habits and behaviours CEO and Founder, management briefing sessions to our senior that will ensure that our people perform at their best whilst consistently management team and a revamped intranet for all employees to keep demonstrating our values.
The programme proved a huge success in up to date with business updates.
This includes a regular blog by the business with 70% of our employees progressing in their careers Founder, John Roberts.
On top of this, we have invested further in our Future Programme, designed at helping our managers become We also revived our what we are doing workshops this year, the next leaders, centred around personal development, team led by heads of departments giving real insight to specific areas development and inspiration and are looking to launch our very of the business and bringing our teams closer together.
own AO Lets Grow programme shortly.
Once again, we have carried out a robust employee survey to Equal opportunities ensure employees are given a voice and to enable us to understand AO is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
We aim to ensure areas where we can improve as an employer.
Our scores continue that no employee is discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the to grow year on year with our employees NPS question would you grounds of colour, race, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation recommend us as a place to work increasing from 61 to 68.
Specific or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time actions resulting from this survey have seen us place more emphasis or on the grounds of age or frankly anything else and recruit on this on development programmes for all our employees.
See pages 57 and 61 Diversity for further details.
In January this year we launched our fourth save-as-you-earn Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for scheme which was open to all employees who had passed their positions at AO and we ensure they are treated fairly.
Procedures are probationary period, building on the previous schemes in place, in place to ensure that disabled employees are also treated fairly in giving an opportunity to all our employees to share in the success respect of career development.
Should an employee become disabled of the Group as we grow.
during their course of employment with the Group, we would seek whenever practical, to ensure they could remain as part of our team.
In the opinion of the Directors, our equal opportunities policies are effective and adhered to.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 31 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Further, our call centre was chosen to be an official call centre for Red Keeping people safe We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of Health Nose Day 2017.
110 of our people gave up their Friday night to man the phones and we helped collect a whopping 45,000 for the charity.
and Safety practices for our employees, drivers, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by our business activities.
During the year, our Health and Safety risks increased with the commencement of operations at our recycling plant in Telford.
Accordingly, over the year we further invested in various forms of recognised external training and education to ensure even more improvement in our Health and Safety culture.
This enables us to have a workplace where employees take individual responsibility for reducing the risk to both them and their colleagues through: improved reporting of incidents and near-misses, regularly reviewing risk assessments, updating training and regular inspections of all sites and departments.
We have redesigned the format of our Health and Safety inspections over the last year to ensure that all areas of the business are providing the best level of Health and Safety.
We have continued to expand our Health and Safety team in line with the growth in our business.
Our established safety practices and ways of working have continued to be replicated across our new territories and our quarterly inspection procedures have been carried through Business ethics to these new locations, across all of our operations.
Our Modern Slavery statement for the year ended 31March 2016 was published during the year and we have continued to look at Our Health and Safety policies and procedures include: our due diligence processes in this area to ensure we are complying Regular internal audits on our Health and Safety performance with the law but above all doing the right thing in accordance with by an independent expert.
The audit reviews legal compliance, our values.
Our modern slavery statement can be found at best practice and maintaining a safe environment.
com corporate responsibility  Managing risk and promoting Health and Safety culture in the Boards agenda.
Building on our environmental credentials Seeking accreditation and aligning long-standing Company We are mindful of the effects of our business on our environment.
programmes and procedures to internationally recognised We are committed to meeting or exceeding legislative requirements Quality Assurance standards.
across the board, in particular with regard to packaging and waste Appropriate training and education of all staff to adhere to legal electrical and electronic equipment WEEE waste in the territories compliance and best practice.
Proactively creating a safe environment to significantly reduce occupational injuries or illnesses.
To ensure minimum environmental impact all handling processes are developed to fully utilise supplier packaging with around 2% Supporting our communities additional packaging added from receipt into our warehouses to AO actively encourages all employees to support and give back to their delivery to our consumers.
We offer customers an unpack and local community and the AO Smile Foundation continues to facilitate recycle service and are pleased with the level of take up.
65% of our UK employees make a regular monthly gift to the of packaging collected during delivery to the consumer is recycled charity, and during the year over 60,000 was raised through payroll with more than 400 tonnes of card and plastic including Expanded giving, which makes the process of giving as easy, flexible and tax Polystyrene recycled in the year to 31March 2017 across all efficient as possible.
In recognition of AOs commitment in fostering a culture of We offer a collection and recycling service to our customers for their philanthropy and committed giving in the workplace we were old appliances for a small transportation charge or, alternatively, delighted to once again received a Platinum Payroll Giving Award we accept any WEEE free of charge which is delivered directly to our from HM Government and Institute of Fundraising.
Old appliances are mostly broken down into recyclable parts.
A proportion are refurbished and put back into the market: Over the year we have continued to encourage colleagues to have a re-use is, after all, the ultimate in recycling.
Last year over 37,000 positive impact within their local communities with our focus this year tonnes of WEEE was processed.
driven by the Gift of Time and specifically our make a difference days and volunteering.
Over the course of the year we have supported During the year we completed the build of our recycling facility at a number of charities and community projects, including: Telford giving us a state-of-the-art recycling plant which ensures Barnabus Homeless Shelter in Manchester WEEE is safely and properly disposed and that re-use is optimised Rays of sunshine giving rise to a number of environmental benefits.
There is clearly an Claire House Childrens Hospice appetite from customers to recycle and re-use even if they dont Wigan Youth always put it into action and dont know how to.
In the years ahead West Houghton Youth Project Landscaping Day we will be focusing on this and will look to create a platform that would support a Group-wide sustainability drive using the recycling business as a springboard and foundation for sustainability.
Further details of our recycling facility are set out on pages 34 and 35.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 32 32 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Energy efficient operations We aim to run our operations with a strong focus on environmental impact, fuel management and operational efficiency and constantly seek at both a corporate and local level to help improve our performance in all areas.
In order to drive energy efficiencies: Our home delivery fleet comprises 3.5 tonne HiCube trucks these trucks are lighter and have a greater space and weight capacity: We have opened two new outbases in the UK during the year to service demand and improve the efficiency of our fleet: and We also try to maximise our fuel efficiency by, for example, employing double-decker trunking so that we can deliver more products in one go to our outbases.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Greenhouse Gas Emissions data As AO is listed on the London Stock Exchange we are required to measure and report our direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Tonnes of CO e 2 and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Year ending 31 March 2017 2016 Emissions from operations and The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the combustion of fuel Scope 1 25,600 24,408 Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
This year we have reported on all Emissions from energy usage Scope 2 3,865 2,735 material emissions from both our owned and leased assets for which Total 29,465 27,143 we are responsible across the UK, Germany and the Netherlands the Intensity ratio: prior year period included less than one month of trading from the tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 42.01 45.25 Netherlands.
Emission factors used are from UK Government Defra 2 conversion factor guidance current for the year reported with the exception of Germany and the Netherlands for which current conversion factors were unavailable and therefore the prior years Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to the delivery of orders factors have been used.
Any changes in factors between the current to customers and operational visits and combustion of fuel gas.
and prior year reporting periods are considered minimal.
Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings electricity, Our emissions predominately arise from the fuel used in the vehicles heat, steam and cooling.
we use to deliver orders to customers and from gas combustion and electricity used at our offices, national delivery centres and outbases.
CO e conversion factors in respect of gas and electricity for the Groups German 2 and Netherlands operations for the current year were unavailable therefore CO 2 factors for the prior year have been used.
In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of our growth and is Steve Caunce aligned with our business strategy.
Chief Executive Officer A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 33 33
