Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report BIG YELLOW RECOGNISES THAT A HIGH LEVEL OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR, LINKED TO CLEAR COMMERCIAL OBJECTIVES, WILL CREATE A MORE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AND INCREASE SHAREHOLDER AND CUSTOMER VALUE.
1.0 INTRODUCTION Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
Our CSR Policy covers all of our operations, as a self storage provider, a property developer, an employer and a participant in our local communities.
Big Yellow seeks to meet the demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals by providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
2.0 CSR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Big Yellow is pleased to deliver another year of steady Corporate Responsibility progress across the Group, full details of which can be found in this CSR Report.
Our focus over the last year has delivered the following benefits: Employee Engagement We completed an externally managed survey in May 2016 investigating amongst other factors our working life, personal development, teamwork, communication and management style in detail.
We received a 90% response rate to the survey and overall a 90% Engagement Indicator from our employees.
Support for Local Charities We have continued to recognise and support 14 different charities selected by both our stores and head office teams.
Our people undertook a variety of activities for these and other charities and raised 74,000 of funds during the year up 66% on 2016.
At the same time Big Yellow and Armadillo donated the equivalent of over 940,000 of free storage in the last year up 25% on 2016.
The Big Yellow Foundation We registered a new charitable Foundation in January 2017.
We are currently piloting the use of the Foundation to raise money from both Big Yellow and its customers.
Following the conclusion of this pilot, we will launch it to the whole business in autumn 2017.
The aim of the Foundation will be to use the funds to support charities working to bring people back into society from disadvantaged backgrounds.
We will also aim to provide them with employment opportunities at Big Yellow and Armadillo.
Health & Safety Record This has continued at a high standard at both our stores and on our construction projects.
Measured by both the number of recorded Minor Injuries and by RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation, our high standards of Health & Safety have protected our customers, staff, contractors and other visitors.
LED Lighting Investment We have continued to invest in providing LED lighting both inside our stores, and more recently for all of our external lighting.
During the next 12 months we will continue to deliver the benefit of LED lighting to all of our external lighting sources and to both Big Yellow & Armadillo stores that still require internal lighting improvement after recent acquisition.
Greenhouse Gas GHG Emission Our store electricity use in absolute terms is now 31.3% lower than our peak use year of 2011.
Our ability to continue to reduce our absolute electrical use will diminish, as we complete our LED investment program and as we open and acquire new stores.
However, our relative GHG Emission per sq metre occupied is down 63.8% from our peak year of 2011 and we aim to continue with this relative reduction.
CSR Performance Benchmarking 42% of our stores have EPCs Energy Performance Certificates the majority of which are rated A or B.
We will also continue to participate in our sustainable benchmarking initiatives with EPRA, FTSE4Good, the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
