Responsible recycling AO Recycling launches The AO Way AO Recycling carries out the large scale recycling of fridges and domestic appliances such as washing machines, tumble driers and dishwashers, sometimes known as WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment.
From its state-of-the-art facility in Telford in Shropshire, which opened in spring 2017, AO Recycling is transforming the way this difficult waste stream is dealt with.
Since 2014, all newer fridges in the UK which contain pentane gases have been classed as hazardous waste.
This means they cannot be recycled until the potentially flammable gases have been safely removed, along with refrigerant and oil contained in the fridge motor.
The issue The solution The machine Over the last few years the UK has AO wanted to recycle customers old The plant could process up to 100 suffered from serious capacity issues products in the most efficient and fridges an hour inside an enclosed in the fridge recycling sector.
Put environmentally friendly way as part metal chamber.
The machine weighs simply, far more fridges were of its aim to being a more sustainable more than 80 tonnes and works by entering the waste stream every year business.
AO plans to deliver a step smashing appliances into their than the industry had the ability to change in the way fridges are constituent metals, plastics, and process correctly and responsibly.
foam insulation using heavy duty rotating chains a bit like a kitchen The risk is that the UK could see The new recycling facility in Telford blender.
The raw materials are then another repeat of the fridge was built and will be able to recycle sorted into different metals, plastics mountain crisis of the early 2000s.
and foam powder for reuse in new Then, there was not enough capacity To put this in context, about products everything from kerb to safely process older CFC fridges 3.5million fridges are thrown away stones and garden furniture to leading to mountains of fridges every year so AO Recycling new fridges.
piling up at waste sites across the could be processing nearly one fifth country.
Sometimes, its a sad day at AO as we love the products we sell we really do.
But, Telford the environment comes first!
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 34 34 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n How does it work?
Old fridges and large domestic appliances will arrive at the site for recycling having been collected from AO customers when they purchase a new machine.
Items which are still in working order will be checked and, where appropriate, refurbished and sold.
Packaging from AO customers new appliances will also be brought to the Telford facility for recycling.
It will be as closed loop a system as possible meaning nothing is wasted and every part of the old fridge is given a new lease of life.
Its safe, clean, efficient and more environmentally friendly than any other facility in the UK.
Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Firstly we strip down the fridge The motor is then removed with The rest of the fridge is then sent and dispose of the refrigerant and some giant, heavy duty cutters into a sealed chamber to extract oil that fridge motors are full of.
and sent away for recycling.
the gases in the fridges insulation To do this we manually drill into foam.
To do this oxygen is removed the fridges internal workings to and replaced with nitrogen to drain everything away.
8 7 O N Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 The fridge is then dropped into a The rest of the fridges remains At this point nitrogen is used to big shredder, where heavy duty are dropped onto a heated condense the gases into liquid so chains spin around at 500 rpm.
Heat helps they can be safely sent away for This motion forms a vortex that to release and neutralise any disposal elsewhere.
breaks the outer shell of the fridge leftover gases.
This process also smashes the 7 insulation foam into powder to N release more of the gases.
Step 8 Step 7 Whats left of the fridges remains This makes it really easy to collect up the plastics and metals into are sent through four different filtration systems, to separate the individual storage containers that are now ready to be shipped on to different materials from each other.
be recycled into other household appliances, maybe another fridge!
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 35 35
