Corporate social responsibility Make a difference Our strategy is to lead the future of the digital automotive marketplace in the UK.
We do this by building a digital culture that is values-driven, customer-focused, dataoriented and focused on making the processes of both buying and selling new and used vehicles easier.
Overview Our operating priorities support this strategy and As an employer, it comprises employee are reviewed annually.
People are the Groups engagement, rewards and recognition schemes, most valuable resource and the success of the people development, health and safety, the Group is to the credit of all its employees.
Last environmental impact, sustainability and year we were focused on creating a simpler, energy efficient operations.
leaner, and more data-oriented organisation.
In As a company, we are keen to give back to our order for us to truly become more data-oriented, local communities in which we operate, as well we restructured our data and insight tribe what as supporting charities and causes that are we call our functions so data specialists are now close to our employees hearts.
We focus our aligned to all areas of the business providing community support in four areas: employees more specific data to each squad our term for individual charitable fundraising efforts, teams.
To continue embedding this, next years promoting the two volunteering days that are operating priority will be to create and maintain available to all employees, Give as You Earn, consistently high-performing, data-oriented which is one of our Incredible Benefits, and squads across the whole AutoTrader business.
through the AutoTrader Community Fund Our culture is shaped by our values of which supports grassroots projects in determination, reliability, curiosity, inspiration Greater Manchester.
and humility: these values often manifest We constantly look at ways we can make a themselves in our fast-paced and highly positive contribution to our industry: whether customer-oriented approach in our thats developing the next generation of talent, commitment to being an exciting, innovative sharing best practice advice with our retailer and digital-led company.
customers through masterclasses and Corporate social responsibility at AutoTrader larger-scale industry events, or helping the is driven by our values and culture and is industry as a whole to operate in a more focused on making a difference to our transparent and therefore trusted manner.
employees, our community and our industry.
This, along with our diversity and inclusion strategy, is embedded into how we operate on a daily basis.
36 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our culture We have fostered a fast-paced culture that has innovation at its heart, driven by a committed leadership team that combines digital experience with a long average tenure at the Group.
Purpose Values and and value-led principlesdriven Driven by innovation Based on Digital trust and and debate data-driven Our values By adhering to the Groups core values, we believe we are making a positive impact not only on our consumer audience and customers, but also on our employees and the communities in which they work and live.
Be determined Be reliable We got where we are today by being Our customers depend on us, so we determined.
And thats how well must always be there with useful services continue to succeed.
Be curious Be humble Asking questions and trying things out We need our customers more than is the best way to stay ahead of changes they need us.
Everything we do, in the digital world.
Be inspirational With nearly 40 years of experience, AutoTrader is a trusted industry voice.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 37 Corporate social responsibility continued Making a difference to diversity and inclusion Ensuring AutoTrader is a diverse and inclusive company is extremely important to us.
We created a dedicated working group who are tasked with implementing a strategy to ensure diversity and inclusion becomes part of our Companys DNA.
We are also committed to ensuring everyone has equal opportunities to achieve their full potential as well as equal pay regardless of gender.
Diversity for everyone at AutoTrader means respect for and appreciation of differences in: gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, race and ethnic origin, religion and faith, marital status, social, educational background and way of thinking.
We believe that inclusion is a state of being valued, respected and supported for who you are.
Inclusion is getting the mix to work well together.
Gender diversity As a result, all of our employees have As at 31 March 2017 Male Female Total participated in a one-day workshop Board 4 2 6 focusing on creating common understanding 1 of the concepts as well as exploring their Senior managers 11 4 15 unconscious biases and how they can impact 2 Company 515 305 820 their own behaviour and relationships with other people inside and outside of work.
Our approach is to educate and change attitudes: We continue our participation to promote 1 S enior managers are defined as members of the Operational we have introduced a series of masterclasses Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths Leadership Team OLT.
including Mental Health Awareness sessions STEM careers by supporting two schools 2 Company numbers include Board and participated in various local events like near our Manchester office by running and OLT members.
the Manchester Pride Festival, where we Code Clubs to teach young children how received the Lord Mayors Special Award to code.
Following the success of last year, for our enthusiastic showcase of support to we are expanding our participation in the the LGBT community.
Change 100 programme, organised by Leonard Cheshire Disability, offering three We have created various employee groups talented students a summer internship in photography, book, board game, running either our Manchester or London office.
and movie clubs that aim to bring people together in line with our philosophy that Our ambition to become one of the most inclusion will be achieved by respecting diverse and inclusive employers is supported each others differences but concentrating by our Company policies and practices.
A womens During our annual engagement survey, we network was launched aiming to make a monitor progress related to our employee difference in the lives of women in our make up in line with the Equality Act 2010 business, the community and related protected characteristics.
We also industries of technology and automotive.
collect feedback around our colleagues We also started a family network to give attitudes and overall experience to colleagues with families with young ensure everyone can feel they can children or carer responsibilities a way be their authentic self at work.
38 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Making a difference to our employees This year we participated in the Sunday Times Top 100 Best Companies to Work For and we achieved a two-star outstanding rating and joined the list at number 69.
Training and development AutoTrader continues to invest in all of its employees by offering blended learning opportunities that are aligned to its collaborative and inclusive culture.
All new joiners to the business are given the best possible start to their AutoTrader careers with our three-day induction programme that allows them to understand the core values of our business and help achieve a one-team culture.
Every individual is responsible for their own development and has quarterly development conversations and personal development plans PDP with their people leader.
We appreciate that everyone has unique needs and likes to learn in different ways.
PDPs covering both professional and personal development are built with a mix of on-the-job learning, opportunities to attend conferences, the support of mentors, e-learning and professional qualifications.
To help us achieve our mission of leading the Employee engagement The business utilises internal experts to future of the digital automotive workplace, and recognition deliver workshops and bitesize sessions we have built a relatively flat structured, Following the employee experience survey focused around our Success Framework fast-paced, digital organisation.
Our success last year, we set up working groups to: help and specialist subjects which enable both at AutoTrader is down to the innovative, improve communication across the business: individuals and teams to succeed and grow, talented and committed people who launch a recognition scheme based on our thus fostering an engaged workforce.
We put the values: look at what makes our people customer at the heart of everything we do, Company-wide learning initiatives including successful: and create and deliver a diversity constantly developing our site to ensure diversity and inclusion ensure we deliver on and inclusion strategy across the whole of consumers get a great user experience as what is important today and that we succeed the business.
We also hold regular health well as developing products that will add in the future.
We deliver core life-cycle checks that allow squads to sit down value to our retailers.
programmes for apprentices and graduates, together in an open and secure environment and we develop our future senior leaders We value our people and their opinions.
to discuss how they feel in the workplace.
with our Leadership Development Therefore we organise an annual employee Our Incredible Benefits platform allows our Programme, both of which mean we have a conference and hold regular business and employees to access all the benefits offered robust succession plan in place to cultivate financial updates throughout the year to at AutoTrader in one place, enabling them to talent as well as empower individuals to keep employees informed on the Groups tailor their benefits package to meet their reach their full potential.
All our managers performance and operating priorities as well own specific needs.
As well as our company take part in the Practical People Leadership as give them the opportunity to ask questions.
funded benefits, we offer a wide range of Programme to develop their skills in By promoting collaboration and transparency voluntary benefits including childcare recruitment, performance management we encourage our people to contribute to our vouchers, critical illness and dental and development of their people.
business and share their thoughts, concerns insurance.
In next years annual enrolment and ideas by attending Directors breakfast AutoTrader extended to all employees the sessions and company showcases.
option to cover the premium cost of either Private Medical Insurance employee level or Health Cash Plan up to family level.
The Company will also be offering a second Sharesave scheme for the benefit of Group employees which not only recognises and rewards employees but also promotes a culture of shared ownership.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Making a difference to our communities We have a dedicated team of individuals from across our business who are responsible for driving our Make a Difference strategy, which aims to maximise the support and impact we provide to the communities in which we operate.
The AutoTrader Community Fund powered by the Forever Manchester charity considers applications and awards up to 1,000 to community groups and grassroots projects across Greater Manchester.
This year, the fund has donated over 60,000 to various causes that bring people together and empower them to create sustainable changes in their lives.
Donations from AutoTrader directly to other charities totalled an additional 55,000 through Employee Match Funding for charities and causes that are close to their hearts.
Our Give as You Earn scheme participation has doubled, with almost 100 of our colleagues donating to charities directly via our payroll monthly.
But making a difference is not limited to donating monetary funds.
Our colleagues have utilised one of our Incredible Benefits, two optional volunteering days, to support worthy causes across the UK.
Employees offered their time and expert skills to the following: St Pancras Community Centre for young children and the elderly: Survivors Manchester for male survivors of sexual abuse: Coffee for Craig helping the homeless: and Working Change assisting women in prison to gain valuable job seeking and interview skills.
We have recently partnered with Benefacto to help employees at our London office to engage in established volunteering opportunities in their local communities.
To support the arts in Manchester we continue our successful corporate partnership with HOME Arts Centre and the Manchester International Festival: both building on the rich cultural heritage of the city by introducing new artists and various art forms throughout the year.
40 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Making a difference to our industry Our Make a Difference strategy extends to As a customer focused business we are ensuring we support the wider technology committed to looking at ways to improve community as well as help to shape the the process of buying and selling vehicles future of the automotive industry.
for consumers and retailers alike.
We have changed our sales approach, removing To encourage the next generation of commissions, and our packages: both of technology talent, we took part in the 4,000 of our retailer which enable us to promote best practice Manchester Digital Apprenticeship Scheme and equip our sales teams to create strong customers attended a and welcomed five Software Developer business partnerships with our customers, apprentices.
We also partnered with the helping add value to their businesses.
masterclass, helping University of Manchester to offer the opportunity for two students to work This year over 4,000 of our retailer customers them to succeed in with us on data science projects over the attended a masterclass, webinar or summer, as well as offering a PhD conference designed to share best practice todays changing scholarship to one of their students.
advice, helping them to succeed in todays digital automotive changing digital automotive marketplace.
We continue our participation to promote These sessions allow us to demonstrate the STEM subjects and careers by supporting marketplace importance of using data and insight to drive two local schools and clubs in the Manchester traffic to their digital forecourts.
We run Code Clubs to teach young separate discovery days with our customers, children how to code and this year we hosted designed to gain their feedback on the value Manchester Girl Geeks BarCamp conference they derive from AutoTrader as well as the which supports the talent and development products and services we offer.
of females in STEM careers.
Last year marked the ninth annual The technology industry, as well as the AutoTrader Click Awards, established to automotive sector, has a significant recognise digital excellence and reward the challenge with diversity and AutoTrader is most progressive and innovative retailers pleased to support and actively create in the industry.
Nearly 100 customers from initiatives that will attract women and franchise groups, independents and minorities to enter the industries, as diversity supermarkets attend this prestige event is a key part of business success.
Alison Ross, to celebrate success and to hear the latest our Customer Experience and Operations insight from the AutoTrader team.
Director, was named Woman of the Year at the Women in IT Awards this year, recognising her contribution to these goals.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 41 Corporate social responsibility continued Making a difference to our environment Health and safety Greenhouse gas emissions statement We are committed to maintaining a safe During the year, there were no major injuries workforce for our employees, customers reported under the Reporting of Injuries, AutoTrader is required to measure and and visitors and anyone affected by our Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences report its direct and indirect greenhouse businesss activities.
It is therefore our policy Regulations.
gas GHG emissions by the Companies that all of the Groups facilities, products and Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors services comply with applicable laws and Report Regulations 2013. regulations governing safety and quality.
The greenhouse gas reporting period is aligned to the financial reporting year.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the financial consolidation approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, ACorporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition.
Emission factors used are from UK government BEIS conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
The report includes the Scope 1 combustion of fuel in relation to company cars and Scope 2 purchased electricity and gas emissions associated with our offices.
Although our company cars are leased under operating leases, we have chosen to include the related emissions in Scope 1, as we are responsible for these emissions.
2016 figures have been restated to include the emissions from company cars.
We have chosen to present a revenue intensity ratio as this is a relevant indicator of our growth and is aligned with our business strategy.
2017 2016 Scope 1: Fuel for 1 company cars tCO e 491 565 2 Scope 2: Electricity and gas for our offices 1 tCO e 437 445 2 Our offices Total carbon emissions 1 tCO e 928 1,010 2 As a digital business, based between in London achieved an Outstanding Revenue m 311.4 281.6 our offices in Manchester, London and rating and our Manchester office 2 Dublin, we believe our environmental an Excellent one.
Carbon intensity 3.0 3.6 footprint is small.
We actively Year-on-year change 17% We continue to use Fruitful Office to encourage our employees to consider deliver fruit to our offices each week.
We operate 1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
Fruitful Office plants one tree in recycling systems in the offices, 2 Absolute carbon emissions divided Malawi for every basket of fruit we by revenue in millions.
established with local authorities and receive.
Last year, 1,742 trees were recycling schemes, and we have no planted on behalf of AutoTrader, waste bins by desks which encourages helping the organisation to mitigate the amount of recycling we do.
the effects of global warming, Our UK offices are both graded highly deforestation and providing an by the BREEAM standard: Kings Cross income to local communities.
42 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Doing the right thing AutoTrader believes in promoting trust and fairness in the marketplace and this has become part of the way we work across the organisation.
We promote a culture of compliance and shared responsibility by providing advice and information to keep our employees and customers smart, safe and secure.
Each year, our employees complete compliance training that covers fraud, bribery and anti-money laundering.
We also provide guidance and support if employees need to report anything untoward or experience any serious malpractice or wrongdoing in our business.
Consumers trust AutoTrader to show genuine, accurate adverts when Human rights they search for vehicles, however occasionally sellers include a Equal opportunity Employees with disabilities misleading price or inaccurate mileage The Group is committed to treating all its We welcome all applications for employment in their advert.
We strive to improve employees and job applicants fairly and made by individuals with disabilities.
the quality of our adverts by allowing equally.
It is our policy not to discriminate Our dedicated AutoTrader Resourcing team consumers and retailers alike to report based on their gender, sexual orientation, will make reasonable adjustments in the a misleading advert whilst they are marital or civil partner status, gender recruitment process according to the searching, which we then investigate reassignment, race, religion or belief, needs of each individual toensure that and if necessary remove from the site.
colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, they can perform their best during the disability or age, pregnancy, or trade union assessment stage.
Helping our retailer customers protect membership or the fact that they are a their data and business online is also We are dedicated to supporting employees part-time worker or a fixed-term employee.
an important focus for us.
Last year that become disabled during their The equal opportunities policy operated we added an additional security login employment with us.
We recognise that by the Group ensures all workers have a to our retailer portal, two-factor each individual is unique and we provide duty to act in accordance with this.
verification, which enhances security support and make reasonable adjustments and reduces the risk of hackers Modern Slavery Policy to ensure they continue realising their full accessing our customers information.
We have a zero-tolerance approach to potential at work.
modern slavery and are committed to Everyone at AutoTrader owns and is We continue to offer training, career acting ethically and with integrity in all our responsible for their own relationships, development and promotion opportunities business dealings and relationships, and whether thats with colleagues, friends, by taking appropriate action related to the to implementing and enforcing effective customers or suppliers.
When working needs of the individuals to allow them to systems and controls to ensure modern with external companies we promote continue to have a fulfilling career with us.
slavery is not taking place anywhere in the fact that it is important to reflect ourown business or in any of our supply the AutoTrader values, ensuring any chains.
We are committed to ensuring there companies we work with enjoy a is transparency in our own business and in trusted relationship with us.
ourapproach to tackling modern slavery We also ensure employees understand throughout our supply chains.
We expect the and employ good practice when same high standards from all our contractors, sharing information or data, and they suppliers and other business partners.
do so in a controlled or protected manner, or operating fairly under the legal guidance.
The Companys Strategic report is set out on pages 2 to 43.
Approved by the Board on 8 June 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Sean Glithero Chief Financial Officer 8 June 2017 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 43
