Our principal risks continued Operational risks continued We make sure we exercise the right due diligence when it comes Supply chain to introducing new suppliers and continuing to do business with existing ones.
That includes checks on company finances, business Link to strategy systems, accreditations, media reputation and ethical practices.
1 Deliver great customer experience 2 Trend Transform our costs We manage our top suppliers according to the contracts theyve signed.
We work with them to find better ways of working, reducing Link to business model our exposure to risks around poor supplier practices in the process.
Financial capital Social capital The increasing focus on human rights, following legislation like the Natural capital Modern Slavery Act 2015, means that we must keep examining the potential risk of both modern slavery and human trafficking in our We operate in a global supply market, with a variety of supply chains supply chain.
ranging from simple to very complex.
Guaranteeing their integrity and continuity is critical to our operations.
We must also ensure that our products are free of components that could be sourced from areas of armed conflict, or sourced using Global markets expose us to global risks, including different methods that are unsustainable or ethically questionable.
standards in labour, environmental and climate change practices.
We weigh up the impact and likelihood of external market forces on our Employee engagement suppliers ability to support us.
A global supply market means better sourcing opportunities, but brings challenges if suppliers become Link to strategy more geographically and culturally remote from our customers or 1 Deliver great customer experience Trend if governments put barriers in the way of doing business to protect national economic interests.
Link to business model Human capital Our dealings with suppliers from the way we choose them, to the contracts we sign and how we pay them follow our trading and ethical policies.
For more detail, see Our suppliers on page 37.
Our people are a vital part of our ambition to deliver a positive customer experience and sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Impact Our people strategy supports this ambition by creating an If something goes wrong in our supply chain, the speed and scale environment where people can thrive as part of a dynamic business.
We need to determine the potential damage to Great employee engagement is necessary to ensure we meet our customer experience, the likelihood of higher costs and the potential strategic aims.
If losing an important supplier meant that we had to change technologies, it could cost us a lot of money.
If Potential impact we couldnt find an alternative supplier, it might compromise the If we fail to recruit, retain and engage our workforce it could impact commitments we make to our customers, which could in turn lead to our ability to deliver a great customer experience and continue to breach of contract, lost revenue or penalties.
Furthermore, a failure to develop and retain talent could result in a greater need for external recruitment, which If any link in our supply chain falls foul of the law, or fails to meet our would add cost to the business.
Poor engagement also raises the risk ethical expectations, that could damage our reputation possibly of general industrial unrest and action.
leading to legal action and lost revenue.
Whats changed over the last year?
Following the acquisition of EE were working to bring these two We dedicate time to assessing emerging geo-political threats and businesses together into a truly integrated company.
Weve identified the impact they could have on our supply chain.
These include the examples of best practice from both organisations that will act as impacts of the UK leaving the EU: economic problems in countries building blocks for our better than both ambition.
Weve launched like Venezuela: increasing regulation over the privacy of personal a new set of values to reflect this.
Weve launched a new employee data: and the growing threat of cyber-attacks on networked survey and approach which make it easier for managers and their ICT systems.
teams to see the key things they need to do to improve levels of engagement and better serve our customers.
We note the continuing trend of mergers and acquisitions in some of the global markets in which we source products and services.
How were mitigating the risks It highlights the risk of us becoming too dependent on single As we explain in the Our people section on page 26, we provide or monopolistic suppliers particularly those less constrained comprehensive support and training to help our people deliver to by regulation and who might charge us more than their the best of their ability.
We regularly review our pay and benefits to domestic customers.
make sure our remuneration is competitive when compared to other companies of a similar size and complexity.
We seek a positive and How were mitigating the risks enduring relationship with our people and their representatives.
We We have a few really critical suppliers.
We keep a close watch on have a very comprehensive global engagement strategy in pursuit of their performance and ability to meet their obligations.
This involves both our employees and their representatives business when to prepare for the risk of a supplier failing, and our Unions, Works Councils and Employee Fora.
We also have a senior leaders continually review how ready we are for such events.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 55
