Corporate responsibility Employees We apply fair and equitable employment Our strategy to deliver consistently good policies and these ensure that entry into, customer service is embedded in our and progression within, the Group is recruitment, selection, development and determined solely by the fair application reward arrangements across the Group.
of relevant job criteria and by personal We aim to attract, motivate and retain the ability and competence.
We actively best talent we can and this underpins our promote the international transfer of our consistently high customer service.
employees where this is likely to assist the development of both employee and All of our businesses have adopted People business, and our senior HR community Promises and whilst these dier in each meets regularly to share best practice territory, they are based on a common and identify opportunities to develop our set of values.
They also complement employees careers.
our customer promises and align our employees interests to the delivery of Full and fair consideration having regard excellent customer service.
to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given to applications for Our people are considered for employment and the career development employment, training, career of disabled persons.
We will take all development and promotion on the basis practicable steps to ensure that if an of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless employee becomes disabled during of physical ability, age, gender, sexual the time they are employed, their orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
We continue gender split in FY17 across the Group was to review both performance and potential 55:45 Male:Female with a team of over as a key part of our annual performance 5,000, as shown in the table below.
management, career development and succession planning processes.
We Employees at 31 March 2017 have co-ordinated talent and leadership Male Female programmes across the business, from 30 11 Executive Board members front-line developing leaders to senior 315 255 Senior Managers executives.
2,534 2,097 Other employees We are developing and implementing a Total 2,879 2,363 succession planning strategy to ensure we have the talent available to match Group growth.
We are also working with an external partner to identify individuals outside the organisation to join HomeServe and ensure that we promote an international mindset and experience.
56 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 We ensure all our people benefit Work with the charity, Education from eective communications and & Employers, on their Inspire the engagement, with regular business Future campaign to place over 40 of updates, senior management brieng our People including engineers and sessions and surgeries, question marketing managers as volunteers in and answer opportunities and local schools and colleges speaking constructive relationships with employee to students about their own job and representatives across the Group.
We career path also encourage our management teams Work on major refurbishment projects to hold regular informal update meetings where we can use our skills to help and social events to keep our employees others.
Projects have included a team informed and engaged.
In FY17 our overall of our engineers volunteering their employee engagement level rose to 81% time for BBC DIY SOS installing a from 78% in FY16.
whole new heating system and also a Community team of 40 People who helped one of Each business is encouraged to develop a our elderly customers who was having local strategy to support and give back to diculty maintaining his home.
the communities in which we live and work.
For the thirteenth year, our UK contact In the UK, there are four dierent centres were selected by the Comic programmes that: Relief charity to receive donations from the public and over 450 of our people Incentivise our people for volunteering volunteered on the evening, taking over for groups that matter to them.
We continue to support we made over 11,000 in donations the Midland Langar Seva Society, which to community groups, including feeds homeless people in Birmingham Scout groups, sports teams, homeless 365 days a year.
Support has included centres and hospices.
Our people have onsite food and clothing collections and given over 3,000 hours of their own our people volunteering every Thursday time to these groups night in Birmingham.
Since the start of the partnership, over 14,000 meals have been Encourage our people to choose served at the open kitchens.
a charity that matters to them, and raise money for that charity that is In the US, just over $70,000 has been then matched.
Around 25,000 has contributed to local community charitable been raised for a wide range of local organisations and another $77,000 to and national charities, which we have customers in need.
Initiatives included: matched The HomeServe Helping Hands programme where charitable assistance is provided to employees whose personal circumstances present significant challenges 57
