Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Brand and reputation Stakeholders Our organisation is made up of three strong As well as our own people, BTs main stakeholders brands: BT, EE and Plusnet.
Between them, are our customers, communities, shareholders, theycover UK and global markets for consumers, lenders, pension schemes, suppliers, government businesses and the public sector.
Weve worked and regulatory authorities.
hard to position all three so they maximise Our customers their reach while minimising overlap with Our customers include individuals, households, businesses of all sizes and public sector organisations.
This multi-brand approach gives usgreater agility in the market and increases You can read about our markets, customers and the services we offer them in our Lines of Business section, from page 56. our overallconsideration.
Interestingly, some of our customers are also our competitors.
Thats because we sell wholesale products and services to other BT communications providers in the UK and overseas.
BT is the biggest of our three brands in terms of overall brand value.
It stretches across consumer, Communities and society business and public sector markets and operates in Our purpose influences our decisions and actions.
invested 35.6m to help a number of initiatives that deliver social and environmental benefits, as well as stimulating economic growth.
This year, BT Sport continued to grow its viewership and win awards.
These included the best TV or This investment is a mixture of cash, time volunteered, and in-kind media innovation award for the BT Sport app at the contributions.
Over the past five years weve invested over 157m, Broadband World Forum.
an average of 1.08% of our adjusted profit before tax.
In the UK business market, BT has the highest Total investment in society awareness of any telecoms, networks and IT services Year ended 31 March brand.
We kept up the pace with strong business wins such as network and ICT services for Royal m 1.15% 1.12% 1.10% 1.01% 1.03% Mail Group and network infrastructure for the Cooperative Group.
BT was also positioned by Gartner, 40 Inc, as a Leader in the Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global for the 13th consecutive time see 30 page 72.
20 Research company Millward Brown valued the BT brand at $18.6 billion in 2016.
Its possible that the 10 impact of our Italian investigation may cause this to decline when the 2017 valuation is published.
We 0 describe what were doing toredress this on page 6.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EE Percentage of previous years adjusted profit before taxation EE is the UKs biggest mobile operator, positioned Investment time, cash and in-kind support firmly at the cutting edge of technology.
EE is also number one for spontaneous brand awareness, Connecting society despite being almost a decade younger than any other major UK mobile brand.
Our 2020 ambitions Plusnet More than 9 out of 10 people Plusnet has a distinctive market position, offering in the UK will have access UK consumers brilliant service at a great price.
to our fibre-based products 9 10 andservices This year, Plusnet won 21 awards, including the uSwitch awards for Best Customer Service and We will help 10m people Best Home Broadband, and a Silver at the IPA overcome social disadvantage, Effectiveness Awards for effective advertising through the benefits our 10m andbrand-building.
products and services canbring Working together We will help 5m children Were working on synergies and opportunities for our three big brands to receive better teaching in support each other wherever possible.
You can read more about this in computing and tech skills 5m the Consumer and EE sections on pages 56 and 62.
34 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 35 27.1 27.2 32.5 35.0 35.6 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION in India thats reached over 700,000 people.
Weve also delivered wi-fi connectivity and services to refugee centres in Serbia, reaching 317,000 people.
Building a culture of tech literacy for the next generation Today the UK faces a major challenge.
The next generation are great tech consumers, but few are active creators.
In a world where so much of our life and work depends on technology, that may be the difference between getting ahead or being left behind.
The answer is to build a culture of tech literacy, so that young people grow up with the tech know-how to step up to the jobs of the future and to shape a more inclusive society that works for them.
Were helping to do that by championing tech literacy as a new cornerstone of modern education in primary schools, and by connecting to popular culture to inspire young people about the relevance of tech.
We believe that tech literacy is a fundamental skill for young minds, as important as reading and writing.
Thats why the Barefoot Computing Project helps primary school teachers get confident with tech literacy concepts such as computational thinking which provides the building blocks of the digital world: like logic, sequencing, abstraction and Providing access to fast broadband programming.
Weve been providing a combination of free teaching We recognise how important it is for everyone to have access to fast materials and volunteer-led, face-to-face training.
We continue to progress towards our 2020 ambition, more than 39,000 teachers, and through them more than a million with 88% of UK premises now able to access our fibre-based children.
And we know its having a positive impact: products and services.
The acquisition of EE gives us the opportunity to extend our reach even further through mobile broadband.
Teachers are more confident after using Barefoot resources: Promoting digital inclusion Digital transformation has the power to improve our quality of life, % boost the economy and protect the environment.
Research we 100 published last year suggests that access to e-health applications could provide better healthcare for nearly 20m more people in the a 80 UK by 2030.
60 Its always been our aim to make sure no-one is left out, especially vulnerable groups like the elderly, disabled or financially 40 disadvantaged.
We continue to develop products and services to help people overcome barriers to inclusion, such as BT Basic 20 Broadband, 4GEEWiFi, and our social housing proposition.
0 We also create awareness and collaboration through our presence on confident Understand Use computational with computing computational thinking in the UK Governments Council for Digital Inclusion.
Our partnership curriculum thinking computing lessons with Doteveryone is offering skills training to homeless people in the London Borough of Croydon.
The BT and Barclays Wi-Fi in our All teachers community programme now supports 100 libraries and community Teachers who accessed Barefoot resources centres across the UK.
The Tech4Good awards that we co-founded are now in their sixth year and still recognise organisations and Teachers who use computational thinking in lessons see positive individuals who use technology to improve the lives of others.
impacts on pupils learning: Our EE stores run Techy Tea Parties to help boost peoples confidence in going online.
And because we want to make sure children use the internet safely, were working with partners like 82% 99% Internet Matters and Unicef UK through our programme The Right Click: Internet Safety Matters.
say it helps pupils say it helps pupils work together solve problems more collaboratively Outside the UK, weve completed the implementation of the healthcare management system within our Connecting Africa programme, winning the Changing Lives award at the Broadband World Forum.
Our insight is helping shape the World Economic 96% 69% Forums Internet4All initiative in Sub-Saharan Africa.
As a partner in One Million Community Health Workers 1mCHW, were providing say it improves pupils say it improves pupils mobile health tools in Ghana.
And weve helped provide IT training numeracy skills literacy skills a The role of ICT in Reducing Carbon Emissions in the UK, BT, 2016 available at www.
com deliveringourpurpose 34 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 35 81% 92% 57% 84% 67% 82% Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Were also focusing on the transition to work, so that the next As well as creating scaleable opportunities to put something back generation can fulfil future job needs.
Work Ready gives 16-24 into the community, this can also provide great content for our TV year olds, particularly from disadvantaged backgrounds, skills channels and improve public perception of our company.
development and hands-on work experience of what it takes to thrive in a world of work powered by tech.
So far more than 2,000 We again used MyDonate and our communications technology young people have taken part in this initiative.
with help from our volunteers to support various large telethons.
These included Stand Up To Cancer, Comic Relief and Children in Need.
In the UK, we supported a number of smaller charities by providing discounted calls and line rental charges to members of The Charities Club, saving those charities almost 1.3m on their phone bills.
We see sport as a positive vehicle for change in young peoples lives.
This year we launched a new programme, in partnership with the Premier League, to help disabled people become more active in the sport of their choice, creating opportunities for them to develop the skills and build the confidence needed to realise their potential.
Our shareholders We have more than 790,000 shareholders.
As well as the Annual Report and Annual General Meeting, we keep our shareholders up to date with how were doing through regular mailings.
These often Research shows that interest drops off Manchester include offers on our products and services that are only available and career aspirations narrow in the to shareholders.
Our website includes press releases, newsletters, Community early years of secondary school.
Using presentations and webcasts that also keep our shareholders informed.
the power of BT Sport, we delivered Academy a a pilot project at the Manchester Most of our shares are held by institutional investors.
We have an Communication Academy to bring extensive investor relations programme aimed at keeping existing alive the tech behind the things investors informed and attracting new ones.
This programme young people love using an Outside includes: Broadcast truck to lift the lid on how r eporting quarterly results, accompanied by a conference call or much tech it takes to bring the best presentation from senior management: sporting action to their screens.
Were site visits and teach-ins on key topics: and now working on plans for a national mee tings and conference calls with investors both in the UK and rollout to help more young people think around the world.
again about how tech might show up in their futures.
In 2016 17, we held 507 meetings or events with institutional investors.
Supporting charities and communities We were voted the best company for investor Our 2020 ambition relations in England for the third year running in the Extel Survey 2016.
We also maintained our Use our skills and technology to help generate more than 1bn second place in the European telecoms sector of for good causes the same survey.
1bn Our lenders Our lenders, mainly banking institutions and bondholders, play an This year we helped generate 95m towards good causes, in support important role in our treasury and funding strategy.
62.6m of this was raised via MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising and donations platform.
That These relationships are vital for funding our business and meeting means weve now helped to generate 422m for good causes since our liquidity needs.
You can find out more about this on page 97. we set ourselves this ambition in 2012.
Our pension schemes We operate defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The largest by membership is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS which has around 300,000 members.
You can read more about this on page 204. a www.
co. uk 36 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 37 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our suppliers Number of on-site supplier assessments Our suppliers provide the products and services that are so important in executing our strategy.
We source from across the world and currently have suppliers in over 150 countries.
We spent 70 around 14.1bn with our suppliers this year 2015 16: 10.2bn.
Around 65% of our spend is with our top 100 suppliers.
60 50 This year we consolidated the EE and BT supplier base.
As part 40 of the EE integration, weve combined the best practices and processes from both procurement teams to remove duplication 30 and support synergies.
20 10 Our approach to procurement We have around 360 BT people in 27 countries working with 0 suppliers.
As part of our cost transformation activities we aim to 2015 2016 2017 make the most of our relationships with our largest suppliers, demonstrating our commitment to them by establishing a specialist We continued our compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and our in-life contract management team.
In-life contract management of Security and Exchange Commission SEC obligations by asking our top 130 suppliers has helped us save around 10m.
suppliers whether their products contained certain minerals that may have been sourced from conflict areas.
In June 2016 we filed a report covering 2015 with the SEC, which described our conflict minerals approach and reflected the responses we got from our Our Central Business Services Centre reviewed suppliers.
around 80,000 purchase orders accounting Paying our suppliers for3.8bn of spend, helping us save more This year the average time between invoice date and supplier than 15m.
payment was 67 days globally 2015 16: 62 days with 50 days for UK invoices.
Weve worked with other companies through our membership of Suppliers can choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme which an industry-recognised thought-leadership organisation.
This gives offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This cuts us the peer benchmarking support, market insight and innovative financing costs for participating suppliers, large or small, and is techniques we need to optimise our procurement strategy.
particularly attractive for SMEs who make up around 48% of our supply base.
We remain a signatory of the UK Prompt Payment Choosing our suppliers Code, and are supporting Government initiatives to encourage small We want to know who were doing business with and whos acting on business growth.
So we: choo se suppliers using principles that make sure we act ethically Human rights and responsibly: Were committed to respecting human rights.
Were steered by the check tha t the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights UN Guiding disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way: and Principles.
measur e things like suppliers energy use, environmental impact and labour standards, as well as working with them to improve these.
We believe our communications services have a positive impact on society, empowering people to exercise their rights and freedoms.
You can find out more at: www.
com At the same time we recognise that as a global company our work could adversely impact human rights, either directly or through our Ethical standards in our supply chain wider business relationships.
We want our suppliers employees to experience working conditions that are safe and fair.
To help us assess the risks, we send an ethical The importance of privacy and free expression standards questionnaire to suppliers of higher and medium-risk Privacy and free expression are still the rights most at risk from products and services.
We follow up with suppliers identified as communication services.
The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 IPA high or medium risk, based on their responses.
This year we met made significant changes to the investigatory powers regime in the our target of 100% follow-up within three months.
We also visit UK, in a way that could have a considerable impact on the privacy supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
This year we of customer communications.
We want our customers to know they visited 63 sites 2015 16: 47 sites around the world.
can trust us with their information, which is why we played a central role in lobbying for changes to the IPA before it became We published our first Modern Slavery Act Statement this year.
To enhance our own processes, weve created a formal board conducted a detailed risk assessment of our categories of spend, committee the Investigatory Powers Governance Committee, and as a result, engaged with more than 500 suppliers to improve chaired by Sir Michael Rake, to oversee the role we play in the use of our understanding of forced labour and human trafficking in our investigatory powers.
36 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 37 47 47 63 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued What weve been doing The directives include rules covering: Weve continued to champion free expression through our discussions access and interconnection: with the Government on the Digital Economy Act.
Weve also universal service obligations: and a reviewed our Acceptable Use Policy to make it easier for customers a r equirement for national regulators to review markets for to understand how they should use our online services to express significant market power SMP every three years and to put themselves.
appropriate and proportionate SMP remedies in place.
We continue to review our processes, including our approach to Companies with SMP typically have a market share of 40% or more human rights in our global activities.
Weve launched our enhanced and could, without regulation, be able to do things such as increase human rights due diligence tool.
And were leading the broadcast prices without losing business to competitors as would happen in a element of an international initiative looking at the impact of largefully competitive market.
b scale sporting events on human rights.
Weve also joined The Global Network Initiative on privacy and free expression as an observer.
In September 2016, the EC published Review c proposals for its review of the European Our first Modern Slavery Act statement describes our approach to of the Common Regulatory Framework.
As part preventing modern slavery in our supply chain and our business.
We of this review, the EC will assess how to want to play our part in tackling this so were proud to be partnering European encourage investment in infrastructure with the charity Unseen to set up and resource the Modern Slavery Common d and how to make current telecoms and Helpline and Resource Centre.
media rules fit for new challenges and Regulatory new types of service provider.
The EC is Our relationship with HM Government Framework also reviewing copyright and content Were one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services to the UK policy.
A directive embodying the new public sector.
We work with almost 1,800 organisations across central, code is expected to be adopted in midlocal and devolved government, supporting some of the UKs most 2018, taking effect midto late-2019.
vital services including health and social care, police and defence.
One of our most important contributions is helping organisations deliver better public services while keeping data secure.
When the UK leaves the EU, depending The UKs on the nature of any trade agreement For example: exit from reached, the UK may no longer be in Islington were linking up information systems to improve required to abide by the EU Regulatory theEU health and social care for the boroughs residents in a way that Framework and other relevant EU rules.
enables them to access their personal electronic health record.
The existing regulations are widely in Essex, thanks to new smartphones supplied by BT, police recognised as having helped make the are spending more time fighting crime and being visible in UK communications market one of the their communities.
most competitive in the world, providing consumers with low prices and the best Another aspect of our relationship with government is that we can coverage of superfast broadband in the be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services.
Therefore, while the For example, under the Communications Act, we and others can existing regulations could be fine-tuned be required to provide or restore services during disasters.
The to suit specific UK market conditions, we Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also states that the Government can do not expect fundamental changes.
impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
UK regulation The Secretary of State for the Home Department can also require us The UK telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated primarily to take certain actions in the interests of national security.
by Ofcom the UKs independent regulator within the framework set by the various European directives, the Communications Act 2003 Regulation the Communications Act and other UK and EU regulations and Communications and TV services are regulated in the UK and recommendations.
This is to make sure that CPs and broadcasters comply with common standards and rules, and that nobody is The Communications Act and Ofcom disadvantaged by providers with strong positions in their markets.
The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out how electronic communications and broadcasting services should European Union EU regulation beregulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions set by the In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services European directives.
are governed by directives and regulations set by the European Commission EC.
These create a Europe-wide framework known Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets as the European Common Regulatory Framework covering services conditions that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as such as fixed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite General Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with issues transmission.
such as protecting consumers, access and interconnection, and allocating and transferring phone numbers.
com products static terms b www.
com Thegroup Ourcompany Ourvalues ModernSlaveryAct .
org 38 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 39 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CPs affected by Ofcom decisions can appeal them through a number To further the interests of citizens in Ofcoms of routes, including the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT and the relation .
main duties To further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, BTs Undertakings where appropriate, by promoting In response to Ofcoms 2005 Strategic Review of Telecommunications competition.
we gave some legally-binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which included the creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
They aim to give the UK telecoms industry Other conditions apply to certain companies that are universal clarity and certainty about the way we provide wholesale regulated service providers or which Ofcom has decided have SMP in a products.
This in turn supports effective and fair competition in related particular market.
Were the designated universal service provider for retail markets.
Ofcom has published a consultation proposing to the UK except for the Hull area where that role is taken by KCOM release BT from the Undertakings in light of the new Commitments Group and so we have certain obligations.
The main one is to make we made to Ofcom on 10 March 2017. sure that basic fixed-line services are available at an affordable price to all consumers.
Were also obliged to provide public payphones.
Overseas regulation We have SMP in a number of markets including Business Connectivity The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
such as Ethernet and backhaul, Fixed Access including LLU, GEA and This can hinder our ability to compete and provide the services our WLR and Wholesale Narrowband such as Call Origination.
We keep pressing incumbent operators around Ofcoms market reviews are so important for us.
the world, and their national regulatory authorities, for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
Following a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can put controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
In March 2015 Ofcom announced it would At the same time, we announced that as the Ofcoms Strategic carry out a strategic review of the digital first step in the delivery of our changes, we had review of Digital communications industry, looking at ways appointed Mike McTighe as the first chairman to improve investment, innovation and of the Openreach board.
We said we were Communications competition across fixed-line, broadband also continuing to seek to reach a voluntary and mobile markets.
agreement with Ofcom that would avoid the lengthy and complex processes involved in a In February 2016 Ofcom published its initial notification to the Commission.
These covered the wide range of issues originally flagged by Ofcom, as well Following further discussions, BT and Ofcom as a conclusion that BTs model of functional agreed a new settlement, announced on separation should be strengthened to allow 10 March 2017.
This agreement, based Openreach to take its own decisions on budget, on voluntary commitments by BT, will see investment and strategy, in consultation with Openreach become a distinct, legally separate its communications provider customers.
This company within the BT Group.
We will consult became the focus of the review, with the other all Openreach employees on the transfer of issues taken forward through separate Ofcom their employment to Openreach Limited once initiatives.
all the necessary pensions protections and arrangements have been put in place.
Once the In July 2016 Ofcom consulted on proposed agreement is implemented: reforms of Openreach, including Openreach Openreach Limited will have its own becoming a distinct legal entity.
Also in July branding, which will not feature the BT logo.
2016, we announced that we intended The Openreach CEO will report to the to implement changes to address Ofcoms Openreach chairman with accountability concerns, including: to the BT Group, as the CEO of a a new Openreach board as a board wholly-owned subsidiary.
This includes committee of BT plc, with a majority of accountability to the BT Group chief independent members including the executive with regards to certain legal and chairman: fiduciary duties that are consistent with BTs greater delegation of strategic, operational responsibilities as a listed company.
and budgetary responsibilities to Openreach: and The agreement is intended to be comprehensive an enhanced process for industry and enduring.
It will provide BT and other consultation on large investment plans.
companies with greater regulatory clarity and certainty which is vital for investment.
This On 29 November 2016 Ofcom announced it will help the UK retain its position as a leading was planning to make a formal notification to the digital economy, with the largest superfast European Commission in 2017 seeking approval network among major European nations.
to mandate legal separation of Openreach, stating that the changes we announced in July would not fully address its concerns.
38 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 39 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Price regulation of our main wholesale products speed GEA 40 10 service.
Ofcom expects to publish its final decision The following table shows the main wholesale products provided to in early 2018 with new measures taking effect from 1 April 2018.
CPs which are subject to price controls in markets where weve been On 31 March 2017, Ofcom also published a consultation on a new found to have SMP.
fair and reasonable charge for MPF rental at service level 1 for the period 1 April 2017 to 31March 2018.
Annual charge Current charge control Product control ends Wholesale broadband access WBA market review a Fixed call origination RPI3.6% 30 September 2016 The current control set by Ofcom for the WBA market ie IPStream expired on 31 March 2017.
Ofcom is expected to undertake a a Fixed call termination RPI3.1% 30 September 2016 review of this market in calendar Q2 2017.
Meanwhile we gave Mobile call termination CPI3.1% 31 March 2018 Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31 December 2017, or the conclusion a Wholesale Line Rental WLR CPI3.0% 31 March 2017 of Ofcoms review if earlier.
a b IPStream rental in Market A only CPI10.7% 31 March 2017 Narrowband market review a Metallic Path Facility rental MPF CPI 0.3% 31 March 2017 Ofcom is currently reviewing the narrowband market that covers a Shared Metallic Path Facility rental fixed call origination, call termination and WLR, and published a SMPF CPI33.4% 31 March 2017 consultation in December 2016.
This review was delayed and had not been completed by the time the existing charge control was c Ethernet CPI13.5% 31 March 2019 due to end.
We gave Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on d Partial Private Circuits PPCs CPI3.5% 31 March 2019 the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31 December 2017, a or the conclusion of Ofcoms review if earlier.
See WLA, WBA and Narrowband market reviews in the next section Other regulatory decisions and activities.
b Wholesale broadband services are regulated in Market A which covers 9.5% of UK premises.
Mobile regulation Market B covers the remaining premises and is competitive and unregulated.
The current charge control on mobile call termination applies until c Outside central London and 1Gbps.
d 31 March 2018 and Ofcom intends to review the market again in 8Mbps.
the coming year and will set new regulation, if required.
We are also subject to regulation when our customers travel within the European Other regulatory decisions and activities Union, for the retail prices we charge our customers and the Business connectivity market and cost attribution wholesale prices between operators.
The EU regulations cover voice, In April 2016 Ofcom published its Final Statement on its Business text and data prices, with a cut to the retail price caps on 30April Connectivity Market Review, Leased Lines Charge Control and Cost 2016.
From 15 June 2017, under EU regulations, customers will Attribution Review.
This broadly confirmed Ofcoms proposals set out be able to Roam like home within the EU, paying domestic prices in its Draft Statement published in March, including: when travelling with no extra fees.
At the wholesale level, price caps the char ge controls that apply from 1 May 2016 until will remain in place, on an agreed glide path, reducing to 1 January 31 March 2019: 2022. the in troduction of minimum service levels for Openreach relating to the installation and repair of Ethernet services: and Standalone landline telephone services a requirement for Openreach to provide access to its fibre network On 1 December 2016 Ofcom announced a review of the retail for providers of high-speed services to businesses known as dark market for consumers who buy telephone services in a standalone fibre from 1 October 2017. contract and not part of a bundle with other services such as broadband or pay-TV.
This affects around 2.9m UK households.
We disagree with some aspects of Ofcoms BCMR statement, Ofcom has provisionally concluded that this is a separate retail including Ofcoms proposals on Dark Fibre and have appealed these market in which BT has SMP.
Ofcom has consulted on a number of points to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
We expect Ofcoms possible remedies including requiring us to cut the line rental charge Cost Attribution Review assessment to also have an effect on other by between 5 and 7 per month for customers taking these future price controls.
Wholesale local access market review The current charge control set by Ofcom for the WLA market ieMPF and SMPF expired on 31 March 2017.
Ofcom is currently undertaking a review of this market, but was not able to complete it by that date.
As a result, we gave Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31December 2017, or the conclusion of Ofcoms review ifearlier.
Generic Ethernet Access GEA rental has not previously been subject to price regulation but Ofcoms consultation proposals, published on 31March 2017, include introducing price regulation on the lower 40 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 41
