Resources, relationships and sustainability In this section we describe the key resources and relationships that underpin our business model.
We also report on how our purpose can help to protect the environment.
Financial strength Our people Our financial strength means we can take a Our people help shape the modern world.
The products and services they create and manage underpin everything from global trade Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Together with further cost transformation, we aim to grow our and industry, to economic growth and social EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years: Our people are a vital part of our ambition to deliver a great customer experience and sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Our people strategy supports this ambition by creating an Deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth environment where great people can do brilliant things as part of a dynamic business.
Grow EBITDA Grow free cash flow Support Pay Invest in Reduce net pension progressive business debt fund dividends We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance, both of which help us make the right decisions in terms of planning investments, managing our debt and growing our business.
Strategic investment, based on our financial strength, will ensure the long-term growth and health of our business.
At the same time, were working hard to reduce our net debt, support our pension fund in a responsible way and pay progressive dividends to our shareholders.
We recruited 3,600 new people into customer-facing Our financial strength also means we can support the business in roles at our BT UK contact centres other ways, for example by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the forefront of a rapidly-changing industry, and by investing in the training, development and support of our people.
How our people make a difference Our success isnt just about what we do: its how we do things that really makes the difference.
We want great people to work for BT.
We want them to feel engaged and inspired to be the best they can be.
Together we create a highperforming, thriving organisation, where difference is celebrated and innovation is a big part of who we are.
At the heart of this are our people values.
Theyre aspirational, but realistic, capturing the spirit of BT at our best and reflecting how our customers want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
26 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 27 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION This led us to three words: Weve recruited more than 1,500 people into Openreach and 3,600 new people into customer-facing roles at our BT UK contact centres.
Weve also hired 1,400 people into EE stores and filled more than 1,700 positions in EE contact centres.
Allowing for people leaving, the result is a net increase of 200 FTE employees across EE.
Personal Finally, we continue to recognise the importance of retaining experience by converting almost 1,600 skilled agency workers to permanent employees.
Hiring more graduates In 2016 17 we hired 300 graduates globally.
We have plans to hire Simple more than 450 in 2017 18 our highest-ever intake.
Once again were in the top half of The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers.
Were one of only Brilliant five companies in the IT and telecoms sector to feature in the top 100.
Everyone in BT has a role to play in bringing these values to life.
Thats how well deliver on our purpose and use the power of communications to make the world a better place, every single day.
This year we were deeply disappointed with the improper practices of a few individuals in our Italian business and the investigation into historical Deemed Consent which identified poor processes at Openreach.
We know the vast majority of our people want to do, and will do the right thing, but this highlights the necessity to live our new values and work in an ethical way at all times.
Our workforce At 31 March 2017 we had 106,400 full-time equivalent FTE employees in 63 countries, with 82,800 based in the UK.
Like any successful business, we continually redeploy our people to meet the needs of our customers and ensure they get a first-class experience long into the future.
Last year in the UK we redeployed 1,070 people, avoiding the need for redundancy.
An integrated workforce Following the acquisition of EE were harmonising our policies, cultures and working practices to achieve our goal of becoming a truly integrated organisation.
Weve identified examples of best practice from both organisations that will act as building blocks for our better than both ambition.
Our new values reflect this.
Recruiting talented people In December 2016 we launched an exciting new career website, We hired 900 new apprentices across the Hiring more showing the world what makes BT such a great place to work.
Our contribution to apprentices the new Apprenticeship Levy Fund means This year, excluding acquisitions, we recruited nearly 17,500 were able to offer more apprenticeship people, almost 10,500 of whom are UK-based.
opportunities than ever before over 2,000 next year.
A customer-connected workforce Improving the quality of our customer relationships remains central to our people strategy.
900 new apprentices hired across the group 26 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 27 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Investing for growth Leadership At BT, we never stop learning whether thats on the job, with Were still investing in our leadership capability, developing effective colleagues or in a formal training environment.
Its how we adapt to leaders at all levels and in all parts of our business.
Our main a changing world and rise to the challenges of tomorrow.
leadership programmes, Challenging Leadership in Action and Pioneers have reached 1,400 leaders globally over 2016 17.
Around 25,000 of our people use our interactive Academy website every month and 7,000 of our EE employees used the EE Digital As well as welcoming EE to the BT family and introducing our Academy this year.
Its a great way to build online learning communities new values, weve created two new leadership development where learning materials and events can be easily shared.
programmes: Future Leaders and Connected Leaders.
FUTURE LEADERS CONNECTED LEADERS Develops high-potential people, Launching in 2017 18, enabling them to become leaders Connected Leaders emphasises for the first time.
the importance of connection with our customers, our people and different parts of our organisation as the key to creating a truly aligned BT.
Engaging our people During the year we revised our employee survey and approach: the result called Your Say is shorter and features questions clearly linked to our strategy and values.
Weve made our report simpler for managers and their teams to understand so they can take action on the key priorities that will improve levels of engagement and better serve our customers.
The first full Your Say survey using the revised format attracted over 85,000 responses, representing around 80% of our people.
Almost 93,400 people 86% responded to the January 2017 Your Say survey.
EE was voted in the Top 3 in The Sunday Times Top 30 Best The r esult has generated momentum in every engagement Big Companies to Work For awards 2017 driver category, with 18 of the 20 driver items starting to move in the right direction: the following table provides a snapshot of this: Awards won this year PERCENTAGE CHANGE SINCE Our Academy won a Silver Award at this years PREVIOUS Learning Awards for its social and collaborative DRIVER SCORE SURVEY learning.
Engagement outcome 71% -1% EE won a Princess Royal Training Award in Leading our people 53% -1% 2016, training 358 employees over eight days following our takeover of 58 stores.
Managing our people 78% 3% EEs Priority Launch programme which is Empowering and 58% 3% equipping our people dedicated to improving employee performance Enabling outstanding won another Princess Royal Training Award 59% 3% customer experience in 2016.
Working together 60% 4% Personal growth 69% 3% We keep our people informed about company results, major business decisions and other things that affect them using a variety of digital channels.
Leaders regularly connect with their teams through roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, webcasts and blogs.
28 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 29 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Weve run recruitment campaigns for graduates and apprentices that aim to attract more women and black and minority ethnic background BAME candidates.
Weve also rolled out unconscious bias training for all those involved in recruitment.
Were proud that BT was named in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women awards 2017.
Over 27,000 women now work for us, thats 25% of our entire workforce.
Our management team includes more than 10,000 women, representing 26% of the total, while our Board is now 27% female, with women accounting for three out of 11 Board members.
We want to create an environment where our people can feel open about being themselves at work.
As part of this, our LGBT Challenge Cup is our flagship people employee network is asking people across the business to stand by Challenge engagement programme.
Its an annual LGBT colleagues to create a respectful and supportive working Cup competition that encourages people to environment.
The LGBT Allies programme calls on them to be work as a team to develop new ideas visible and vocal in their support, and take an active interest in that improve customer experience, LGBT topics.
save money and create innovation.
Our people genuinely love it.
The number of Were a founder member of the Equality & Human Rights people taking part increases every year Commission Working Forward initiative, and our maternity handbook this year more than 5,500 people came is being widely used as an example of best practice.
Our maternity together to form over 1,100 teams return rate continues to improve and currently stands well above the across 28 countries, including people industry average at 88%, measured one year after women returned.
entering the competition for the first time.
Along with Business in the Community, we sponsored The Race a at Work report that informs the development of our diversity initiatives.
Weve also appointed a Race Champion to oversee this work and have seen a rise in BAME employees to 12%.
5,500 participants this year b We are a Disability Confident employer and we actively encourage the recruitment, development and retention of disabled people.
Volunteering Well automatically put an applicant with a disability or long-term Our people can use up to three working days a year for volunteering health condition, who meets the minimum criteria for a vacancy, activities.
Some choose to help charities with particular challenges through to the first stage of a recruitment process.
that need their expert input and knowledge.
Others use their energy and enthusiasm to make a practical difference in their An inclusive culture is fundamental to ensuring our diverse local communities.
workforce can develop and thrive.
Weve focused on embedding themes of inclusivity within all our leadership development This year more than 31% of our people spent over 39,000 days programmes for senior management teams, with a specific focus volunteering their time, with more than 2,000 people helping on developing diverse future talent.
children and young adults improve their skills through our Tech Literacy and Work Ready programmes see page 35.
Promoting wellbeing We recognise that the wellbeing of our people feeds directly into Our 2020 ambition our customers experience of BT and helps ensure the ongoing profitability of our business.
Weve looked at what we can do to Inspire two-thirds 66% increase wellbeing through our refreshed people strategy, drawing of our people to volunteer on the latest scientific evidence.
their time and skills 66% Were working hard to eliminate all avoidable health and safety incidents by investing in improved training and equipment.
A safe work environment is fundamental to our success, and were pleased to say weve cut our accident rate even further this year by 18%.
Our sickness absence rate was rising but weve turned that around 11,000 5.1m this year and its now dropped by 6%.
Weve made particular progress in reducing mental ill health, which is down by 13% volunteers took part in our excluding EE.
Our other main sickness area is musculoskeletal Stand Up To Cancer and helping to raise 1.3m disorders: in response weve developed a major initiative to help Comic Relief campaigns and 3.8m respectively people avoid strains thats part of our wider Fit for Life campaign.
Were pleased to say that in January we hit our five-year target of Diversity at work getting 10,000 people more active three years early.
Diversifying the mix of our people continues to be a priority within our people strategy.
Were particularly keen to encourage women a into technology careers through our Tech Women programme.
uk all-resources research-articles race-work-report b Disability Confident is an accreditation which includes Two Ticks that is given to organisations that are committed to employing disabled people.
28 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 29
