THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION How were mitigating the risks Impact Weve introduced governance to clarify responsibilities for data Failure to implement and maintain effective health and safety activities across our whole business.
People, processes and management could have a huge impact on our people and our technology have been our core areas of focus.
It could lead to people getting injured, work-related governance, were reinforcing our expectations around personal data sickness and service disruption for customers.
with our people, our partners and third parties.
It could also result in our people and third parties making The cornerstone of our education and training programme is making compensation claims against us, and fines or other sanctions being sure our people understand our data governance culture and the issued by regulators.
There could even be criminal prosecutions impact of data risks on our business.
Our mandatory data privacy against us, our directors and our people all of which would harm training focuses on the individuals role, and uses relevant scenarios our brand and business.
to highlight the varying data risks of different BT job families.
By educating our technical and commercial units weve made a step And of course an unhappy or unhealthy workforce also leads to change in understanding data risks across BT Group.
higher work absence rates and lower performance levels.
We want to give our people the tools they need to make everyday Whats changed over the last year?
risk-based decisions around privacy and data protection without The range and complexity of risks has gone up as weve offered it being a burden or making their job more complicated.
If we do new services to our customers.
Those risks include us doing more that, theres a much better chance of data compliance becoming construction and electrical engineering work on our own network, business as usual.
For example, using Privacy Impact Assessments aswell as new contracts requiring us to maintain and extend the when we develop new products and services makes sure everyone UKs mobile network.
Weve taken a lot of steps to mitigate these understands privacy issues from the start and builds in the right risks especially around how our people work with electricity or at controls, without any operational impact.
Supporting the third-line assurance of our Internal Audit team, the The integration of EE has introduced new elements such as high Chief Privacy Officer and his team are a second line of defence.
They street retail and an expansion of existing risks such as operating undertake an annual cycle of audit and monitoring.
Our mitigations against cyber attacks are described in our Security Were continuing to implement a strategy which embeds effective and resilience risk page 52. management of health and safety into all our operations and promotes health and wellbeing to help improve business performance.
Two prosecutions against us for past incidents Health and safety concluded in 2016 resulting in guilty verdicts and fines.
Levels ofsickness absence rose in the first part of the year but this trend Link to strategy reversed in the second half.
Our workforce has also lost less time 1 Deliver great customer experience from injuries as a result of accidents.
2 Transform our costs Trend How were mitigating the risks Link to business model Were implementing the next stage of a Board-endorsed health, Financial capital safety and wellbeing strategy.
As part of this, each year every line Human capital of business produces its own health and safety plan with its own Social capital targets and programmes.
Natural capital Our people managers take responsibility for making sure their teams Our business and in particular our UK engineering workforce does know how to comply with health and safety standards.
We monitor a lot of work where our people could be injured or their health could compliance using annual licensing, scheduled refresher training, be damaged.
Its essential we do all we can to keep our people safe: competency assessments and accreditation processes for higher risk not only is it the law but it also means theyll be better at their jobs.
All our people undertake training in basic health and safety.
Acquiring EE has also raised the exposure of our customers and Wherever we do business around the world, we put in place staff to radio frequency emissions from wireless mobile devices and policies and programmes to make sure we adhere to our own mobile telecoms sites.
Media reports have suggested these emissions standards and that those standards meet or exceed minimum legal may cause health issues, including cancer, and may interfere requirements.
We also work to make sure our products comply with with some electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and safety regulations, including meeting industry standards for radio pacemakers.
Research and studies are ongoing.
According to the frequency emissions.
World Health Organizations Fact Sheet Number 193, last reviewed in October 2014, there are no known adverse effects on health We provide advice to help management teams understand and from emissions at levels below internationally recognised health and control health and safety risks and help everyone feel involved in safety standards.
Even so, we cant provide absolute assurance that health, safety and wellbeing.
Weve created interventions to help research in the future wont establish links between radio frequency promote good mental health and physical wellbeing.
We also provide emissions and health risks.
support and rehabilitation services for people who have mental or physical health issues.
And we complement these measures with strong attendance management processes.
46 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 47
