Corporate responsibility The Charitable Pitch Campaign which Environment, Health & Safety provides HomeServe employees with Health, safety, wellbeing and environmental the chance to pitch their ideas for guardianship remain central to everything charities: it gives invaluable insight into we do.
All our businesses comply with the personal lives of our employees ten guiding principles for occupational and gives a tremendous pipeline of health and safety and for environmental worthy social causes.
We focus on safe working contributed $45,000 to key charities: environments, developing motivated and Red Rover Foundation, American supported employees, and we strive for Cancer Society, Humane Society, Best zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
Buddies Disabled Children and CT In FY17, we engaged a specialist supplier Advocates of Southwest Connecticut to complete a Group wide audit and a plan HomeServe Cares and Goodwill Jobs has been put in place to implement the where we assist customers with repairs actions arising from that activity.
As part of that they could otherwise not aord.
this, we intend to enhance our reporting During the year, $38,000 of work has and controls in line with recommended been performed HSE best practice and to encourage cross business learning.
Supporting our partners in their local communities.
This charitable work totalled just over $17,000 in FY17.
In France we have continued working with Habitat & Humanisme, and activities included providing meals for under privileged people and supporting residents with our contractor network.
In FY17 we also deployed a number of claims free of charge.
Over 470 employees in Spain have been directly involved in community activity.
Over 230 employees have raised money for cancer charities including races across Spain and a charity football tournament organised by the NGO Cooperacin Internacional.
Using the skills of 127 employees and contractors, we repaired and painted seven social centres.
58 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Leadership The US has seen a reduction in the Johnathan Ford, Group Chief Operating number of injuries and has made Ocer, is the Director responsible for significant improvements to the injury environmental, health and safety matters.
management process which focuses HR Directors lead Health & Safety matters on early medical intervention and early in each business, except in the UK where access to occupational medical facilities responsibility has transferred to the Chief where required.
During FY17 the environmental conditions Continuous improvement of all our locations in Spain were reviewed Intra-company safety benchmarking with subsequent investment in lighting, air is strong and accident frequency rates conditioning and reducing noise pollution.
are used to compare injury rate, safety A key focus through a range of health culture and levels of engagement: and campaigns has been placed on ensuring in preparation for the new ISO45001 employees are able to check their health specication gives a leading indicator of and get access to expert advice where safety leadership.
Across the Group we required.
have continued to see a positive trend in Carbon emissions continue to be the reduction of accidents or incidents measured across all Group companies.
The UK business is not part of the UK The UK has promoted the use and Governments monitoring scheme as benets of the employee assistance carbon emissions are below the schemes programme which covers stress threshold.
The business has received Legal a Gold award from the Royal Society for There have been no prosecutions or other The Prevention of Accidents.
The Health enforcement actions taken in respect & Safety framework has been judged as of our businesses by any of the national continuously improving and this is the health, safety or environmental regulators.
7th Gold award in a row for the business which is a great achievement.
France has continued to see a significant reduction in the number of work related accidents, and there have been considerable improvements to the working environment following the move to a new modern oce building.
A support hotline has been implemented for all employees in France with a view to assisting with stress management.
59 Governance Our global values Put customers at the heart of everything we do Develop and encourage great people who are passionate about taking responsibility and making things happen Combine relentless innovation with integrity and professionalism Strive to be the best in the world at what we do 60 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Relentless innovation combined with integrity and professionalism Our focus on innovation ensures we stay on top of changing customer needs and anticipate their demands Craig Foster, MD of HomeServe Labs 61
