48 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our approach to Responsible Business Responsible Business is an important priority for LondonMetric and we continue to work hardto fully integrate Responsible Business policies and procedures across our corebusiness activities.
Our approach Importance of to Responsible Business Responsible Business Our Responsible Business Policy was first Critical to managing We have made good progress published in 2014 following a detailed sustainability risks towards achieving our 2016-2018 review of the sustainability risks and Important in generating sustainable targets and this is allowing us to opportunities which are most material value from our portfolio and build further on our sustainability toour business.
enhancingprotability achievements Our Responsible Business Strategy sets Helps us to mitigate any potential Martin McGann out our sustainability priorities across Finance Director long term risks posed by less resource four core business activities: efficient assets i our business operations For the full Responsible Enables us to successfully Business 2017 report ii our property investments and sustainably deliver on see www.
com our developments iii property development Promotes excellent stakeholder iv asset management relationships and assists them in It is supported by the foundations delivering on their own responsible ofgood risk management.
business objectives Key targets are set for each of our sustainability priority areas on an annual basis.
The delivery of these targets is overseen by our Working Group and progress is monitored on a quarterly basis through our Responsible Responsible Investment, Asset Business meetings, attended by Management and Development key representatives from across the business.
We also receive support from our external real estate sustainability advisor.
In 2017, we approved our Working Group terms of reference.
Responsible Responsible Business training is carried Investment out across relevant employees annually Generating to make sure we effectively deliver on sustainable value our targets and continue to optimise our Responsible Business approach.
We actively engage with stakeholders investors, joint venture partners, occupiers, communities and local authorities onResponsible Business themes andrelevant materials are Responsible Business included ininvestor roadshows.
Managing stakeholder relationships and risk well Responsible Responsible Development Asset Management Future-proong Responding to our pipeline occupier needs Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Key achievements in the year Our Responsible Business activities are enabling us to build on our significant achievements from previous years.
The successful rolling out of our Responsible Business Strategy has resulted in the achievement ofa GRESB Green Star award and we maintained our EPRA sustainability BPRGoldaward.
Last year, we set 33 new two year targets and have made good progress towards achieving these.
Awarded GRESB Green Star and Assets rated E orabove Targets 2016 18 1 maintained EPRA sBPR Gold award forMEES purposes 82% targets 100% achieved, ongoing or in progress at yearend See the full Responsible See page 50 See page 53 Business2017Report BREEAM Very Good certication Monitoring Responsible Solar PVs installed oncompleted developments Procurement and development 1.0m sq ft 1.1MW See page 52 See page 53 See page 52 Car park lighting LED Collection of tenant energy usage Carbon footprint reduced replacement programme and monitoring performance on by17% completed developments 17% on a like for like basis See page 53 See page 53 See page 51 1 Excludes a recently refurbished convenience asset where a rating is expected shortly 50 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Continued recognition of our focus onsustainability The significant improvement in our sustainability performance and practices made over recent years has been rewarded through our EPRA sBPR Gold award for environmental performance reporting as well as the achievement of a Green Star award from GRESB for therst time, proving that two leading industry bodies recognise thesoundness of our Responsible Business approach.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2016 Benchmark GRESB Achieved 66% score in 2016 survey and achieved green 66% star status Performance in 2016 GRESB Survey % 2015: 50% 100 Up from 34% in 2014 and 50% 2014: 34% in 2015 In 2016 we achieved improvements in seven out of eight GRESB segments, with our biggest improvements in Risk 50 & Opportunities and Building Certication, where our energy efficiency activities and better environmental ratings of our assets helped in particular Further actions undertaken to 0 maintain status in the 2017 survey 0 50 100 for stakeholder engagement Implementation and measurement and new construction major renovations criteria LondonMetric Property Peer group average GRESB average EPRA Sustainability Best Practice FTSE4Good Recommendations sBPR Framework for reporting Assessment for inclusion standardised environmental data intheFTSE4Good Index For first time in 2015, we In 2016, our most recent reported in aformat required assessment, we scored by the EPRA sBPR and received 3.0outof5.0 special commendation for significant improvement improvement made onthe2015 score of 1.4 In 2016, we were one of only Exceeded target score tenlisted UK companies to ofgreaterthan 2.0 receivea Gold award Narrowly missed inclusion in index and working to make further improvements to achieve inclusion in index Management and policy Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Environmental performance highlights In 2015, we established a baseline and benchmarks for measurement of the environmental performance of our portfolio.
Since then we have signicantly reduced our energy consumption and GHG emissions, enabling us to save over 317,000 in costs.
1 1 Energy consumption Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 6,511 MWh 2,150 tCO e 2 Down 6% on absolute basis Down 18% on absolute basis We have also reduced our total like for like energy On a like for like basis, GHG emissions were down by 17% consumption electricity and natural gas by 6% as a result of both the reduction in energy consumption compared to 2015 16.
A key initiative which helped us and the annual reduction to UK emissions factors.
We to achieve this was upgrading car park lighting across have also reduced our Carbon Reduction Commitment anumber of our retail park assets.
CRC liabilities from 43,382 to 38,748 since last year.
1 Excluding Moore House Mandatory GHG emissions reporting 2016 17 2015 16 Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e Scope 1 275 475 2 combustion of fuel and operation facilities Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO2e Scope 2 location-based 1,719 1,970 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2 market-based 1,629 2,015 Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e Total scope 1 & 2 1,995 2,445 2 Scope 1 and 2 intensity tonnes of CO2e per m net income Scope 1 and 2 intensity 32 44 after administration costs The market-based method uses an emissions factor that is specic Data qualifying notes to the electricity which has been purchased, or where not available We have reported on all of the emission sources required under a national residual-mix factor is applied.
Market-based emissions the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports factors are taken from the latest Association of Issuing Bodies European Regulations 2013.
We have used the main requirements of ISO14064 Part 1 and the GHG The total carbon footprint and emissions intensities have been Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised calculated using location-based Scope 2 emissions.
Edition for our methodology, using energy consumption data from Data for the year to 31 March 2016 has been restated, including our owned and occupied properties.
We have chosen to report associated intensity metrics, as additional energy consumption greenhouse gas emissions under our operational control.
These sources datahas been obtained since the previous report was published.
fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our Scope 1 data does not include refrigerant emissions as these have consolidated financial statements.
been determined to not be material represent 2% of total emissions : owned eet does not apply.
The guidance on the reporting of Scope 2 GHG emissions under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol was updated in 2015 and we are now Due to issues accessing energy data, we have also excluded the required to report two different values to reect the location-based emissions for the vacant units of our residential asset Moore House.
and market-based emissions resulting from purchased electricity.
Lastyear this asset accounted for just 2% of total emissions.
The location-based method uses an average emission factor for the entire national grid on which electricity consumption occurs.
Location-based emissions factors are taken from the latest UK Government DEFRA conversion factors for company reporting 2016.
For full environmental performance reporting see the Responsible Business 2017 Report www.
com 52 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Responsible development Managing risks and future-proong our assets Development is a significant activity of ours.
It is therefore important that we carry out our development work responsibly and give proper consideration to environmental, sustainable and social matters.
Monitoring our contractors Environmental standards Having implemented our development The majority of our developments are checklist, our focus is on ensuring that designed to meet BREEAM Very Good contractors meet our requirements.
Our Responsible Procurement Policy as the minimum certication standard.
The monitoring of compliance and Development Requirements In the year, we achieved five BREEAM has helped us to identify areas Checklist have expanded our Very Good certications.
In addition, of improvement with regards to sustainability efforts.
This year we continued to integrate a range of the environmental impact of our we have made great progress in sustainable features, including solar PV, construction activities.
monitoring their implementation into our portfolio.
and have further enhanced these Benets for local communities requirements for the coming year.
Active supply chain management Our developments typically involve Tom Pinder Responsible Procurement Policy local contractors and suppliers.
Responsible Business Supply chains remain under a Once developments are complete high level of scrutiny.
In 2015, we and operational, our tenants employ developed a procurement policy to locally-based staff for their retail ensure that our supply chain and our stores or distribution warehouses.
BREEAM Very Good or Excellent procurement practices meet good Our developments, therefore, generate practice standards and deliver social significant employment and economic 1.
benefit to the local area.
across 5assets Responsible Development We engage extensively with the local Requirements Checklist community, in particular councils in2016 17 All of our contractors are obliged to and local organisations to ensure that adhere to our development checklist, proper consideration is given to the 0.6m sq ft which sets minimum requirements for local area, its needs and opportunities working on ourdevelopment projects for local jobs and apprenticeships.
expected on assets and includes: By way of examples, see page 55. under construction Requirements for on site Health & Safety management Future plans Compliance with the Considerate Construction data Constructors Scheme We will continue to focus on Environmental impact monitoring ensuring that our Responsible 93% Development Requirements are Management and reporting of of waste diverted effectively implemented and our progress against the checklist developments continue to include from landll Promoting employment environmental sustainability aspects.
opportunities for local people We will also continue to support Zero andfair remuneration local job creation and the use Reportable accidents UKs Modern Slavery Act of local suppliers to ensure that The UKs Modern Slavery Act economic benets accrue to or incidents was introduced in 2015 and our localcommunities.
development checklist stipulates requirements for upholding human and labour rights within supply chains see page 56.
Responsible development in action see page 33 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Responsible asset management We work in partnership with occupiers to undertake mutually beneficial asset management opportunities and mitigate any material risks.
As part of our asset management activities we focus on: Ensuring that we remain compliant with key environmental regulation Monitoring and targeting improvements in the environmental performance of our assets Active engagement with our tenants, including on matters External car park lighting replacement relating to sustainability programme at North Shields, completed inAugust 2016.
Regulatory compliance Energy & cost savings Tenant engagement We continue to actively maintain Our activities continue to drive Solar PVs: As a result of ongoing compliance and manage energy use reductions, cost savings engagement with our tenants and risks associated with key and greener energy sourcing: a number of feasibility studies, we regulatory drivers: have installed 700 KWs of solar PV Lighting: External car park lighting capacity across our assets over the EPCs: As part of our Responsible accounts for a meaningful part last two financial years.
Investing, we carefully assess the of our energy usage and carbon environmental risks of assets prior footprint.
To date, we have Following significant engagement to purchase.
completed an LED lighting upgrade with Dixons Carphone, a further across four retail parks.
The average 1,000 KW has been installed This year, we have again reported expected reduction in energy recently at our distribution centre that, for the purposes of MEES, 100% requirements is 65%.
We continue to look at of our assets are rated E or above.
further solar installations, particularly Through our asset management Green Tariff: At our office in Marlow, on our current and recently we are improving the rating of we have agreed to enter into completed developments.
a low carbon electricity supply with our incumbent supplier.
Tenant data: We have increased the CRC: We continue to meet our Marlow accounts for 30% of our scope of our environmental data obligations under the CRC Energy energy consumption and this collection from tenants and now Efficiency Scheme.
contract will deliver not only 100% collect data on 32% of our portfolio.
ESOS: Audits were carried out renewably sourced energy but also Energy audits: We have started across our portfolio in 2015 16 a 3% reduction in the tariff.
to undertake full energy audits at in accordance with the Energy Recharge pods: We are trialling the several of our distribution centres Savings Opportunity Scheme, installation of electric car recharge and are progressing discussions with and we continue to satisfy our pods on two retail parks.
one tenant on an internal lighting obligations under this scheme.
Future plans In addition to progressing on achievements to date and continuing to engage with our tenants, we will: For the first time, undertake an investor survey to seek their views on our sustainability performance Further to our comprehensive independent tenant survey in 2015, undertake a follow on tenant survey 1,000 KW solar PV installation at our distribution centre in Newark let to Dixons Carphone.
For the full Responsible Business 2017 report see www.
com 54 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our communities and charitable commitments We recognise the importance of supporting our local communities.
Ouractivities bring significant benets to local areas and we see engagement with all stakeholders as crucial to maximising these benets.
Our responsibilities also extend to supporting local causes andencouraging our employees to be community minded.
During the year, we continued our benefiting local communities support of community causes local 23 new leases signed with our through our activities toour assets, including: occupiers that will bring long We work in close partnership with term local employment across our occupiers to deliver real estate Sponsorship of Coventrys 12 locations that helps to full modern shopping participation at the International requirements.
These activities benefit Childrens Games local communities in a number of ways, Contributing towards primarily through: improving sports facilities Investment and construction jobs inIslip, Northamptonshire in the local area through our asset Committing to ongoing support management and development ofthe community events in activities: the t out work of our Kirkstall, Leeds retailers also brings local job creation Community and charity Creation of desirable shopping 35,695 total charitable mindedcompany destinations which provide contributions in theyear amenities, diverse retail offerings and Following the formation of a Charity convenient shopping locations that and Communities Working Group will remain vibrant for the long term in 2016, this year we published a Community Policy, which is available Long term commitment of our on our website.
retailers and occupiers, who typically sign 10-15 year leases bringing long term employment to the local area Future plans At our newly developed distribution warehouse in Warrington, for example, As well as continuing our local Amazon are expected to employ 1,200 community engagement, we will people once fully operational.
continue to: Community Policy published Target giving to community Engaging with local communities causes local to our assets In undertaking our activities we Support LandAid events and understand the importance of employee-led charity events engaging with local stakeholders including planning authorities, Match employee charity giving local councils and highways, local Encourage pro bono work and residence and business, employment employee volunteering organisation and charities.
On each of our assets, through our procurement and development policies we require that our suppliers and contractors source locally and have proper regard for local communities.
Weencourage our occupiers to also employ locally.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Community and charity in action Community consultation at Launceston Apprenticeship training at Stoke We fully pre-let a former B&Q store redevelopment As part of our 277,000 sq ft distribution development, where we had previously accepted an early surrender.
demolition works were undertaken, including asbestos removal, by AR Demolition.
As part of our Responsible Business strategy, we undertook a public consultation and our plans received Given the extent of the project, AR Demolition carried strong support from the community.
out invaluable apprenticeship training at the site.
Travel Plan at our 120,000 sq ft Retail Park in Leeds Ongoing community communication at Stoke At our recent retail development, we published a Through our contractor Winvic, monthly newsletters travel plan to encourage the use of non-car journeys.
are distributed locally to inform the local community In conjunction with the council, the plan was widely of progress and update on planned works.
distributed locally and we are monitoring its impact.
All our contractors adhere to the Considerate ConstructorsScheme.
Mudathon Event LondonMetric Cycle Ride The LondonMetric team participated in a Paragon LondonMetric organised a 100 km charity cycle event Mudathon event to raise money for Landaid.
with participants including many of its occupiers.
The event, after matching by the Company, raised 3,560.
All proceeds went to Prostate Cancer UK.
56 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our people, human rights and governance We support our employees internally by providing a healthy and productive workplace and uphold high standards of corporate governance.
anti-money laundering, financial Our people crime and conicts of interest LondonMetric has 38 employees including Directors.
Over the four Responsible procurement: Establishes years since merger, our voluntary staff LondonMetrics requirements turnover rate has been low at 6%.
in relation to labour standards: Staff development, and wellbeing human rights: health and safety: is highly important to us: we aim to resource use and pollution risk in attract, retain and motivate high relation to its procurement and performing individuals.
We: development activities and species considerations for managing agents Actively encourage training with and development contractors on over480 hours of training recorded environmental, community and by employees in the year labour aspects Conduct annual reviews where UK Modern Slavery Act performance is evaluated, objectives Employee gender diversity and training requirements are set, As a company located and operating and employee feedback is discussed solely in the UK, LondonMetrics Directors exposure to human rights risks The number of persons of each sex who Promote healthy living, encourage were Directors of the Company: including modern forms of volunteering and supporting of slavery isvery limited.
LondonMetric has published We continue to promote diversity its Remuneration Policy which across a range of criteria including skills, 110 demonstrates its commitment to knowledge, experience, gender, age transparent and fair remuneration and ethnicity.
58% of employees are for its own employees.
However, to male and 42% are female.
reduce exposure to slavery and human trafficking within its supply chain, Governance LondonMetric specically addresses Senior managers As further set out in this Report, the The number of persons of each sex who these important areas in its Responsible Board is committed to upholding were senior managers of the Company Procurement Policy and Responsible the high standards of corporate other than identied as Directors : Development Requirements Checklist.
governance that underpin the successful management of the LondonMetric requires its contractors business and its success.
to meet a number of standards including: paying a fair wage to 26 Recently, we have formalised their workers, respecting Human three additional Responsible Rights and Labour Rights Legislation, Business policies: and investigating their own supply Health and safety: The policy aims chains for slavery and human to provide and maintain safe and trafficking.
For each development, Employees healthy working conditions for all contractors are expected to provide, The number of persons of each sex who employees, providing appropriate on request, evidence that they meet were employees of the Company: equipment, operational processes these requirements.
and safe systems of work to cover No human rights concerns have arisen all of our activities.
For more details within our direct operations or our see the full Responsible Business supply chain during 2017.
16 22 2017 Report Our Modern Slavery Act Statement is Compliance and anti corruption: available on the Companys website Details how LondonMetric home page.
manages, investigates and reports risks associated with compliance, Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Governance Inside this section Introduction from the Chairman 58 Governance at work 59 Board of Directors 60 Leadership 62 Relations with shareholders 68 Effectiveness 70 Nomination Committee report 70 Accountability 75 Audit Committee report 75 Remuneration 82 Remuneration Committee report 82 Report of the Directors 108 Directors responsibility statement 111
