Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information experience.
This year we achieved a customer 2 focus score of 69, an increase of two points Corporate responsibility compared to the previous year.
Tackling the scourge of scammail Royal Mail never knowingly delivers scam mail it is a scourge.
We understand the upset and distress that it can cause.
This year, we worked with our employees, industry partners and law enforcement agencies to tackle this issue even more Our corporate responsibility CR strategy is an integral part vigorously.
A range of new measures were of realising our core strategic priorities.
The objectives at the implemented to strengthen our ability to stem the flow of scam mail in the postal heart of our business and corporate responsibility strategies system.
We launched an industry-wide Code are the same to generate sustainable shareholder value.
of Practice on scam mail, and have secured all major UK mail operators commitment to it.
We also introduced anti-scam clauses Our CR strategy comprises six key objectives: Our customers into bulk mail contracts with our customers.
Royal Mail is the UKs most trusted delivery We can now check items we suspect to be 1 Deliver economic and social benefit to the company.
We are proud of the role we scam mail, refuse to process or deliver it, and communities we serve play in connecting customers, businesses, terminate a customers contract in certain organisations and communities, including Drive colleague advocacy for the Group circumstances.
Since launching this new those in remote and rural areas.
and its community role scheme, we have stopped over 700,000 scam items from reaching customers.
Manage the environmental impacts of our We are continuously adapting our business to business and operations respond to customers changing expectations.
Following year end, we launched another This includes improving customer convenience Deliver our transformation responsibly major new initiative to protect consumers and flexibility to support consumers, small from scam mail.
We are contacting Operate with integrity and medium enterprises and marketplace households that we believe are receiving high sellers.
We are building our capability to Communicate our management of volumes of scam mail.
This latest anti-scam handle increased numbers of larger parcels, corporate responsibilities openly initiative will initially focus on the most where appropriate, and investing in tracking and transparently impacted customers.
It will be extended in andautomation.
Our CR objectives support the delivery of We have three customer service indicators our business strategy.
We report progress Our people on our Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
against them under the areas of Customer, Achievement of our strategic priorities All of them are equally weighted.
They People, Community, Environment and depends on our people.
They represent are: Retail First Class Quality of Service: Suppliers.
Further information will our Company among customers and business customer satisfaction: and be available in the 2016-17 Corporate communities.
We rely on them to fulfil the customer complaints.
See page18 for more Responsibility Report.
Universal Service and deliver high-quality information.
We exceeded our First Class customer service.
Engaging our people within target.
Our mean business satisfaction score Measuring our progress a fair, rewarding and customer-focused improved by two points to 78.
The consumer We are independently rated as a leading culture is essential for our future success.
satisfaction score remained stable at 72. responsible business.
We have been named a There was, however, an overall increase in global leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Pay and terms & conditions complaints in 2016-17, driven principally by Indices for a third year.
We were ranked We believe good employment conditions the growth in tracked parcels.
As a result second among around 100 companies in drive quality of service.
All of our permanent of a range of initiatives, we reduced the the Transportation and Transportation employees earn above the Living Wage.
They number of complaints in key categories like Infrastructure Industry.
We were previously also receive the additional benefits associated misdeliveries and redirections.
On the other ranked number one globally, two years in with permanent employment, such as paid hand, Denial of Receipt complaints these a row.
Royal Mail isincluded in both the holiday and a good pension.
We are committed relate to parcels increased.
This is an area DowJones Sustainability World Index and to continuing to provide the best pay and of real focus for us.
We are concentrating on the Dow Jones Sustainability Europe Index.
terms and conditions in our industry.
In return, improving the scanning of items and ensuring Wehave been included every year we have however, we continually work with our unions that if an item is left with a neighbour, been eligible, since our flotation.
to agree changes to our working practices and the appropriate details are written on the labour model.
This process of change is about Something for You card.
We were again included in the FTSE4Good sustaining our business now and in the future, Global Index in 2016.
We were ranked in the particularly given the decline in letter volumes.
After our customers, our employees are best top 15per cent of companies included, on placed to evaluate how customer-focused account of our environmental, social and Our Agenda for Growth agreement with our products and services really are.
the Communications Workers Union, put in our annual Employee Survey to gauge what place in 2013, includes legally binding terms they think about key aspects of the customer covering employee pay, protections and industrial stability as well as a programme 1 Research by the Business Brand Tracker 201617 2 Survey.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 43 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility of work to help deliver change.
We are Unfortunately, however, accidents still seek to recruit people from socially now working with our unions to agree and sometimes happen.
It is with great regret excluded groups.
It is our policy to provide 4 implement our vision for the future.
We are that we report that one person lost their life opportunities for our employees based on seeking more change at pace and in a way in connection with our activities in the UK an individuals performance and skills, with that is fair to all of our people across the UK.
We liaise closely with the no discrimination.
We recognise that change is difficult.
But, it relevant authorities and complete our own is essential that we keep transforming the detailed investigations to determine the root Gender diversity business given the challenges we face.
cause of each accident and, where possible, In 2016-17, Royal Mail was named as one of to determine what lessons can be learned.
The Times Top 50 Employers for Women for Engagement and culture Investigations are discussed at Board level and the fourth consecutive year.
We were also Employee engagement is one of the two outcomes are communicated across theGroup.
listed as a top 20 company for senior leader people-related key performance indicators gender diversity in the Hampton-Alexander on our Corporate Balanced Scorecard see Musculoskeletal issues are one of the leading Review: an independent, Government page 18 for more information.
Employee causes of illness among our people.
This supported review of diversity in FTSE engagement is measured through our annual year, we launched a new programme to 100companies.
At Board level, 50percent Employee Survey.
In 2016-17, we maintained investigate the causes of musculoskeletal of members are women, which compares our employee engagement score of 57. problems and identify any job-specific trends.
well to the FTSE 100 average of 27per cent.
Against a backdrop of significant change for We held workshops at sites with higher than Atsenior management level, 30per cent of our business, we have achieved an above average rates of musculoskeletal issues and our colleagues are women, compared with 3 average employee engagement score for the surveyed colleagues about their roles.
We also 16per cent in operational grades.
established a working group to look specifically at health issues faced by older colleagues and We address the gender balance across An extensive internal communications created an action plan to improve job design our organisation through initiatives such programme is in place across our business.
This has helped We held 39 town hall meetings in the UK to increase the number of women hired in this year, where senior managers addressed Mental health is another leading form of frontline roles.
During the year, we launched thousands of frontline colleagues and middle ill health in the UK and our workforce.
It is a new drive to increase the number of managers.
Senior managers also held many a focal point of our health and wellbeing women appointed to Delivery Office Manager on-site engagement sessions.
This is about reaffirming our positions, offering candidates support commitment to helping end the stigma through a 12-week development programme Share ownership of mental ill-health in the workplace.
before being placed into a role.
As a result, During 2016-17, the Royal Mail Share Wecreated a dedicated First Class Mental we have appointed 46 women in Delivery Incentive Plan Trust distributed the final one Health self-help toolkit for managers, and Office Manager roles in 2016-17, making up per cent of shares that had been gifted to it produced five short films on mental health, 26per cent of Delivery Office hires this year.
for eligible employees, following the disposal in partnership with the Mental Health of HMGovernments holding in 2015-16.
We have Each year, we conduct a gender pay review All of our eligible full-time employees have begun delivering Mental Health First Aid across our UK business, comparing the now received a maximum of 913 Free training to managers.
So far, 431 managers salaries we pay men and women.
We are Shares, regardless of grade.
This means that have been trained on the course, delivered currently carrying out the required analysis 12percent of the Company has been awarded by Mental Health First Aid England.
There in accordance with the new gender pay to colleagues.
This is one of the largest free is much more, however, that we need to do gap reporting regulations.
We will publish stakes made available to employees as part of as a major employer.
In 2017-18, we will the outcomes in 2017-18, in line with the any major UK privatisation.
significantly expand our support for mental statutory timescales.
health by launching a major, strategic Health and safety charitypartnership with Action for Children Ethnic diversity The safety and wellbeing of our workforce focused on mental health.
It will be an Royal Mails ethnic profile is broadly is a key priority for us.
There was a slight integrated programme covering training, representative of the UK population.
Around increase in sick absence this year, from awareness-raising, communications, 11per cent of our employees declare 4.51percent in 2015-16, to 4.63percent pro-bono support, work placements and themselves to be from ethnic minority in 2016-17.
We maintained our Lost Time fundraising see page45.
We work with Business in the Accident Frequency Rate at 0.49 in 2016-17.
Communitys BITC Opportunity Now and We use on-going communications to Promoting diversity Race for Opportunity programmes, which reinforce safety messages with the aim of Royal Mail employs a diverse mix of promote best practice in equal opportunities.
making safe behaviours part of our business people who reflect the communities we as usual activities.
We are committed to being an equal are one of the main causes of accidents.
opportunities employer and we proactively In2016-17, the Road Traffic Collision Frequency Rate RTCFR was added to our 5 KPIs 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 Corporate Balanced Scorecard to increase 6 focus on this area.
This year, we reduced our Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate 0.49 0.49 0.70 0.81 RTCFR by 12.3per cent.
Sick absence % 4.63 4.51 4.74 4.34 3 Our engagement score compares favourably with the 4 Ipsos MORI norm for large organisations.
Our score is We disclose fatalities that have been confirmed during the reporting year.
5 one point higher than the norm, which is 56.
Currently Data represents UKPIL safety performance.
6 the trend is downwards for employee engagement in Lost Time Accident Frequency Rate is calculated by dividing the number of Lost Time Accidents for last 12 months large organisations.
by the number of hours worked for last 12 months, and multiplying this by 100,000.
44 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information and by using our business assets to UKPIL GLS benefitsociety.
Gender distribution number of people Female Male Female Male In 2016-17, Royal Mail contributed 7.9million directly to good causes and Royal Mail plc Board 4 4 n a n a schemes for disadvantaged groups.
Thatincludes 700,000 in matched giving 1 Senior Management 731 1,704 39 246 and grant schemes to support employees fundraising for charities and good causes.
Management 1,420 5,280 Inaddition, our people donated 3.1million 3,183 2,528 Administration 1,428 980 to hundreds of charities and good causes across the UK, including 2.4 million through Operational 20,011 107,131 1,993 9,147 our award-winning payroll giving scheme.
1 Includes direct reports of Chief Executives Committee members Our partnership with the Stroke Association ended during the reporting period.
We raised Supporting people with processes and reduce waste.
So far, 2million for the charity, including matched 44colleagues have taken part.
This will fund up to 10,000 grants for disabilities levels, we enrol our people in leadership stroke survivors, to support their recovery.
We are committed to employing people programmes at Oxford Said Business School.
We also took over 15,000 blood pressure with disabilities and supporting disabled Since the programme began in 2014, 280 readings, to highlight the link between high employees during employment.
This year, colleagues attended, of which 35per cent blood pressure and stroke risk.
we have achieved Employer Level 2 of the were women.
new Disability Confident programme, which We decided to focus on the theme of replaces the Disability Two Ticks scheme.
In GLS, employees in Poland have access to mental health for our subsequent charity Approximately seven per cent of our books and audio-books covering professional partnership.
This is an important issue employees identify themselves as having a and personal development.
GLS Denmark for our business and in society in general.
We make reasonable adjustments has rolled out customer focus training, Wewill deliver an integrated programme with to the workplace to support employees who which involves colleagues learning from best our new charity partner, Action for Children, are disabled, or become disabled.
We provide practice across the organisation.
So far, more covering mental health training, awarenesstraining as required, for example, in assistive than 110colleagues have taken part.
raising, communications, pro-bono support, technology and software.
Around Our communities 36,000 colleagues voted for Action for Since 2006, we have been a national partner Royal Mail seeks to be an integral, valued Children as their preferred charity partner in of the disability charity Remploy, working and trusted part of every community our 2017 Employee Survey.
together to provide jobs and placements that our service reaches.
Our main for people with disabilities.
In 2016-17, contribution to communities is our social The partnership has four key objectives: we offered 142 placements to disabled and economic impact.
We make the fifth and disadvantaged candidates.
To date, biggest contribution of any UK company to to support our own colleagues we have employed over 2,200 people 7 the UK economy.
The Universal Service is mentalhealth: through Remploy.
a key driver of UK economic growth and an drive awareness amongst customers integral part of the digital economy, which is Inclusive workplaces andcommunities: strategically important to the UKs economic We are a member of Stonewalls Diversity future.
One in every 185 jobs in the UK is fundraise 2 million, including matched Champions programme, which campaigns provided by Royal Mail.
Ouremployment is giving from Royal Mail, to enable the charity for equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and disproportionately weighted towards areas to support more young people: and transgender LGBT people.
We moved up where there are fewer job opportunities 25places in the 2017 Workplace Equality engage our suppliers to raise awareness available, enabling us to make a significant Index by Stonewall.
We are now ranked and support for the cause.
We seek number 266 out of 439 organisations, to build on the core economic and social Action for Children will use the funds we up from 291 in 2016.
In June 2016, more contribution of our business operations by raise to employ specialist youth workers than 100 of our people took part in the making strategic community investments to deliver face-to-face support sessions Pride in London parade celebrating the for 8,000young people aged 15-18, to help LGBT community.
7 Cebr adapted the original gross valued added GVA prevent them from developing depression scoreboard developed by the Department for and other mental health problems.
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy BEIS, BIS at Training and career development the time to take account of companies UK operations We are committed to investing in our people only.
The original GVA scoreboard included Royal Mail partners with the charity Missing to equip them with the skills they need to companies overseas impacts.
In this adapted People to distribute missing people alerts deliver our business strategy.
In 2016-17, we scoreboard, for 2016-17, UKPIL ranks in fifth place.
through our network of handheld scanners, invested 13.8 million in training, delivering Cebr inputted financial, supply chain and employee which are usually used to track and sign for data for the financial year 2016-17 into the national the equivalent of almost 25,000 training days th deliveries.
We sent our 100 alert during accounting framework provided by the Office for for our UK colleagues.
We also established National Statistics supply-use and input-output the year.
We also funded the charitys Child a Continuous Improvement Leadership tables to establish UKPILs direct and indirect Rescue Alert system, which allows members Academy to support the development of Mail contribution to the UK and enable UKPIL to be ranked of the public to sign up for alerts to their in this way.
The full study methodology is published Centre leaders.
The eight-week programme mobile phones.
At Christmas, we sponsored online at www.
com responsibility aims to improve leaders ability to streamline cr-reports.
a campaign to enable missing people to send Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 45 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility a Message Home for free.
We distributed Thenew policy can be accessed online at volumes are increasing, and demands on our 10,000 freepost cards to help them take the www.
com responsibility vehicles and fuel consumption will continue first step in reconnecting with loved ones.
We also developed a new suite to grow.
Our partnership was recognised by two of environmental standards in 2016-17, prestigious awards: the CorpComms Best aligned to ISO140001.
This is about enabling Fleet emissions Partnership award and PostEurops Coup business units in our UK operations to We have replaced air transport with road on fide Coeur for Society award.
CorpComms identify environmental efficiencies and ensure several routes across the UK.
This has helped Awards judges said This is a truly stand out we continue to meet legal obligations.
us to reduce costs as well as associated partnership.
It is extremely clever, relevant carbon emissions.
We trained over 13,500 and built out of insight.
The table below sets out our Group carbon drivers in fuel efficient driving, and fitted dioxide equivalent CO e emissions for telemetry technology in approximately 2 GLS is active in supporting community 2016-17.
In 2016-17, our total UK carbon 2,900vehicles.
In total, 40per cent of our causes across Europe.
In 2017, GLS footprint decreased by 4.7per cent compared fleet is now fitted with this technology.
Netherlands launched a partnership with with the previous year.
On a normalised Itpromotes safer, more efficient driving Heppie, a charity that provides support basis, emissions decreased by 4.6per cent styles.
We also continue to trial vehicles to disadvantaged children.
Our target has been that use low or zero-emission technology.
the partnership, GLS will fund around to reduce UKPIL carbon emissions including In 2017-18, we will trial nine electric 50 excursions a year for the children.
Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 20percent, by 2020-21, heavy goods vehicles at a central London GLSBelgium provided assistance to the compared with a 2004-05 baseline.
Belgian deaf football team to transport achieved our target at a time of significant their equipment to Italy for the European change for our business.
We are transforming GLS is introducing more gas powered Deaf Football Championships.
In Germany, from a letters company that delivers parcels, vehicles into its fleet, bringing the total GLS colleagues spread some festive cheer to a parcels company that delivers letters.
Almost 10per cent of its fleet by donating 750 advent calendars to local We are having to accommodate more and in Italy is gas-powered.
bigger parcels than ever before.
This places increasing demand on our fleet and fuel Buildings emissions Our environment consumption.
We have achieved our target by The size of our property portfolio makes We aim to minimise the environmental pursuing energy-saving opportunities across reducing its energy use another key priority.
impact of our business operations.
our fleet and property portfolio, exploring During the year, we replaced inefficient Management of natural resources is a more efficient ways of balancing the air, rail fluorescent lights with new LED lights at commercial imperative too for us.
Reducing and road transport that we use to deliver mail 15 of our UK sites, and lighting controls our impact will help us save costs and items, and training our employees in more at a further 17 Mail Processing Units and compete moreeffectively.
The target will Delivery Office sites.
This will generate an remain in place until 2020-21.
This means expected electricity saving of 11 GWh per Our Environment Policy, which outlines our that we will aim to keep our carbon emissions year.
In addition, in 2016-17 we focused commitment to managing environmental at 20percent below the levels in 2004-05 on reducing our use of gas across our UK issues, was revised during 2016-17. until 2020-21.
However, we actually achieved a 22per cent reduction.
Carbon emissions figures have been restated here to ensure transparency.
During 2016-17, we identified two issues that resulted in an overestimation of our carbon emissions for 2015-16, and for 2014-15.
Firstly, Parcelforce Worldwide road fleet emissions had been double counted in 2015-16 and 2014-15.
Secondly, issues with gas meter billing resulted in some double counting during 2015-16.
This means that we overestimated our total carbon emissions by 5.9per cent in 2015-16 and 3.9per cent in 2014-15.
These issues have been rectified.
Appropriate additional control steps have been included as part of the data collection and validation process to reduce the risk of misreporting in the future.
Ernst & Young EY who we engage to provide limited assurance of our annual Corporate Responsibility reports, including our carbon emissions data checked the rectifications and the additional controls that were implemented.
EYs full assurance statement will be available in the 2016-17 Corporate Responsibility Report.
2 We quantify and report our organisational greenhouse gas emissions according to the Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 and have utilised the UK Government 2014 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting in order to calculate carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from corresponding activity data.
We have reported all material Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for which we consider ourselves responsible and exclude immaterial sources such as fugitive emissions from air conditioning in owned vehicles.
Scope 3 emissions are included in UKPIL reporting only.
3 We report our Scope 2 market-based carbon emissions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which takes into account the use of lower carbon forms of energy such as renewables.
Based on the total Scope 2 market-based figures in table above, our total carbon emissions in 201617 are 586.1 kilotonnes CO e. 2 4 Totals may differ due to rounding.
5 CO e emissions have been assured by EY, with the exception of 2015-16 Scope 2 market-based emissions.
2 46 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Management Systems helped to reduce Ethical principles are embedded in the The Strategic Report was approved by the gas consumption by seven per cent in total, Partner Code used by GLS Germany.
Board on 17May 2017 and signed on its insites where we have those systems.
TheCode requires transport partners behalf by: working with GLS to adhere to principles GLS sites in Barcelona, Vitoria and Zaragoza relating to anti-bribery and corruption, source 100per cent of their electricity andhealth and safety.
These locations represent approximately 52per cent of our Human rights parcel volumes in Spain.
GLS plans to move We are committed to upholding and Moya Greene all of its Spanish operations to this tariff by respecting human rights.
In addition to Chief Executive Officer the end of 2017-2018. obeying the laws, rules and regulations of 17May 2017 every country in which we operate, we act in Waste and water management accordance with the UN Guiding Principles In 2016-17, 91per cent of UK waste was on Business and Human Rights.
We support diverted from landfill, fourper cent more than the United Nations Universal Declaration of our target of 87per cent, using a combination Human Rights and the International Labour of recycling and waste to energy initiatives.
Organization Fundamental Conventions, Matthew Lester 45per cent of UK sites that reported waste covering freedom of association, the Chief Finance Officer this year, now do not send any waste to elimination of all forms of forced and 17May 2017 landfill.
In addition, we recorded a reduction compulsory labour, the abolition of child of fourper cent in our use of water, labour and the elimination of discrimination exceeding our water reduction target of three in the workplace.
During the year, we also set new waste-to-landfill and water reduction targets Royal Mail welcomes the introduction of the for the next three years.
These are detailed in UK Governments Modern Slavery Act.
This our 2016-17 Corporate Responsibility Report.
requires businesses to publicly report any steps they are taking to guard against the Our suppliers occurrence of slavery and trafficking in their In the UK, we contribute around 2.4 billion business operations.
We will publish our annually procuring goods and services from formal Modern Slavery Act statement within around 5,000 suppliers.
Where commercially the recommended timeframes.
It will cover viable, we break contracts down into both UKPIL and GLS.
smaller lots to increase their attractiveness to small and medium sized enterprises.
Our commitment to human rights is Bymaking our tendering process accessible embedded in our company-wide Corporate to businesses of all sizes, we significantly Responsibility Policy, our Responsible expand our options.
We also widen the Procurement Code and our Business economic opportunities that our business Standards, which set out the standards and creates.
During 2016-17, we awarded over behaviours we expect of our colleagues.
30per cent of new contracts to SMEs.
Further information about our approach to human rights protection will be available in We are committed to ensuring suppliers our 2016-17 Corporate Responsibility Report.
to Royal Mail maintain high standards of social, ethical and environmental conduct.
Our taxation principles We expect UK suppliers to adhere to our Our taxation strategy is published on Responsible Procurement Code.
The Code our website, at the following address: requires suppliers to maintain high standards www.
of social, ethical and environmental conduct, We have published our taxation principles including complying with the Ten Principles of for a number of years.
Our strategy provides the United Nations Global Compact.
Suppliers further detail and transparency.
Our approach must also comply with our mail security remains the same.
Royal Mail has a low risk procedures and our approach to anti-bribery appetite in relation to tax matters.
The Code is embedded into committed to complying with all applicable our tendering process for UK procurement tax laws and will make decisions in relation and it is referenced in our contracts.
Wemay to tax with due regard to our reputation, terminate a contract if we identify that a integrity and status as a Group whose shares supplier fails to comply with our Code.
are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We delivered several training sessions for colleagues in our UK procurement team last year, covering various corporate responsibility issues.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 47
