57 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Corporate Responsibility report Acting responsibly Highlights this year Building trust cant be achieved through Our approach to Corporate Responsibility is broad ranging, ensuring we are delivering a single activity, but we believe that by the commitments expected of a leading socially and environmentally responsible adopting responsible business practices, business.
Some of the highlights this year include: making sustainable choices and living our values, we will achieve our vision Delivering 12,000 home water efficiency checks, helping our customers to reduce their water use and purpose.
Supporting 50,903 vulnerable customers, through our various support mechanisms, including The nature of what we do means that our social tariff.
we have an important role to play in Engaging with over 640 farmers as part of our water catchment management scheme.
protecting water as a precious resource Launching an innovative employee volunteering scheme, working in a consistent structure across and the wider environment, which the business alongside key partners to clean up across 40 km of riversides within our region.
drives our two Corporate Responsibility ambitions.
We are also working closely with our suppliers to support our vision.
Our vision Our purpose Our vision is to be the most trusted water Our purpose is to serveour communities company by 2020, delivering an outstanding and build a lasting waterlegacy.
customer experience, best valueservice andenvironmental leadership.
Ambition One Ambition Two We will make our region the most We will play a leading role to help make water efficient in the UK our regions rivers even healthier Values 1 2 3 Put our customers first Be passionate about Act with integrity what we do 4 5 Protect our environment Be inspired to create an awesome company Our suppliers support our values and ambitions Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Benchmark Benchmark 58 Corporate Responsibility report continued Our responsible commitments and our performance against them Objective Our commitment How we are measuring This years 2016 17 2020 ourperformance performance target target We will empower our customers to Water efficiency level achieved 4.91Ml d 5MI d 25MI d Ambition One: saveupto25Ml d by 2020 Wewill make our region the most We will improve understanding of Number of customers we have educated 167,024 160,000 700,000 waterefficient ourservicesthrough education from 2015 to 2020 cumulative intheUK over AMP6 Ambition Two: We will work with landowners and Positive engagement with land managers 44% in 11 out of 44% in 12 80% in 12 partnerorganisations to reduce intargeted areas by end of AMP6 12catchments catchments catchments Wewill play a leading agriculturalrun-off in ourregions rivers role to helpmake our regions rivers We will do our fair share to achieve Water Number of Water Framework Directive 15 n a 233 evenhealthier Framework Directive good ecological classification improvement points as cumulative statusinour regions failing water bodies, monitored by the Environment Agency over AMP6 where it is cost-effective todoso We will improve biodiversity in our region Number of hectares improved from -29.74 n a 75 by improving at least 75hectares of Sites unfavourableor deteriorating condition ofSpecial Scientific Interest SSSI using Natural Englands database of SSSIs We provide a service to our customers % of customers who rate our service 58% 47% 55% We put our thatis goodvalue formoney valuefor money in an independent customersfirst quarterlysurvey We help our customers who are in Number of customers we help 50,903 50,000 50,000 genuineneed and struggling to pay each year throughsocial tariffs theirbills andassistanceschemes We are passionate Our employees are passionate about Group % engagement score from our 55% 50% whatwe do annualemployeesurvey about what we do We involve our customers in our plans, We will invite the independent Water 4 meetings held We act with andwerehonest about how they think Forumtoreview and comment on our this year integrity weredoing annualperformance We do everything we can to prevent Number of Environment Agency Category 7 6 0 We protect our pollutingthe environment 1& 2 incidents calendar year metric environment We reduce our carbon footprint % reduction in Group carbon emissions 8% 4% 19% scope 1 and 2 our direct emissions and those from the energy we use We are inspired No one is hurtormade unwell by what STW LTI rate 0.22 0.18 we do tocreate an Business Services LTI rate 0.04 awesomecompany We believe a diverse and inclusive STW Total workforce % female 31.3% 33% workforceis a key factor in being a Group Total workforce % female 29.5% successful business STW Total workforce % BAME 8.9% 5.0% Group Total workforce % BAME 14.8% We are a responsible payer % invoices paid to terms, including self bill 97% 97% 97% Our suppliers 12month financialyear average supportour values andambitions Global benchmark from Aon Hewitt.
Business in the community industry benchmark 2015.
Severn Trent Water Limited ODI target.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Materiality of our Corporate Performance and external recognition The water sector has a huge role to play in improving our common environment, and  We believe that by focusing on the issues although we are starting in a strong and most important to our customers our We recognise that our activities have improving position were the first to admit Corporate Responsibility framework broad ranging impacts on the social, there is more to do.
The key for future has the right balance, and we are proud economic and environmental wellbeing environmental success is for us all to play that we have again been recognised by of our region and beyond.
In order to our part: the water sector, Government, FTSE4Good.
We also continue to support build a lasting water legacy we need to regulators, landowners, NGOs and the the UN Global Compact Principles.
consider these impacts across the broad general public.
spectrum which we operate, both now and in the future.
As such, our Corporate Assurance of Corporate Responsibility framework is centred on  our customer ODIs, built on extensive All our customer ODI data, and customer research completed at the therefore the majority of our Corporate Corporate Responsibility risks time of the last price review.
This ensures Responsibility metrics, are independently that we are focused on issues that are Our approach to Corporate Responsibility assured by Jacobs.
As our customer most important to our customers and is aligned with our strategic framework.
ODIs are our most material Corporate the communities we serve.
They shape Corporate Responsibility and Responsibility commitments, the our day-to-day activities to underpin our sustainability risks are treated in the same remaining Corporate Responsibility performance as a sustainable business.
way as all our other company risks, and metrics, including health & safety and Acting in a responsible manner isnt are captured at a local level by responsible human resources metrics, have a just important to our customers: our teams and managed centrally through our proportionate level of assurance applied.
annual employee survey illustrates established ERM process.
By the nature of that working for a company Doing what we do several of our principal risks the Right Thing and being socially have a sustainability or environmental and environmentally responsible is a focus.
You can find more details about the key motivational driver for our people.
Groups approach to risk management We also know our investors and wider and our principal risks on pages 50 to 55. stakeholders value our environmental, social and governance performance.
Corporate Responsibility ambitions Our Corporate Responsibility framework In order to achieve our vision of being the ensures that we reflect our values, for most trusted water company by 2020, example creating an awesome place to we seek to demonstrate environmental work through supporting a diverse and leadership wherever we operate.
an important role to play in protecting Our employees reward is directly and sustaining water as a natural linked to our Corporate Responsibility resource and the environment as a whole.
performance, due to the significant With challenges around water scarcity, proportion which both customer ODIs meeting tightening environmental and health & safety, our key CR metrics, standards, coping with extreme weather contribute to the bonus which our events and a growing population, we need employees receive.
to be more efficient with our use of water, the sectors use as a whole, for example through water trading, and playing our part in ensuring the health of our regions rivers.
These sustainability challenges form the basis of our two Corporate Responsibility ambitions.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Corporate Responsibility report continued We are committed to reducing Securing supplies for thelongterm Ambition 1 leakageby6% Our plans ensure we have enough water to We will make our region meet our changing customer demands and We will continue to drive leakage levels changes associated with climate change for down year-on-year to outperform our the most water efficient the next 25 years.
Every five years we prepare AMP6 targets and we expect to continue a water resources management plan which reducing leakage during AMP7.
This will sets out what investment we need to ensure Securing long term access to water is a we can continue to provide enough water for help us to balance supply and demand our customers, describing the work we carry massive environmental and economic by reducing losses from our network.
out to reduce leakage and promote efficiency.
issue, which is essential to the long term Finding and fixing leaks will continue We also produce a drought plan detailing how future of our planet, and one in which we to be the mainstay of our leakage we will manage our resources and supply have an essential part to play.
Some of systems in droughts to maintain our service to control strategy, but this must be done our customers in an environmentally sensitive the key ways in which we can help this are more efficiently through technological way.
More information about our plans is through reducing leakage and helping our improvements in network monitoring and available https: www.
co. uk aboutcustomers use less water.
Our objectives leak detection techniques.
to achieve this ambition are set out below.
Much greater focus is being placed on accounting for water in such a complex We will empower our customers to network of 47,055 km of water mains.
save up to 25Ml d by 2020 Non-household activity With only 44% of domestic customers We have an important role in changing metered through New Build and Retailcompetition customer behaviours to use less water, Free Optant policies we have to make With the introduction of non-household competition, retailers have adopted and are committed to helping them to estimates of water consumption.
We know responsibility for this element of our water become more water efficient.
We have from studies that there are many factors efficiency programme.
As such, we are set ourselves an ambitious target to that affect usage: environmental, increasing our household water efficiency help customers save 25 million litres socioeconomic, weather and metering activities to ensure we deliver the savings we have committed to, and are exploring per day Ml d by 2020.
We can help policies to name but a few.
As we better options to reduce programme delivery costs our customers through advice and a understand and influence these factors, and increase water savings over years three range of free water efficiency products our estimation changes and in turn to five.
co. uk where we need to focus our efforts on severntrent .
unaccounted for water and actual water lost improves.
We will improve understanding of our services through education Twice the number of Water We have now engaged with a total of 284,752 customers during AMP6, and are Efficiency Audits confident of reaching our ambitious 2020 After a successful trial in 2015 16, target of 700,000.
Engagement is focused this year we have expanded our water on two key themes: water efficiency: and efficiency home check programme.
ensuring our drains remain clear and Customers in and around the Coventry blockage free.
Both of these themes have area can sign up for a free home wide reaching environmental benefits: check, including a home visit, fitting reducing water use: and preventing of water saving devices and advice on blockages which consequently prevents how they can save water and check for pollutants entering water courses.
Engagement is carried out through three Saving customers on average 10% of main groups: our customer advisers: our their water use, this free service will sewer blockages team: and our water help customers not only save water, but efficiency home checks.
Weve doubled the number of audits completed, with over 12,000 home checks this year.
Weve received great feedback from customers commenting on how helpful and informative it is, and are planning on building on this success in the future.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information We will do our fair share to achieve We will improve biodiversity in our Ambition 2 Water Framework Directive WFD region by improving at least 75 We will play a leading good ecological status in our regions hectares of Sites of Special Scientific failing water bodies, where it is cost Interest SSSI role to help make effective todo so We have agreed with Natural England ourregions rivers the actions and activities we will take Our WFD programme is targeting evenhealthier at 11 Sites of Special Scientific Interest improvements in 1,500 km of river.
or Special Areas of Conservation to We have started to contribute our fair either improve or stop deterioration share, completing five sewage treatment We know we have a responsibility to leave in biodiversity.
For example, we have works projects this year, improving over our environment in a better condition a forestry management regime 64 km of river length.
In total we will be for future generations.
Our objectives to at Dimminsdale to improve the upgrading 10% of our sewage works, and achieve this ambition are set out below.
broadleaved, mixed and yew woodland.
over the next three years will be upgrading The management of these species is vital over 100 works to produce higher quality We will work with landowners as they support other notified species.
We have also finalised our andpartner organisations to Year one had a planning focus and from proposals with the Environment Agency reduceagricultural run-off into Year two and moving forward there is a where abstraction has been proven to be ourregions rivers strong focus on implementing projects unsustainable, and have revoked or varied identified and monitoring progress with abstraction licences at eight sites reducing Were taking a more joined-up approach a completion date of 2020.
We also have our abstractions by 40Ml d, against a to making environmental improvements management plans at all our operational target of 85Ml d by 2020. through a process we call catchment sites to ensure our activities have a management, working in partnership minimal impact on the environment.
with farmers and landowners to reduce agricultural run-off into our regions rivers.
This includes preventing pesticides getting Taking a catchment based approach into the water and polluting it, thereby Catchment Based Approach CABA of which Severn Trent hosts the Tame, improving river quality, reducing treatment partnerships were brought in by Defra Anker & Mease group and joint-hosts costs and improving the river environment in 2011 to help achieve the Water the Lower Trent & Erewash group.
Our agricultural advisers have Framework Directive initiatives.
Hosting these partnerships is a great engaged with over 1,200 farms since the They bring together a wide range of opportunity for us to demonstrate team formed last year, and are confident of local organisations with an active environmental leadership by driving delivering the target of working with 4,000 interest in their local water environment improvements to our local river systems.
2 farms, covering an area of about 10,000km including NGOs, water companies, We are also expanding our catchment over the next fouryears.
Our farmer grant local authorities, landowners, angling based thinking to water resources by scheme, Severn Trent Environmental clubs, farming groups, academia, and piloting a local multi-sector approach in Protection Scheme STEPS, offers grants local businesses.
The partnerships aim the highly water stressed Idle and Torne to farmers to undertake infrastructure to drive cost-effective delivery on the catchment in Nottinghamshire.
We will improvements and land management ground.
This results in multiple benefits share benefits and linkages to wider changes which will help reduce diffuse including improvements to water catchment approaches once these have pollution, such as through the installation quality, enhanced biodiversity, reduced been evaluated.
To date we have received over flood risk, resilience to climate change, 500 applications.
Farmers are also being and greater community engagement rewarded for their contribution to reduced with local rivers.
There are 14 CABA metaldehyde, from slug pellets, in farm partnerships in the Severn Trent region, run-off through our Farmers as Producers of Clean Water scheme.
26,000ha were signed up to this scheme in 2016.
The environmental benefits of catchment management extend well beyond just water quality.
The right behaviours promote conservation of soil and water, flood mitigation, sustaining landscapes, wildlife and aquatic ecosystems, biodiversity and reducing carbon footprints.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Corporate Responsibility report continued The Big Difference Scheme is designed for We help our customers who are Value 1 anyone who is struggling to pay their bills, ingenuine need and struggling to We put our customers first regardless of their employment status.
paytheirbills If accepted, customers can qualify for a We work hard to ensure our bills are We exist to serve our customers and we reduction in charges of between 10-90% affordable for all and we have the lowest can earn their trust, focusing on their of our average bills.
In addition, the Severn combined water and sewerage charges needs and delivering a service they can Trent Trust Fund, which is an independent in Britain.
However, we understand that rely on and consider to be good value.
charity providing financial assistance to some customers may need additional We also have a responsibility to support those most in financial difficulty, has been help.
In 2016 17 we are proud to have those customers who struggle to pay able to assist 3,474 customers either by supported 50,903 customers through our their bills.
a grant to help clear water bill arrears assistance schemes such as metering, or through the purchase of essential Watersure or our social tariff the Big We put our customers and household items.
Difference Scheme three times more communities first when carrying You can find out more information about than last year.
We have also created a outour work how we are meeting our customers dedicated care and assistance team who changing needs on pages 28 and 29.
We recognise that planned and unplanned are specially trained to support customers work on our networks can cause who may be suffering from financial disruption.
Thats why we developed our hardship, diminished mental wellbeing or Customers and Communities First experiencing a difficult time in their lives.
guidelines to ensure we deliver a great customer experience every time we or our suppliers carry out planned work.
What a big difference the Big Difference It explains what we need to do and who we Scheme can really make need to engage with before work begins, during and after our work is complete.
Errol has a number of serious health he had no one to turn to.
Fortunately Errol We seek feedback from our customers conditions including being a chronic then heard about The Big Difference at the end of every scheme to ensure we haemodialysis patient.
He has had a Scheme through one of our partners successfully learn from experiences, triple heart bypass, and is undergoing The Severn Trent Trust Fund which sharing areas for improvement and treatment for a form of cancer.
Not being he applied for and was accepted onto.
able to work and trying to sort out his He is now paying 3 per month for a health led to him growing concerned that 12 month period which has helped him We provide a service to our customers the debt was mounting up and he felt that immensely.
The Severn Trent Trust Fund that is good value for money has helped Errol with his water arrears through a grant and also bought him Our customers pay the lowest combined household items to make his recovery water and waste water bills in Britain.
Errol was In an independent quarterly study of our also registered with our Priority Services customer base, 58% of our customers Register which will ensure were aware view our service as good or very good of his circumstances in the event of any value for money.
Our research suggests supply issues in the area.
that our customers perceptions around value for money are not only driven by the bill amount, but by their personal experience and customer service too.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information riversides within our region.
15% of the We involve our customers in our Value 2 workforce signed up within the first month future plans, and were honest about We are passionate about what we do and lots of teams have already been out how they think were doing making a difference in our communities.
The Water Forum is an independently We have a wide diversity of skills, abilities In March 2017, a number of our people chaired, multi-stakeholder group that has and talents in our business.
Were united spent a day working alongside our a continuing role to challenge how well and fired up about what we do so that we contract partners BNM Alliance, clearing we engage with our customers on our truly build a lasting legacy.
up a stretch of the River Trent in Newark, future plans and whether were delivering where we are carrying out a 60 million our current commitments.
This year Our people make a positive waste and water improvement scheme.
we worked with the Chair to further Wayne Ball, volunteer development difference in the community strengthen and expand the expertise coordinator for the Canal and River Trust, throughvolunteering of the Water Forum by recruiting new said: The volunteers did a fantastic job In February 2017, we launched our new members with expertise in customer and were really grateful for all their hard employee volunteering programme research, capital project appraisal, work.
As a charity, the support theyve Community Champions.
Closely aligned environmental economics and social given us is invaluable and really helps to our Corporate Responsibility ambitions, responsibility.
These four new experts in our efforts to make the river a more our employees will have the opportunity joined existing members over the course attractive, welcoming place for the local to use their two annual volunteering days of the year and took part in discussions community.
Well now be able to plant working alongside key partners: the Canal ranging from our current performance up the hedgerow which will make it even and River Trust, Waterside Care, the to how we develop investment plans.
more attractive and a better place Severn Rivers Trust and the Trent Rivers A principal focus for the Forum this year for wildlife.
Trust, to help clean up across 40 km of was how well engage with our customers as we develop our business plan for 2020-25.
The Forum has constructively challenged and contributed to both the 20,000 hours of volunteering from dedicated content and form of our research, drawing community volunteers at our visitor experience sites on its wide-ranging expertise.
Over the Our visitor sites are a great resource the love of their sites.
They support the coming year the Forum will be reviewing for our communities.
Our ranger team rangers by laying new pathways and the outcome of our research and how we lovingly cares for a number of public fencing, maintaining the traditional skills are using it to develop the services we access sites across the Severn Trent of hedge-laying, as well as creating new offer to our customers in the future.
region, managing biodiversity and the habitats for declining species.
Caring for natural environment, looking after acres our environment at our public access of woodlands and forests, and wildlife sites in this way helps to attract millions habitats.
The ranger team is supported of visitors each year.
Once on site, our by a group of dedicated volunteers, who customers also benefit from great have contributed over 20,000 working outdoor recreational facilities, which hours in the past year.
Many of our also supports Severn Trents health and volunteers have been with us for over wellbeing initiatives.
10 years they turn up every week, in all weathers and give their all, all for Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Corporate Responsibility report continued on-boarding new suppliers.
We recognise We support our corporate charities Value 3 that we have a role to play to be a Severn Trent was one of the founding We act with integrity responsible client and are committed to members of WaterAid in 1981 and we paying our suppliers to agreed terms.
have been committed in our support ever Acting with integrity and Doing the Right Working collaboratively with our suppliers since.
WaterAids vision is to see access Thing for our customers, communities, on sustainability will remain a focus, to safe water, hygiene and sanitation for investors, regulators and colleagues progressing to tangible goals on key all by 2030.
Fundraising balls, the Severn is an essential part of being trusted.
issues such as water efficiency, carbon Trent Mountain Challenge, bill inserts and Our Company values are at the heart of emissions and community impact.
cakes sales are just some of the ways our any decision we make, and we will only staff raise money for this cause, which is We have a zero tolerance work with suppliers and partners who so close to our hearts.
We also support care about this as much as we do.
tomodernslavery WaterAid through awareness raising and campaigning.
Our staff have taken part We strive to take all reasonable efforts We act in line with our values in the Water Innovators training scheme, to play our part in eradicating modern Acting in line with our values is key to developing real life solutions, and have slavery and take our obligations under ensuring we act as a responsible business visited country programmes.
This year we the Modern Slavery Act 2015 seriously.
and achieve our vision and purpose.
raised 140,945, with the first 100,000 This year, in line with our revised code of This year weve increased our focus on contributing to projects in Ethiopia, which conduct, we have built on our processes our Company values, communicating is our chosen country to support.
and taken further steps to mitigate the our revised code of conduct which guides risk of slavery and trafficking within us to do the right thing all of the time, both our business, and our supply chain.
and rolling out training for our people to Our approach has focused on ensuring make responsibilities clear.
This training we have the appropriate policies and forms an important part of our employee procedures in place to make our zero induction, so our values are really tolerance position clear in all that This year our employees also helped to embedded from day one.
We have taken a risk-based support Comic Relief, through fundraising recognition scheme, Our Brilliant People, approach, using guidance set out by the activities and by once again manning is now also aligned with our Company Chartered Institute of Procurement, with a National Red Nose Day Call Centre.
values to further promote and celebrate an initial focus on our Tier One supply Our team of 230 volunteers gave up their the right behaviours.
Our scope will broaden as our time to take calls throughout the night.
We have focused on Our suppliers support our values establishing appropriate due diligence, reporting, training and communication.
Our impact on the environment and Our full statement is available on our society extends well beyond our own website www.
co. uk aboutoperations into our supply chain.
We want us responsibility modern-slaveryour supply chain to both live by and statement.
reflect our values, and all suppliers are required to adhere to our code of conduct, Doing the Right Thing.
This year, to firmly establish our intent and ambition we have created a Sustainable Supply Chain Charter which acts as a call to action to our suppliers to engage with us, align efforts and drive our Corporate Responsibility agenda.
Weve made good progress this year developing targets on waste to landfill and delivering joint community and volunteering projects.
We have also made changes within our tendering process to ensure sustainability has a rating in our decision for Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Value 4 We protect our environment Were always aiming to minimise our impact on the environment, produce the cleanest water and generate more renewable energy, so that we make a positive contribution to the future and fully embrace sustainability.
We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint The UK is playing a leading part in reducing carbon emissions.
As the majority of our carbon emissions are driven by our use of energy, managing carbon means managing costs.
We therefore aim to reduce carbon emissions and increase our generation of renewable energy.
We are achieving both of these aims, and this year we have seen another reduction in overall carbon emissions, although we did not achieve our ODI target.
Weve seen a consistent reduction since 2002 when we began publicly reporting on our greenhouse gas emissions.
Severn Trent Water Carbon Emissions 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Key Early Reporting ODI Target Combined W&WW uses 2013 grid factor Industry-agreed methodology latest Defra factors each year ODI performance Combined W&WW uses 2013 grid factor Source: Annual regulatory returns data subject to external assurance each year.
We have held the Carbon Trust Standard reduce our emissions within our regulated since 2009 in recognition of consistent Water and Waste Water business by a emission reductions and effective further 5% by 2020, primarily by reducing carbon management processes.
our energy use and to continue to Our performance against the standard increase renewable energy generation is in the top 15% of all organisations.
mainly by our Business Services division.
We also continue to report to the Carbon Pursuing these measures will continue Disclosure Project CDP for investors to reduce our key sources of emissions, each year.
During the year, we increased reduce our reliance on the electricity renewable energy generation and grid and bring financial benefits for our across Severn Trent we now generate an customers and investors.
equivalent of 34% of Severn Trent Water Limiteds energy needs.
We continue to lead the UK water industry, and we are on track to meet our target of generating the equivalent of 50% of our energy needs by 2020.
For more information see our CLIMATE Business Services performance review DISCLOSURE LEADER 2015 on pages 36 to 40.
We plan to continue to Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 kt CO e 2 66 Corporate Responsibility report continued Reducing our greenhouse gas emissions Reduction in Group carbon This is the fourth year Severn Trent has been required to report on greenhouse gas emissions since 2015 16 GHG emissions.
For Severn Trent Water, which accounts for 98% of total Group emissions, we have been publicly reporting on our emissions since 2002.
In that time 8% we have reduced our emissions primarily by being more energy efficient and generating more renewable energy.
Our GHG emissions are reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e, for the year 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017.
Our total net emissions 2 have fallen this year, due to our reduction in energy use since last year, our increased This year we generated generation of renewable energy and in part due to reducing fuel and process emissions.
more renewable energy A decrease in the emissions intensity of grid electricity in the UK has also had a than ever before: with significant impact this year.
Our GHG data is reported internally during the year to the more energy generated Corporate Responsibility Committee and to the Board.
We have subjected our GHG data and processes to external independent assurance by Jacobs.
from sludge and food waste and a full year of Severn Trent Plc Direct Operational Greenhouse generation from solar GasEmissions tonnes CO2e 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 power.
We generated the Emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 138,131 134,584 132,406 132,535 equivalent of 34% of our Emissions from electricity purchased own electricity needs and forown use Scope 2 294,426 337,028 357,756 330,679 our target is to reach 50% Total Annual Gross Operational Emissions 432,557 471,612 490,162 463,214 by 2020.
Emissions benefit of the renewable energy we export including biomethane exported forwhich we hold green gas certificates 42,069 45,085 38,878 21,672 Total Annual Net Operational Emissions 390,488 426,527 451,284 441,542 Annual GHG intensity ratio t CO unit 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 2 Operational GHG emissions of Severn Trent per m turnover 214.0 234.7 255.2 248.6 This year we have revised our Scope 1 process emissions to correct a historic over-estimation of the amount of methane released to atmosphere from our digestion process.
This has reduced our total emissions for each year.
The restated values for previous years are shown in the table.
Note that 2016 17 values include an estimate for the emissions from Dee Valley Water in the first quarter.
These are less than 0.5% of our total emissions.
Our approach to reporting is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and we have included only emissions from the assets which we own and operate and which we can directly influence and reduce, known as the financial control boundary.
In accordance with the reporting regulations, we have not reported on emissions we can influence, but which we are not responsible for, referred to as indirect emissions.
We have used the location based methodology rather than the newly introduced market-based method in order to ensure consistency with previous years.
For Severn Trent Water Limited, we have calculated our emissions using the Carbon accounting in the UK Water Industry: methodology for estimating operational emissions, Version 11 released April 2017.
This is a peerreviewed calculation tool developed and used by all the major water companies in the UK.
It is updated each year to include the latest available emissions factors.
For Severn Trent Services, we have used the latest Defra emissions factors which include the relevant conversion factors for overseas electricity.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information have developed a live portal, making data have significantly reduced our number We are committed to reducing the management easier for site managers.
of category 3 pollutions against our amount of waste we produce The benefits have included the ability to regulatory target, but were disappointed to As a company we produce large amounts monitor waste production and recycling at finish the year with one serious pollution of waste 2.6 billion litres of waste water site level, enabling sites to identify low use ahead of our target.
We complete an per day which is treated and returned containers that may not be needed on-site.
in-depth root cause for each pollution to the environment, 147.4 tonnes of Challenges have been cultural change to regardless of category and severity to bio-solids which are recycled to land, what we have always done.
Going forward ensure we build the learnings into the material on sites, retired assets, and our we are focusing on increasing recycling way we run the business, as we are staff produce office waste too.
We are and moving to a more co-ordinated waste committed to reducing our impact on committed to reducing the amount of management approach on-site.
waste we produce and to minimising our impact on the environment.
This year we We do everything we can to prevent have started a new contract with Biffa, polluting the environment and have an aspirational zero waste to We continue to drive hard for improved landfill target.
A key part of reducing environmental performance.
Six of our waste is understanding what we produce environmental performance metrics and where and therefore we have focused have improved this year.
This year we on collecting robust data at each site, and We operate in line with an Driving energy efficiency Environmental ManagementSystem Energy is our primary driver of carbon We delivered great performance during Our environmental policy is supported by an emissions, and increasing energy the high-cost triad season this winter, Environmental Management System EMS prices and demand for water provide which has more than offset the 15% peak certified to an internationally recognised significant cost pressures for our price increase we saw this year.
We have standard, ISO 14001, for our Waste Water business.
To ensure we manage this, we also started to deliver grid balancing Treatment processes.
The EMS provides a framework to help us drive improvement and have set up a new Energy Management services alongside National Grid for the ensure mitigation measures are identified Programme with the aim of improving first time.
This means making very small and implemented for our environmental energy efficiency and managing energy tweaks in our energy intensive assets risks and legal obligations.
This programme has successfully to help the grid manage frequency on scope of our EMS in 2016 to include combined delivered estimated energy saving the network and receive an income.
overflows and sewage pumping stations to comply with the Environmental Permitting benefits of 1.5 million over the year Our first site began operating in March Regulations 2010.
Weve also implemented through a combination of spend to and we have more installations planned a Quality Management System for water save investment, behaviour change next year.
quality, which will create an opportunity for an and improved operational processes.
integrated management system in the future.
There is continued focus on maintaining andembedding the EMS as a business as usual process.
Our interaction with the environment is broad ranging, you can find more information on our environmental performance on pages 29 and 30.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose through our strategy and values PASSIONATE ABOUT WHAT WE DO Strategic goals Providing a great Weve transformed our apprenticeexperience approach to attracting, We want our apprentices to develop training and developing both professionally and personally.
ourapprentices, to ensure Training together creates a sense of belonging and opens them up to weve got the talent we opportunities across the Company.
We also match every apprentice with aspecially trained mentor and line Mark Smith, manager, to give them vital support Leadership & Development atthestart of their career.
Co-ordinator Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Corporate Responsibility report continued We are investing in the wellbeing Value 5 Teaming Up to of our colleagues We are inspired to create an improveemployability Were proud of our Occupational Health awesome company We want to encourage young people programme, which is dedicated to the from all backgrounds to consider a physical, social and mental wellbeing of career in our industry.
In July 2016, Our brilliant people are vital to our our colleagues and well always make we therefore launched the Team success and we care about each and sure that our workplaces are safe, Up Employer Pathway programme.
We aim to create enjoyable places to be.
We are committed The programme, delivered in an awesome place to work, in part by to supporting the wellbeing of our partnership with social mobility charity looking after employee health, safety employees and, in particular, to promoting Team Up, introduced 13 sixth form and wellbeing and encouraging diversity good mental wellbeing.
We want our and university students from diverse and inclusiveness.
employees to feel comfortable talking and less affluent backgrounds to the about mental health and we are world of work, teaching them practical No one is hurt or made unwell by passionate about helping to remove any application skills.
what we do stigma and discrimination.
See page 32 The programme also provided a route formore information.
Our vision is that no one gets hurt or onto our New Talent schemes and made unwell by what we do, and that were delighted that following the week We believe a diverse and inclusive includes our supply chain partners, they spent with us, two students have customers and the communities in which workforce is a key factor in being joined us for a placement or work we work.
We have a clearly defined asuccessful business experience and a further two secured strategy to achieve this, which includes Diversity and inclusion are business places on our 2017 graduate intake.
focusing on: people knowing what is safe, imperatives, and we aim to have a ensuring compliance with our standards, Well be running the employability workforce that reflects the diversity of understanding the risks, and creating a week again in 2017, building on our local communities.
Our priorities culture in which everyone cares about this initial success.
We intend to remain the same: encouraging more health, safety and wellbeing.
During the increase the number of locations, women into operational leadership roles, year we focused on compliance with our schools, universities and students, to increasing women and BAME Black, standards and ensuring our colleagues support even more young people into Asian and Minority Ethnic representation have easy access to the right information the workplace.
in engineering positions and increasing and training to show them how to work in BAME representation in technical a safe way.
We are now focusing on how operator positions.
we ensure that people are working in the We are proud to be ranked joint first in right way.
We have agreed an assurance the FTSE 100 companies in the Hamptonframework that enables us to identify Alexander Review, an independent review where we can improve our health and aimed at increasing the number of women safety performance, and then quickly in senior positions in the FTSE 350. take steps to change our ways of working.
For more information about our diversity The framework includes proactive statistics, please see page 82. stepstoprevent incidents happening in You can find out more details about the first place, and from reoccurring.
our focus on skills, talent and career For example, we regularly check our sites development on pages 32 and 33. for safety issues and application of our The Strategic report, as set out from standards, with a view to removing and the inside front cover through to page fixing issues before they cause an incident.
69, hasbeen approved by the Board.
You can find out more information aboutour Health, Safety & Wellbeing By order of the Board strategy performance on page32.
Bronagh Kennedy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 22 May 2017 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
