91 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Stakeholder Engagement Other information Corporate Responsibility Committee report Introduction Corporate Responsibility Dr. Angela Strank Committeeactivities As Chairman of the Corporate Chairman of Responsibility Committee, I am pleased A summary of some of the matters theCorporate to introduce the report of the Corporate considered at each meeting is set Responsibility Responsibility Committee which details out below: Committee the role of the Committee and the May 2016 important work it has undertaken during Quarterly Corporate Responsibility the year.
The Committee has continued Acting in a responsible performance report to play a key role in supporting the Board, wayis embedded in External activity report Corporate Social reviewing the Groups key non-financial Responsibility everything we do and risks and opportunities and monitoring Environmental Leadership AMP6 performance against an agreed howwe do it, from looking commitments to improve our regions Corporate Responsibility framework, rivers after the mental health including several customer ODIs and key Corporate Social Responsibility of our employees to performance indicators.
opportunities as part of the Birmingham minimising our impact Resilience Project Dr. Angela Strank Internal Audit plan 2016 17 in relation to onthe environment.
Chairman of the Corporate Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility Committee Whistleblowing update September 2016 Attendance table Corporate Responsibility Quarterly Corporate Responsibility Member of the Corporate Committee responsibilities performance report Responsibility Meetings Max External activity report Corporate Social The responsibilities of the Corporate Committee attended possible Responsibility Committee include: Responsibility Dr. Angela Strank 4 4 Embedding our Groups values development of Corporate Responsibility Chairman targets and key performance indicators: Environmental Leadership Delivering Andrew Duff 4 4 carbon reductions regularly receiving and reviewing reports Dominique Reiniche 3 3 on progress towards the achievement Responsible supplier management Appointed 20 July 16 of Corporate Responsibility targets Risk management update Political and and indicators: Liv Garfield 4 4 economic environment consideration of Code of Conduct Gordon Fryett 1 1 Whistleblowing update and associated Group policies for Retired20 July 16 recommendation to the Board.
November 2016 Particular focus includes the provision of a In addition to the attendance set out above, Review of our approach to Corporate healthy and safe working environment for the Company Secretary normally attends, Responsibility The value of acting employees and contractors, human rights by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
responsibly and employee diversity: Other members of senior management, Sustainability West Midlands review of our including the Head of Internal Audit, are also development, review and promulgation of Corporate Responsibility report invited to attend as appropriate.
workplace policies: External activity report Corporate Social the creation of environmental standards, particularly where Severn Trent has most Responsibility significant environmental impact: and Review of our approach to employee the promotion of socially responsible values volunteering Love our Network and standards that relate to the social Anti-slavery and human trafficking update and economic community in which the Whistleblowing update Company operates.
March 2017 The Corporate Responsibility terms of reference, which were updated in March 2017, Quarterly Corporate Responsibility can be found at www.
performance report Deep dive on Diversity One Diverse Severn Trent Our approach to fluoride Anti-slavery and human trafficking update Committee terms of reference Whistleblowing update Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 92 Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Responsibility Committee report continued Our Corporate Responsibility framework Our Corporate Responsibility CR framework is ambitious, and broad ranging, underpinned by stretching targets, to ensure we are delivering the commitments expected of a leading socially and environmentally responsible business.
Acting in a responsible manner is integral to supporting our purpose of serving our communities, building a lasting water legacy and achieving our vision to be the most trusted water company by 2020.
We hold ourselves to account against our CR framework and agreed metrics through an effective performance management system.
Internally we report on a quarterly basis to the Committee, and externally on an annual basis through our Annual Report andAccounts, our website and through selected Environmental, Social and Governance indices.
Ambition One Ambition Two We will make our region the most We will play a leading role to help make water efficient in the UK our regions rivers even healthier Read more on page 60 Read more on page 61 Values 1 2 3 We put our customers first We are passionate We act with integrity about what we do Read more on page 62 Read more on page 64 Read more on page 63 4 5 We protect our environment We are inspired to create anawesome company Read more on page 65 Read more on page 69 Key areas of focus for 2016 17 A review of external news and trends An update on our responsible supplier relevant to Severn Trent and our management.
We have developed a The Committee provides Board approach to Corporate Responsibility.
Sustainable supply chain charter oversight of our CR strategy and our which is a call to action to our performance against our CR framework.
Development of our approach to suppliers to support our approach to The Committee also regularly reviews employee volunteering and alignment Corporate Responsibility.
reputational risks and non-financial with our Corporate Responsibility Internal Audit reports, in addition to deep ambitions, around healthier rivers and Our zero tolerance approach to modern dives into topics in our CR framework and water efficiency, to maximise our impact slavery and our plans to take all anywhistleblowing allegations.
in the environment and communities in reasonable efforts to eradicate modern which we operate.
slavery within both our business and our Key areas of discussion and review during supply chain.
2016 17 included: Review of our approach to Corporate Responsibility, ensuring it is driving maximum benefit to build trust, serve our communities and leave a lasting legacy.
We also sought an external review.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Stakeholder Engagement Other information Following a revision of this code and Human rights Whistleblowing our Group policies, this year we have We have a responsibility to understand All Severn Trent employees are focused on communicating these with the our potential impact on human rights and encouraged to raise concerns at work business, promoting through our internal to mitigate or eliminate any potentially in the first instance through their line communication channels and we have negative impacts.
We are committed to manager, or senior management, rolled out a full e-learning training module operating in accordance with the United however, we recognise that employees to ensure everyone in the business Nations Global Compact Principles and may feel inhibited in certain understands our expectations in relation our code of conduct Doing the Right circumstances.
If this should be the to our values and ethical standards.
case, employees are encouraged to All our Board Directors, executive and Whilst not having a specific human use our confidential and independent senior management team have completed rights policy, we have Group policies on whistleblowing helpline or email service, this training.
Doing the Right Thing also Human Resources, Anti Bribery and Anti operated by Safecall, an independent forms an essential part of our employee Fraud, Whistleblowing and Procurement.
company which specialises in handling induction, ensuring we are embedding our These policies are, in turn, supported concerns at work.
The service is available Company values from day one.
by a broader range of policies within internationally and Safecall provides Severn Trent Water Limited and Severn a translation service, allowing any Prevention and detection of Trent Business Services to support key employee, wherever they are in the world, briberyand corruption human rights.
This year we have updated our whistleblowing policy to ensure it includes Our Group-wide Anti Bribery and Anti Prevention of child labour the ability to report any concerns in Fraud Policy prohibits bribery and relation to modern slavery.
Ensuring our corruption in all our business dealings, andforcedlabour employees are aware of this independent regardless of the country or culture within We will not condone the use of child resource and that they feel comfortable which we work.
Employees identified labour and forced labour under any about using our whistleblowing process is as high risk through a risk review for circumstances.
The highest risk for important to us.
This year weve promoted all Group employees are required to Severn Trent is through our supply chain, it through internal channels, reminded undertake an online training module and therefore we work with our suppliers staff through revision of code of conduct examination to ensure awareness of and to ensure they operate to the same and included a reminder on employee compliance with this policy.
The Audit standards we set ourselves.
All investigations are carried out Committee carries out an annual review are required to sign up and operate in independently of management and the of our systems and controls to detect and line with our Code of Conduct, which findings are reported directly through to prevent bribery and corruption.
is built into our procurement tender the Audit and CR Committees.
Responsible business practices are an process as part of the pre-qualification integral part of our business strategy questionnaire template.
Doing The Right Thing andcorporate strategy.
For more TheSevernTrentWay information about our CR framework, Freedom of association and Every day our employees have to make our ambitions and values, and our collective bargaining choices about what they do and how performance against them, please see We recognise the right of all employees they do it.
Most of the time it is clear ourCR report on page 57. to freedom of association and collective what the right thing to do is, whether it is bargaining.
We seek to promote coabout doing what is safe, doing the right operation between employees, our thing for our customers, doing what is management team and recognised trade right ethically and what is right legally.
We meet with our trade unions on But there are always going to be times a quarterly basis at the Company forum, when it isnt as clear, and thats where our and see real benefit in sharing information code of conduct Doing the Right Thing with our colleagues and seeking their comes in.
It details the values we work feedback and suggestions.
We believe by and explains who we are, what we this fosters a joint understanding of stand for and how we work.
It also tells business needs and helps to deliver our customers, investors and business common solutions aimed at making our partners that they can trust and rely on us.
These principles apply to everyone in the Group, no matter where in the world they are based or what they do.
It clearly sets out the standards we need to follow in our day-to-day activities.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
