Sustainability Delivering and maintaining asustainable business campaigns and initiatives in the apprentice and graduate programmes as well as talent development and management training schemes are intended to underpin the longterm future success of the Company.
The support we look to provide will also serve the interests of individuals and local economies.
In implementing our growth plans, we continue to work hard to protect the health and safety of our employees and others and to avoid or keep to a minimum any adverse effect of our operations on the surrounding environment.
Our Groupwide Code of Business Conduct, supplemented by appropriate guidance and training, is not only the right approach to doing business in itself but is also intended to support Archie Bethel CBE, Chief Executive longterm success by minimising financial risk and sustaining our reputation.
During the year, we have continued to Our priority is to ensure that Babcock continues to demonstrate Babcocks commitment to focus on creating longterm value for shareholders diversity in engineering by stepping up our relationships with universities and through a strong and sustainable business.
schools to encourage students to take up science, technology, engineering With the Group realignment in place, infrastructure, assets and training and maths STEM both in the UK and we understand now more than ever programmes.
We are therefore required internationally.
In Vancouver, Canada, that how we deal with our customers, to consider a diverse and complex range we set up a new STEM competition our employees, our suppliers, andthe of stakeholders, interests and concerns.
in partnership with the regional communities in which we operate, and We look to do this by maintaining government.
We also continue to foster our impact on the environment are all three overarching, underpinning and diversity in the workforce, and hosted fundamental to rolling out the next phase interlinking pillars of sustainability as a Women In Science and Engineering in Babcocks history, achieving our plans discussed in this report.
WISE event in Rosyth to recognise the and delivering performance.
Core to Over the next five years, we aim to grow, invaluable contribution made by women the Group realignment is how we invest both in the UK and internationally, and, in the industry.
Initiatives such as these in and support our people to deliver with the organisational structure now in form part of our continued commitment sustainable growth across the sectors.
It is place to support growth, one of the next to enhance our highly skilled workforce, our belief that strong success can only be key enablers to our success is people and allowing us to foster the talent needed delivered through a sustainable business, potential.
We believe that we can sustain to achieve and sustain our strategic which is why at Babcock we uphold the the longterm future of our business aims.
How we go about delivering our strictest standards of business ethics, through investing inand supporting our commitment to sustainability is discussed deliver a competitive talent development talent, through technical apprenticeships, further in this report, and additionally in programme and put safety at the graduate schemes, training and the sustainability section of each of our forefront of everything we do.
career development with succession divisions operational reviews.
Babcock has deep technical expertise opportunities across the Group and also in providing a wide array of complex throughidentifying and training talented engineering services across four sectors, people to implement growth.
Our ability to attract, recruit, retain We are trusted to deliver in a range of and develop the people we need now markets and countries by operating, Archie Bethel CBE and in the future is also fundamental supporting and managing complex to that longterm success.
Recruitment Chief Executive Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 58 Babcock and STEM STEM outreach inspiring the next generation around the world In 2016, we significantly increased the impact of our Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM outreach programme In the UK: In Canada: In Australia: With over 400 volunteer Babcock STEM Building on the success of our sponsorship Babcock Australia also ran several Ambassadors delivering more than 300 of the Telegraph STEM Awards in the UK, exciting STEM initiatives this year, hours of outreach every month in local this year we established Babcock Canada with university outreach including a schools and colleges, our programme as the presenting sponsor of the inaugural sponsorship of Adelaide Universitys now reaches tens of thousands of STEM Spotlight Awards a competition Ingenuity Exhibition which showcased students across the country.
We deliver designed for STEM enthusiasts from Final Year engineering projects, a work highly successful afterschool clubs nontraditional education backgrounds, placement and mentoring scheme for and workshops at UK primary schools, such as technical training programmes undergraduates in the CASG Department providing young children with a fun, and apprenticeships.
The competition of Defence industry programme, and the handson introduction to engineering, challenged young people to solve a sponsorship of a PHD project researching and this year we were delighted to specific problem in the transportation, underwater shock modelling through the support three schools in the national infrastructure, energy, sustainability and Research Training Centre for Naval Design finals of the prestigious Big Bang Awards.
technology sectors in British Columbia.
Our range of STEM activities spans across Additionally, Babcock Canadas recent We also engage with STEM at a younger the higher education system to university investment of $800,000 into Camosun age in Australia, partnering with Brighton level, where we embed Design, Make and Colleges TRADEMark of Excellence High School to provide engineering Test weeks into university curricula.
campaign will support next generation resources as part of the SUBS in schools specialised equipment in the colleges From 711 year olds creating and racing programme.
The programme is designed new Interaction Lab, a valuable asset to Goblin Cars built at afterschool clubs to engage interest in the technology British Columbias skilled workforce, and with Babcock engineers, to Year 13 of submersible vehicles and prepare to STEM students throughout Babcock students presenting their design and students to enter the new industries Canada.
Finally, at this years IMarEST creation of a load transfer device to arising as a result of projects such as European International Submarine Races, Babcock managers at Devonport Royal Australias Future Submarine Program.
Babcock sponsored a team of students Dockyard, our STEM outreach activities We pride ourselves on our commitment from Montreals cole fide Technologie provide young people with unique and to inspiring the next generation of Suprieure.
T. S allowing them to race exciting opportunities to engage with the engineers and scientists by actively and showcase their humanpowered world of engineering.
breaking down stereotypes about what submarines, as well as partnering Throughout this document, you will find it means to have a career in STEM.
T. S to launch the Babcock examples of Babcocks commitment diversity of the STEM Ambassadors Excellence Award, with the aim of to STEM activity, and some of the faces leading our activities is a great example of promoting and recognising innovative behind that commitment.
Were proud what the future of engineering looks like, engineering students.
of our growing engagement with STEM, and our schools have reported a huge and even more proud of the people who amount of enthusiasm and an increase in make that engagement possible.
female participation at our events.
Highlights Number of apprentices Graduate diversity Number of graduates 717 597 79% 2016: 714 2016: 599 Number of employees currently on 21% Number of graduates currently on apprenticeships across the Group.
Male Female Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Sustainability continued Our approach to sustainability Profit and Performance How our investment in: building longterm relationships: delivering critical throughlife support: using high performing and ethical suppliers: and supporting local and diverse economies supports our target of building market leading positions and delivering value to our customers, our colleagues and our investors.
Critical maintenance of Hawk jet turbine People and Potential How our focus on: discovering and developing diverse talent and progression routes: inspiring and encouraging the next generation of engineers: and our open dialogue with management delivers measurable benefits to a sustainable business and its communities.
Potential recognised with innovation in LPG design award Environment and Ethics How our commitment to the standards set out in our Code of Conduct underpins how we act with our customers, our employees and our suppliers as well as the communities and environments we work in.
Routine safety check on HMS Queen Elizabeths flight deck Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Profit and performance The efficiencies we deliver through requirements of the customer in the most our suppliers, we are able to effectively effective contract management, efficient way possible, while establishing drive quality and innovation across our innovation and throughlife supplier relationships that are robust and supplier base.
Strategic suppliers are key management enable us to return value sustainable in the long term.
partners in our ability to deliver quality to our customers, our colleagues and service.
As a result, we work closely The output of successful procurement our investors.
with these suppliers to ensure optimal activities is better value for our customers performance, ongoing improvement We buy a wide range of goods and shareholders through the delivery of andinnovation support.
and services and need reliable, effective and efficient sourcing activities.
highperforming suppliers across all Savings targets are ambitious, and We continue to develop endtoend aspects of our supply chain.
Babcock ongoing efforts to obtain efficiencies procurement tools that enable us to seeks to ensure that our customers andlower our cost base help to increase transact efficiently with our suppliers.
money is spent efficiently and responsibly profitability.
Key metrics are reported These tools also provide a common and that our supply contracts are each month to a divisional and Group approach, which enables us to share managed effectively.
We expect Governance Board and approved by best practice across the organisation.
our supply chain to adhere to our eachbusiness unit Finance Director.
We are able to use consistent business standards of ethical behaviour, and intelligence, which allows us to work Performance ourenvironmental, health and safety collaboratively with our suppliers and other working practices.
and focus on innovation and other Building longterm relationships valueadding initiatives.
We are always looking for better, Profit The eprocurement tools that we are innovative ways of serving our customers.
Profit is largely delivered through implementing provide a faster and Our responsibility is to provide them our ability to manage our operations more effective way of transacting with with the best options to ensure success.
A significant part of this is our supply base, resulting in sustainable When we identify a more efficient way driven through our relationships with relationships that are based on ofservicing their requirements we discuss suppliers.
Over 50% of our cost base is operationally robust processes.
these options and work in collaboration viathird party suppliers and our approach with the customer to bring efficiency We want to spend time talking to our and ability to manage these relationships suppliers about new ideas, operational benefits while delivering a quality service.
impact our ability to deliver performance performance and total cost opportunities and margin.
The Procurement and Supply Chain team not about payment.
We understand is actively engaged in the bidding process Over the past year, we have looked the importance of predictable customer with existing and new customers.
This for supplier efficiencies across the payments when running a business.
That enables us to bring the most effective organisation.
This has included is why Babcock is a signatory in the UK to offer to our customers.
We are often able contract efficiencies through upfront the Prompt Payment Code and we would to leverage existing arrangements to offer procurement, involvement in the bid encourage others in our supply chain to a costeffective solution.
process, operational productivity through make the same commitment.
increased innovation and quality, and Suppliers streamlined internal processes.
Delivering business critical support We believe that establishing longterm using highperforming, Babcock has implemented a rigorous relationships with our suppliers is an ethical suppliers programme across our procurement and important part of building longterm supply chain function.
The objective has Our customers rely on our ability to relationships with our customers.
As been to drive best practices across the provide a robust and effective supply part of a structured programme across organisation.
As a result of this initiative, chain.
We take this responsibility very business units and Group categories, procurement is engaging earlier in order seriously and work in collaboration the procurement and supply chain to help provide our customers with the with other industry leaders to create a function is raising commercial capability best possible solution while improving process that optimises risk management by engaging in supplier relationship profitability.
Early prebid engagement while encouraging the use of SMEs.
management programmes with by the procurement function allows Potential suppliers must demonstrate strategic suppliers.
our bid teams to understand potential their financial, commercial and technical We haveover 10,000 suppliers: however, market capabilities, while engagement capability to meet our contractual we have strategic relationships with as part of the team means we can requirements.
We also look for a clear around 250 of them.
By building an aim to put together a proposal for the demonstration of commitment to appropriate engagement model with customer that meets the needs and corporate social responsibility.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Sustainability continued Profit and performance continued We expect high standards of conduct safety and share continuous improvement We also lead dialogue with Government, from our suppliers in what they do for practices to reduce or prevent accidents suppliers and skills agencies to help us or our customers and will not accept and injuries.
address the skills requirement agenda, any behaviour contrary to our codes, with the aim of ensuring that there are Protecting the information and including bribery, corruption and fraud, enough people with the right skills to physical assets of our customers is an threats to health and safety, conflicts of fill our own vacancies and those in our increasingly important part of what interest or other improper practices.
We always expect the highest We prequalify suppliers for certain controls of commercial confidentiality.
types of supply before admitting them For certain types of supply, we are to the supply chain, and this involves developing exacting standards of security Success story in the making satisfying ourselves that they can compliance.
For these companies, we Engineering ace Tom Bennett, who meet our standards.
Certain suppliers need to be certain that information is works with Babcocks Defence will be selected for audit and close well managed and protected throughout Systems Technology team in Bristol, monitoring based on risk assessment or the supply chain.
joined an elite group late last year supplier performance.
Planned reviews Supporting local economies by using when he received a prestigious of supply chain risk are undertaken by Institute of Mechanical Engineers our businesses.
diverse, locally procured services IMechE Whitworth Award.
He was We take our responsibility to support local Babcock is a key member of the joint nominated for the award by the economies seriously.
The varied nature MOD industry initiative to deliver an University of the West of England of what we do means that we depend effective Defence Cyber Protection UWE, following a presentation on a wide range of talents and abilities Partnership.
The Group is tasked with on his experiences of as part of from a wide range of suppliers.
As part of improving the protection of the defence Babcocks fouryear Technical our supplier programme, we have been supply chain from cyber threat.
managing compliance through a system is represented on working groups for of preferred suppliers.
This approach Tom, now a Whitworth Scholar, each of the three core work strands: is enhancing our supplier relationships finished the Scheme early and information sharing, measurements and and allows us to focus on effective was appointed first as an Assistant standards, and supply chain awareness.
management of our SME supplier base.
Engineer and then Engineer at the A primary objective has been to define Bristol site where his grandfather a number of riskbased controls to be Supplier credibility, responsibility, quality worked in the 1930s.
He is now applied across the relevant supplier base.
Many in his second year of a parttime of our suppliers are small and medium We continuously review whether our BEng in Mechanical Engineering sized enterprises.
We select and manage suppliers comply with the standards set attheUWE.
suppliers to support our own experienced out in our Code of Business Conduct.
workforce in delivering complex, critical Babcock supported Toms Last year, we simplified and standardised and often bespoke engineering services.
ambitions from the start of these procedures in line with the criteria Diversification of supply where possible his apprenticeship, giving him in the anticorruption and competition makes our supply chain more robust in wellearned responsibility and the compliance policy.
Consequently, the helping us to deliver for our customers.
chance to get hands on in the selfassessment process for suppliers workshops.
He got on the fasttrack was updated.
In addition to the Critical supply partner for to university after being identified selfassessment initiative, we now require throughlife support as a keen draughtsman and additional evidence which gives us Joint teams from Babcock and our someone who showed a real talent objective, verifiable supplier ratings.
supply chain engage on a wide for engineering.
Babcock is committed to creating a safe range of issues such as maintenance working environment that aims to enable planning, supply support, support all those working on, or visiting, Babcock and test equipment, training and operations to be able to return Home training devices, and technical data.
We seek to work only Targeted supply relationships use data with suppliers who we believe are able to dashboards to monitor performance and both meet and promote our standards progress.
Babcock is actively involved those that share our commitment to safe with our suppliers in the Aerospace, behaviour and performance in delivering Defence and Security Supply Chain services and solutions for our customers.
Our teams aim to work with suppliers on Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 62 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 People and potential As our business expands, the advertising routes are used to ensure number of routes such as an international development of our people is a critical vacancies are marketed to the widest employee forum and employee surveys.
part of our business strategy.
Our processes are We use the feedback to identify any areas and sustain longterm strategic growth, constantly reviewed to ensure that for improvement and then develop action Babcock must ensure that it has the candidates experience a professional, plans to address these matters.
right people to be able and trusted efficient and friendly recruitment and In addition to the training and to deliver to customers on technically onboarding procedure.
A new computer development provided at divisional and complex, longterm contracts, both system has recently been implemented business unit level we have Groupwide today and in the future.
We aim to to increase the ease of making an management development resources: achieve this by continually improving application and further streamline the Babcock offers an MBA programme to our talent management arrangements.
move from candidate to employee.
We have Our Group Director of Organisation and We deploy a number of techniques to continued our commitment to this Development coordinates this activity motivate our workforce.
To check that programme and currently have two across the Group.
we are achieving our objective, we cohorts progressing through it Our business arrangements require seek feedback from employees via a us to deliver services across an array of projects and assets.
Our people need to have a range of experience, Babcock and the Vine Trust around the world skills and competencies: engineering, Babcock works closely with the Scottishbased charity, the Vine Trust, which management, technical, commercial, provides lifechanging medical, homebuilding and care support to vulnerable administrative and developmental, to families and children in severe poverty in Tanzania and Peru.
The joint projects name but a few.
We recognise that we embark on enable our employees to utilise the skills and experience they it is the skills and commitment of our have gained in a very different way, directly supporting people in dire need employees that define our uniqueness of assistance.
This year will see us bid farewell to the Forth Hope medical ship and our ability to deliver services to we have been converting at our Rosyth site as she sets sail to support some of our customers.
the worlds most impoverished communities.
In parallel, we have established a partnership that will see Babcock employees join Vine Trust volunteers on 14day Planning for growth expeditions to the Tanzanian municipality of Moshi.
The first such group will and succession leave in October this year.
During the mission, 25 Babcock volunteers will work Succession planning is a key focus with the Vine Trust in the town on the lower slopes of Mount Kilimanjaro, to throughout the businesses, from build two houses that will help families stay together following the loss of parents apprentices to Board level.
plans in place that identify immediate and or future potential successors to key senior management posts.
We also have individual training and development plans for those identified.
Through our annually refreshed future resource planning process, we assess whether we have the right number of staff with the necessary skills and capabilities, both now andfor the future.
This process is based on data and assumptions such as workforce demographics, attrition and business growth and feeds into our future focused resourcing strategies.
Focus on recruitment, retention and development of talent We recognise that an employees relationship with Babcock starts before they even apply to us.
A variety of Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Sustainability continued People and potential continued The Babcock Academy, run in apprenticeships in engineering and Total workforce diversity conjunction with Strathclyde University management with60 apprentices since 2005, continues to provide a currently on programme.
To support the structured framework for our managers continued growth of apprenticeships, to improve their managerial skills and we plan to launch apprenticeships in strategic awareness digital risk and security cyber and project management.
Each division has identified talent pools and reviews their development on a We continue to work towards the quarterly basis.
target of having 5% of our workforce on structured training schemes, as part of We are also considering how our membership of the 5% Club.
We are development through apprenticeships Male 80.5% closer to our target this year and remain can support the ongoing development Female 19.5% on track to exceed this commitment.
We are therefore piloting a Level 4 management Our Groupwide commitments Senior Executive diversity apprenticeship with existing staff this year.
to STEM subjects Encouraging young people into As a Group, we have a number of engineeringthrough leading initiatives to promote activities which apprentice and motivate and inspire young people to experience and understand the real graduate programmes world application of science, technology, Our graduate and apprenticeship engineering and maths STEM subjects.
A schemes are intended to support variety of techniques have been deployed business requirements with the aim of including training STEM Ambassadors securing the skills and expertise we need who volunteer their time and support to Male 78% now and in the future, and we seek to promote STEM subjects to young learners, Female 22% provide as many opportunities as those and providing industry placements.
means teachers from local schools spend Board diversity With regard to graduates, we a fortnight on one of our sites gaining an recruited181 graduates for the 2016 17 insight into Babcock, the type of work intake under our Group graduate we undertake and the opportunities for programme 2015 16: 195. young people.
Furthermore, a number of At the date of this report, we expect schools have been identified to pilot the STEM engagement yearlong programme.
to recruit over 197 graduates for the 2017 18 intake.
In addition to The feedback on this initiative from all parties has been very positive.
our Group graduate scheme, we recruit many graduates directly to Diversity management positions.
Male 81.8% At Babcock, we believe diversity is about At 31 March 2017, there were717 Female 18.2% more than age, race, colour, ethnic apprentices across the Group origin, gender, marital status, religious 2016: 714 of whom222 were or political beliefs, sexual orientation Graduate diversity recruited during the year 2016: 232. or disability.
We believe diversity is Thegeneral stabilityin these numbers also about embracing the advantages over thelast fewyears demonstrates the different experiences, skills and outlooks commitment we have to apprenticeship can bring.
Of those completing their training, over 97.7% 2016: 93.3% were Our diversity initiative, All together appointed into substantive roles within different, is championed by a Diversity the Group.
Steering Group, which coordinates the implementation of our equality and In addition to our well established diversity policy.
intermediate and advanced Male 79% apprenticeship programmes, this Equal opportunities and awareness Female 21% year we have launched higher level of diversity are part of our talent Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 management system.
As a business, it is commitment to supporting the Armed on gender diversity whilst also looking imperative that we ensure access to the Forces by presenting us with a Gold more widely at issues of ethnicity, widest pool of talent available, selecting Award from the Armed Forces Covenant disability and sexual orientation, the best candidates based on their Employer Recognition Scheme ERS.
We challenging our unconscious bias and ability to do the job.
Working with these are committed to the Total Support Force how we can make the changes to expectations for diversity enables us to and actively recruit service leavers and improve diversity among our workforce.
deliver our best for our customers and to reservists.
To continue the commitment, The event proved insightful, progressive safeguard the future of Babcock.
we will be hosting our annual reserves and paved the way for a dynamic conference to encourage employees in future for Babcock.
It was also a useful Babcock operates principally in sectors June.
Archie Bethel will also be resigning opportunity to share best practice across that have until recently traditionally the reserves covenant.
been regarded as male, such as engineering and working with the People and Potential Armed Forces.
Inevitably, companies In September, we held this years with this background will tend to be Dialogue Conference to discuss and starting from a level of relatively low support diversity.
We continued to focus female participation, especially in management positions.
However, we are working hard to change this: 19.5% around 6,971 of our total workforce is Babcock Spain collaborates with the Ministry of Agriculture in female male: 28,779, with 22% 95 reforestation to combat greenhouse gas emissions female senior executives male: 336, Babcock MCS Espaa is working with the Spanish Ministry of Agriculture andtwo 18.2% femaleDirectors on our MAGRAMA to develop a programme where Babcock employees can voluntarily Board males:nine.
cooperate in reforesting fireaffected areas.
This initiative will take place in La We have continued to work on the Granadella, a natural coastal area in Xabia Alicante that was heavily affected challenges of being a woman within by a fire in September 2016, which devastated more than 700 hectares.
A series of actions and With the aid of flora micro reserves technicians, the volunteers will help in development programmes are being the reforestation of the affected area, doing the followup of the planting and implemented across the organisation irrigation during the first year.
We focus our graduate This initiative is a part of the programme Babcock MCS Espaa compensates, a recruitment programme, particularly new initiative proposed by the environmental department as a measure against for engineering graduates, on those global warming, that includes a record of our carbon footprint which guarantees universities that have a richer gender the voluntary commitment we have to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2017, 21.0% 2016: 20% of those employed on our graduate scheme were female.
In 2015, we became a member of OUTstanding, a notforprofit professional network for LGBT executives and their allies.
Like us, OUTstanding understands that it is executives that set the tone and culture of an organisation and their support at this level will support our diversity agenda.
We have now also become a founder member of UPstanding, which champions equal opportunities for black, Asian and minority ethnic group BAME employees.
Our commitment to the Armed Forces In January last year, the UK Defence Secretary recognised Babcock as an employer who has made an outstanding Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 65 1.58 0.13 1.92 0.19 2.23 0.18 2.51 0.18 2.64 0.17 Sustainability continued Environment and Ethics Our commitment to strict ethical We believe that a culture of respect the business.
In December 2016, one conduct, together with the importance for, and promotion of, human rights is of our colleagues in our South African we place on health and safety and our embedded throughout our business and business losthis life after falling from a respect towards the wider society and can be demonstrated by our commitment power transmission line.
The accident has environment in which we work, are the to ethical conduct in everything we do.
been investigated by the South African foundation of a sustainable business.
TheGroups Modern SlaveryTransparency authorities and the outcome is awaited.
Statement, which ispublished annually In the meantime, our South African Ethics and governance on our website, details action taken business has conducted its own internal to support the elimination of modern investigation and has rigorously We understand that our reputation and slaveryand human trafficking.
reemphasised its focus on safety.
In good name are amongst our greatest January 2017, one of our helicopters, assets, which could easily be lost by Ensuring safety whilst out on an emergency rescue actual or suspected corrupt or unethical mission, crashed in central Italy.
To protect the Company Safety governance accident resulted in the death of two and reduce these risks, we have set Our Groupwide goal is that everybody colleagues and four passengers.
The outa policy on how we should conduct goes home safe every day.
To achieve incident isnow being investigated by business, which we summarise in the this, we invest in safety, providing suitable the Italian authorities.
Where there form of the Babcock Code of Business resources, training and time with priority are lessons to be learnt, they will be Conduct.
Compliance with this policy is given to addressing behavioural and compulsory for our employees, business cultural attitudes.
Total injury rates per 100,000 advisers and business partners or, in the hours worked case of business advisers and partners, We also expect our managers they must have equivalent standards topersonally set a good example, and procedures in their own businesses.
listening to and involving others.
We The policy comprises a detailed manual, recognise that the work environment available on the Groups intranet, that is constantly changing so we regularly contains guidelines, authorisation and review how we work to ensure it is the other procedures aimed at identifying safest it can be.
We aim to share our and reducing corruption and ethical risks.
knowhow, ideas, experiences, successes The controls that we have in place form and failures so we can continue to learn an integral part of our risk management and improve.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 arrangements and include the training Sector safety leadership teams and the of employees and availability of 1 RIDDOR rate per 100,000 Group Safety Steering Group oversee whistleblowing hotlines.
During the year, implementation of policy, strategy and hours worked a Babcock Suppliers Code of Business initiatives across all of our businesses.
Conduct was published to further TheGroup Executive Committee reviews promote these values throughout our monthly commentary and performance supply chain.
reports and the Board receiveshalfyearly More details of these risk management commentary and performance procedures can be found on pages68 reportsfor discussion.
to 70, and the Ethics Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Suppliers Code Performance of Conduct on our website.
Further Tragically, there have been two unrelated information about our whistleblowing 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 incidents that have led to fatalities in process can be found on page70.
2 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Human rights Total number of injuries 1,974 2,010 1,979 2,054 2,084 1,720 As an international business, we recognise Fatalities 0 0 0 0 1 7 our responsibility for upholding and Major injuries 30 30 36 41 38 27 protecting the human rights of our Overthreeday injuries 123 102 98 127 164 107 employees and other individuals with 1 RIDDOR totals 153 132 134 168 202 141 whom we deal in our operations across the world.
We welcome the opportunity 1 In 2012, the UK Health and Safety Executive changed RIDDOR reporting from time lost through injury from three days to seven days.
We have, however, continued to monitor and report on the lower we have to contribute positively to global threeday threshold.
efforts to ensure that human rights are 2 Incidents relating to MCS andBabcock DSG are included for the 2015 16 period onwards.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 66 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 stringently applied.
Health and safety is a core value for the Group and we Babcock committed to managingenergy  monitor performance through a number Babcock in partnership with Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO is of measures.
Over the last year, across the delivering an innovative energy reduction scheme that has reduced emissions Group, we have seen an 18% reduction in across the enduring MOD estate in Germany by 2,773 tCO and saved in excess the total injuries and a 32% reduction in 2 of 980,000. our RIDDOR accident numbers.
Babcockwas tasked to undertakethe energy procurement on behalf of the DIO Managing for the MOD Germany estate, and it was agreed that some of the savings from environmental impacts this exercise would be invested in the estate to reduce energy consumption.
Our commitment to reducing the The project identified the enduring MOD sites those with more than a fiveyear harmfulenvironmental impact of life, and the Babcock energy team undertook energy surveys on the sites to what we do continues.
We seek to identify energy saving opportunities.
Babcock undertook investment into the apply our engineering acumen to use identified schemes and agreed a gain share with DIO to enable the capital to resources more efficiently throughout be recovered.
We have successfully achieved recertification to the Carbon Trust Standard for all our UK operations, reducingour CO emissions against the 2 metric oftonnes CO per m turnover.
2 The Company has held the certification continuously since 2010.
Our adoption of a centralised software system for monitoring our environmental impacts has greatly assisted our drive to improve the collection, collation and reporting of energy and environmental data and will continue to help in our commitment to continual improvement.
Following our comprehensive audit of Total Group emissions UK and overseas the Groups energy use for the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS, Year ending March 2017 March 2016 the opportunities for energy savings Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned and efficiencies have been reviewed controlled operations tCO e 105,479.66 103,337.30 2 and action plans to target the most Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use effective measures identified, with energy of purchased electricity and steam tCO e 93,558.18 114,514.90 2 saving projects implemented across the Scope 3: Emissions business travel tCO e 10,724.80 business.
Examples of what has been 9,496.18 2 achieved during the year can be found Absolute footprint tCO e 209,762.64 227,348.38 2 in the Sustainability sections of the Revenue m 4,158.40 4,547.10 Operational reviews on pages38 to 57.
Intensity ratio tCO e m 50.44 50.00 2 Due to the highly diverse nature of the Companys business, the metric of tonnes of CO e per m 2 revenue has been used to provide a more meaningful measure of energy use throughout the business.
The total emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 sources have been divided by the annual revenue to provide a final benchmark figure, the Intensity ratio.
The prior year numbers have been adjusted to include some additional consumption data that was not available at the time of the last report.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 67
