48 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT INDUCTION AND ONGOING TRAINING on capital return restrictions under the AND DEVELOPMENT Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Each also receives formal and ad The Board recognises the importance of the hoc updates on statutory and regulatory continued professional development of the developments.
For example, Philip Keller Directors in order to build on their existing received training from Deloitte on I found the induction skills and experience.
During the year the accounting developments and from Allen main focus of development for the Board has programme to be well and Overy on the Senior Managers and been in continuing to improve their detailed structured, comprehensive Certification Regime.
understanding of the Groups business and and thoughtfully designed.
The Executive Directors jointly led a training It provided sound day for all staff on the Groups strategy and Business unit heads present developments in markets.
Philip Keller and the heads of the information and insight to their areas, including risks and opportunities Groups infrastructure functions attended for growth to the Board on a regular basis.
enable me to undertake a development and strategy workshop.
Business areas reviewed during the year my role as Audit Chairman included European and US corporate effectively.
It also greatly Induction investments, capital market investments The objective of the induction process facilitated the development and private equity fund investment, part for new Directors is to enable that Director of secondary investments.
These sessions of a foundation to learn and to contribute to Board proceedings from give Non Executive Directors NEDs contribute to the Board and appointment.
Each programme is tailored a deeper understanding of the Groups its Committees.
to the incoming Director and includes business, strategies and markets, and an a series of meetings and presentations understanding of team structures to assist RUSTY NELLIGAN supported by relevant documentation with succession planning.
The heads of the Audit Committee Chairman and policies.
Groups control and oversight functions and corporate strategy also presented.
Rusty Nelligan was inducted during the The Board and its Committees also receive year.
This included detailed briefings from technical updates from external advisers.
the Chairman and the Executive Directors in respect of the Groups business: and A regular training programme has been from the Company Secretary with regards established.
Under this programme, to legal obligations, directors duties the NEDs receive detailed and more and identifying any potential conflicts of operationally focused presentation from interests.
He had over 15 further meetings staff members about specialist topics providing full coverage of the Groups relating to the Companys business.
strategy and operations including NEDs, Sessions held have included a review of the business unit heads, and heads of control Groups US regulatory obligations led by our and oversight functions.
New York based compliance specialist and a macroeconomic overview session led by A similar programme is currently being the Groups Chief Economist.
In addition the carried out for Virginia Holmes.
Any new Group monitors other training undertaken Director appointed will receive a thorough by the Non Executive Directors.
induction in line with that provided for previous joiners, adjusted for any particular The Executive Directors attend Board individual requirements.
training and have also undertaken courses on anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and corruption, information security and career development for employees.
Christophe Evain and Benot Durteste received training on responsible investment and Benot Durteste also received training
