Annual Report 2017 58 Great Portland Estates Sustainability We constantly strive to improve the sustainability Our process credentials of our buildings.
During the year we were At the beginning of 2017, we relaunched our Environmental proud to deliver our first EPC A rated property and Policy Committee as the Sustainability Committee chaired sourced 100% of landlord purchased electricity from by Toby Courtauld to look at issues such as Energy and renewable sources.
Resource Use, Climate Change, Community, Education and Modern Slavery.
We also relaunched our Corporate Responsibility Working Group as the Health and Safety This year we broadened the Committee chaired by Nick Sanderson, widening its remit reach of our Sustainability to include security and terrorism.
Policy, launched our first Supplier Code of Conduct, Our Committees meet on a quarterly basis and are made up added health and wellbeing to of representatives of teams across the Company.
our Sustainable Development During the year, the Sustainability Committee looked at Brief and implemented our Soft Landings approach across our issues such as the effective implementation of our Soft entire development portfolio.
Landings approach, amendments to our Sustainable Development Brief, reviewed investor engagement on Janine Cole sustainability and considered the Groups performance in Head of Sustainability sustainability related indices.
The Committee also regularly reviews the Companys watch list of lower rated EPCs to consider the impact of the forthcoming Minimum Energy Operational measures efficiency Standards.
Change in total energy 0% Number of F and 20 consumption across G rated Energy Sustainability Committee ourmanaged buildings Performance Toby Courtauld Chair Chief Executive Certicates Nick Sanderson Finance Director BREEAM Excellent 30 Broadwick GRESB Rating Five star Steven Mew Portfolio Director Ratings Achieved Street Desna Martin Company Secretary James Pellatt Head of Projects Our approach Janine Cole Head of Sustainability We aim to meet current and future tenant needs Piers Blewitt Senior Development Manager byfuture-proong our buildings, whilst having regard Peter Nolan Building Services Manager tothewider environment in which our buildings are Dominic Jackson Energy Manager located.
Through responsible development and management of our buildings, we can unlock the Health and Safety Committee potentialof our properties and enhance the long-term Nick Sanderson Chair Finance Director value of our business.
James Pellatt Head of Projects James Mitchell Head of Asset Management Our sustainability strategy is reviewed annually by the Sustainability Committee and approved by the Board.
Janine Cole Head of Sustainability responsible for health & safety Peter Nolan Building Services Manager A gap analysis is undertaken to ensure that: Sam Keane Senior Facilities Manager current regulatory requirements are met and, where Mike Gould Regional Building Manager City appropriate, exceeded: Brett Crawley Insurance Manager we evolve to keep pace and prepare for changes in legislation: During the year, we have been working on our Towards the our sustainability strategy reects the expectations 2030s strategy, which will present our long-term vision for sustainability.
The strategy will specify long-term goals in ofour stakeholders: connection with reducing our impact on the environment, our sustainability strategy reects industry best contributing to a more sustainable London, improving the practice: and wellbeing of our tenants and employees and working with our sustainability strategy is compatible with our overall the local community.
In addition to evaluating health and safety compliance across our portfolio, the Health and Safety Committee also reviewed issues such as the potential effect of Brexit on health and safety and environmental legislation and discussed the impact of changes to the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2015 and resultant changes to our procedures.
The Executive Committee also approved new employee wellbeing policies and a mental health training programme for Line Managers.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 59 Practising what we preach In October 2016, we completed our Head The design included new energyWe were delighted that the hard work Ofce refurbishment.
New spaces were efficient lighting systems with LED light of the project team was rewarded created to allow more agile working, with ttings and presence detectors and with a score of 43 and a Performance focus rooms, a quiet room and an open, water saving devices within washrooms.
beyond Compliance certicate from relaxed, social collision space to hold Improved waste segregation measures the Considerate Constructors Scheme, informal meetings both internally and were also specified to improve head a considerable achievement given with external visitors.
We also renewed ofce recycling rates.
the close proximity to other tenants.
our ofce space, relocated our meeting The project went on to win a silver award All new xtures, ttings and nishes room suite and signicantly upgraded our at the annual Considerate Constructors were assessed under responsible IT equipment to enable more interactive Scheme awards.
We also achieved our sourcing guidelines set by SKA and we discussions in meetings and exible goal of a SKA Gold rating.
reused as much furniture as possible.
This was no mean feat with the Where furniture and IT equipment could work undertaken whilst we remained Great Portland Estates plc not be reused, either within our head in situ.
expect their design teams ofce or at our properties, we were and contractors to consider The principles of sustainable design are able to donate much of what remained sustainability in everything integral to all projects undertaken by the to schools and charities.
Where waste Company and expectations were equally could not be reduced or reused it was that they do, irrelevant of the high for our head ofce refurbishment.
recycled, with 96% of the waste created size andscale of the project.
We set our team challenging targets, diverted from landll.
To ensure a smooth Their head ofce refurbishment looking for a SKA Gold rating, specified transition to operation, a user guide was was no different.
that at least 95% of the waste generated produced and a soft landings process should be diverted from landll and that followed to ensure that out head ofce Rob Smith Senior Project Manager, the team should target a Considerate facilities team were fully briefed on Overbury Plc Constructors Scheme score of 40. the refurbishment.
Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 60 Great Portland Estates Sustainability Collaborating and innovating at 30 Broadwick Street, W1 30 Broadwick Street, W1 has impressive The use of BIM Building Information The next stage of the process at sustainability credentials.
A new build Modelling during the design and 30Broadwick Street will be for seasonal 92,300 sq ft ofce building with retail construction of the building helped commissioning to be undertaken to atground and basement, the property deliver it as efficiently as possible.
ensure that systems work efficiently under was our first to achieve anEnergy In addition, for the first time, the team peak load during the summer and in the Performance Certicate Rating of A and could also pass on digital information winter.
An analysis of energy consumption benets frommixed mode ventilation from planning through construction in use will then be undertaken to allow with openable windows and a VRFair to the operation of the building.
a comparison to be made with the conditioning system.
The building also This enabled the team to provide projected operational usage forecast has a photovoltaicarray and a green wall, potential maintenance contractors with atdesign stage.
achieving a BREEAM Ratingof Excellent necessary information on the building Use of the BIM model in both and full Forest Stewardship Council Chain services ahead of practical completion to ofCustody Project Certication.
enable the maintenance contract to be the construction and operation competitively bid well before completion.
of the building has already Starting in 2015, we used 30 Broadwick paiddividends, enabling the early Street as our pilot building for our Soft Due to the early involvement of the Landings approach.
A Soft Landings Cobuilding management team and the appointment of the Mechanical ordinator was appointed, a programme timely appointment of the maintenance and Electrical contractor and of meetings was established and building contractor, the operational training resulting in acohesive team upon walk rounds undertaken to familiarise programme was tailored to the handover of the building.
the property team with the design needs of the contractor and building features of the building early in the management team in collaboration with James Pellatt construction process.
the design team, Principal Contractor and Head of Projects commissioning engineers.
At practical This early access allowed the property completion, due to their comprehensive team to provide input on the servicing knowledge of the building and its systems, strategy of the building, inuence the boththe contractor and the building waste strategy and advise on the best management team were well placed to location of key security features to assist tenants in their t out process.
improve the operation of the building.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 61 There is growing recognition within the property industry Managing our sustainability risks: that buildings with higher EPC ratings e. g. A, A and B Responding to Minimum Energy ratings are often using more energy that their designers EfciencyStandards originally anticipated.
In light of this, we fully evaluate We operate a watch list of E, F and G rated buildings, not potential operational energy usage at design stage using only due to Minimum Energy efficiency Standards coming the CIBSE Technical Memorandum TM54 and then into effect in April 2018, which prohibit the letting of spaces compare this against actual operational usage as part of with Energy Performance Certicates EPC ratings of F our Post Occupancy Evaluation Process to ensure that our buildings are being operated as designed.
and G, but also to reduce energy costs for our tenants.
Whilst some of our 20 F and G rated units may be exempt Delivering buildings that meet tenants needs due to the payback period of measures to improve energy efficiency, we are actively reviewing how we can improve our It is essential that our developments operate as designed to lower rated buildings asdemises fall vacant.
meet our tenants high expectations.
For acquisitions, where EPC ratings are below an E During the year we rolled out the brief for our Soft Landings rating, consideration is given to the level of further approach, which ensures the transition of our buildings investment required to improve the EPC prior to purchase.
through the construction phase, commissioning, t out Costs related to introducing energy efficiencies are included andinto occupation is managed effectively on all our active in all refurbishment plans and prior to the commencement developments, irrelevant of the size or stage.
A member of a refurbishment, the EPC for a demise is reviewed to of the team now acts as Soft Landings Co-ordinator to ensure that the works target an improvement in EPC rating oversee the process and manage the outcomes of regular by at least one grade.
meetings between the design, project and operational team, ensuring that the Services Consultant and our Building During the year to March 2017, we reduced the number Services Manager provide essential information from the of F and G rated Energy Performance Certicates from commissioning process to the building management team 23 to 20, with our first EPC A rated building, 30 Broadwick inthe run-up to practical completion.
10 of the F and G rated demises relate to retail units and are lower rated as a result The end result of which is as smooth a handover as possible of the current tenants t out.
The remaining ten relate to to our tenants as they commence their t out.
In all cases we will be looking to improve Looking to our future developments, we are mindful of the rating once the demise is vacated, and where the occupiers evolving requirements which we are addressing payback period is prohibitive, we will register an exemption through our Disruption Project involving individuals from via the Private Rented Sector Exemptions Register.
Our buildings energy performance ratings See our development pipeline on pages 38 and 39 1 A 29 B 70 C 39 D 19 E 6 F 14 G We recognise that EPC ratings are a measure of the potential energy efficiency of a building rather than a reection of actual energy consumption.
During the year, in order to benchmark the energy efficiency of our managed buildings against similar buildings owned by other organisations, we participated in the Better Buildings Partnership BBP Real Estate Energy Benchmark REEB along with 22 other member organisations.
Out of23participants, we were pleased to be placed third inthe index.
Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 62 Great Portland Estates Sustainability Adapting to climate change Setting standards: We make a significant effort to reduce our contribution to Working with our supply chain to eradicate climate change through the efficient use of resources both Modern Slavery during the development of our buildings and also once they In September 2016, in accordance with the Modern Slavery are let.
However, we recognise that there is an increased Act 2015, we published our inaugural Modern Slavery likelihood of extreme weather events as a result of climate Statement.
Alongside our statement, we also introduced a change and that these events could potentially affect Supplier Code of Conduct and updated our Sustainability building structure, systems, materials and the health and Policy Statement to include requirements in connection safety of building occupants.
There is a risk that such events with ethical working practices, human rights, child could have knock-on effects in connection with business labour, forced labour, working hours, wage and benets continuity for our tenants and impact on the longevity of and apprenticeships.
Earlier in the year, we completed an initial risk assessment We, therefore, review our buildings design to ensure of our supply chain to identify suppliers who might be that it is capable of withstanding the impacts of extreme more likely to employ people at risk of modern slavery or weather events that may arise from climate change.
As part human trafcking by virtue of the industry in which they of this process, we carry out a site specic systematic operated.
Our Modern Slavery Statement, Supplier Code of climate change adaptation risk assessment for all projects.
Conduct and Sustainability Policy Statement, which outline This assessment typically covers the effects of climate our expectations, were sent to all these suppliers.
We also change on overheating, cooling and plant sizing and any inserted compliance clauses into all asset management impact it may have on the building structure or durability.
contracts and made the payment of the London Living Early in the building design, we undertake a ood risk review Wage a condition of employment for suppliers engaged and look at measures such as urban drainage systems atour managed properties.
and greening measures to reduce the impact of surface water run-off from our buildings.
The installation of green During the year, we provided training on the Modern walls and green roofs, as well as having a positive impact Slavery Act for 45 members of our development, asset on biodiversity and assisting in reducing air pollution, management, building management and company also help to reduce the impact of the heat island effect by secretarial teams to help them understand how modern cooling walls.
slavery might manifest itself in our industry.
In addition, we also carried out a pilot audit at one of our construction sites Due to the increased likelihood of drought, we also look to to ascertain how we might roll out an audit programme install water saving devices and water harvesting measures for all our active development sites, which would not only where appropriate.
address modern slavery, but also provide constructive feedback on welfare matters more generally.
Addressing the skills gap In order to ensure that we can continue to build the workplaces and homes of the future, it is essential that we support local skills and opportunities to help support the skilled workforce of the future.
We also want to assist the communities in which we are developing and managing our buildings access training and job opportunities.
We, therefore, encourage our supply chain to actively engage with apprenticeship programmes and during the year, across our development portfolio, 53 apprentices were appointed on-site.
To encourage young people to pursue careers in building related disciplines, we support educational initiatives that help promote the property industry.
Working with our contractors, we look to establish links with educational initiatives at all our development projects.
During the year to March 2017, we supported a variety of initiatives including attendance of careers fairs, visiting local schools and participation in the Construction Industry Open Doors event.
45% of GPE employees have attended Modern Slavery Act training Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 63 Westminster University students presenting to James Pellatt, Headof Projects and Ian Cartwright, Project Manager.
Supporting local universities to bridge the gap between education and employment Since 2013, we have had an active During the year ended 31 March 2017, Partnering with GPE on our programme working with and supporting we supported the Procurement and construction studies degree Westminster University in delivering their Project Management module, using programme has provided our building-related degrees programme.
our 55 Wells Street, W1 development students with real life scenarios This has involved hosting building for site tours.
We provided technical visits for students at key points during support on Building Information on which to base their studies.
the construction process of a number Modelling, development appraisals The opportunity to present their of our buildings, most recently at 240 and the project life cycle.
Our Project proposals to property experts in Blackfriars Road, SE1, 95 Wigmore Managers also attended the university a board room environment has Street, W1 and 30Broadwick Street, to give a client brieng session to been an invaluable experience W1.
GPE Project Managers have also provide details on the scope of the provided presentations at the university project.
The students then produced and will go a long way to to provide students with real life a project brief giving consideration to preparing them for their first role.
examples on which to base their studies.
programming, procurement and delivery Martin Ball aspects of our 55 Wells Street scheme Undergraduate Programme Leader and presented their views in our Board Construction Studies, University room with questions and feedback ofWestminster given by members of our Project Management team.
Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 64 Great Portland Estates Sustainability Maintaining high health and safety standards Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement includes all health and safety at our buildings in order to minimise the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 risk of accidents and incidents to our tenants, contractors Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 and employees, and also to comply with legislation.
for the financial year to 31 March 2017 and includes further comparison on a like-for-like basis.
As works undertaken at our buildings are outsourced to contractors, much of our health and safety risk is For more information on our carbon emissions including in connection with the activities of our contractors.
emissions adjusted for market based factors.
See our Communication with our contractors on health and safety Environmental Data Report www.
co. uk sustainability is therefore key.
We review the health and safety record our-performance of all our contractors prior to instruction, ensuring that 2017 2016 appropriate risk assessments and method statements Tonnes Tonnes are provided ahead of start on-site.
We also provide our of CO2e of CO2e Scope 1 employees with regular health and safety training updates Combustion of fuel and operation of our facilities 2,523 2,889 to ensure that changes to legislation and policy updates are Operation of facilities refrigerants 402 127 communicated as soon as possible.
Scope 2 Whilst we work hard to minimise the risk of accidents Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased 6,667 6,634 and incidents at our buildings, where accidents occur, all Head ofce usage 79 90 are fully investigated by the Building Manager or Project Total footprint 9,671 9,740 Manager with input from members of the Health and Safety Intensity Measure Committee and the Head of Sustainability as required.
2 Emissions per m gross internal area 0.0385 0.0398 Details on follow-up actions following significant accidents Like-for-like emissions and incidents are provided to the Executive Committee and Absolute emissions on a like-for-like basis 9,131 9,588 Board where appropriate.
A report on accidents and near 2 Emissions per m on a like-for-like basis 0.0377 0.0396 misses at our managed buildings and development sites is Like-for-like data compares emissions at properties held for the entirety of provided to Executive Committee and an annual report is 2016 and 2017. provided to the Board.
Independent assurance Health and Safety statistics 2014 2015 2016 2017 Independent assurance is provided by Deloitte LLP in Number of reportable injuries 0 2 0 0 accordance with the International Standard on Assurance First aid injuries 10 10 12 9 Engagements ISAE 3000.
Three day injuries 0 0 0 0 Our methodology Work related fatalities 0 0 0 0 Number of enforcement For our Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement, we have noticesor fines 0 0 0 0 used the operational control consolidation method as this Employee accidents best reects our property management arrangements andincidents 2 2 3 1 and our inuence over energy consumption.
For the first Number of employee days off time this year we have normalised our scope 1 emissions work from injury 0 0 0 0 to take account of degree days.
We have restated our 2016 gures in line with this approach.
Included in our operational We recognise that our employees are our most valuable control data are emissions from our managed properties resource.
During the year, we updated our employee including 100% of emissions from joint venture properties wellbeing policies, introduced exible working and provided Mental Health at Work training for all Line Managers.
Not included within this data are tenants usage or emissions from our development sites In 2017 18, we will be relaunching our Employee Assistance as these are considered to fall out of our scope 1 and 2 Programme and providing Personal Resilience training for all our employees.
Emissions in relation to our development sites are reported separately on our website, www.
Emissions from vacant space have been excluded as the related carbon emissions are below a materiality threshold of 5%.
There are no Company-owned vehicles to be reported.
We have used DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate our emissions.
