Annual Report 2017 50 Great Portland Estates Our culture and people This year our focus has been ensuring our teams providing an attractive pipeline of high-quality projects and assets to manage: and the Executive Committee interact even more effectively and that all of our employees have a recruiting high quality individuals with a constructive mindset and valuable experience: personal development plan.
a formal and extensive induction process for new joiners: Our people care passionately ensuring continual improvement of the skills and about both their work and the competency of our employees at all levels and across success of our organisation.
alldisciplines through appropriate training and personal They collaborate with others development opportunities including new responsibilities, inside and outside the undertaking different projects and coaching: and Company, to deliver great results that benefit GPE and fostering a friendly environment which engenders allthose who have a stake astrong camaraderie.
Our integrated team Toby Courtauld Chief Executive GPE combines the very best of a disciplined approach towork, high standards in everything we do and also high expectations of our people, but with a collegiate approach Operational measures to projects, a friendly environment and strong camaraderie.
Employee 89% Employees 75% As a small organisation in people terms just over 100, every retention 2016: 88% participating 2016: 66% single persons contribution counts.
When we hire, we look inShare IncentivePlan for individuals who are comfortable taking responsibility and Days training 3.6 Lateral moves 4 working constructively and exibly with colleagues.
We then provided per 2016: 3.1 andpromotions 2016: 8 invest time in giving new starters an extensive induction to 1 employee the organisation so they can feel at home right away and able to give their best.
On average Our talented team brings together specialist skills which Our approach are used to manage our portfolio rigorously, on an assetOur entrepreneurial and pragmatic culture is fundamental by-asset basis, and ensure the achievement of our strategic to our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain our priorities.
Each of our department heads, collectively our talented people, with a high level of involvement from Senior Management Team, interact daily with the Executive senior and executive management and an emphasis on Directors and report regularly to the Companys Executive cross-disciplinary teamwork.
Our culture and people lie Committee, the principal decision making body for atthe heart of our ability to achieve our strategic priorities, management and operational matters.
unlocking potential across our portfolio.
In September 2016, Robin Matthews, formerly at the Our process real estate and private equity group Mooreld, joined our Executive Committee to replace Ben Chambers as We recognise the benets of our positive culture and work Investment Director and, in October 2016, we expanded hard to maintain it through: theCommittee with Steven Mew joining as Portfolio regular and effective engagement through two way Director from listed property company McKay Securities plc.
communication, an open door policy and communal Following feedback from our employee engagement survey, working space specially designed for regular informal this year we formalised our ground rules that guide how meetings and discussions: the Executive Committee should operate and interact with regular meetings held weekly, monthly and quarterly those presenting to improve the discussion and debate across the various teams on different aspects of on operational matters brought for decision on a weekly the business: basis.
To enable more discussions within the Executive encouraging our people to be innovative, whilst still Committee on strategic issues, in addition to the existing maintaining a disciplined approach providing clear weekly Executive Committee meetings, from April 2017 we policies and procedures and instilling a strong sense have instigated a separate fortnightly meeting reserved for ofresponsibility for active risk management: strategic matters where we involve members from different a collegiate style, with recognition of a projects success teams as appropriate.
being based upon the contribution and timely interaction of every member of the team: providing well-constructed and fair reward systems designed to incentivise superior individual and team performance and align employees and shareholders interests: Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 51 A working group of a number of senior employees was formed to look at how we could further empower our Building an effective team people, resulting in a revision in authority levels across the asset management, development and finance Rathbone Square, W1 teams.
To ensure that everyone understood these On a project as complex as Rathbone Square, it was critical changes, presentations on the new Executive Committee to encourage close collaboration across the team.
Led by arrangements were offered to all employees.
Helen Hare, our Senior Project Manager, a project ofce was set up in a property adjacent to Rathbone Square to allow the During 2016, we undertook a t out of additional space GPE project team, the contractor, the architect and other key at 33 Cavendish Square moving our meeting room suite consultants to work together in close proximity.
The site team down one oor enabling us to create a significant informal worked closely with other construction sites located within meeting and collision space adjacent to our open plan the immediate area and participated in a cycle safety event ofces.
This new space enables us to hold informal meetings in conjunction with our 1 Dean Street contractor, Multiplex, to great effect and encourages more regular two-way Crossrail and the Metropolitan Police.
communication both within, and across our various teams.
With many of the team working together on the project At the same time we took the opportunity to upgrade for over two years, in July 2016 the combined Rathbone our IT systems to enable more exible and effective Square project team collaborated to arrange a family day working processes both within our ofce and outside i. e. at Rathbone Square, to showcase the development to their when working from home or when travelling.
Over 300 people attended this great team building See more on page 59 event over the weekend, with activities available for children of all ages, from colouring and drawing to Rathbone Square lego.
For several of the children it was their first opportunity Number of employees 2017 at 31 March 2017 to see a construction site and they were able to experience Executive Directors 2 site tours, meeting Ivor Goodsite the CCS scheme Health Asset Management and Safety mascot along the way.
Many of the children were Investment Management 30 able to talk to a crane driver over the radio and help move a Development Management Financial Management load and enjoyed looking at some of the machinery used on 36 site in a safe environment.
Guests were also able to view and 101 manipulate the BIM model and tour the nished residential employees units using Virtual Reality.
In November 2016, members of the Rathbone Square project team also participated in the Centrepoint Sleep Out.
As the leading charity for homeless young people, Centrepoint 26 7 support in excess of 9,000 young people each year.
Many of these young people are housed in hostels in central London Supporting diversity and inclusion and access the Centrepoint health centre located in Soho, close to Rathbone Square.
Together, representatives of Our culture is grounded in mutual respect and nonthe GPE team, the contractor and three of the consultants discrimination in respect of age, disability, gender, race, involved in the project raised in excess of 20,000. religion, sexual orientation or educational background.
Our aim is to foster a culture of respect and fairness where Our great team ethos has paid dividends with practical individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, work completion for the commercial ofce achieved on schedule performance, demonstrated potential and perhaps most and 2.5 million safe working hours worked on site without a importantly, the ability to work as part of a team.
Whilst our policy remains that selection should be based on the best person for the role, we recognise the benets of gender diversity and when recruiting, where possible, our policy is that at least 30% of potential candidates identied should be women.
This year we relaunched our website including, for the first time, a section on Life at GPE aimed at describing just what people can expect when they join us.
Included are a number of lmed and written interviews from different people across the organisation explaining what, in their view, life is really like at GPE.
co. uk life-at-gpe meetour-people Our combined Rathbone team at the Centrepoint Sleep Out.
97% of employees believe in what we are trying to achieve Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 52 Great Portland Estates Our culture and people While the headline findings were positive, the survey We have built our organisation gave us a significant amount of useful feedback which we around four specialist areas of then shared with our employees via a series of detailed investment, development, asset and financial management in presentations.
Line Managers also used this feedback order to make the best use of to discuss with their teams strategies to further improve specic expertise.
One area identied for improvement across everyone in the organisation the Company was our policy towards exible working, knows that our success depends including helping people improve their work-life balance.
on us all working together as a Following the survey results, we set up a working group to single integrated team.
look at this in more detail with representatives from across Sally Learoyd all teams and levels.
The group identied that people Head of Human Resources were mainly looking for informal exible working options.
On the back of this input, a Company-wide approach has Employee prole age number of people been developed including exible start nish times and ad hoc working from home.
Work is also ongoing on other 1930 14 3140 20 areas including communication, systems and processes to 4150 help make employees work easier and more fullling on a 50 daily basis.
101 Unlocking our people potential employees During the year ended 31 March 2017, 137,971 was invested 35 in employee and Non-Executive Director training, providing 2,522 hours of training averaging 3.6 days per employee.
32 We have always encouraged our people to develop in their careers, providing professional development Employee prole gender diversity number of people experience opportunities as well as funding and support for qualications.
In the year to 31 March 2017, we made 60 behavioural proling available to all of our people as a 55 tool to help them both with their personal development 50 46 and to optimise working relationships with colleagues 40 both internally and externally.
We also refocused our midyear appraisal process towards discussion around each 30 individuals Personal Development Plan.
20 17 Total number of training hours by type 10 10 10 3 2 7 0 Gender Board Senior Middle diversity management management 900 860 Women Men 800 700 Promoting engagement 600 500 We believe that in order to deliver our strategy it is 424 412 important that every member of our team is fully engaged.
400 As our business has grown, it is key that we retain what is 300 296 260 unique and best about GPE whilst at the same time evolving 200 161 so we can continue to deliver outstanding results in our 109 100 larger, more complex organisational environment.
In the 0 2017 summer of 2016 we undertook our inaugural employee Corporate responsibility and governance incl HR Finance engagement survey which was completed by almost 90% of Leadership development Health and safety our employees and was designed, following six workshops Environmental IT Estates management with employees, to identify the areas that mattered to them most.
96% of employees would recommend GPE as a great place to work Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 53 As part of this process, Line Managers and their team Having the opportunity to members identied ways in which individuals could look differently at how you grow personally through expanding or changing their work and communicate with responsibilities, taking on different projects, identifying people across GPE and areas where they could benefit from coaching or externally, was extremely undertaking some training programmes tailored specically useful.
As a result, we are creating a structured Catherine Heath HR programme of activities that will enable us to grow the Personal Assistant talent in our organisation to meet business needs as well as opening up further options for internal succession.
On the training front, courses developed from needs identied in peoples Personal Development Plans include how to communicate more effectively, presenting information All employees have mid-year and annual performance better to others, improved time management and finance reviews.
In addition, all employees participate in the for non-financial people.
Companys annual employee bonus plan, with a portion of their reward driven by performance against personal 51% of our people have attended an in-house GPE specic objectives and the balance triggered by GPEs corporate course since January 2017. performance against key financial targets.
As part of the In addition, in the year ended March 2017, we completed a leadership development programme, managers were also 12-month long, in-depth, tailored Leadership Development provided with training to help them with their role of giving programme for all of our 24 line managers including our constructive, developmental feedback to team members Executive Committee which included behavioural proling, to enhance individual and team performance and to focus workshops and coaching.
All Line Managers also attended on what is important in relation to their performance during sessions on Mental Health at Work to identify how our the year.
employees can be better supported in their day-toAs part of the year-end remuneration process, the day work.
Executive Committee and the Senior Management Team In 2017 18, our plans include: review salary benchmarking against market competitors, individual performance against personal objectives, management leadership training for our people who lead proposed discretionary bonuses and planned Long-Term external teams: and Incentive Plan awards.
The outcome of this process is for all employees, continuing provision of GPE specic then provided to the Remuneration Committee, which training courses and workshops to enhance teamreviews remuneration levels proposed for all employees, working skills.
and decides upon recommendations made for senior manager and Executive Director salary levels, bonus awards Rewarding performance for achievement of personal objectives and proposed The Board is responsible for setting our strategic priorities Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
and monitoring performance against them see pages 10 The base salary increase for employees for the year ending and 11.
Our senior managers are accountable for working 31 March 2018 is 2%.
Increases of more than 2% were given with their team members to develop appropriate annual to some employees due to market realignment and or objectives based on the nature of their role and for ensuring increases in responsibility and contribution, such that the that everyone understands how they contribute to overall average increase in base salary for the year ending 31 March business objectives.
You could see the difference All employees have the opportunity to participate in the the Leadership Programme Companys two for one Share Incentive Plan SIP which made between the first and encourages people to become investors in GPE and to the third workshops and how share in the Companys financial success.
75% of employees we are now better equipped to both support each other and participate in the SIP scheme.
work to empower, encourage and motivate both within and across our teams, reinforcing GPEs positive culture.
Lisa Day West End Regional Building Manager 3.6 days training per employee Strategic Report Annual Review
