16 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Our people National Grid Gas plc is a subsidiary of the National Grid plc Group, and its policies and activities contribute to the larger National Grid position.
The below represents activities which National Grid Gas plc has contributed to as part of National Grids achievements in 2016 17. programme.
In November 2016, our apprentice programmes Building skills and expertise to drive performance was ranked Outstanding by Ofsted for the third time Our sector is undergoing a period of massive transformation consecutively.
and uncertainty, so we are taking steps to help make sure our workforce capacity and capability remains flexible enough to Promoting an inclusive and diverse workforce deliver our strategic objectives.
For example, we are using a new strategic workforce planning programme.
This helps us Our inclusion and diversity activities include attraction and determine where we could have future shortfalls in our recruitment, development, leadership, role modelling and workforce requirements across a range of possible scenarios cultural change.
It also helps us plan investment for recruitment and training, so we can make sure we always have We aim to attract a diverse range of applicants, including underthe right skills in the right place at the right time.
Our Women in National Grid Yearbook, which showcases a number of our UK female role models, is During 2016 17, we have taken steps to improve our peoples available to potential applicants so they can envisage a career capability, primarily across four main areas: leadership, contract with us.
management, stakeholder management and performance excellence.
We are also setting the standards that we need to We recognise the value that a diverse workforce and an achieve in other capability areas, including data management, inclusive culture bring to our business.
Our policy is that people customer focus and commerciality.
with disabilities should have fair consideration for all vacancies against the requirements for the role.
Where possible, we make Our Accelerated Development Programme is designed to reasonable adjustments in job design and provide appropriate enhance our leadership succession planning by developing the training for existing employees who become disabled.
We are skills of employees seen as having potential to grow into our committed to equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion and senior roles.
During 2016 17, 117 participants started the 18- career development for all employees, including those with month programme.
disabilities, and our policy recognises the right of all people to work in an environment that is free from discrimination.
Safeguarding the future We have reviewed some of our leadership development We remain committed to helping address the significant skills programmes to place a stronger emphasis on inclusion and challenge facing the engineering profession.
For example we have further developed our unconscious bias training.
The 2015 Employer Skills Survey highlighted that 36% of hardto-fill vacancies in the UK energy and utilities sector were due We believe leadership involvement is an important factor in to a lack of proficient skills well above the 23% national building an inclusive culture.
Many leaders are sponsors of our average and notably higher than any other sector.
employee resource groups or mentees in our reverse mentoring To help address this, we are involved in a number of initiatives.
These activities provide our leaders with a greater For example, our Chief Executive and specialists from our understanding of the challenges facing our diverse workforce, Academy are members of the Energy and Industrial Partnership and more confidence in discussing diversity in the organisation.
Council and Delivery Board and have supported the creation of Senior role models are being encouraged to show how they are the Energy and Utilities Workforce Renewal Skills Strategy bringing an inclusive culture to life.
This has involved collaborating with the wider sector to Our Employee Resource Groups build awareness and address priorities such as recruitment, investment in skills and targeting skills gaps.
understanding of inclusion and diversity throughout the organisation.
They also provide valuable feedback and Our Academy offers residential work experience programmes suggestions for improvements.
For example, One, our ethnic for 100 young people annually, balanced 50 50 between boys minority group, organised Black History Month events to raise and girls.
We participate in the annual Big Bang Fair, which is the profile of ethnic diversity.
designed to promote interest in Science, technology, engineering and math STEM subjects and careers.
Our EmployAbility scheme, which provides supported work experience for young people with learning disabilities, is During 2016 17, more than 316 people have participated in our recognised as best practice by the Business Disability Forum.
apprentice, engineering, student and graduate development National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 17 Following the UK Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations, promotes mental well-being in the workplace.
More than 900 approved by Parliament in February 2017, we will be disclosing people, including around 30 of our senior leaders, have additional pay gap information during 2017 according to the attended our mental health first aid course to date.
We also ran approach outlined in the regulations.
a diabetes awareness campaign in which employees could assess risk and learn more about diet and activity.
The table below shows the breakdown in numbers of employees by gender at different levels of the organisation.
We Building strong communities have included information relating to subsidiary directors, as We believe a strong community is good for the people who live this is required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report there, good for our business and good for the wider economy.
We define senior To further support the communities in which we work and live, management as those managers who are at the same level, or we partner with charity organisations, provide communities with one level below, our Executive Committee.
It also includes one-off grants to support their social, economic and those who are directors of subsidiaries, or who have environmental development.
We also empower our employees responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities to pursue projects and their chosen causes through of the Company, or a strategically significant part of the volunteering in their neighbourhoods.
Company, and are employees of the Company.
We support local schools and colleges with work experience Financial year ending 31 March 2017 opportunities and careers advice sessions.
Our engineers help % % to bring STEM subjects to life.
Our engineers help to bring Male Female Total Male Female STEM subjects to life.
Last year, our community engagement Our Board 4 4 8 50 50 and investment in education was valued at 5,850,965, with our Senior Management 30 13 43 70 30 UK employees giving over 18,400 hours of volunteering support.
Whole Company 1,286 639 1,925 67 33 Human rights Health and well-being National Grid does not have a specific policy relating to human During 2016 17 we have continued to promote the importance rights, but respect for human rights is incorporated into our of well-being across our business.
We have a leading role in the employment practices and our values.
Business in the Community Workwell campaign, which
