AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 117 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED STEPS TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Impairment The Committee reviewed the annual impairment test of the carrying amount of goodwill assessments recognised in the Middle East and Swiss units, the carrying amount of the indefinite useful life Swiss trade name and managements assessment of provision for impairment of trade receivables.
The decision to rebrand the Al Noor operations resulted in accelerated amortisation of the Al Noor trade name.
The Committee reviewed and assessed the impairment calculations of the Al Noor cash generating unit.
The Committee considered the reasonableness of the cash flow projections which were based on the most recent budgets reviewed by the Board and assessed managements expectations of revenue growth, operating costs and margins based on past experience and knowledge of the industry.
The Committee also reviewed and challenged the key assumptions made in deriving these projections: growth rates, and expected changes in tariffs, admissions, patient mix and insurance mix.
Long-term growth rates for periods not covered by the annual budgets were challenged to ensure they were appropriate in the countries relevant to the relevant operating platforms.
The Committee was satisfied that the discount rate assumptions appropriately reflected current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks associated with the particular assets.
The other key assumptions were all considered to be reasonable.
The Committee also considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the key assumptions and sensitivities described above.
Refer to note 4 to the consolidated AR financial statements for more details of these assumptions.
The Committee was satisfied that managements assessment of the impairment provision for trade receivables were thorough, adequate and reasonable.
The Committee also reviewed and was satisfied with the year-end provision for and disclosure of impairment of receivables.
The external auditors explained the results of their own review of the estimate of value in use, including their challenge of managements underlying cash flow projections, the long-term growth assumptions and discount rates.
Based on their challenge of the key assumptions and associated sensitivities, the Committee concurred with managements conclusion that no impairments were required.
Notional The Committee reviewed and was satisfied with a notional purchase price allocation purchase price performed by an independent firm.
allocation and The Committee was presented with managements considerations, reports from impairment the independent firm, as well as feedback from the external auditors on procedures test of a 29.9% performed.
associate interest in Spire The Committee was satisfied that a rigorous process was followed in identifying the significant intangible asset and that this asset was reasonably valued and the appropriate judgment was used.
The Committee considered the carrying value of the Groups investment in associate at 31 March 2017 to be appropriate and supportable by considering the results of impairment tests.
Viability The Committee reviewed the stress testing of the Groups principal risks and assessment uncertainties undertaken by management to support the viability statement.
It agreed with managements recommendation to the lengthening of the initial three-year period to a five-year period.
A five-year period is considered more appropriate for assessing the Groups long-term viability, as it is consistent with the time frame adopted for the Groups strategy and the assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties.
Based on careful analysis of all relevant matters, the Committee concluded that the Board could reasonably expect the Group to continue to be in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due, over the course of the five-year assessment period.
The Committee recommended to the Board the viability statement set out on pages 35 to 36.
AR 118 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT FAIR, BALANCED AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Committee considered whether the assessments of the Companys position and prospects, as published Key topics relating to internal controls and risk in the annual, interim and other price-sensitive reports, management considered by the Committee during were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the year: the information necessary for shareholders to assess April 2016: the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
ERM framework and plan 2016 17 The Committee reviewed the interim and annual ERM policy and risk appetite financial statements in conjunction with the narrative Risk registers of the Group and mitigation steps sections of the reports to ensure that reported ICT strategic risks: cybersecurity, project delivery, information was consistent, and that appropriate application, and control change architecture and skills weight had been given to both positive and negative Fraud and ethics report aspects of business performance.
May 2016: The Committee is satisfied that one of the key Enterprise-wide risk management policy requirements of the Groups financial statements, Review principal risks and uncertainties for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and Fraud and ethics report understandable has been met, having reviewed a November 2016: summary of the approach taken by management in the Review of principal risks and uncertainties, including preparation of the report.
Accordingly, the Committee the impact of Brexit recommended that the Board confirm that the Annual Fraud and ethics report Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is Treasury policy and procedures fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the March 2017: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Review of tax risks Companys position and performance, business model Detailed risk management review, including of and strategy.
framework and policies: top risks: fraud, ethics and compliance: and ERM plan for 2017 18 Review of viability assessment FRC CONDUCT COMMITTEE Treasury policy and procedures The FRC Conduct Committee is authorised and appointed under the UK Companies Act to be responsible for reviewing and investigating the annual The Board is ultimately responsible for overseeing the accounts, directors reports and strategic reports of establishment of effective internal control systems public listed companies in the UK.
The FRC Conduct and risk management processes, which facilitate the Committee undertook a review of the Companys delivery of and sustain the Groups financial, operational Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year and strategic objectives.
The Committee maintained a ended 31 March 2016.
The outcome of their review was strong focus on monitoring, evaluating and enhancing that there were no questions or queries to be raised the internal control, risk management and internal audit with the Company.
The FRCs review was based on processes for the Group and the integration of Al Noor the report itself and not detailed knowledge of the into these processes.
Company or transactions it had entered into.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 119 The Board believes that effective risk management aspects were specifically highlighted as focus areas by underpins a successful business and is integral to management: the objective of adding value to the Group.
It has the ongoing centralisation and standardisation of adopted an integrated and effective Enterprisethe internal controls in the Hirslanden platform: wide Risk Management ERM framework, at the Al Noor integration in the Middle East platform both an operational and strategic level.
An optimal and conforming the legacy Al Noor control risk reward profile is achieved by identifying, processes and operational practices to the quantifying and managing risks.
This was incorporated Groups standards: into the daily operational management processes, the implementation of SAP and supporting policies allowing management to focus on core activities.
The and procedures: Board has a clear process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks, which includes current and The implementation of a standardised financial emerging risks, faced by the Group for the reporting consolidation and reporting tool: and period.
The Board annually reviews the process, which the enhancement of the assurance is in accordance with the FRCs Guidance on Risk processes for the Group, including ICT Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and governance and compliance.
Business Reporting and the requirements of the Code.
The Committees work on the Companys financial The Groups ERM policy is benchmarked against the reporting, internal controls and risk management International Committee of Sponsoring Organisations systems underpins the long-term viability statement of the Treadway Commission framework, which published by the Company in this Annual Report and defines the risk management objectives, methodology, Financial Statements.
process and the responsibilities of the Groups various risk management role-players.
This policy provides INTERNAL AUDIT structure within which Directors and management can operate to reinforce a strong risk management culture throughout the Group.
It sets the tone and acts as a starting point for all other components of risk Key topics relating to internal audit considered by the management and control in providing the necessary Committee during the year: discipline and structure.
April 2016: The Committee reviewed the ERM framework, including Establishment of an in-house internal audit function the Groups risk appetite and assurance model and May 2016: policies.
The Committee continued to progress the Internal audit report for 2015 16 financial year standardisation of the internal controls and risk framework across the Group and the integration of Al November 2016: Noor into the Companys ERM function, processes, risk Establishment of an in-house internal audit function registers and reporting.
Internal audit report and internal audit plan Information and Communication Technology ICT March 2017: risks remain a key area of focus for the Committee.
Review of internal audit report, internal audit mandate The top five risks identified were cybersecurity: project and internal audit function delivery, application control and change, architecture and scarcity of ICT skills.
The Committee receives The Companys internal audit function is carried out regular presentations from senior management on by Remgro Internal Audit, who regularly attended these risks and their management and mitigation.
Committee meetings and reported on the findings The Groups hedging arrangements in respect of of its investigations.
It was responsible for measuring currency movements were also examined, resulting in the effectiveness of the system of internal financial the Committee reviewing and updating the Groups control throughout the Group.
The establishment of treasury policy.
an in-house internal audit function to transition away from the current outsourcing strategy will commence The Committee considered the applicability and with the planned appointment of a Chief Internal Audit implications for the Group regarding the new General Executive during the 2017 18 financial year.
Data Protection Regulation effective May 2018 and a proposed action plan.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit reports and approved the internal audit plan and fees.
The Further details on the Companys internal controls Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal AR system and risk monitoring can be found on pages 30 audit function by having discussions with Remgro to 36.
Internal Audit and key members of management, Whilst the overall conclusion was that the control and is satisfied with the effectiveness and efficiency environment is effective in ensuring the consistent of the function, reliability of financial reporting, and achievement of key control objectives, the following compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
