Corporate social responsibility Putting Pets Before Profit Our commitments Being the UKs leading retailer of pet food, Heart of the Community Our Pets accessories and grooming services, and one People ofthe foremost veterinary services providers we Sourcing with Integrity have an important role to play in delivering the highest possible welfare standards for pets.
Our Pets We also aim to make a positive impact on the Environment communities where we operate and to reduce To be the best pet our environmental footprint.
shop in the world Green Paws Responsible Retailing people pet planet CSR at a glance Behaving responsibly is integral to how Pets at Home operates across every facet of our business.
Our commitments are expressed under four pillars: Our pillars Our Pets Heart of the Sourcing with Our Pets People Community Integrity Environment To be a great place Being at the heart Always putting Respecting and using Our vision to work of every community Pets Before Profit resources efficiently Exceptional colleague Leading the way in Driving standards Eliminating waste Our engagement responsible pet ownership in the pet industry sent to landfill commitments World class training Rehoming pets in Promoting the highest Using less energy Keeping Our Pets People need of new families possible animal welfare Rethinking our packaging healthy and safe Providing lifelines to local standards Becoming more fuel and national charitable efficient causes Colleague engagement More than 102,000 Clinical governance Significant reduction in 2017 maintained at 94% people registered for framework developed: energy usage delivered Highlights My Pet Pals pet care audits launched in vet through investment in workshops practices BEMS technology and LED lighting More on page 48 More on page 50 More on page 54 More on page 56 Pets at Home Group Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Through our We operate Learning Academy an Earn as you we delivered Learn model training to 547 vets which rewards and nurses colleagues as We enrolled More on page 48 their training 98 colleagues progresses and onto grooming their knowledge apprenticeships increases and will offer More on page 48 75 more in the year ahead More on page 48 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Corporate social responsibility continued Pets Before Profit: A safe and healthy journey to a happy home Our trained colleagues Breeders check the health of our Health check pets regularly.
If ever We work only with we have concerns we carefully selected always seek veterinary breeders.
We undertake advice, irrespective regular audits to ensure ofcost.
compliance with our strict code of conduct.
Quiet room There is a purpose built quiet room in every store where petssettle in to their new surroundings for a specified time.
Quiet rooms are linked to our Building Energy Management Systems to maintain a suitable temperature range.
Health check Pet Sale We aim to find the right pet for every customer and the right home for every pet.
PetPads provide reference welfare guidance for our colleagues and record the details of every sale.
Colleagues are all empowered torefuse a sale if they cannot becertain a pets welfare needs will be met fully.
Health check Pets at Home Group Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Transport Pets Before Profit: Keeping pets healthy and safe We have our own dedicated fleet of climate controlled vehicles which are fitted out Pet Team specifically for the transport of pets.
Drivers of these vehicles We have a dedicated team of experts receive specific training.
who ensure that we adopt the highest possible welfare standards and that these are implemented consistently in every store.
Sales floor Our pets are provided with the fresh water, food and enrichment they need to keep them fit and healthy.
Colleagues follow carefully specified cleaning routines every day, including Christmas We provide everything our customers Day.
We provide a full range are likely to need to ensure their pets of care leaflets for every pet remain happy, healthy and safe type in our stores.
Aftercare We aim to follow up every pet sale with a call to check that the pet is settling in to its new Support Adoption For Pets home and provide further advice and support if necessary.
For pets that cannot stay with their owner for whatever reason, we aim to provide a second chance of happiness.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Our Pets People Our colleagues are fundamentally important to us.
Theirknowledgeand passion for pets is at the heart of the relationships we build with our customers and our clients.
Exceptional colleague engagement World-class training We recognise the value of our entered the Great Place To Work survey Being a specialist retailer we colleagues knowledge if we are to which affords colleagues a further recognise that our colleagues need provide the best possible advice for opportunity to provide feedback and specialist knowledge if they are our customers and their pets.
We allows us to benchmark Pets at Home toengage with our customers and consciously recruit colleagues who against the best in Europe.
In 2015 we provide the service and advice they share our love of pets and, recognising were ranked 15th among larger UK seek.
As a result we place great the correlation between colleague companies.
In 2016 we improved to 7th emphasis on colleague development.
turnover and expertise, we aim to overall in the UK and were the highest maintain a consistently high level placed retailer.
In 2017, we were placed At the heart of our training is our Steps of engagement with them.
9th overall in the UK and retained our programme, which we are updating position as the highest placed retailer.
from April 2017 to better reflect the We measure engagement annually by career aspirations of our colleagues.
inviting every colleague to participate Most of our first opinion veterinary We have amalgamated the two existing in an online survey Were All Ears.
practices are separate small business, compulsory steps into a single new Now in its tenth year, this survey asks owned mainly in joint ventures with training programme after which colleagues to select from a range partners from the veterinary profession.
colleagues will Step Up to Pet of responses, from strongly agree Colleagues in the veterinary practices Colleague.
Colleagues can then to strongly disagree, in answer to are employed by the Joint Venture develop their pet specialisms after questions based on our values, vision companies rather than the Group.
which they will Step Up to Pet Expert.
We aim to maintain the Manyof these Joint Venture companies Colleagues who stretch themselves measure of overall engagement above also recognise the value of measuring further and develop an in-depth 90%.
We also measure the percentage colleague engagement and in 2016 we knowledge of pets can Step Up to Pet of strongly agree responses.
This was introduced a colleague engagement Specialist once they have completed 78% in 2017 compared to 77% in 2016. survey across our first opinion practices.
Our ambition is to increase the level Now in its second year, this survey has ofstrongly agree responses to 80%.
proved invaluable in helping our partners We operate an Earn As You Learn measure colleague engagement in their model which rewards colleagues as In 2013 we were ranked first in own practice.
In FY2017 we generated their training progresses and their theSunday Times list of Best Big practice-specific responses from 91 expertise increases.
On stepping Companies to Work For.
Having practices and aim to build on this with uptoPet Colleague, colleagues will reached this level among UK each successive year, helping our receive an increase in their pay of companies, we decided it would be partners be the employer of choice 25pper hour.
For each pet specialism appropriate to challenge ourselves intheir community.
they add, up to a maximum of four against a broader peer group and colleagues will receive an additional 20p per hour on stepping up to Pet Expert.
Pet Specialists will receive a further 20p per hour, bringing the total Earn As You Learn addition to 1.25 anhour.
Colleague engagement % 94% 94% 94% 93% 93% 75 grooming apprenticeships in the year ahead 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Pets at Home Group Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance World-class training Keeping Our Pets People healthy and safe Colleagues embarking on a career We are committed to providing a safe Accident rates stores practices in grooming now have the opportunity and healthy environment for all of our to follow our apprenticeship training.
colleagues, customers and third party 9.37 In the past year we have enrolled contractors.
We actively encourage 8.2 7.48 98 colleagues onto grooming apositive health and safety Culture apprenticeships.
From the initial cohort throughout our stores, practices, of 12 apprentices we have offered ten distribution centres and support permanent roles as stylists in our offices.
The safety and wellbeing 1.29 1.1 1.06 Groom Room salons.
We plan to offer of our colleagues is an important part Retail colleague accident Customer accident a further 75 grooming apprenticeships of our colleague engagement levels.
rates per 1,000 rates per 100,000 in the year ahead.
colleagues transactions The Group recognises its responsibility 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Our veterinary colleagues undergo for health and safety and we have robust Distribution accident rates rigorous professional development control measures in place to minimise as part of their ongoing professional the risk of incidents.
We are committed to Executive reviews and signs off ensuring our vets and nurses have our Health and Safety policy Statement 0.58 access to the highest quality training every year prior to our annual Health 0.45 0.43 0.39 and have developed our own Learning andSafety week.
In FY2017 our Learning Academy delivered training There have been no Health and Safety to 547 colleagues and we will further Enforcement Notices served on the Group.
Distribution colleague Distribution RIDDOR expand this facility each year.
We are accidents per 100,000 accident rates per 100,000 hours worked hours worked also developing an apprenticeship We continue to benchmark accident 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 programme to help train more veterinary rates across the Group which also nurses and make nurse training more includes the accidents which have taken Group RIDDOR rates accessible.
We are working with a place in our joint venture veterinary number of providers to deliver these surgeries and specialist referral centres.
programmes, including developing a We record all incidents including 0.38 0.34 0.33 Nursing Academy utilising the renowned non-work related injuries and report teaching capabilities at our specialist all accidents in accordance with the referral centre Dick White Referrals.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations 0.04 RIDDOR.
We also classify all incidents 0.02 0.02 where we are aware a customer intends Colleague RIDDOR to go to hospital as RIDDOR reportable, accident rate per 1,000 colleagues which will result in some over reporting 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 of RIDDORs.
During the year, total accidents across We continue to promote a Stay Safe the Group increased with our store and culture of health and safety throughout colleague growth.
While our colleague the Group.
For the third year running, accident rate increased from 7.48 to our two distribution centres applied for 9.37accidents per 1,000 colleagues, the British Safety Councils international we saw a reduction in Customer Safety Awards and achieved passes accidents from 1.10 to 1.06 per demonstrating our commitment to the 100,000 transactions, while the number health, safety and wellbeing of our of RIDDOR accidents remained similar colleagues and contractors.
All Joint to previous year in our stores practices.
Venture practices open for more than InDistribution, there was a slight a year received a health & safety audit decrease of 0.04 accidents per 100,000 from our In-house team.
Within Retail hours worked, and a 0.04 decrease in we achieved 100% compliance for our RIDDOR accidents for the year.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Customer RIDDOR accident rates per 100,000 transactions Corporate social responsibility continued Heart of the Community We have stores and vet practices over the length and breadth of the UK and we aim to contribute positively towards the wellbeing of our local communities.
Educating the next Providing a second chance of generation of pet owners happiness for less fortunate pets We understand that pets add Sadly, through no fault of their own, Over the past year our colleagues have immeasurably to our lives and in not every pet is able to enjoy a supported a number of fundraising return we believe it is essential that permanent loving home.
For these drives which have benefitted Support a prospective pet owner understands pets rescue and rehoming centres Adoption For Pets and their local the needs of a pet and can provide offer a vital second chance of partnered organisations.
The biggest for them fully before taking on happiness.
fundraising event of the year is the the long-term responsibility of Santa Paws appeal.
Through the efforts pet ownership.
In 2006 Pets at Home established of our colleagues and the generosity of thecharity Support Adoption For Pets our customers, more than 1 million was For children in particular a new pet which provides rehoming centres in our raised this year, enough to provide more canbe particularly thrilling, so to stores and funding for organisations than two million meals for pets in rescue makethem aware of the responsibility who rescue and rehome domestic centres around the country.
Over the that comes with a new pet, we have pets.
The charity has grown to be year as a whole 3.8m was raised, developed a programme of workshop oneof the largest in its sector.
Our allowing Support Adoption For Pets events which we call My Pet Pals.
colleagues care for pets in the Support tosupport 1,000 charities.
These are free to attend and parents Adoption For Pets rehoming centres can book their children onto one of the inour stores and make sure we apply workshops using our online booking the same diligence to the adoption of platform.
Over the course of the year, apet as we do to the sale of a pet.
more than 102,000 people registered to take part in one of our workshops Our stores are encouraged to form which cover aquatics, small mammals partnerships with local rescue and and reptiles.
rehoming centres whereby store teams and rescue volunteers work together to 3.8m We have also built strong relationships promote the work of the rescue within raised for Support with organisations like the Scouting the community, highlight pets in need Adoption For Pets Association, where we sponsor the of new homes and raise valuable funds.
Beavers Animal Friend and the Cubs Animal Carer badges, the Girlguiding Association, and the RSPB where we collaborate on wild bird workshops and support the annual Big Garden Birdwatch campaign.
We recognise the contribution of our colleagues in delivering these community-based initiatives and rewardtheir achievement through an internal programme My Pond League.
This year our colleagues delivered a message about responsible pet ownership to more than 600 groups of Scouts, Guides, Brownies and Beavers and engaged with 400 schools.
Pets at Home Group Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Providing Lifelines to local Community Vet and national charities of Choice Through our VIP loyalty Many of our vet practices are scheme customers already embedded within their local can generate lifelines community, having strong links to rewards from their purchases.
animal charities and rehoming centres Lifelines are donated to animal in the area.
60 charities nominated by our customers of our vet practices which can be used to purchase food In May 2016 we launched Community ran Pet First Aid and accessories from our stores.
Vet of Choice to help our veterinary workshops in 2016 practices become a vital and treasured We aim to grow the value of lifelines part of their community.
We provide donated in line with our sales growth.
vets with materials to support their This year 2 million worth of lifelines engagement with pet owners and with was donated, bringing the total value local animal organisations.
Vets have of lifelines donated to more than been particularly keen to embrace 6.25 million since the scheme opportunities to help pet owners was launched.
understand issues like firework anxiety and suggest appropriate strategies to Supporting the work of the Dogs Trust help them and their pets deal with the We continue to provide support to stress fireworks can cause.
Firework 176 the Dogs Trust with donations of anxiety workshops were run by 176 of our vet practices Wainwrights dog food so that every practices in the first year.
Pet First Aid ran Firework Anxiety dog rehomed goes to its new home workshops were also popular, with workshops in 2016 with a healthy and nutritious diet.
year more than 450,000 worth of Work is underway to encourage further food was requested by the Dogs Trust.
participation among our Joint Venture partners and to develop additional workshops that vets can provide locally.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate social responsibility continued Promoting responsible pet ownership Through our programme of My Pet Pals workshops weaimtoeducatethe next generation of pet owners  of pet ownership.
We rehome pets that need a second chance of happiness More on page 50 More than 102,000 people registered for one of our workshops More on page 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Pet care leaflets, many produced in conjunction with the RSPCA, are available in every store More on page 54 We explain the Highly trained importance of the colleagues provide 5 welfare needs guidance on all aspects of More on page 54 pet welfare More on page 48 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Corporate social responsibility continued Sourcing with Integrity Our core belief is that pets always come before profit.
This makes us acutely aware of our responsibilities to deliver the highest ethical standards in relation to the pets in our stores and the supply of the products and services we provide.
Delivering the best Creating standards possible pet welfare in the pet industry The welfare of pets is fundamental to To ensure our operations reflect the Advocating the ethical and responsible our business.
So there is nothing more best and most up-to-date welfare treatment of pets is fundamentally important to us than making sure our standards the pet team maintains important to us, and our passion pets have the best start in life and strong relationships with independent extends to the food and accessories find their way to a permanent loving experts on animal health, welfare and we provide for pet owners.
home when they leave our care.
To further improve the welfare of our pets we have initiated We are the only UK pet retailer to We have an expert pet team, headed a number of changes: have invested in a dedicated sourcing by an experienced vet who is supported operation in Asia with a team of by three qualified veterinary nurses, and We are consolidating the sale of reptiles trained technologists who have worked specialists in freshwater and marine into 66 stores.
This allows us to focus systematically to ensure that all of biology, and in pet and reptile welfare.
our expertise in regional centres and our Asian suppliers of Pets at Home A dedicated field team is responsible provide the best possible advice and registered brands and Pets at Home for ensuring we implement the best service to customers considering branded products, irrespective of possible standards consistently keeping a reptile as a pet.
Through our whether they supply us directly or across all our stores and breeders.
investment in BEMS technology see through UK agents, have submitted A confidential hotline is in place for page 56 we can control temperatures evidence of compliance with our Ethical colleagues to raise any concerns they more accurately for our pets whilst Trading Policy.
In addition to our own may have directly with our Head of Pets.
We regular interaction, Asian suppliers are have introduced clear Do not release independently audited by third parties We aim to reflect the most up-to-date into the wild messaging on our fish to ensure our standards are being practice in the welfare standards we bags and tanks and on the pet maintained.
These regular ethical audits adopt.
Our pet information leaflets certificate that accompanies every pet probe in detail the standards we require have been written to ensure customers sale.
And we no longer sell or adopt out in relation to: are aware of their responsibility, under rabbits as pets over the Easter holiday, the Animal Welfare Act, to care for their recognising the addition pressure on Hours of work animals properly and in particular parents to obtain a pet rabbit at this Wages toprovide for the five welfare needs.
Labour practices Many of these have been produced Working conditions inconjunction with the RSPCA and Onsite accommodation areco-branded to highlight this Homeworkers and sub-contractors endorsement.
Our store audits are also Health & safety based around the five welfare needs.
Environmental compliance Supply chain management The 5 welfare needs: We also work with our European suppliers to establish what audit information they hold for their factories, ensuring that our standards are being maintained.
A suitable The ability To be protected place to live to behave from pain, injury, normally suffering and disease A healthy diet To be housed with, or apart from, other animals Pets at Home Group Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Creating standards Supporting our vet partners through in the pet industry clinical freedom and governance There are no formal regulations specific Clinical freedom is a central tenet comprised of a cross section of to pet accessories in the UK so we have of our veterinary business and an veterinary professionals, which has developed our own testing protocols for essential way to ensure the health made key contributions to a number each product category, and where there and welfare of the pets in our care of initiatives.
are legal requirements for products such is always the highest priority for our batteries, electrical products and toys, business.
We work with more than For example, we have launched two the relevant regulations are applied 440 Joint Venture partners and clinical audits to act as clear indicators toour products.
More recently we employ more that 2,500 vets, nurses of clinical standards.
A post-operative haveentered into an agreement with and Veterinary Care Assistants in our complications audit, the most widely amajor US pet retailer to collaborate on veterinary practices.
used audit in veterinary practice, will common testing protocols for important allow comparison with published categories such as dog toys to help We have the utmost respect for their benchmarks, and an intravenous reduce costs and create better value professional knowledge and expertise catheter utilisation audit, which was for customers.
and we are committed to ensuring they proposed by our Clinical Advisory Board, have complete clinical freedom when which will provide information from which We have a highly experienced team making medical and surgical decisions.
we can challenge working standards and of Technical Managers who keep our Our vet partners are able to make promote best practice.
Results will be testing protocols and British European their own decisions about the medical shared with our vet partners through our Standards under regular review to products they use and which business-wide communication system.
ensure they keep pace with procedures they carry out within We will continue to widen our clinical developments in our product portfolio.
They also monitor carefully all product feedback provided by customers through The concept of clinical governance Another important aspect of our clinical our dedicated customer services team.
has not yet been widely adopted in the governance work focuses on responsible veterinary profession, and we recognise use of antibiotics.
Bacterial resistance We are currently undertaking an the opportunity for us to develop a to antibiotics is a growing problem in independent review of the extent and framework that will improve quality both human and animal health.
Through frequency of testing in our own label ofcare, clinical standards and patient the development and implementation food ranges.
safety across our veterinary network.
of initiatives over a three year timeframe In our first opinion business we have we intend to lead the way in the During the year we made improvements established a Clinical Advisory Board, responsible use of antibiotics in to the range of hamster cages to help thesmall animal veterinary sector.
customers provide better standards of pet welfare.
Also we eliminated cooked pork bones from our range, which now features only beef bones.
This was aresult of our detailed analysis of complaints which revealed that, whilst the number of complaints overall was low, pork bones were more likely to fragment when chewed.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Corporate social responsibility continued Our Pets Environment Our plans to minimise consumption of core resources and maximise efficiency are key to minimising our impact on the environment as we grow our operations.
Reducing energy Minimising fuel Reducing usage consumption waste As we reported last year, trials With an expanding business and We have continued to challenge of a combined Building Energy upward pressure on fuel costs there ourselves against our aspiration to Management System BEMS with are both financial and environmental divert 100% of waste arising from our LED lighting delivered a 35% 40% pressures on our logistics operation.
stores, support offices and distribution reduction in the daily energy load centres, away from landfill.
Since insourcing the dedicated retendered our waste contract in the transport operations based at our previous year and, under this new The rollout to all stores is the biggest distribution centres in Stoke and contract, we have achieved our goal single project we have undertaken.
Northampton in 2013, our aim of sending zero waste direct to landfill.
Bythe end of the year we completed has been to maintain consistent acombined BEMS LED installation in improvement in fuel efficiency, The housings for all the pets in our 250 stores, which involved fitting LED measured by both the number stores are cleaned every day of the lighting right across our sales floors of kilometres run per 1,000 cases year.
Used bedding, wood shavings and and in illuminated display signage.
delivered and kilometres per litre of other waste is collected and returned We are on track to have converted fuel used.
Investments in tractor units to our distribution centres for recycling.
the entire store estate by May 2017 that comply with Euro6 emissions delivering annual savings of 3m standards and more aerodynamic We have implemented a sustainable in 2017 18. trailers have helped to reduce CO packaging policy to ensure that any 2 emissions and improve the fuel packaging necessary to deliver our As part of the new BEMS set-up efficiency of the fleet.
products to customers in the perfect we have installed eight temperature condition we intend is created in the sensors across each of our stores, Alongside these physical improvements most sustainable way we can, which record temperature data every we have invested in Microlise, a vehicle throughout the packaging life cycle.
This helps control our telemetry system installed across The principles that underpin our policy in-store heating and cooling to maintain our heavy vehicle fleet, to provide can be summarised as use a little: an optimum comfort level for our pets, information about driver efficiency, and use the old: use it again and use customers and colleagues.
Additional we support this with a programme of it wisely.
Through these principles temperature probes in our quiet driver training to promote more efficient we aim to reduce packaging volume, rooms ensure pets are kept within a and defensive driving techniques.
material weight and optimise volume: temperature range that reflects current maximise recycled content and welfare guidelines.
This is monitored post-use recyclability: and minimise centrally with any variance immediately environmental impact throughout reported and quickly rectified.
also exploring the application of BEMS technology to control the temperatures in our in-store fish tanks and vivariums.
Minimising water Fuel efficiency Km 000 Km litre consumption cases 140 3.00 In April 2017 the water market was 2.95 opened up to competition for the first 130 time.
We are undertaking a review of 2.90 water consumption across our business 120 2.85 and the data we collect will be analysed in detail before deciding whether to 2.80 tender a Group-wide contract later 110 2.75 in the year.
100 2.70 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Km run per 1,000 cases delivered Km per litre of fuel used Pets at Home Group Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance Total carbon footprint We continue to monitor the CO 2 emissions from our business activities and to challenge areas where reductions can be made without compromising the welfare of our pets or the comfort and safety ofour colleagues and customers.
Our electricity consumption, by far the 9% most significant element in our total carbon footprint, showed a marked decrease in electricity decrease of 9% as we saw immediate consumption following benefits from our investment in LED investment in LED lighting lighting and BEMS technology in our and BEMS technology stores.
This was despite the continued in our stores expansion of our veterinary practices andgrooming salons which have inherently higher energy consumption than our retail environment.
Carbon footprint summary Fuel source Tonnes of CO e emissions 2017 2016 2 Diesel Core Fleet 5,991 5,942 8 7 10 1 Gas 2,282 2,091 9 6 5 Red Diesel 328 314 2 3 Electricity 28,840 31,680 4 Diesel 3rd Party 2,960 2,817 Fuel Used company cars fuel cards 1,017 1,151 Personal Business Travel Rail 38 12 Personal Business Travel Air 141 194 Personal Business Travel Car 873 754 Electricity T&D losses 2,609 2,616 45,079 47,570 1.
Diesel Core Fleet 13% P ets at Home CO2e footprint has been calculated using the 2017 DEFRA emissions factor and based on a Financial 2.
Red Diesel 1% I n line with DEFRA methodology, electricity emissions have been split out into scope 2 indirect consumption and scope 3for transmission and distribution losses.
Electricity 64% 2 016 saw the inclusion of limited scope 3 emissions including outsourced transportation and business travel 5.
Diesel 3rd Party 7% car, railandair, and this scope of reporting has been maintained for FY17.
Fuel Used company cars fuel cards 2% T he contractors who maintain Pets at Home air-conditioning units do not have the systems in place to provide the volumeof F-Gas used each year.
Due to the small volumes involved, this is considered to be fide minimis.
Electricity T&D losses 6% Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate social responsibility continued Exploring our store environment We provide a safe and comfortable in-store environment for our colleagues, customers and pets, while managing our operations to reduce our environmental footprint.
We use technology to We recycle all maintain a suitable waste bedding and temperature range shavings from our for our pets daily pet routines More on page 47 More on page 56 Our colleagues support local pet rescues and rehoming centres More on page 50 Pets at Home Group Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Performance We have invested in energy efficient lighting and control systems More on page 56 We have developed our own testing protocols for pet accessories More on page 55 We specify packaging responsibly to minimise environmental impact More on page 56 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
