Charity partnerships This was the third and final year of our national Jobs and opportunities partnership with Mencap, the UKs leading Community employment learning disability charity.
Across our business Our Community Employment Programme is a we raised over 360,000 over the three years.
Social collection of employment initiatives involving This year we asked employees to nominate training providers, charities and partners from charities that could help us achieve our goal review our supply chain.
It targets those furthest from of creating jobs and opportunities, and we put the job market, including homeless people, the our final shortlist to a Company vote 70% of long-term unemployed, people with learning respondents chose Barnardos.
They will become A focus on some of the disabilities, ex-offenders and serving prisoners.
The programme plays a real part in the planning During the year our teams in London key activities we carry process and beyond, showing local authorities continued to help tackle homelessness.
We also how our work can benefit an area.
In 2016 17, out to support our expanded our work in homelessness across the 183 people found work through our Community UK.
Were particularly focusing on Oxford, where customers, communities, Employment Programme.
During the year homelessness is rising.
we extended our prison work, launching a partners and employees.
Fairness scaffolding training centre in HMP Brixton We were delighted this year when we became an a UK first.
accredited Living Wage Employer by The Living When we started the programme in 2011, Wage Foundation.
All of our own employees are wefocused on helping candidates in London paid at least the Living Wage.
In our London find work on construction sites.
In 2015, we Customers business, 100% of those working on our behalf launched the programme at our Westgate within an environment we control are paid We aim to use our experience to ensure we give development in Oxford.
This year we expanded at least the Foundation Living Wage 9.75 an our customers a great experience.
We work with the programme geographically, from Portsmouth hour in London: 8.45 outside London.
In Retail, a diverse mix of businesses and organisations, to Leeds.
Were now offering more opportunities wereconfident well meet our commitment from global corporations and international in customer service a reflection of our strategic that everyone working on our behalf is paid at consumer brands to trend operators, fastshift from development activity towards asset least the Foundation Living Wage by 2020. growing tech companies and dynamic local management.
So far we have helped 962 people In 2015 we asked construction supply chain businesses.
Understanding and meeting from disadvantaged backgrounds.
partners to pay the Foundation Living Wage in customers changing needs is at the heart of Education their own supply chain.
This year we started to everything we do.
We work hard to understand Our education programmes help us engage the check whether this is being achieved across our future market dynamics and anticipate evolving wider community, including students, schools developments.
Moving forward, well also include expectations and requirements.
The programmes raise awareness a formal commitment in every contract.
levels of customer satisfaction is one of our KPIs of our developments, start conversations, and The Modern Slavery Act came into force in and we carry out annual surveys with customers develop our local relationships.
Weve taken steps to make sure our staff to assess our performance and gain insight.
areas where we work theres a degree of social and supply chain partners are aware of the Act For more on our work with occupiers see our inequality so we particularly want to reach out and its requirements.
In 2016 we issued our first London Portfolio and Retail Portfolio reviews to those pockets of disadvantage and support statement explaining how were addressing onpages 46-53. our ambitions to improve diversity in our sector.
the risk of slavery and human trafficking in our This year we worked with over 400 students business.
We then examined our recruitment between the ages of 12 and 18.
Projects included processes, and trained teams to help them spot Landsecs customer Girls Can Do It Too, an inspiring partnership the risks of modern slavery.
with two girls schools that challenged students engagement survey to design, model and pitch a new property development.
And were supporting The Sir Simon Milton Westminster University Technical College: a new kind of college for students 85.7% wishing to pursue a career in construction, Landsec is acting responsibly engineering and other roles that require both andmaking tangible improvements academic and technical ability.
to the management of Energy, Water and Waste 2015: 82.9%, 2.8% increase Cumulative total number of jobs secured Chart 25 1,200 962 1,000 84.5% 779 We feel that Landsec is 800 acting responsibly and 583 600 ishaving a positive effect 426 onthe local community 400 2015: 82.2%, 2.5% increase 206 200 105 26 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Jobs Target 38 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Health, safety and security Our priorities are: Health: to make sure every worker has a transferable occupational health record, and to make sure all our maintenance and construction partners have a wellbeing policy Safety: to have zero reportable health and safety incidents Security: to raise awareness of physical and cyber security, in our own organisation and across our industry Despite our efforts, incidents reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDORs increased this year.
This is partly because our system for logging and reporting of incidents is better, and partly because we worked on several complex developments including Nova, which had over 2,000 people on site at one time.
The good news is that, by bringing our many partners together in Customer Improvement Groups, weve created a more transparent culture.
Partners are more likely to tell us about safety incidents instead of hiding them.
Clive Johnson, our Group Head of Health, Safety and Security, continued to chair the Health in Construction Leadership Group HCLG.
This aims to make sure health gets as much attention as safety in our industry.
InJanuary 2017, HCLG held its second summit, drawing over 300 industry leaders.
This saw the launch of Mates in Mind, a programme that shows people how to support colleagues with mental ill health.
In future, well require all contractors to sign up.
For the coming year, we have set new objectives to train all our people in physical and cyber security.
The training will help with everything from protecting data when working remotely to staying safe during terrorist incidents.
Our partnership with Mencap helped: 21 people to get a job 52 people to get work placements 1,000 Over 1,000 people took part in Mencap events Landsec Annual Report 2017 39 Improve female representation at Leader levelto 30% Property Week Best Places to Our employees Improve the Engagement scores for Black, Work Survey 2016 Diversity Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues Getting greater diversity into the Company We were the only listed REIT bringing them into parity with employee including gender, ethnicity, social mobility, scores overall to make the published list of disability and sexuality is very important for us.
Improve the transparency of our reporting 32 Best Places to Work It means we better reflect the character of our of all diversity data, including the accurate customers and communities and are more likely Overall engagement 86% measurement, and tracking of engagement to understand their changing needs.
This year of other specific groups including LGBT Proud to work for weve set out these very specific objectives for anddisabled colleagues.
Landsec 93% the business, to be achieved by 2020: Ensure that Landsec continues to meet all Willing to give extra effort the voluntary targets set by the Hamptonto help this organisation Alexander Review.
Currently 36% of senior succeed 92% management including the Executive Committee are female National Equality Standard assessment At the first assessment, we fully met 27 out of 49 criteria, and partially met theremaining 22 Key positives: leadership: training and external partnerships: diversity aspects of new HQ Improvements needed: setting of clear targets: measurement of the impact of our diversity initiatives RICS Inclusive Employer Quality Mark Seen as a role model against all six criteria leadership, recruitment, staff development, staff retention, staff engagement and continuous improvement 40 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment in our people 2016 has been another year of significant Gender pay investment in our people.
We continued to The UK Government has introduced legislation roll out our established management and that will require employers with 250 or more leadership programmes, Positive Impact and UK employees to disclose information on their Positive Influence.
Almost 150 managers and gender pay gap.
The first disclosures will be leaders have now taken part, and the feedback based on amounts paid in April 2017 and must continues to be positive.
We have also invested be published by 4 April 2018. in our senior executives, who have been Improving all aspects of the diversity of our given access to a bespoke development offer workforce is a key people priority for Landsec, as including one-to-one coaching, business school is being a leader in promoting change across our programmes, and peer-to-peer networking sector.
We have therefore chosen to publish our and mentoring.
In all, 67% of our people have data in this years Annual Report.
undergone some form of training.
The table below shows the gender pay In line with the focus from the Health, picture for Landsec, calculated in accordance Safety and Security team, improving our with the published requirements.
The definition wellbeing offer has been a key priority, and we of pay shown is an hourly pay rate for each have taken advantage of the move to Victoria relevant employee as at 5 April 2017, reflecting to re-design the way all our people including base salary and certain allowances.
The bonus those based outside London can access high figures shown include total variable pay over quality medical care, including detailed health the previous 12 months bonus paid plus any assessments.
This has been supported by a new, proceeds on exercise of SAYE, ESOP or vesting healthier catering provision, and a range of of LTIP awards.
wellbeing initiatives including stress awareness, mindfulness and yoga.
We are proud that our investment in people Pay element Male Female % difference has been recognised externally.
In November Mean hourly salary 43.26 28.86 33.3 2016, we were the only listed REIT to be named Median hourly salary 33.36 21.27 36.3 in the Property Week Best Places to Work survey.
93% of our people said that they were Proportion of employees receiving 79.0% 77.1% a bonus proud to work for Landsec.
Mean bonus 42,894 14,282 66.7 Median bonus 12,741 4,780 62.5 Key employee figures: While at a headline level, the figures would suggest a significant pay gap between males and females in our business, we are satisfied that the issue is one of female representation in higher- 638 paying roles, rather than of equal pay for equivalent roles.
The analysis below, which includes additional data on hourly rate and mean bonus levels by pay quartile, illustrates this more fully: Total headcount Male Female % % mean mean difference difference Quartile % % hourly hourly in hourly in mean 20.4% split Number Male Female rate rate rate bonus Employee turnover Lower 138 23.9 76.1 14.15 15.00 6.0 17.4 12% resignations stable year-on-year Lower middle 138 40.6 59.4 21.98 22.13 0.7 18.3 Upper middle 138 58.0 42.0 33.17 32.95 0.7 25.9 50% Upper 138 69.6 30.4 74.08 71.03 4.1 20.7 Percentage of Senior Leader Like other companies across our industry, we surprising.
However, this can partly be explained and Leader roles filled by have a lower proportion of females in senior by the relatively high proportion in these groups internalpeople roles than we would like.
As we have said of part-time females, whose bonus payments elsewhere in the Annual Report, we have seen are pro-rated.
For example, in the lower quartile, encouraging progress at the most senior levels, 14.2% of our employees are part-time and they and we already exceed the Hampton-Alexander are all female.
46:54% review target of 33% female representation Encouraging more females into senior Overall male:female ratio at Executive Committee and the level below roles has become a key priority for us, which is female representation up 1% the top 28 executives.
However, the majority why we have committed to a specific target of of our upper quartile roles encompassing our improving our female representation at Leader Executive, Senior Leader and Leader levels are level broadly the lower end of upper quartile still occupied by males.
This is underpinned In the pay quartiles where there is a greater by some specific initiatives such as the female prevalence of females, their hourly pay matches, mentoring programme and a new set of or even exceeds, that of their male counterparts.
industry-wide recruitment guidelines which we Given this, the differential in mean bonus have developed in collaboration with our peers.
payments at the lower levels of pay may seem Landsec Annual Report 2017 41
