Corporate Social Responsibility and Pets Before Profit Committee Report Tessa Green Chairman of the Corporate Social Responsibility and Pets Before Profit Committee Introduction Who is on the Corporate Social Responsibility Recognising the Group encompasses a broad range of activities which are all focused around pets, the Board maintains a regular and Pets Before Profit Committee?
and detailed review of pet welfare in addition to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR more widely.
It achieves this by having both Member No.
of meetings a CSR Committee and a Pets Before Profit Committee which, Tessa Green Chairman 6 6 together, help manage the Groups most important ethical, Dennis Millard 6 6 social and environmental impacts.
The committees will review Paul Coby 6 6 compliance with and the development of legislation which will Tony DeNunzio 6 6 affect the sale, veterinary care and grooming of pets and all ethical matters in respect of the supply, transportation and sale of pets in stores.
The committees will also review all other What we did in 2017 CSR elements of the Groups CSR strategy, including caring for the Reviewed terms of reference for the committee.
environment, sourcing with integrity and Our Pets People.
The CSR Committee, which meets twice a year, is chaired Appraised the investment case for upgrading store byTessaGreen and its other members are Tony DeNunzio, lighting to LED with BEMS technology.
The Pets Before Profit Committee, which meets four times a year, is also chaired by Tessa Green with Considered the reporting of achievements Tony DeNunzio, Dennis Millard and Paul Coby as its members.
Reviewed the Groups Asian sourcing policies Acknowledging the importance of pets to the Group, all Board andpractices members are required to attend Pets Before Profit Committee meetings, along with Board observers.
Managing our commitments What we did in 2017 Pets Before Profit Reviewed proposals for development of Clinical Board Governance protocols in first opinion vet practices.
of Directors Reviewed proposals for further improvements to the supply and sale of pets, and to pet audits.
Considered welfare related matters in Grooming.
Strategic direction, objectives Pets & Group targets CSR Board Before profit Committee Committee Considered Defra proposals from their review of animal establishments licensing.
Reviewed the provision of adoption centres for small animals in stores.
Strategy, detailed targets CSR and implementation Operations Board What we will do in 2018 Continue to ensure delivery of the best possible pet welfare Being the UKs leading retailer of pet food, accessories and standards across the Group.
grooming services, and one of the foremost veterinary services providers, we have an important role to play in delivering the Monitor and drive forward standards in relation to CSR.
highest possible welfare standards for pets.
We also aim to Review the development of clinical governance framework make a positive impact on the communities where we operate in veterinary practices.
and to reduce our environmental footprint.
Monitor developments in CSR evaluation and reporting.
A group of senior managers from across the business have specific responsibility to ensure the delivery of our CSR commitments and to further improve standards of pet welfare.
In last years report wedescribed how we had consulted with key stakeholder groups, including customers, colleagues and animal welfare organisations, to identify priorities from which we could allocate resources to deliver the greatest impact environmentally, socially and financially.
Pets at Home Group Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Reflecting these priorities I am delighted with the progress that What does CSR mean to you?
has been made in the past year: 52% We have delivered a major investment programme to upgrade 38% store lighting to LED and install Building Energy Management technology across our store estate.
This is providing significant Ethics, honesty and responsibility Giving back to society, helping people energy savings and improving the store environment for our customers, colleagues and pets see page 56 A clinical governance framework, which is designed to improve quality of care, clinical standards and patient safety, has been What are the CSR issues most important to a pet retailer?
developed and implemented across our first opinion veterinary 83% practice network see page 55 We rely on highly engaged and motivated colleagues whose 64% shared love of pets provides an important bond with our customers.
We have continued to invest in our colleagues, Responsible pet welfare Ethical sourcing policy pets and products providing them with world-class training and rewarding their knowledge and experience through our Earn As You Learn policy.
Colleague engagement, a key measure for us, has Awareness of CSR initiatives remained high this year see page 48 5 point scale totally unaware to fully aware Education and information are essential for customers who 3.71 areconsidering introducing a new pet to their home.
Our investment in an online booking platform allows parents to 3.36 register their children in our My Pet Pals workshops where our 0 1 2 3 4 5 highly trained colleagues provide essential information about Charitable donations to pet rescue centres Pet care within our stores responsible pet ownership.
This year more than 102,000 people registered for one of these workshops see page 50 Representative sample of 1,038 VIP members surveyed, September 2015.
Our colleagues helped to raise 3.8 million to support the rehoming of pets.
In the four weeks leading up to Christmas 2016, they raised a staggering 1,064,064 in conjunction with the charity Support Adoption For Pets, to help with this vital work see page 50 Tessa Green Chairman Review of Animal Establishments Licensing Corporate Social Responsibility In December 2015 the Department for Environment, Food and and Pets Before Profit Committee Rural Affairs Defra issued a consultation on its review of animal 24 May 2017 establishments licensing.
As a consequence of our scale we have first-hand experience of the variation that exists among local authorities when licensing pet shops and of the pressure the current system creates by requiring every licence to be renewed at the end of the calendar year.
We provided a detailed response to Defras consultation on their proposals for reform, many of which we supported.
We welcome the proposals that Defra have brought forward, particularly the introduction of a risk-based approach to the length of a licence term, and the introduction of a rolling twelve month period instead of the current end of December expiry for all licences.
We also welcome proposals to enshrine the key requirements from the Model Licence Conditions into law which we believe will remove much of the variation that exists currently, and also the plans to allow licensing by accredited third parties, linked to risk based assessments.
We believe the steps announced by Defra represent a positive step forward for animalwelfare and are welcomed by Pets at Home.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89
