Heres some more Creating sustainable insight on the breadth long-term value of outputs our activities can generate and how wework to both create and protect value.
Financial Profit Asset value Balance sheet Dividend We aim to grow our long-term Our markets are cyclical.
The Loan-to-value LTV shows the We judge the level of dividend underlying profit.
We manage the London office market tends to have amount of our debt relative to the payments carefully, paying out business for the long term and greater swings between rising and value of our assets.
While a low most of our underlying earnings, growth in underlying profit ensures falling values.
Our valuations reflect LTV tends to represent a strong but retaining some funds so that we can provide a sustainable where were at in the cycle and how balance sheet, at times we will we have maximum flexibility dividend for shareholders.
Revenue were doing in relative terms to our want to increase debt so we can around investments and disposals.
profit and earnings per share are peers.
Our strategy is to act early, fund buying and development Our progressive dividend policy particularly helpful indications of reshaping our portfolios so we can activity.
At other times, we will means we aim to increase returns how were doing.
be resilient through the downturns fund that activity by selling assets.
to shareholders at a sustainable and ready for opportunities to buy Our adjusted diluted net assets level over time.
and develop as the cycle evolves.
per share measure is important because it enables shareholders to monitor the movement in the value of the net assets of the business and to compare this with the share price.
Includes proportionate share of joint ventures and subsidiaries as explained in the notes to 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 the financial statements.
Includes proportionate share of joint Adjusted net debt and Chart 11 ventures and subsidiaries as explained inthenotes to the financial statements.
Adjusted diluted Chart 8 loan-to-value ratio 2.
The surplus deficit represents the increase earnings pence per share decrease in value of the Combined Portfolio 000 % over the year, adjusted for net investment.
Portfolio quality We constantly look to strengthen our portfolio, ensuring it meets the changing needs of our customers and communities.
We always aim to bring social, economic and environmental benefits to the areas where we operate.
Sustainable design and innovation We think about the long-term Social appeal, impacts and resilience of our assets, designing with longterm value in mind.
We look to Customers enhance biodiversity and support From retailers to shoppers and the wellbeing of those who use diners, from office occupiers our buildings.
And we work closely and their employees who work with our partners to minimise in our spaces to their visitors, we environmental impacts.
aim to provide our customers with a fabulous experience.
We Natural resources design our buildings to support Being efficient helps us to the wellbeing and productivity mitigate our impacts and reduce of those who visit and work cost.
Our aim is to reduce carbon in them.
Diversity intensity, energy and waste while A broad range of backgrounds maximising the benefits of the Jobs and opportunities and perspectives make us a space we create and manage.
We create income for our We always look to be thoughtful employees and those of our and smart in the way we buy, use, many suppliers.
We aim to Living wall re-use and dispose of resources.
ensure that everyone who Featuring 52,000 plants, Health, safety and Target works on our behalf is treated 20 Fenchurch Streets living To reduce carbon intensity and paid fairly and promptly.
wall enriches both the security 2 kgCO m by 40% by 2030 We believe our business should 2 visitor experience and urban We work to maintain an compared with a 2013 14 reflect the diversity of the biodiversity.
exceptional standard of health, baseline, for property under communities we serve.
And safety and security in all the our management for at least we help disadvantaged people working environments we two years, with a longer-term and young people to access job control.
We also partner and ambition of an 80% reduction opportunities in our industry.
collaborate with others to help by 2050 raise standards in our industry To continue to procure 100% renewable electricity across Target ourportfolio and achieve To help a total of 1,200 3MW of renewable electricity disadvantaged people capacity by 2030 securejobs by 2020 To send zero waste to landfill To ensure the working with at least 75% recycled environments we control are across all our operational and fair and ensure that everyone construction activities by 2020. who is working on our behalf within an environment we control is paid at least the Living Wage by 2020.
