66 Governance Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee As Chairman of the Boards Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, I oversee the governance of our Sustainability Plan which Corporate spans our five values: Respect for our environment, Living healthier lives, Sourcing with integrity, Great place to work, and Making a positive difference to our community.
Responsibility Since we refreshed our Sustainability Plan in 2015, we have made significant progress in responding to changes in the world around us and deepening our understanding of the support our customers want from us.
and For example, as part of our Respect for our environment value, we have continued to increase the impact of our Waste less, Save more campaign.
This initiative was developed as a direct response to the findings in our Closer to Customers insight programme which revealed that customers wanted help Sustainability with reducing food waste at home.
Many of our customers also want help to live healthier lives.
Through our Committee Living healthier lives value, we have reformulated more of our products to reduce salt, saturated fat and sugar, and we have continued to support young people in communities across the UK to do more exercise and eat more healthily through our flagship Active Kids scheme.
Since its launch in 2005, we have invested more than 173 million in sports and cooking equipment and experiences for schools.
I am also particularly proud of the great progress we have made in Sourcing with integrity, towards developing sustainability standards across our key raw materials.
The credibility and quality of this work relies on close partnership and co-creation with many independent, expert organisations around the world which help us to ensure we have world-class standards addressing economic, social and environmental issues.
We place great value on these collaborations and I would like to thank all that have contributed to our journey.
As part of our Great place to work value, we strive to be the most inclusive retailer.
During the year, we have launched our Embrace the Difference inclusion campaign internally with a host of engagement activities and training to support colleagues to embrace the differences they see in others.
Were the largest employer to have reached the Investors in People Gold standard and the only retailer to achieve three consecutive Gold awards, and Dear Shareholder, the feedback we received recognised that our values are a core part of our DNA.
I was also pleased to see acknowledgment of our progress on gender, Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer, LGBT matters and apprenticeships all underpinned by strong colleague where people love to work and shop, by living up advocacy and open communication that runs as a golden thread through our business.
to our values for customers, colleagues, suppliers, shareholders and wider society.
This is critical to As work to integrate and align activity across the Sainsburys Group progresses in the year following the acquisition of HRG, we are identifying helping our customers to live well for less.
opportunities to have an even greater, positive impact on society.
Despite this being a year of significant change for colleagues at Argos, some key Throughout our 148-year history, we have always taken our responsibilities to activities, such as fundraising for Macmillan Cancer Support and the Irish society seriously.
Today, the need for business to build trust by, for example, Cancer Society part of our Making a positive difference to our community tax transparency or respecting human rights, is more important than ever.
value have continued with real commitment.
Building on this, we are While we experience political change and uncertainty in some aspects of confident that 2017 18 will be an exciting year for developing our approach society, we know that we can still play an important role in supporting our to sustainability across the whole Group.
customers in areas that matter to them.
We continue to listen to all our stakeholders customers, colleagues, suppliers Enabling people to live healthier lives, protecting the environment, supporting and investors to make sure we have the most relevant and effective our colleagues and people who work throughout our supply chains and strategy, leverage the knowledge and experience of experts and remain at the championing issues that affect our local communities, creates valuable forefront of sustainability between now, 2020 and beyond.
For me, what I am opportunities to deepen our relationships with all our stakeholders while most proud of is how we work diligently across the organisation to deliver on reducing risk.
our Sustainability Plan commitments and our values, day in and day out.
Further information about our approach can be found at www.
co. uk investor-centre, with quarterly updates also given as part of our broader trading statements.
Jean Tomlin Chairman, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Governance Report 67 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S Committee is chaired by Jean Tomlin and attended by its members Mary Harris and Mike J Sainsbury Coupe.
David Tyler also attends the meetings.
It met twice during the year plc Board and discussed our progress across each of our five values as well as our David Tyler Sustainability Plan as a whole.
For example, it reviewed the development Chairman of the Waste less, Save more customer food waste initiative and plans for the integration of Home Retail Group sustainability activities into the wider Corporate Sainsburys strategy.
Through these meetings the CR&S Committee also Responsibility receives regular updates on colleague and customer views on issues relating and Sustainability to our values and Sustainability Plan so that we can respond appropriately.
Committee Established January 2007, These formal Committee meetings were supported by two CR&S stakeholder meets twice annually meetings that were hosted by Jean Tomlin and Mike Coupe.
Key external Jean Tomlin, Chairman stakeholders, including representatives from the Government, industry, Non-Executive Director CR&S Steering Group non-governmental organisations and key suppliers, joined us to discuss Established 2001, issues that relate to our values.
Our Sourcing with integrity event focused meets twice annually on the role that Sainsburys can play in supporting the UN Sustainable Mike Coupe Development Goals and stakeholders at our Living healthier lives event Chairman, discussed the findings of our latest Active Kids research and the challenges Chief Executive Officer faced by 11-14 year olds in leading a healthier lifestyle.
These events are an Health important way for us to hear new perspectives and be challenged on issues Living healthier lives Steering Group that are important for our business and society.
We feed what we learn Judith Batchelar back into our teams so that we can respond through how we deliver our Director of Sainsbury's Brand Sustainability Plan.
Product Sourcing with integrity Forum Paul Mills-Hicks The Committee is supported by an internal CR&S governance structure Food Commercial Director whereby senior directors in the business have responsibility for each of our five values and sit on our CR&S Steering Group, chaired by Mike Coupe.
The Respect for our Environment members of this biannual Steering Group are shown opposite.
Steering environment Group John Rogers Chief Executive Officer of Sainsbury's Argos Making a positive Community Steering difference to our Group community Jon Hartland interim Acting Retail and Operations Director A Great Place To Work Steering A great place to work Group Angie Risley Group HR Director
