People: our journey so far Our transformation plan is being delivered by people across Kingfisher.
Everyone within Kingfisher from store colleagues, Aspire Talent Programme to logistics managers, to buyers, to our CEO has a vital role to B&Qs Aspire Talent Programme offers fast-paced and play in helping us to achieve our ambition.
We recognise that challenging structured learning, designed to get colleagues change is hard and that the pace at which we are changing to where they want to go, but quicker than if they did it is fast.
So the aim of our People strategy is to ensure our by themselves.
Its a framework of development for those colleagues are inspired and engaged, skilled and supported identified as having talent, drive and the potential to todeliver great performance and an outstanding customer grow their B&Q career.
Its completed within a six-month experience.
We want to engage and enable colleagues to work period alongside their current role, with a further four towards creating ONE Kingfisher, develop as individuals, deliver months to consolidate and apply their learning before the the brand promise and grow.
This marks the completion of the To achieve this, our Chief People Officer, Alastair Robertson, programme for the Aspirees, giving them the opportunity isworking with the Human Resources leaders from across to share their progress with guests from around the the company to review and develop our People philosophy business.
This year, 258 colleagues have completed the and plan.
We are focusing on what engagement means and programme, with 167 from our stores and 91 from our how we leverage it during periods of transformation.
We are Store Support Office.
also developing our reward mechanisms and improving our learning and development abilities for both our colleagues and our customers.
We are building an environment where the value of working in Kingfisher is recognised as greater than the value of going to work.
We want our people to get more out ofworking for us than they put in.
Offer & Supply Chain One of the major People initiatives of the past year has been the creation of Kingfishers new Offer & Supply Chain OSC function, with dedicated teams in Range, Sourcing, Commercial and the support functions.
We want our people to get more out of working for us than they put in.
OSC colleagues with Chief Offer & Supply Chain Officer, Arja Taaveniku front left.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 26 Strategic report ACHIEVEMENTS THIS YEAR Engagement Training and Development During the year, Kingfisher received a number of awards for engagement, which recognised the company as a being a Castorama and Brico Dpt France work in partnership with good employer: universities and business schools to recruit apprentices for undergraduate and masters degree placements.
The programme offers a wide range of in-store placement Screwfix was named one of the Best Places to Work in the opportunities.
In 2016 17, a total of 713 apprentices were UK by Glassdoors Employees Choice Awards.
recruited across Castorama and Brico Dpt France.
Screwfix runs a number of programmes that develop people in their careers, all the way from the shop floor intomanagement and leadership roles.
Their store st management 1 Steps and Fast Track programmes are fully accredited with City & Guilds and the Institute of Leadership and Management Level 2, 3 & 4 qualifications, with approximately 820 colleagues on the programmes in2016 17.
We are developing a new learning strategy for our colleagues to enhance their knowledge of home improvement and our new unified product ranges and toimprove the service that we provide to customers.
Castorama Poland was awarded the Investor in Human Capital award by the Management Observatory Institute in Poland.
Brico Dpt Spain came top of the Best Workplaces Spain 2016 list, in the category for companies employing over 1,000 people.
It is the first time that a retailer has topped the ranking in Spain.
It is the fifth consecutive time that Brico Dpt Spain has appeared in this list.
713 apprentices were recruited across Castorama and Brico DptFrance.
