Sustainability: being a truly sustainable company At Kingfisher we believe that a good home is a sustainable We are working to integrate responsible sourcing of wood and home.
We want to support our customers in making paper into our processes for unified sourcing to enable us to sustainable choices, at affordable prices.
We will make further improve performance in future years.
ourhome our business sustainable too.
We aim to have a positive impact by helping to protect and As we transform our business we are working as ONE restore forests.
For example, our partnership with the RSPB Kingfisher to embed sustainability into our ranges.
We are and their Birdlife partners is supporting their efforts to restore developing the tools, accountabilities and processes to make 100,000 hectares of Indonesian rainforest.
This has enabled sustainability part of how our people work in our Operating the replanting of areas of forest and provided training and Companies, our global functions, our stores, and with economic opportunities for indigenous communities.
ENERGY AND CARBON In 2012 we launched Net Positive our aspiration to help Our energy saving products help customers save money by customers create sustainable homes, to be restorative to the reducing how much energy they use.
Our customers have environment, and to improve life in the communities where saved 12.8TWh of energy through sales of such products we operate and in our supply chain.
Since then, we have made and services since 2011 12.
We estimate this could save our strong progress and we achieved many of our milestones for customers over 840 million every year based on the average 2016 17.
We are in the process of reviewing our sustainability goals We are making savings in our business by improving energy to make sure they fully align with and support our business efficiency.
We will have installed renewable energy generation, transformation.
We will build on what we have learnt and the such as solar panels, at three stores and four distribution progress made to date for the next phase of our sustainability centres by April 2017, with plans underway for another three journey.
A full update against our targets will be included in our distribution centres and 10 stores during 2017.
Also in 2017, Sustainability Report, which will be published in June 2017. our UK operations will be moving to 100% renewable power, which will make a significant contribution to reducing our SUSTAINABLE HOME PRODUCTS carbon footprint.
We have cut our property carbon intensity Our sustainable home products help our customers create by25% since 2010 11.
A breakdown of our carbon footprint good homes while having a positive or much lower impact on is shown in the Directors Report on page 89. people and the environment.
Today, 28% of our sales come from sustainable home products 2015 16: 28%, generating COMMUNITIES 3.1 billion for the business.
During the year 40% of sales at We have supported 1,453 community projects since B&Q came from sustainable home products, far exceeding 2012 13.
We continue to evolve our approach to community ourgroup target.
investment to ensure it fully supports our ambition.
We have established a new partnership with the British Our Offer & Supply Chain Sustainability Director and product Red Cross to support people affected by local and sustainability experts are working with our product leads, international emergencies.
designers, engineers and marketers to integrate sustainability into the development of our unique and unified ranges and customer communications.
We have updated our Sustainable Home Product Guidelines Sustainability what our customers think to make them easier to use and published them on our website www.
The guidelines We want to have a positive impact by helping our customers to live are endorsed by Arja Taaveniku, our Chief Offer & Supply Chain sustainably.
We carried out research during 2016 17 to deepen our Officer.
We have also created sustainability roadmaps with understanding of customer attitudes to sustainability and make sure we know targets for each of our seven range categories and will launch what really matters to them.
Our research covered 45 households in five sustainability training for all colleagues in our Offer & Supply markets and included visits to customer homes and their local stores.
The research showed that for many, making sustainable choices is often too WOOD AND PAPER complex or time consuming.
People expect big brands to take a lead and We have been working on the responsible sourcing of wood to make sustainability simpler.
They are most motivated when sustainability and paper for many years.
Now, over 96% of the wood and helps them to save money, or when it is better for their health and wellbeing paper used in our products is responsibly sourced.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 28 Strategic report We have integrated the standards into our unified vendor contract and we audit key suppliers against our standards Solar roof panels for B&Q based on our risk assessment framework.
We are training our in Poole procurement professionals, our unified commercial teams Our B&Q store in Poole was the latest in the estate to andkey suppliers on our standards.
The standards can be found on our website atwww.
be fitted with solar roof panels.
This is the largest solar installation we have done on a store and complements Modern slavery the internal LED lighting that was installed previously.
We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery.
We recognise The installation will produce energy equivalent to that that no supply chain is without risk of modern slavery.
It is our needed to power 90 homes for a year, and will reduce responsibility to ensure we understand these risks and work the stores grid energy consumption by 23% per in partnership with our suppliers to mitigate them.
The stores roof is now home to 1,048 solar panels, the introduction ofthe UKs Modern Slavery Act, we are which would cover an area the size of six tennis working to improve our due diligence on modern slavery.
More information will be provided in our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement, which will be published on ourwebsite in June 2017.
Better packaging for customers and the environment New packaging for our unified kitchen tap range is saving resources and is better for our customers too.
Taps now come in a triangular box which is 30% smaller than the previous packaging design.
This saves 45tonnes of packaging material each year and Solar panels at B&Q Poole means more taps can be transported in each load, reducing freight costs and fuel use.
The packs are easy to open for our customers and widely recyclable.
We HUMAN RIGHTS are reviewing the packaging design for all our unified We respect human rights and aim to positively promote and and unique ranges to make sure it is always right for support the human rights of our colleagues, workers in our customers, right for our brands and products and right supply chain and others affected by our business activities.
Our approach is guided by international conventions and standards including the United Nations UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We are a member of the UN Global Compact.
Responsible sourcing We aim to source from suppliers who meet high standards on human rights, employment practices and the environment.
As we unify our sourcing through our Offer & Supply Chain function, this creates opportunities to develop closer relationshipswith our suppliers and improve standards.
Our Supply Chain Workplace Standards outline our ethical labour standards for our suppliers and their production sites.
