Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate responsibility Focusing on the issues that matter to our stakeholders Responsible retailing Whats next?
UN Sustainable DevelopmentGoals Our corporate responsibility programme We have been listening to our stakeholders We aim to be good corporate citizens and ensures we operate in a way that is right to help review and redevelop the programme support global initiatives.
As such, we are for our customers, colleagues, suppliers to ensure it remains relevant to our business.
looking at the UN Sustainable Development and shareholders whilst making a positive This years Corporate Responsibility Report Goals and how we can align our strategy to contribution to society and taking good will set out our new strategy for 2017 18 them in a meaningful way.
and beyond detailing key priority issues for the business alongside our streamlined This section covers corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 17 will commitments and KPIs.
highlights during our 2016 17 financial year be available for you to download later in the year.
as well as future plans for our strategy.
com cr It is just a snapshot.
Further information on how we operate as a responsible retailer can be found on our website at www.
Help British suppliers to be competitive, profitable and sustainable Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next British farming is essential to our business We will establish British Beef Shorthorn as the breed for our as it keeps supply chains short and efficient.
100% 5.1m Its important that we support suppliers to We will build a pig production programme for greater eating British own brand extra income create profitable, affordable, high quality quality and affordability.
fresh meat sold in generated for products for our customers.
ourstores farmersthrough We will develop more integrated dairy beef supply chains ForFarmers range through alliances with our milk processors and their farmers.
We will support local suppliers through The Nations Local Foodmakers programme.
Ensure the highest standards of food safety and integrity Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next It is a priority that our products and services We will establish the monitoring and continuous improvement Focus on antibiotics use within farming meet all food safety and legal standards.
of antibiotic use in chicken, eggs and pork production.
7% This significantly reduces risk and meets We will continue to meet Food Standards Agency FSA targets below the customer expectation for quality and value.
FSA target for campylobacter We will ensure the most suitable methods are used for levels microbiology testing.
Ensure fair working conditions for our suppliers Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next We take responsibility for ensuring that We will ensure visibility of valid ethical audits of high and workers are treated well and paid fairly medium risk tier one suppliers.
Doing so We will publish our modern slavery and human trafficking ethical trade audits key supplier secures the best suppliers, improves product statement by the end of June 2017. undertaken in 2016 colleagues attended integrity and reduces our risk.
modern slavery awareness training 20 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Making a positive difference in thecommunities weserve Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next Our stores play an active and positive role We will work with our new charity partner, CLIC Sargent, in their local community.
Doing so helps us over the next three years to raise funds to help stop cancer 7.5m 2.6m to support causes close to the hearts of our impacting young lives.
donated by raised for colleagues and customers.
We will continue to make a positive difference in the communities the Morrisons charity partner Foundation to Sue Ryder 7.2m close to our stores by donating over 5m in grant awards.
local charities since Feb 2014 We will continue to support high profile partnerships in our stores such as the Poppy Appeal and Children in Need.
Making it easier for customers to live healthier lives Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next As a food retailer, we must provide healthier We will reduce sugar as an ingredient in key categories which choices to our customers.
Doing so reflects contribute to childrens sugar intake.
88 social need, can help to increase sales and We will implement a nutrition and wellness strategy.
tonnes of sugar greater enhance our brand perception.
removed from We will continue to roll out Eat Smart endorsed products.
New healthier own brand eating brand Eat breakfast cereals Smart launched Source responsibly Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next Increasing global demand and pressure for We will continue to work on seafood sourcing improvement key commodities can lead to ill managed projects to ensure fresh fish is responsibly sourced.
RSPO supply chains, erosion of land, illegal logging We will ensure all timber and timber derived products are third certified palm and the destruction of natural habitats Continued work party certified sustainable or from 100% recycled material.
oil in own with Responsible and ecosystems.
We must ensure that brand products We will continue to monitor supplier compliance to source Fishing Scheme our supply chains remain sustainable and Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO certified palm oil that we conserve the natural capital were and derivatives in own brand products.
Reduce food waste Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next We must drive smarter supply chains by We will continue to increase the amount of surplus food we Over reducing avoidable food waste.
Doing so can redistribute from our operations to ensure that good food is 25,000 reduce environmental risk, create innovation never wasted.
2m tonnes of and drive efficiencies.
unsold food We will work with Waste and Resources Action Programme Wonky Veg sold products from during 2016 WRAP to look at food waste hotspots within our operations.
stores donated to local community We will further support the Love Food Hate Waste initiative, groups to help our customers reduce food waste in their home.
Look after our colleagues Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next The success of Morrisons is dependent on We will ensure our colleagues have the right tools to do their Your Say forums launched recruiting, developing and retaining the right job through My Job training.
We will progress the best talent For more people.
Supported and engaged colleagues within our business and support diversity.
information enable us to deliver great customer service please go to Our We will continue to run Your Say forums and improve overall and meet our six priorities.
on page 12 Continued on the next page 21 Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate responsibility continued Reduce general operational waste and carbon emissions Why it matters?
What were doing What we will do next Its important that we minimise environmental We will help to deliver progress against our risks to our business, protect natural capital and commitment to WRAPs Courtauld 2025 26.9% 2025 create efficiencies throughout our operation.
agreement, which is a collaborative action to reduction in operational Courtauld commitment cut the resource needed to provide our food carbon emissions signatories 2005 baseline and drink by one-fifth over ten years.
We will continue to make progress against our 30% absolute reduction in operational carbon emissions by 2020.
We will ensure Carbon Trust re-certification, which we have achieved since 2008.
The Carbon Trust Standard recognises organisations that take a best practice approach to measuring and managing their environmental impacts.
Subsidiaries and joint ventures Group GHG emissions for year ending 31 December Wm Morrison HK Ltd Hong Kong office 2004 05 2015 16 2016 17 Baseline Prior Current Change vs that deals with energy locally.
Emission source year year year baseline Wm Morrison Bananas Ltd leases a site Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities which is operated by a third party.
Natural gas 99,641 153,473 165,486 66.1% Sites Haulage 144,497 112,555 119,257 17.5% A number of distribution sites are operated Business miles 41,656 35,764 33,298 20.1% by third parties who are responsible for Fugitive emissions the energy and carbon, including sites at Refrigerant 504,431 239,222 235,934 53.2% Dordon and Birstall, and sites operated by Clipper Logistics PLC and Bunzl Cleaning & Energy purchased for own use Hygiene Supplies.
Electricity 780,585 671,562 588,969 24.5% Other Omissions Fuel oil only four sites have fuel oil, which Staff travel 1,680 1,100 983 41.5% is estimated to account for less than 0.1% Waste 36,730 20,876 16,657 54.6% of the total footprint.
Online deliveries 9,894 15,101 Total 1,609,221 1,244,445 1,175,685 26.9% Intensity ratio: kg CO e per ft GIA 49.0 30.2 27.8 43.3% 2 The 2013 Environmental Reporting Guidelines Reducing emissions state that the baseline year should be Methodology recalculated if there have been structural changes that would significantly impact on the The information above is taken from our organisations baseline year figures.
For this year, Group Carbon Footprint, prepared internally in we have revised our historical emissions figures partnership with Jacobs who also independently to take account of the sale of a number of sites verify the Group Carbon Footprint.
We have and revisions to carbon conversion factors.
reported for the calendar year 1 January to 31 December for all years in order to remain The Group Carbon Footprint includes all major consistent with our historical footprint reports.
sources of carbon emissions from the operation of the Groups supermarkets, manufacturing We have used the UK Governments and distribution sites, and operation of its Environmental Reporting Guidelines June haulage fleet.
Some minor exemptions are: 2013 to prepare these numbers, and the latest Approval of the Strategic report Pages 2 to 22 of the Annual Report form the Strategic emissions factors from the UK Government report.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board GHG Conversion Factors for Company on 8 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Reporting 2016.
Jonathan Burke Company Secretary 8 March 2017 22
