STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY PLANET The Group has engaged in a number of environmental At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in the projects during the course of the period: way we do business, this includes doing the right thing by all of our stakeholders throughout our supply chain and We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure operating in a fair and sustainable manner.
During the Project to measure and disclose our greenhouse period we began implementing our new sustainability gas emissions and climate change strategies.
Our strategy Fashioning a Better Future, developed from disclosure score improved from 93 D in the previous our Ted3 plan which was introduced in 2012. period to an overall score of B: We approach our social, environmental and ethical All of our business travel within scopes 1 and 3 is commitments SEE with the same focus and attention CarbonNeutral.
This means that the unavoidable to detail that permeates the rest of the business.
To emissions generated by air, road and rail journeys ensure that we continue to meet our responsibilities required to visit our stores, trustees and suppliers in these important areas Fashioning a Better Future have been offset in full through the purchase of focuses on Planet, People and Product.
Our Global carbon credits from verified carbon reduction projects: Sustainability Strategy has been developed and We are constantly reviewing the waste our business continues to be advanced and improved ensuring that generates in an effort to achieve our overall aim every department is included.
of sending no waste to landfill.
We participate in the Wastepack Compliance Scheme as part of the HOW WE WORK Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for Waste Regulations 1997 and continue to reduce overseeing the formulation of the Groups policies unnecessary packaging: and procedures to manage risks arising from SEE.
In We work with local schools and charities to recycle addition, the Board has tasked four members of the as much waste from head office as we can: Executive Committee to oversee specific areas of our We have been working with the charity Newlife to SEE agenda for the Group.
These Executive Committee ensure that all faulty garments returned to our UK members participate because of the relevance of their stores do not end up in landfill.
Since March 2014 departments to our ongoing commitment in these areas we have been sending these faulty garments to Brand Communication, Product Design, Production Newlife for resale as second-hand garments: and Special Projects Interior Design.
Our full-time Teds Through our relationships with Oxfam and Newlife Conscience department co-ordinates these areas and we have been able to ensure that our end of line the Groups cross-functional team which is responsible garments are utilised in the best way, raising over for addressing SEE concerns of the Group.
485,000 and diverting over 30 tonnes of waste from landfill.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS We believe in three very important areas of sustainability: 1.
Planet: the Group is committed to managing and reducing its impact on the environment: 2.
People: the Group is committed to looking after those who create, make and wear our product: and 3.
Product: the Group is committed to producing beautiful, more sustainable product.
24 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE PRODUCT Our employees and the people who work in our supply As part of our commitment to product we place great chains are our greatest asset and it is very important emphasis on producing more sustainable products.
to the Group that our products are produced in factories that are committed to providing a fair and safe We are part of the Sustainable Clothing Action environment for their workers.
To enable this: Plan SCAP, a DEFRA sponsored action plan organised to improve the sustainability of clothing Ted Baker Ethical, Production and Buying teams throughout its lifecycle by bringing together industry, regularly visit our suppliers to build and maintain government and third parties.
These are key in ensuring open and collaborate to develop sector-wide targets along honest communication: with the tools and guidance necessary to achieve All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Ethical them.
As a SCAP 2020 signatory, we are challenged Code of Conduct.
We review and revise our Code to reduce carbon, water and the amount of waste of Conduct regularly to ensure that it reflects generated or consumed by our products by 15% legislative changes and make sure that our suppliers by 2020: continue to make improvements.
The Code is based We have introduced internal sustainable fibre on international conventions such as: The Ethical targets to our collections to ensure that we are Trade Initiative Base Code, The United Nations meeting our SCAP commitment and, as part of SCAP, Universal Declaration of Human Rights and The we participate in the Metrics group.
This Group Fundamental Conventions of the International identifies the key industry metrics that businesses Labour Organisation, and can be found at http: should measure and is working on a tool to measure www.
com media Files T Ted-Baker baseline carbon, water and waste footprints.
pdf: identifies improvement actions that businesses could Through our partnership with MADE-BY, a nontake in this area: profit multi-stakeholder initiative set up to improve We became a member of the Better Cotton Initiative sustainability within the fashion industry, we began BCI in 2016.
The aim of the BCI is to make global reporting, through MODE Tracker, a new progress cotton production better for the people who produce tracking tool.
It is aimed at supporting fashion it, better for the environment it grows in and better brands to become more sustainable, focusing on for the cotton industrys future.
"Through education eight areas of fashion business including People, and training the farmers learn more sustainable Product and Own Operations: farming methods and pool their resources with the We continue to encourage our employees to donate aim of reducing environmental impacts, using less unwanted items through our ""Oxfam Collects"" water and harmful pesticides, and increasing yields."
Collection Point: In December 2014 we started to collect donations for leftover restaurant food.
Those proceeds are donated to Magic Breakfast, a charity that provides underprivileged school children in London with much needed breakfasts before school.
During the period, we raised enough money to provide 13,409 Magic Breakfasts: We keep two Buckfast bee colonies on the roof of our London head office from which we had a hugely successful honey harvest for the seventh year running.
25 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS emissions in the period for activities within the financial The Group has for a number of years participated control of the Group.
in the Carbon Disclosure Project and is now required, In measuring the Groups GHG emissions, all the in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Groups stores, warehouses and head offices around Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations the world were taken into account.
The space occupied 2013 the Regulations, to report its greenhouse gas by the Group within concession stores is excluded GHG emissions.
from Scope 1 and 2 calculations because the Group The Group has adopted a GHG reporting policy has neither financial nor operational control over a and a management system based on the methodology concession area.
Such emissions are included in the established under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, which Groups scope 3 figures which are published in our has been used to calculate the Groups Scope 1 and 2 annual Carbon Disclosure Project Report.
The Groups GHG emissions during the period are disclosed in the table below.
2017 2016 2 2 Scope 1 Direct CO emissions tonnes CO e 129 138 2 2 Scope 2 Indirect CO emissions tonnes CO e 4,469 4,062 2 Total tonnes CO e emissions 4,598 4,200 2 tCO e per square foot 0.012 0.012 2 tCO e per thousand GBP sales 0.009 0.009 GHG emissions for the period ended 28 January 2017 have been calculated using the appropriate 2016 UK Government Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and, for energy consumed overseas, the International Energy Agency Emission Factors.
THE BRIBERY ACT 2010 MODERN SLAVERY ACT 2015 The Board continues to proactively review the Groups The Group has issued a statement in compliance procedures to ensure they are sufficiently robust to with the Modern Slavery Act which is available at prevent corruption.
The statement sets out the Groups policies for assessing the risk of modern slavery within its supply chain and the steps taken to improve transparency.
This will be a continued focus for the Group and we will continue to work through a crossfunctional Steering Committee to develop the policies in line with the evolving business and landscape.
