STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE LEARNING, DEVELOPMENT AND TALENT MANAGEMENT The incredible talent, enduring commitment and Individual performance is reviewed biannually with passion of the Ted Baker team are key factors in the each employee to discuss personal and career success of the Group.
We encourage employees with development and to set, and assess performance against learning and development opportunities, nurture their goals and objectives linked to personal growth and growth and potential and recognise and reward their business development, as well as Teds environmental contributions.
This is illustrated by the energy and and social commitments.
We invest in training which inspired performance of our team who drive innovation ranges from outsourced specialist and technical skills and growth.
training, to in-house developed Hand Made by Ted bespoke courses offered by the Ted Academy.
During REWARD AND RECOGNITION the period we launched Grow Your Own with Ted, an During the period we further developed our Pay for in-house development programme to support growth Performance remuneration approach for employees in individual and team talent.
Teds School of Excellence at our London head office Tedquarters.
Such was also launched focused on developing skills employees performance is measured against and brand knowledge in the first thirteen weeks of a competency criteria, objectives linked to business retail employees time with Ted.
A new Settling-In success and behavioural identifiers that directly support tool was also introduced to manage the probationary our unique culture and brand values.
enables Ted to award remuneration annually based Continuing to bring in fresh and specialist talent, as directly on individual success and achievement.
well as nurturing existing team members, remains high We continue to review all other employee groups on our business and people agenda.
Distinct career remuneration annually and a benchmarking analysis paths exist across the Group and inter-departmental is undertaken against market intelligence to ensure we and international transfers play a large part in remain competitive and commensurate across all areas retaining and growing talent as well as ensuring the of the business.
Ted story translates across the globe.
Our manpower In each territory we offer reward and recognition and succession plans are monitored and evaluated schemes in line with local legislative and market regularly to highlight skills and learning gaps, anticipate requirements for employees.
Our reward packages vacancies and harness talent.
Following the success of include bonus schemes linked to sales targets and the apprenticeship programme, Teds Extraordinary individual and corporate performance.
We encourage Diploma, we commenced our second programme all UK employees to join our Save As You Earn share during the period.
This programme helps to identify scheme which provides Ted with confidence in the top talent for our business as we continue to grow and commitment of its team.
Ted also provides a Longevolve in a changing consumer and digital age.
Term Incentive Plan LTIP for key senior employees throughout the business spanning a three year award period.
The LTIP is currently in its fourth tranche of issue and it is anticipated that this will continue on a rolling yearly award basis to enhance total annual reward and support retention.
During the period we celebrated the sixth year of Wisdom Awards, our scheme that recognises long-serving members of the team and provides a chance for them to celebrate and share their Ted stories.
28 STRATEGIC REPORT DIVERSITY talent within the business.
We respect cultural difference The Group believes in respecting individuals and their and actively seek to learn about each territory we rights in the workplace and that diversity supports the operate within.
dynamic of our teams to deliver success.
With this in Our commitment to diversity across the Group mind, specific policies are in place setting out our continues and consideration to diversity and gender is stance and commitment to managing harassment and given with a view to appointing the best placed individual bullying, whistle blowing and equality and diversity.
The charts below demonstrate the Our team represents a wide and diverse workforce gender split across the Board of Directors, the Groups from all backgrounds, sexual orientation, nationality, leadership and senior management teams and global ethnic and religious groups.
We support sponsorship of employees as at 28 January 2017. visa applications, where appropriate, to retain specific 2017 2016 MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 1 6 5 1 6 Executive Committee and other senior managers 55 64 119 34 54 88 Global employees 1,063 2,160 3,223 1,108 2,168 3,276 UK North America Europe Asia MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE TOTAL Ted Baker Plc Board of Directors 5 1 - - - - - - 6 Executive Committee and other senior managers 41 37 7 18 1 5 5 5 119 Global employees 604 1,123 258 486 134 414 65 139 3,223 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE their employment with the Group continues and that Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our where appropriate reasonable adjustments are made team is supported by activity such as private healthcare, and relevant training and education of the wider team is occupational health, health seminars and funding for arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, flu jabs.
During the period, we conducted Wellness career development and promotion of persons with health assessment days and we offer health and fitness disabilities should, as far as possible, be identical with classes to our team members at Tedquarters.
We run that of other employees.
a Childcare Voucher Scheme in the UK.
An Employee Assistance Programme in the UK and US further CULTURE supports our concern for the health and well-being of Our brand values are important in everything we do our employees.
and are instilled in employees at their initial induction The Group employs a dedicated health and safety and at sessions with the Founder & Chief Executive team to support the identification of risks and prevention telling the story behind the brand.
Employees are of accidents and provides ongoing education and encouraged to always ask: Would Ted do it that way?
training to strengthen employees knowledge and We continue employees cultural journeys through a commitment in this area.
EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES Applications for employment by persons with disabilities are always fully and fairly considered, focusing on the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled during their employment, every effort is made to ensure that 29 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 STRATEGIC REPORT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed of matters affecting them and the Group, communicating in a way that aligns with the brand tone of voice and actively encourages feedback.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, BroadcasTED communications, Talk to Ted sessions, team member surveys and e-postcard messages from Ted.
Team representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting employees current and future interests.
Employees are regularly informed of the Groups performance and any factor affecting its performance during the period, in addition to business development initiatives to maintain interest and encourage participation.
SYSTEMS In the period we invested in a new integrated HR and Payroll system that will be rolled out across the Group in a phased approach.
This will present greater efficiencies and new ways of working.
With focus on self-serve technology, enhanced communications and talent management, we can expect improved people processes and analytics.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Anderson Finance Director & Company Secretary 23 March 2017 Registered Office: The Ugly Brown Building 6a St. Pancras Way London NW1 0TB Company No: 03393836 30 TIME TIME FLIES FLIES WHEN WHEN YOURE YOURE HAVING HAVING FUN
