S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR AIMS customer and colleague experience in store and Card Factory is committed to providing products of enabling us to become more energy efficient: excellent quality and value to our customers the greater use of training videos for our store lifeblood of our business.
In achieving this we recognise colleagues, providing them with a more practical and understand the importance of showing all of our guide to key operational requirements: stakeholders how we take our corporate and social a significant reduction in the time we take to respond responsibility CSR' seriously.
to customer complaints and a goal of reducing this to 72 hours during the course of 2017: Our aim is for CSR to be embedded within our culture: for it to guide management and employee behaviour: and to re-launch of the Card Factory Facebook page have clear responsibility and accountability both for our providing customers with another popular and CSR strategy and for the actions necessary to execute it.
accessible channel through which to provide us with feedback on our service and products: and We do not have a separate CSR function as it is further investment in the development of Card intrinsically important in every role.
The Board has Factorys online proposition www.
co. uk overall responsibility for CSR and how we manage and ensuring it meets the needs of our customers in monitor performance.
terms of quality and value and is easier to navigate and buy products.
Our CSR activity is focused on the following key topics: Customers The continued development of our products and Manufacturing and Sourcing customer service, both of which contribute to our retail proposition and customer experience, continue to Environment underpin our position as the UK's leading specialist Health and Safety greeting card retailer a position we intend to keep.
Employees MANUFACTURING AND SOURCING Community We are proud that the majority of cards sold in our stores are designed and manufactured by us in the UK.
CUSTOMERS The balance of cards and other products are sourced Our business is built on providing great quality from a broad and growing supplier base throughout the products, service and value to our customers.
UK, Europe and the Far East, principally China.
Key achievements during the year were: Supplier auditing further investment in, and increased focus on, We are continuing to develop our supplier factory customer insight through increased customer auditing programme to ensure it provides reasonable research ensuring we continue to listen to our assurance that we are trading with suppliers that customers and develop our service and proposition: operate ethically, and who also produce good quality safe products that comply with all relevant laws and a continued redesign of existing card ranges and standards.
We carry out audits using third-party launch of new ranges, both everyday and seasonal, specialists to ensure consistency in assessment.
supported by further investment in our design team ensuring our customers continue to have a great Currently we are aiming to ensure that all current choice of good quality products that are great value: suppliers outside the EU, with whom our purchases introduction of new non-card product ranges across exceed 50,000 pa, have received separate ethical and our store network, increasing customer choice, technical audits commissioned by us by the end of 2017. refreshing and diversifying our range and reflecting current trends: The ethical audits we commission use criteria, SA8000, which is an auditable certification standard developed investment in new point of sale materials and fixtures by Social Accountability International.
It encourages and fittings across our store network enabling us to organisations to develop, maintain, and apply socially better showcase some of our new and existing satisfactory practices in the supply chain.
The SA8000 products and making better use of available space in standard is the most recognised social certification stores both of which improve the customer shopping standard for factories and organisations worldwide.
The experience: audit scope includes: child labour, forced labour and reviewing the layout of our counter areas and our disciplinary practices, health and safety, discrimination, queue management during our busiest trading periods freedom of association, collective bargaining, working to ensure customers are served as quickly as possible: hours, remuneration and the environment.
an acceleration in the roll out of our investment in LED lighting across the store network, enhancing Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued team during the year gives us capacity to support greater Ethical audit results are categorised as either scrutiny of supplier practices.
Satisfactory, Needs Improvement or Needs Major Improvement.
If an audit indicates a supplier Needs Paper-based products Major Improvement we will seek to ensure that an In our UK manufacturing operations, appropriate due appropriate corrective action plan is put in place by the diligence is undertaken to ensure, so far as practicable, supplier and that the relevant member of the purchasing that we comply with the EU Timber Regulations EUTR'.
team is informed so that no further orders are placed We have also continued to develop the level of controls with that supplier until a re-audit has been carried out over paper-based materials within our products, sourced and an acceptable result has been achieved.
from the Far East, to replicate the level of due diligence we undertake within our own manufacturing facilities with In exceptional circumstances where an unsatisfactory those of third-party suppliers.
audit result occurs and the supplier concerned has an order in progress, the matter is brought to the attention During 2015, both our main trading subsidiary, of a senior member of the supply chain team so we can Sportswift Limited which trades as Card Factory, and decide how to proceed.
In certain instances this has our UK manufacturing operation, Printcraft Limited, resulted in financial loss where an order is cancelled or obtained FSC certification.
This has and will continue to refused on the results of such an audit to ensure we assist in providing a more robust and simplified supply maintain integrity over our supply chain.
chain over which to comply, so far as practicable, with EUTR and demonstrating the transparency we have By the end of 2017, our aim is to have ethical audits in place over our sourcing of paper-based materials from for suppliers representing more than 90% of the total value sustainable sources.
of goods we currently purchase from outside the EU.
We have consciously set ourselves this challenging target to demonstrate our commitment in this area.
We are committed to working with our key third-party suppliers to ensure that products on sale in our stores The technical audits we commission focus on a are manufactured using FSC certified material.
Our suppliers ability to produce the quantity of goods we long-term goal is that, so far as possible, all paper-based require safely, in accordance with our specifications and and wood-based products sold in our stores are all relevant standards including those relating to produced using FSC certified material by 2020, actively labelling.
Technical audit results are expressed as a developing and promoting a policy to maximise the use percentage and, if the result is 95% or lower, a of wood fibres from forestry operations certified by the corrective action plan is sought for the non-compliances FSC within our supply chain.
found in the audit and a suitable timeframe is agreed with the supplier and monitored.
If the original audit In our day-to-day operations we also seek to ensure that result is less than 70%, a re-audit is arranged after all paper and paper board materials classified as waste evidence of corrective actions has been received.
If we are separated and recycled and this is supported by our are not satisfied with the results of the re-audit we will waste management services provider who only use not make any further orders with that supplier until the landfill as a final resort once all other disposal methods issues are rectified.
We also ask all our suppliers to sign our supplier ENVIRONMENT compliance manual before trading commences, and we We recognise our operations impact the environment have continued to strengthen our quality assurance and and the policies we adopt are important to our business inspection operations, utilising third-party partners in and its stakeholders.
Our objective is to reduce our the Far East to complement our own team with the impact on the environment, from material sourcing to medium term goal of having a colleague dedicated to customer use and disposal, across the following key inspecting products at source prior to shipment.
topics: Waste recycling We have been a member of Sedex, a large and We recognise the impact waste generated from our recognised membership organisation which shares activities has on the communities we operate in.
We ethical trade data with members, since 2013 and we proactively look to reduce the level of waste generated actively encourage our current or prospective suppliers and maximise the proportion of waste that is recycled.
to join this organisation, if not already members.
We continue to educate our teams to maximise the level The audits we commission and the information provided of waste that can be recycled and minimise the number through our Sedex membership help us to monitor human of collections required to reduce the associated carbon rights issues through our supply chain and we support this footprint of waste collection and movement and to with periodic visits to the factories of key suppliers by our minimise store waste sent to landfill.
The continued investment in our sourcing 2 28 8 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s All of our store locations have the facility to recycle Installation of LED lighting paper, cardboard and plastic-based materials which During the year, we have accelerated our investment in constitute a very large proportion of store waste either the installation of energy-efficient LED lighting across our through the use of dry mixed recycling containers in store estate with another 250 FY16: 70 of our prewhich 95% of waste deposited must be recyclable or existing stores being retro-fitted and all of the 54 new waste containers which allow more specific separation stores which includes 3 relocations we have opened of materials with the latter mainly being in shopping being fitted with LED lighting FY16: 64.
In the existing centres with centrally managed facilities.
stores, for which we have comparative data, we have reduced our daily electricity usage by an average of50%.
Our distribution centres in Wakefield also operate a recycling programme to ensure all plastic and cardboard In addition to its cost efficiency, the LED lighting materials are bailed on site and removed for recycling.
enhances both the customer experience and working conditions for store colleagues given the nature of the Packaging lighting and the fact that it emits less heat.
We use a third-party consultancy to ensure we meet the requirements of the UK Packaging Waste Regulations Fuel efficiency and purchase the appropriate level of packaging We invest to improve fuel efficiency and reduce the recovery notes.
number of miles travelled as part of our commitment to reducing energy consumption.
The majority of the products we sell are designed We operate a fleet of company cars and vans in which we in-house which affords us the opportunity to reduce aim to include, as far as practicable, more fuel-efficient packaging waste for both products and transit vehicles and for which we monitor fuel consumption.
We continually seek to improve this, and this also helps us to reduce container and road transport costs.
With our third-party distribution partners, we have actively taken steps to reduce miles travelled for store Energy deliveries from our national distribution centre in Electricity is the main form of energy we consume and Wakefield.
By working in partnership with our carriers we analyse consumption across our entire estate, and making changes to our business processes, we are including our distribution centres, our manufacturing now sorting a large proportion of our deliveries facility and our stores.
Where possible, we look for destined for the northern parts of the United Kingdom opportunities to reduce our consumption and reduce and Scotland so that they are processed through wastage by introducing new procedures or making use northern distribution hubs.
As we have previously reported, this work was supplemented by an energy ESOS audit carried out under ESOS see below.
In 2015 16, with the support of our energy consultants, we carried out our first audit under The Energy Savings Operationally, we have continued to focus on: Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
This new mandatory Installation of smart meters requirement was introduced through EU legislation.
During the year we have continued to install smart During the year, we have reviewed the findings of the meters into our existing and new stores to allow us to audit and are beginning to implement some of the measure electricity usage on a half-hourly basis and we recommendations for energy efficiency savings.
This are aiming to have these in place across all of our stores will supplement the measures we already take to assess within the next 12 months.
Smart meters enable us to and reduce energy consumption.
reduce electricity usage by: Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions tackling behaviour in stores, for example, monitoring Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group unnecessary use of air conditioning and heating or GHG emissions for the Group for the year ended when lights are left on in stores after they have closed: 31January 2017, in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent identifying areas which use electricity within stores tCO e, were: 2 and producing plans to target areas of excess usage.
Source tCO e % 2 For example, there may be legacy equipment we Fuel combustion stationary 109 0.6% inherit when we open a store that is not fit for our Fuel combustion mobile 1,273 6.5% purposes or which is located in parts of a store that Fugitive emissions F-gas 61 0.3% no longer need it: and Purchased electricity 18,161 92.6% performing electrical audits to assess heavy TOTAL 19,604 consumption stores and consider where savings can be made, with close attention to lighting and heating installations in the back-of-house areas.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Key activities during the year included: Annual comparison and emissions intensity employee engagement colleagues across the tCO e 2016-17 2015-16 Reduction 2 business were given the opportunity to have their say Total emissions 19,604 22,997 14.8% on health and safety matters as part of the wider Emissions intensity 49.2 60.3 18.4% employee engagement survey undertaken across expressed in tCO e per m turnover 2 theGroup.
The compliance and safety team will be involved in rolling out any specific initiatives that Methodology and emission factors willimprove how we operate, particularly in our These emissions were calculated using the methodology retailstores: set out in the updated greenhouse gas reporting loss prevention following the restructuring of and guidance, Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB investment in our loss prevention team, they have 13944, issued by the Department for Environment worked closely with the compliance and safety team to Food and Rural Affairs in June 2013.
Further details of establish certain procedural safeguards within their the methodology applied in calculating these emissions programme of activities that ensure the safety and can be found on Card Factorys investor website security of the loss prevention team in carrying out its www.
activities: and HEALTH AND SAFETY retail risk assessments the risk assessment process The health and safety of all our employees, customers, has been simplified in stores to improve efficiency, contractors, visitors and members of the public is of whilst maintaining legal compliance.
Roll out has paramount importance to the Group.
begun to the whole store estate and positive feedback has been received from all to date.
All employees are responsible for ensuring that stores and other working environments are safe and operated The Board periodically receives reports on health and without significant risk.
Health and safety is safety matters throughout the Group including details incorporated into our day-to-day practices, including of any material incidents and remedial actions.
colleague induction, and we support and reinforce this through training programmes which help to mitigate EMPLOYEES health and safety risks.
Our colleagues across the Group are critical to Card Factorys ability to deliver the great products and Whilst the Board has ultimate responsibility for health customer service which underpin our success.
We and safety, it is managed on a day-to-day basis by our employ more than 7,000 permanent colleagues.
During compliance and safety team, who liaise with line the Christmas trading period, colleague numbers managers in all parts of the business to ensure increased to more than 13,000 across the Group, taking compliance with our policies and that all colleagues into account temporary seasonal workers.
receive appropriate training, tailored to support their specific roles.
The focus during the last year has been an investment in a Group-wide employee engagement survey to Compliance and safety meetings are held regularly understand how our colleagues feel about the business throughout the year and are attended by representatives and, in particular, what they think we do well and the from key operational teams with appropriate escalation areas in which they think we need to develop.
This to the senior management team where material issues or exercise, which was supported by Best Companies, has risks arise.
The overriding objective of the decisions provided valuable insight which we are using to develop taken at these meetings is to make our stores and a programme of activities aimed at ensuring our workplaces safe places for customers, employees and colleagues continue to feel valued and engaged as the visitors alike.
Our recently appointed Group Human Resources Director is leading this programme and we The compliance and safety team also analyses trends will report on it in more detail in next years and takes a pro-active approach to managing health Annual Report.
Other key activities during the last year have been: Additionally, our activities during the year have sought the introduction of a long service recognition award to develop how we collaborate and communicate across scheme for employees with 5, 10 and 15 years service: the Group in addressing health and safety matters and to streamline processes and procedures.
the launch of another offering under the Groups save as you earn SAYE' share scheme enabling eligible employees to save to buy shares in the Company at a discounted rate: 30 30 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials the continued roll out of our new learning Board and senior management team members management system SPARK' across the Group, regularly visiting stores to assess the retail which supports employee development and training proposition and get feedback from employees and and allows us to monitor our learning culture: and customers, particularly during key trading periods: and further development for our senior retail managers in employee relations.
visits to our Mock Shop, a representative Card Factory store at our head office which reflects the layout of a typical Card Factory store as it progresses We are an equal opportunities employer with a diverse through each trading season.
This provides a visual workforce: our policy is to recruit, develop, promote, representation of what we aim to achieve in our support and retain skilled and motivated people stores and also gives employees the opportunity to regardless of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, provide feedback on our retail proposition.
sexual orientation, gender identification, marital status or age.
COMMUNITY At the end of the financial period the percentage We recognise the importance of being responsible breakdown of male and female employees across the members of the communities in which we work.
We Group was as follows: look to support charitable causes that can benefit from our growth.
% Male % Female FY17 FY16 FY17 FY16 Card Factory is proud to have been supporting Board 67 83 33 17 Macmillan Cancer Support since 2006.
Employees and Senior management team 75 89 25 11 customers at Card Factory take part in multiple fundraising events, ranging from loose change All employees 20 20 80 80 donations to the annual National Bear Raffle in our stores, as well as the sale of Macmillan Christmas cards.
We regularly communicate with our employees in a variety of ways including: For a number of years, a group of employees from across our business have also competed in the Great our employee engagement survey and employee North Run attracting sponsorship from colleagues, focus groups, which are both new developments friends and relatives.
introduced during the last year and included sessions conducted by our CEO as part of her induction During the year the total amount we have raised for programme: Macmillan passed 4 million which is an incredible Tell Karen, which we launched towards the end of achievement and one of which all our colleagues should the financial year, gives colleagues the chance to be proud.
We intend to continue this very successful share directly with the CEO, their thoughts on how partnership with Macmillan, whose valuable work helps we can grow the business and provide our customers to ensure that no one faces cancer alone.
great service: a quarterly letter from our CEO to all colleagues: In addition to the money we raise for Macmillan, we have also donated considerable sums to the British weekly retail news bulletins, providing operational Heart Foundation, Alzheimers Society, and the NSPCC.
instructions to all of our stores: These three charities were chosen by our colleagues to an online message board communicating key benefit from the sale of plastic carrier bags in England, operational messages to all stores via our intranet: following the introduction of the 5p carrier bag charge regular meetings with regional and area managers in October 2015.
We intend to continue donating these ahead of key trading periods who then share key sums to charitable causes.
messages with store colleagues: store manager visits to head office to discuss and review Card Factorys retail proposition: Card FACTually, a periodic newsletter which contains a message from the CEO and takes a more lighthearted look at the business and includes details of the community and charity events we are involved in: Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Card Factory is proud to have been supporting Macmillan Cancer Support since 2006.
32 32 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 We have raised over 4 MILLION!
Macmillan Cancer Support thanks the staff and customers of Card Factory for their incredible fundraising activities which continue to help us ensure that no one faces cancer alone.
Sharon Cottam - Partnership Manger, Macmillan Cancer Support Total raised to date: 4,600,052.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
