Strategic Report Training and development Employees NEXT aims to realise the potential of its employees by NEXTs employees are integral to achieving its business supporting their career progression and promotion wherever objectives.
NEXT strives to create an environment to help possible.
It makes significant investment in the training and to attract and retain the right people to work at every level.
development of staff and in training and education programmes NEXT has established policies for recruitment, training and which contribute to the promotion prospects of employees.
development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in health, safety, welfare and the protection of Employee communication employees and their working environment.
NEXT has a policy of providing employees with financial Equal opportunities and diversity and other information about the business and ensures that NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to the suggestions and views of employees are taken into ensure that it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
NEXT has an employee forum made up of elected Full consideration is given to applications for employment from representatives from throughout the business who attend disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and meetings at least twice a year with directors and senior abilities and in accordance with relevant legislation.
This forum enables and encourages open discussion continues the employment wherever possible of any person on key business issues, policies and the working environment.
who becomes disabled during their employment, providing Employee share ownership assistance and modifications where possible.
Opportunities for training, career development and promotion do not operate to Approximately 11,900 employees held options or awards in the detriment of disabled employees.
respect of 5.6m shares in NEXT at January 2017, being 3.8% of the total shares in issue.
Its employee share ownership The following table shows the gender mix of the Groups trust ESOT purchases shares for issue to employees when employees at the end of the financial year: their options are exercised.
At the year end the ESOT held 4.4m shares: the Trustee generally does not vote on this Directors of Subsidiary directors holding on any resolution at General Meetings.
NEXT plc and other senior managers Pension provision NEXT provides pension benefits to participating employees, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report and in 12 Note 18 of the financial statements.
At January 2017, there were 12 4 943 2016: 1,021 active members in the Defined Benefit Section 4 of the NEXT Group Pension Plan and 2,949 2016: 2,888 UK 5 active members of the Defined Contribution Section.
In addition, 6 29 15,033 employees 2016: 14,583 participate in the Groups Auto 26 Enrolment defined contribution scheme.
2017 2016 2017 2016 Social, Community and Male Male Male Male Female Female Female Female Human Rights NEXT is committed to the principles of responsible business by Total employees addressing key business related social, ethical and environmental matters.
Senior directors and managers representing key areas of 14,860 the business take responsibility for corporate responsibility and 16,378 sustainability.
NEXT strives to continually make improvements by: acting in an ethical manner: developing positive relationships with suppliers and 34,347 business partners: recruiting and retaining responsible employees: 31,037 taking responsibility for our impact on the environment: 2017 2016 and Male Male delivering support through charitable donations to Female Female charities and community organisations.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information A third-party provides independent assurance on the causes of non-compliance.
NEXT also recognises the importance Groups Corporate Responsibility Report which is published of partnership and collaboration, both with our suppliers and on the Companys website www.
NEXT is also with other brands and organisations to work to resolve some of a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
the complex problems we are unable to solve alone.
Find out more on our website by visiting www.
co. uk  Customers NEXT is committed to offering stylish, quality products to its customers which are well made, functional, safe and are sourced Human rights in a responsible manner.
NEXT technologists work closely with NEXT recognises its responsibility to respect human rights buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure its products comply throughout its operations.
We are committed to ensuring with all relevant legislation and its own internal standards where that people are treated with dignity and respect by these are higher.
The expertise of independent safety specialists upholding internationally recognised human rights principles for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is encompassed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights used where required.
and the International Labour Organisations Declaration on NEXT endeavours to provide a high quality service to its Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, Our approach is to implement the United Nations Guiding brochures or website.
NEXT Customer Services interacts Principles on Business and Human Rights UN Guiding with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and Principles.
As a business we shall seek to avoid infringing issues.
Findings are recorded and the information is used the human rights of others and work to address any adverse by other areas of the business to review how a product or human rights impacts we identify.
NEXT takes seriously any allegation of human rights abuse in all its forms and will not tolerate human rights abuse Health and safety throughout its operations.
We have developed training for NEXT recognises the importance of health and safety and our employees, suppliers, business partners and service its management is designed to contribute to business providers which is being implemented in 2017. performance.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects For further information, refer to the NEXT Human Rights and of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures Modern Slavery Policy and the latest Corporate Responsibility to ensure that its activities and products do not harm the Report at www.
In line with the requirements of public, customers, employees or contractors.
Policies and the Modern Slavery Act 2015, our first annual modern slavery procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make statement will be published on the Company website during 2017. safety management more robust and current.
Suppliers Supporting charity and NEXT continues to focus on its supply chain as it recognises community that there is potential for human rights issues to arise in this NEXT supports a wide range of charities and organisations, area.
In common with other retailers, NEXTs product supply and provided the following financial support during the year: chain is both diverse and dynamic.
During the year, NEXT used around 570 third-party suppliers providing NEXT products, with 2017 2016 products manufactured in around 40 countries.
The challenge 000 000 of trading ethically and acting responsibly towards the workers Registered charities 1,020 1,012 in our own and our suppliers factories is a key priority which is Individual requests, local and managed by the NEXT Code of Practice COP Team, made up national groups and organisations 46 63 of 47 employees based in key sourcing locations.
Commercial support 103 80 NEXTs COP programme is based on the Ethical Trading This support was supplemented by the following additional Initiative base code and international labour conventions activities: and has nine key principles that stipulate the minimum 2017 2016 standards with which suppliers are required to comply.
The 000 000 COP team continue to deliver training to our product teams, NEXT charity events 53 64 other relevant employees and to third parties providing Gifts in kindproduct donations 1,730 3,426 NEXT product, ensuring they understand the vital role they Charity linked sales 441 403 play in our ethical trading programme.
Employee fundraising 55 43 The COP team carried out over 2,000 factory audits in 2016 17 and work directly with these suppliers to identify and address nextplc.
