Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to Developing Our People ensure its business is carried out in a way that ensures At JD Sports Fashion Plc, we are committed to our high standards of environmental and human behaviour.
people across all levels and aim to provide all employees With the help and co-operation of all employees, the with the tools to excel within their careers.
To facilitate Group endeavours to comply with all relevant laws in this, learning and development solutions are tailored order to meet that duty and responsibility wherever it and adjusted to meet the ever changing requirements operates.
The major contributions of the Group in this of a fast-paced, growing business.
A high percentage of retail management within the Training and Development Group are recruited internally with great importance being placed on employees being able to develop Who Are Our People?
Part of the foundation of this tradition The Group is a large equal opportunities employer of internal progression is the Groups Trainee that is committed to providing exceptional prospects Management Academy, designed to turn the most for its people to grow and develop within the business.
promising junior managers of today into the senior We invest heavily in attracting, recruiting and retaining managers of tomorrow.
In addition to the 194 Academy graduates currently The Group has grown significantly since its birth in working in UK and Ireland retail, the Academy has also 1981 and during the financial year employed over provided a number of senior employees within the 25,000 people, across all aspects of the business.
business, including five Area Sales Managers and key Internal progression and personal development are Head Office personnel.
The Academy is continually fundamental values of JD Sports Fashion Plc and are evolving to the needs of the Group and has also key to the future expansion of the Group, promoting produced 27 graduates from France, Spain and the our core values and DNA throughout.
The Group Netherlands, furthering its influence across the Group promotes career development both in the UK and internationally.
internationally, employing large numbers of school leavers and university graduates, within Retail, Head The Learning & Development team operates across all Office and Distribution.
Group fascias and territories, as well as Head Office and the Distribution Centre.
This function assesses the JDs global expansion offers its people multiple needs of the business whilst designing and delivering opportunities across its ever growing international the necessary programmes to ensure operational territories.
A variety of interesting positions usually consistency throughout the Group, developing the exist across a number of departments such as: Human management skills of our people in order for them to Resources, Finance, Buying, Merchandising, Property, effectively manage the business.
An expanding International Learning & Development Within Retail alone there are a number of roles, in team now sees a number of territories becoming around 1,300 stores across all territories, such as team increasingly self-sufficient, whilst communicating the members, store management and visual merchandisers, Groups core values across the globe.
working together to present the product range to extremely high standards and provide unparalleled In the period to January 2017, our Learning & service to customers.
Development team delivered over 1,500 hours of face-to-face training to circa 1,000 managers and Recruiting Our People junior managers.
This includes 594 hours of training The Group continues to grow with over 100 new stores with the Academy, as well as an additional 704 hours of opening during the year.
Opportunities continue to our Management Induction course, hosted at our exist both domestically and internationally and so it is Kingsway training suite along with 240 hours of Junior likely that this rate of expansion will continue for the Management Development training delivered to foreseeable future driving an ongoing recruitment employees out in the filed.
Whilst the Group is committed to getting the very best from its people, it also strives to ensure In addition to the amount of face-to-face training that its recruits are of the highest standard.
provided, over 60 online learning modules including Equality, Diversity & Respect have increased the reach Dedicated recruitment personnel for our Head of our training materials more than ever.
Office and Retail teams provide invaluable support in arranging interviews, scouring CV databases and As part of an employees career development plan, advertising positions both internally and externally, individuals must complete various e-learning modules ensuring that the most suitable candidates are at each stage of their career.
Over 145,000 online sourced in the UK and internationally.
course modules were completed by JD employees internationally in the period to January 2017.
Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Engaging Our People For our Senior Management teams we work with The Group sees employee engagement as a key specialists in Leadership Development to design aspect of ensuring that our team remains motivated bespoke programmes which include 1:1 executive and well-informed.
coaching, classroom modules and 360 degree feedback.
Our continually evolving Learning Management System platform contains a complete library of courses Providing Opportunities for Our People accessible by any web-enabled device.
This gives our As the Group expands both organically and employees the opportunity to learn both in-store and geographically, so do the opportunities for the people at home, using a blended learning approach that we employ.
New starters and existing personnel are includes videos and text-based materials which enable given the chance to grow with a company that is the business to track our employees progress.
continually seeking to take itself and its employees to the next level.
There are countless individuals who Our compulsory Management Induction course, held began their careers in our stores as Sales Assistants at our Kingsway training suite, is tailored to provide before either rising through the Retail ranks or pursuing face-to-face operational and soft skills training to our other careers within JD Sports Fashion Plc.
managers, helping them to develop them as individuals and ensuring consistency across our stores.
In recent years, acquisitions in the UK and internationally have further enabled our employees to progress, with a To promote a broader awareness of the Groups fluid transfer of talent across our many international activities our quarterly magazine, People 1st, is sent borders and fascias.
To further enable this, the Group to all stores and Head Offices.
This contains articles has created an International Talent Pool, where talented regarding new acquisitions and profiles of our and willing personnel can register their interest in departments, stores and territories as well as coverage working internationally.
of key business campaigns and awards ceremonies.
Whether you see yourself as a store manager, Our longstanding Employee of the Month programme a marketing executive or at the forefront of exporting also provides regular rewards for our sales team our fantastic product to a new international territory, members, with a monthly winner from each of our JD is the place where you can make this happen.
54 Areas receiving a certificate and a Gift Card.
Equality and Diversity Our People at Head Office The Group is committed to promoting policies which Ensuring that people have the right skills to do their are designed to ensure that employees and those jobs effectively is the key focus of our Head Office who seek to work for the Group are treated equally training team: this focus starts with a colleagues regardless of gender, marital status, sexual orientation, induction.
In the Distribution Centre, for example, this age, race, religion, ethnic or social origin or disability.
means that new colleagues spend the first period of their career with one of the dedicated on-shift The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications instructors covering Health and Safety and on-the-job for employment by people who are disabled, to continue training, before progressing to multi-skilling within whenever possible the development of staff who the operation.
become disabled and to provide equal opportunities for the career development of disabled employees.
It is also Across both the Distribution Centre and Head Office Group policy to provide opportunities for the large we work with a number of different training providers number of people seeking flexible or part time hours.
to deliver the training needs for our teams to support them in their roles.
Internally, we are launching the new Learning Academy in 2017 which comprises of Management Essentials training to our Line Managers, standalone open behavioural development workshops and a 16 week Management Development Programme.
67 67 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued A breakdown by gender of the number of employees Our performance against these targets is reviewed and who were Directors of the Company, Senior Managers reported upon regularly and we will ensure that adequate and other employees as at 28 January 2017, is set resource is provided to enable their achievement and out below: ensure the effective management of risk within the Group.
Our commitment is best evidenced by: The continued development of our induction and % % Male Female Total Male Female training programmes that ensures every colleague has the competence, understanding and awareness Plc Board 5 1 6 83% 17% to work safely and at minimum risk.
Senior Managers 160 49 209 77% 23% Our Group health and safety committee meeting All Employees 12,387 11,197 23,584 53% 47% four times a year and our distribution health and safety committee meeting taking place monthly The breakdown for the comparative period, as at both ensure engagement with our colleagues.
Every 30 January 2016, is set out below: employee has the opportunity to raise any safety concerns through their nominated representative.
% % There has been continued safety input into all our Male Female Total Male Female new and refitted stores from the initial design through to opening.
Our health and safety team Plc Board 4 1 5 80% 20% conducts its own audit programmes to ensure the Senior Managers 108 42 150 72% 28% highest safety standards are maintained during the construction phase of all our shop-fit projects.
All Employees 10,336 9,497 19,833 52% 48% We review the processes we have in place and aim Senior Managers are defined as - to implement current best practice in all areas of our business.
During the year we have reviewed 1. persons responsible for planning, directing or our Group, retail and distribution safety policies.
controlling the activities of the Company, or a We have also reviewed and revised the safety strategically significant part of the Company, other improvement plans for our retail and distribution than Company Directors and: teams demonstrating that we are committed to continuous improvement.
2. any other Directors of subsidiary undertakings We have implemented Group safety procedures across all UK companies with our focus on companies Communication with warehousing and distribution activity and The number and geographic dispersion of the Groups compliance at all sites has been reviewed throughout operating locations make it difficult, but essential, to the year.
Our drive to implement Group safety procedures across all JD retail stores in Europe continues and we Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved have recently appointed a Health and Safety Officer through management in the regional and area to take the lead in this initiative.
In addition, formal We set ourselves a number of measurable targets for communications informing all employees of the financial the year and have worked towards their achievement, performance of the Group are issued on a regular basis including: by the Groups Human Resources Department in the form of Team Briefs.
This department also produces - Our area sales managers must carry out a health the People 1st quarterly magazine.
and safety inspection every six months in each store under their control.
Our target was that Health and Safety 95% of all stores must have a current inspection We are fully committed to continuous health and safety in place.
At the end of the year the level of improvement across all areas of the Group and compliance was 96%.
understand that it is the way we work and behave that - Our main Distribution Centre achieved a four star protects our colleagues, customers and other British Safety Council Accreditation in 2016, which stakeholders.
is recognition of the hard work from the operations and safety teams and a demonstration of the Our organisational structure defines individual safety Groups commitment to safety.
responsibilities and duties to ensure that we provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all our colleagues.
We demonstrate this commitment through active leadership, promoting best practice and by setting specific and measurable targets each year.
Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued Environment Energy The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact that its businesses have on the Basic Principles environment and is committed to carrying out its The Groups core business is retail and it is the Groups activities with due consideration for the potential aim to give customers an enjoyable retail experience environmental impact both now and in the future.
with goods presented attractively in an environment Whilst we continue to comply with the UK Governments that is both well-lit and has a pleasant ambient Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation, we temperature.
However, the Group accepts that all the recognise that our responsibilities for managing the businesses within it must be responsible in their energy impact that our business activities have on the usage and associated carbon emissions.
This policy environment go beyond this.
During the period the applies in all territories.
Group has adopted an Environmental Policy which sets out how we are committed to reducing pollution and advancing our environmental performance.
Over the coming year we plan to undertake a full review of our environmental management processes within our core UK trading operations to identify further areas of improvement.
This will provide a platform for the introduction of an Environmental Management System EMS, detailing our outlined targets and objectives in the following areas: Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials.
Maximising the amount of waste which is recycled.
Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
Carbon Management Programme The Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme CMP which is sponsored by the Chief Financial Officer and is reviewed regularly.
The objectives of this programme are: Objective Action & Progress 1.
Understand the drivers and timing of usage by continued investment in energy smart meters.
This has now been achieved in over 550 of the Groups sites with ongoing rollout planned for remaining sites.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage data is already received from mandatory half hourly meters, this means that in excess of 96% of the UK and Republic of Ireland electricity consumption and 78% of gas consumption is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
Reduce energy usage in non-trading periods.
In the period to 28 January 2017, the Group has invested in Building Management Systems in 229 of its highest energy consuming stores in the UK.
The project covers all fascias and is maintaining average energy savings of 20% and a payback in less than 12 months.
This technology continues to be fitted in all new stores as standard with further retrofits scheduled for 2017.
Reduce energy usage through investment in lighting technology.
Working with our preferred lighting suppliers, we have improved the design of the 23 Watt LED lamps, which are used as standard in all new shopfits, delivering an 11% improvement in power efficiency compared to the previous design.
Our standard retail lighting scheme also incorporates LED lamps in changing areas and individual motion sensors on every light fitting in non-retail areas.
In addition, we have now fitted individual motion sensors to all the Groups Head Office buildings in the year.
Reduce energy usage through staff awareness and training.
Retail staff have a key role to play in the execution of the CMP.
All new managers receive training in energy management as part of their wider training programme.
Purchase energy competitively from sustainable sources wherever possible.
The Group already sourced 100% of its electricity requirement for sites in England, Wales and Scotland from renewable sources.
This has now been extended on the same basis through a new supply contract in Northern Ireland.
Newly acquired businesses are migrated to the Groups sustainable supply contracts when possible.
Ensure all business activities are aware of their impact on energy consumption.
A multi-disciplined approach to the CMP is adopted with considerable focus also given to reducing usage in the Groups warehouses and offices.
Ensure that the CMP applies to all businesses in all territories.
The CMP applies to all business in the Group.
We work closely with the local management after acquisition to identify gaps and implement group strategies.
69 69 69 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued KPIs % The Group is committed to using and subsequently 2017 2016 Change reporting on appropriate KPIs with regards to energy Energy Usage Electricity MWh 62,845 58,495 usage.
Accordingly, the Group can report the following which have been calculated based on the GHG Protocol Energy Usage Natural Gas MWh 1,450 1,751 Corporate Standard using emissions factors from UK Total Energy Use MWh 64,295 60,246 government conversion factor guidance for the year 2 26,162 reported.
The emissions reported correspond with our Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO i 27,359 -4% financial year and reflect emissions from the leased and i Total energy use has increased yet the carbon footprint has reduced.
controlled assets for which the Group is responsible.
2 This is due to UK CO e conversion factors decreasing by 10.8% since Emissions are predominantly from electricity use and 2015 as a result of a significant decrease in coal generation and the increase in gas and renewables generation.
delivery vehicle fuel consumption for our UK operations.
Emissions from the Groups overseas operations are Objectives For The Period To January 2018 low relative to UK activities.
The Group is committed to investing in the necessary resources to help achieve its targets on reducing 2016 17 2015 16 2 2 carbon emissions, with the following works planned for Tonnes CO Tonnes CO Global GHG emissions from: Equivalent Equivalent the year to 3 February 2018: Combustion of fuels & operation of facilities i 7,308 7,011 Continue to expand the reach of the CMP by working Purchased electricity, heat, stream & cooling 40,662 39,615 with the newly acquired businesses.
Introduce 100% LED lighting to all new and refurbished stores where a new lighting scheme Intensity measurement ii is fitted.
This is to include front and back-of-house lighting.
Emissions reported above normalised to per m revenue 22 26 Retrofit further stores with the 23 Watt LEDs for retail lighting thereby further reducing energy i Excludes facility F-Gas emissions consumption and heat gain in the retail environment.
ii Lik e for like businesses that have contributed Further investment in the use of building full years in both years management systems to allow remote monitoring and control of building services.
The following businesses are excluded from the data Review energy usage and practices at the main above as they are either recently acquired or their warehouse in Kingsway, Rochdale.
contribution is not material at this time: Implement recommendations from the energy 2Squared Agency Limited surveys carried out to exceed our Energy Savings 2Squared Retail Limited Opportunity Scheme ESOS obligations.
co. uk Limited Interaction With Pentland Group Plc Go Outdoors Topco Limited Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon including subsidiary undertakings Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme JD Sports Fashion SDN BHD CRC, the Groups submission to the UK Environment Sports Unlimited Retail BV Agency is aggregated with that of Pentland Group Plc Sportibrica Sociedade fide which is the Groups ultimate holding company Artigos fide Desporto, S. A. see note C22.
The Group continues to work closely with Pentland Group Plc to ensure an efficient process Source Lab Limited with regard to the emissions trading scheme which Kooga Rugby Limited was introduced in April 2010, as part of the CRC.
JD Sports Fashion Holdings Aus Pty including subsidiary undertakings Recycling Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging constituent is taken back to the Groups distribution Whilst it is not mandatory, the Group remains committed centres.
The cardboard is then baled and passed to to presenting data with regard to energy usage and recycling businesses for reprocessing.
During the year, carbon footprint on a like for like basis in respect of the amount of cardboard recycled increased to 3,993 those locations in the Groups core operations in the UK tonnes 2016: 1,638 tonnes.
This has been driven by and Republic of Ireland that have been present for the full the move to reusable tote boxes within our distribution year in both years: network, resulting in the retention of inward delivery cardboard boxes at Kingsway which are then recycled.
Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued The Group has expanded its use of the Dry Mixed Wales: 22,000 received in the period to 28 January Recycling DMR scheme to all pre-existing stores and 2017.
50% of the funds are passed to Mountain businesses in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands to Rescue in England and Wales with the balance 50% divert as much waste as possible away from landfill.
donated to other charitable causes in accordance The scheme will be rolled out to other newly acquired with the objects of the JD Foundation.
businesses as soon as this is possible.
In the period Scotland: 59,000 received in the period to 28 to 28 January 2017 we recycled 95% 2016: 95% of January 2017.
50% of these funds are passed to our DMR waste with the remainder being used as an Scottish Mountain Rescue with the balance 50% energy-from-waste EfW material.
donated to other charitable causes in accordance with the objects of the JD Foundation.
Our Kingsway Distribution Facility continues to be a zero waste to landfill site.
The Foundation has committed to continuing the arrangements with Mountain Rescue in England and In addition to the DMR scheme, there are three other Wales and Scottish Mountain Rescue for a further two main elements to our recycling strategy: years on the same basis.
Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection by a recycling business.
This business provides a Human Rights Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment The Group endorses the principles set out in the United which states that the shredded paper, which was Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and collected in the year, was the equivalent of 3,954 the International Labour Organisations Declaration on trees 2016: 3,808 trees.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work which seek to ensure safe and fair working conditions on a global Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are scale.
Our suppliers are selected upon and contractually collected and recycled for charity by Environmental committed to the Group on the basis of their adherence Business Products Limited.
Food waste is separated where possible and reused in the production of compost.
Ethical Sourcing The Group seeks to provide its customers with high Plastic Bags quality and value merchandise from suppliers who can Approximately 42% of the bags issued by the Groups demonstrate compliance with internationally accepted like for like businesses are high quality drawstring duffle core labour and ethical standards throughout their bags, which are generally reused by customers many supply chain.
These standards are based upon the times.
However, the Group is aware of the environmental provisions of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI Base impact of plastic bags and has sought to minimise any Code and specifically cover areas such as wages, impact through the following measures: working hours, health and safety and the right to freedom of association.
The Groups Supplier Code of The bags are made from 33% recycled material.
Conduct, which follows the ETI base code, is set out in The bags contain an oxo-biodegradable additive, the Groups Conditions of Supply, and includes the which means that they degrade totally over a labour and ethical standards which all Group suppliers relatively short life span.
The use of this material has also been adopted in an All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with additional 70% of the Groups plastic bags handed out the Groups Conditions of Supply, which are regularly to customers.
The Group uses paper-based bags rather updated.
During the year, these were uploaded onto an than plastic bags in its stores in the Republic of Ireland external platform, ensuring greater accessibility for all and we are also fully compliant with the carrier bag suppliers.
Prior to any orders being placed, all new charge schemes across the United Kingdom.
suppliers are required to register with the Groups external platform and complete the Groups factory 100% of the proceeds from the carrier bag charges net risk assessment to indicate their degree of compliance of VAT are passed to the JD Foundation for annual to the Groups Supplier Code of Conduct and, ultimately, distribution as follows: the ETI Base Code.
England: 496,000 received in the period to 28 January 2017.
50% of the funds are passed to Mountain Rescue in England and Wales with the remaining 50% donated to other charitable causes in accordance with the objects of the JD Foundation.
71 71 71 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate and Social Responsibility continued All existing suppliers are also required to conduct this This increase in auditing has given the Group enhanced factory risk assessment on an annual basis with the visibility of issues in its factories and has allowed the results held on an external platform.
Those suppliers Group, with the help of the FFC and the factories, who reach a pre-determined level of spend in any one to track the resolution of these non-compliances to season are then required to undergo an ethical audit improve conditions across all areas of the ETI base which is carried out by a pre-approved third party code.
The FFC continues to assist the Group in its specialist auditor.
The results of these risk assessments monitoring of the progress of individual issues and and annual audits are reviewed by the Groups allows the Group to share the responsibility for Sourcing and Compliance team and any areas of improvement of factory compliance with other brands concern with regard to potential non-compliance are manufacturing products in the same factories.
investigated thoroughly initially through desktop reviews and verified when the team visits the factories Due to the diverse nature and scope of the Groups concerned.
Action plans are devised where required supply chain, it is not always possible to visit all of the and must be corrected within the time frames stated factories directly.
Where instances of non-compliance in the audit results.
As the Group has a combined are identified from the risk assessment forms and or Sourcing and Compliance team, this ensures that audits and the supplier cannot be visited, they are matters of compliance are embedded within the required to provide evidence of corrective action and sourcing processes and procedures which the Group are subsequently re-graded against the initial report.
has in place prior to contracting with a new supplier.
These actions will be verified directly by the Groups Sourcing and Compliance team as soon as practically During the last financial year, the Group joined the possible on a future visit.
Fair Factories Clearing House FFC compliance programme and has continued with its progression of The Groups Sourcing and Compliance team will amend the Asia Inspections partnership.
The Group continually its factory risk assessment process in the forthcoming strives to achieve zero tolerance on critical issues, with financial year, which will include sections on migrant critical issues being defined as an issue that impacts workers and other relevant areas which are key to workers causing hardship or harm.
identifying red flags evidencing risks of modern slavery.
Over the past three years the Group has reduced its The Group is also in the process of delivering a modern supplier base by more than half which is a key part of slavery training programme for all Group employees the Groups sourcing strategy and allows a greater who have direct involvement in procurement of any collaboration with the supplier base on issues such as kind.
The training programme will include modern ethical trade and modern slavery.
The Group currently slavery awareness training and will be extended to the sources its own brand product from 10 countries using Groups other partners and key suppliers in the 196 factories with 139 agents.
During this financial year, the Group has increased its The Group continues to work with the FFC to create a focus on external auditing, with 68% of the Groups database of all factories and their associated audit suppliers now having been audited by a third party information.
The Group has completed this exercise for with a further 7% currently undergoing an audit, all of its first tier suppliers and aims to include the same as illustrated by the diagram below.
information for all of its second tier suppliers by the end of 2018.
Throughout this process, the Group is working to further improve visibility and adoption of Up to date audit required 7% its core values across its entire supplier base.
An integral part of the Groups sourcing strategy is to No audit required 25% ensure that we can identify and work with suppliers who share the same values and demonstrate commitment to the Groups policies on human rights and general ethics.
The Group aims to undertake more factory visits, carry out training and build on the partnerships we have in place with suppliers, which we feel is vital to ensuring the progression of our values.
3rd party in date ethical audit received 68% Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility continued The Group is also in the process of issuing a Code of This year will see our first Charity Day which will bring Conduct for all suppliers of Goods Not For Resale, young people from several of our charities together, which includes commitments from suppliers on key for an activity day with the Mountain Rescue teams from aspects of ethical trading, human rights and the England and Wales.
This will take place at Holcombe eradication of modern slavery from the supply chain.
Moor Training Camp near the Group's Head Office.
Our intention is that all businesses in the Group should It is important that we build a sustainable future for our comply with this policy.
Over the next financial year we chosen charities and feel that bringing them together in will work towards ensuring that all subsidiaries are a fun environment encourages a network of support and compliant with Group policy, principally those that collaboration to build upon.
Furthermore, staff from within Head Office also Our Communities supported the charity Smiling Families, which supports The Group seeks to be involved in the community where families affected by serious illness, by sending presents it can make an appropriate contribution from its for children to be delivered for Christmas.
The JD Foundation was registered with the Charity Commission on 13 May 2016 registered charity number 1167090.
In addition to the support given to Mountain Rescue in England and Wales and Scottish Mountain Rescue, the mission of the Foundation is to work with youth charities in the UK to support disadvantaged Brian Small young people affected by circumstance or illness.
Chief Financial Officer 10 April 2017 The JD Foundations nominated charities during the period to January 2017 were: C. R. Y. Cardiac Risk in the Young Once Upon A Smile Rays of Sunshine Salford Foundation Street Games Teenage Cancer Trust The Factory Youth Zone The London Sports Trust The Retail Trust The JD Foundation has donated over 1 million to charities in the UK during the financial period.
As part of our support of C. R. Y Cardiac Risk in the Young, we have undertaken to host two screening days in our Head Office site which will screen a total of 220 employees for Cardiac Risk while our work with this charity nationally will see a further five days sponsored by the Foundation during 2017 bringing our total number of young adults screened in 2017 to approximately 770.
In addition to this, we have entered into a mentoring programme with Salford Foundation to support young people and assist in their career choices as they reach a critical period in their lives and education.
73 73 73 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017
