Redefine International P. L. C. Redefine International P. L. C. 46 46 Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 Strat Strategic report egic report Corporate social responsibility Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 47 We value our relationships with all our stakeholders, including customers and the communities in which we invest.
We have delivered on our EPC risk strategy, devoted considerable time to support communities and charitable initiatives while striving to minimise our environmental impact through effective stakeholder collaboration.
We work hard to make decisions today which pave the way for future sustainability.
Mike Watters Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the CSR Committee Key achievements in the year Over A tenant satisfaction survey in May 2017 500 achieved a EPCs either reviewed or renewed to ensure We donated 1,207 hours GRESB 90.2% 100% risk free to local community Redefine International completed its EPC strategy achieved initiatives and charities response rate second full disclosure to the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Assessment during 2017.
GRESB is the global benchmark for assessing the sustainability performance of property companies against a wide range of environmental, social and governance ESG issues.
Our portfolio waste The Company achieved a 12 per cent 4% diversion from landfill 8% improvement in its GRESB score this year and maintained at was awarded Green Star status for the first 100% time.
This recognises the significant effort Green Energy switch Scope 2 CO e reduction 2 made to improve sustainability performance made during 2017 100% Like-for-Like LfL both in the area of policy and management, as well as implementation and measurement.
This year, the Company has also participated in the new GRESB Public Disclosure Assessment, which specifically rates the accessibility of ESG information for listed 12% property companies and REITs.
Redefine Sustainability training Water consumption International achieved a B rating for its level delivered to head Like-for-Like LfL of public disclosure, above the GRESB global Year-on-Year GRESB office and operational reduction of average of C. score increase of 12% locations and made surpassing the peer average available to all Key objectives and initiatives have been set 6% increase of 8% ouremployees for 2018 aimed at continued improvement in sustainable initiatives and are in line with the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategic framework.
We raised 90% 13,070 Our Utilities and Waste data within the 2017 for our charity of the HSE QCompliance site CSR Report is now year, TheChildren's scores consistently aligned to EPRA sBPR Hospital Trust, and two above 90% core requirements other community causes Resilient assets Redefine International P. L. C. 48 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Resilient governance We will uphold the highest standards in ethical behaviour and support our workforce.
We seek to operate in a manner that fosters open stakeholder engagement and demonstrates best practice in social and environmental risk management.
Resilient investment We undertake to realise the full potential of our investments for both our shareholders and the communitiesin which weoperate.
Resilient assets We are mindful of our wider role as placemakers and we aim to contribute to the longterm prosperity of thecommunities in which we invest.
In doing so, we will undertake asset management which minimises risk and maximises asset value whilst providing the best experience possible for occupiers and visitors alike.
The CSR Committee implements the CSR Gender split across the Group CSR strategy strategy using targets and carefully selected At Redefine International, CSR means KPIs to measure progress, tasking key understanding and proactively managing 226 stakeholders within the business responsible ESG risks and opportunities that can impact for the daytoday management of those Employees on income growth and net asset value, targets.
The CSR Committee meets regularly whilst also taking account of the Companys to review progress against the CSR roadmap, responsibilities towards stakeholders, in review environmental performance data and particular investors and shareholders, receive updates on UK and German WOMEN employees, the businesses with which CSRrelated legislation.
we work and the communities in which weoperate.
During 2017, the Company has made several achievements, the most notable being: The CSR Committee, which comprises three MEN ofthe four Executive Directors and is attended the Companys participation in the GRESB Men 65% by our CSR advisers, asset managers and the Real Estate Assessment benefited from a Women 35% Company Secretary, was formed in 2014 to continued increase in score, up 12 per cent establish and implement a formal CSR strategy on the prior years result: for the Group.
a four per cent likeforlike LfL reduction The strategy seeks to ensure that our in carbon CO e emissions based on 39 of 2 9 governance and risk management framework, ourproperties: together with our investment and asset a six per cent LfL reduction in water Senior management strategy, continue to be resilient to the consumption across 24 of ourproperties: everchanging economic, social and utilities and waste data within our 2017 environmental landscape and sets out a CSR Report is now aligned to EPRA sBPR series of actions in the form of a CSR roadmap core requirements: WOMEN targeting both short and medium term over 500 Energy Performance Certificates strategic objectives.
EPCs have been either reviewed or renewed to ensure our 100 per cent risk CSR Committee meetings free EPCstrategy is achieved: MEN Appointed Resigned Meetings Men 56% achieved outstanding Q compliance Mike Watters 23 8 2014 3 3 Women 44% Health and Safety scores across our Adrian Horsburgh 23 8 2014 3 3 UKShoppingcentres: and Donald Grant 1 12 2016 2 2 inaugural GRESB Public Disclosure rating Stephen Oakenfull 23 8 2014 1 12 2016 1 1 of B for Redefine International against an industry average C rating.
Resilient governance Resilient investment Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 49 recognise our social and moral duty The award of the first Green Star R esilient to offer opportunities to people with for GRESB 2017 and the 12 per cent governance disabilities and doing all that is practicable yearonyear improvement in score has to meet their needs: meant another successful year of reporting Approach has been achieved.
Notwithstanding uphold our commitments under our Code Redefine International seeks to operate the ongoing aspirations to continually of Ethics which promotes honesty and efficient processes and procedures that improve and the associated tasks that integrity in business dealings and conduct demonstrate social and environmental risk accompany this objective, this is a good commensurate with an organisation of our management, and foster open stakeholder result and demonstrates our commitment to size.
Any breaches will lead to disciplinary engagement.
The Group will also continue sustainability and positions the Company well proceedings and, if appropriate, to uphold the highest standards of ethical for the future.
disciplinary action: and behaviour and actively support our workforce.
The Company believes that achieving all employees are provided with a The Groups approach to maintaining these handbook outlining the Companys key compliance with environmental legislation commitments include: is key to protecting value and enabling the policies, which are designed to encourage complying with all applicable regulation a pleasant working environment, free from improvement of our assets.
In order to and preparing for anticipated future manage and reduce risk, we have either discrimination, undue stress or bullying.
regulation, and its implications: The Company recognises, respects and reviewed or renewed over 500 portfoliowide EPCs in relation to the ongoing management providing confidence to stakeholders upholds all UK employment rights and of our sound management of CSR risks human rights and outlaws any forms of and commitment required as part of our 100per cent EPC risk free compliance strategy.
through our ongoing participation in the modern slavery.
most prominent industry benchmark In particular, our portfolio exposure across Performance England & Wales to the Minimum Energy survey, GRESB: Good progress was made during 2017 Efficiency Standards MEES regulation in ensuring employees receive appropriate in relation to CSR governance.
tandem with our CSR Roadmap target of training on ESG issues, and providing 100per cent compliance has meant that EPCs Over the last twelve months, the focus has bespoke training on sustainability topics rated F or G now have ongoing action plans been on ensuring a yearonyear continual to those that require it: in place.
EPCs identified as missing, either on improvement to the GRESB Real Estate maintaining best practice in health a whole building basis or per area of tenant Assessment score.
and safety management to the benefit occupied demise under lease, now have EPCs.
of tenants, contractors, customers In order to support this objective, the available For clarity, where required under MEES, these andemployees: utilities data set has been expanded from EPCs have been prepared on a lease by lease 24 properties to 39, representing over a ensuring that suppliers adhere to a code of basis covering each area of tenant occupied 60per cent improvement in data collection ethics, covering inter alia, antibribery and demise.
The assessments included FRIs and E and reporting across the two geographic modern slavery: or D rated EPCs if completed prior to 2011. locations where Redefine International hold continued relationship with first class Focused sustainability training was delivered assets under management.
This has enabled sustainability advisers to provide to all employees based at the Groups head discussion around setting corporate targets leadership and guidance on sustainability office and across its operational locations.
given the solid foundation formed during the across the business: Ensuring our employees are made aware of last twelve months on provision of a vastly operating a robust data management and educated in sustainability issues helps improved data set aligned to the EPRA sBPR system to ensure our disclosure and bring sustainability to life and allows for 2nd edition core requirements.
The utilities reporting is accurate: and integration of initiatives into everyday activities reduction target is now subject to Board fostering a culture of openness.
approval for integration within the 2018 set of CSR Roadmapobjectives.
With respect to our employees, the Group will: Redefine International has its own dedicated Health and Safety Manager whose role it is During the year, the CSR Committee has ensure that no applicant or employee to provide guidance and support to tenants, reviewed the implementation of green is discriminated against either directly contractors, customers and employees alike.
building certification across the portfolio.
orindirectly: TheOmnibus Building in Reigate was certified The Group manages an environmental data treat all employees, prospective to Environmental Management Systems reporting system which is able to collect and employees, agents, contractors, tenants, International Standard ISO14001:2015, a analyse quarterly performance data from a and suppliers fairly and equally, regardless great achievement.
The CSR Committee growing portfolio.
The Company has met its of their gender, age, race, sexuality has considered the implementation of SKA obligations under the CRC Energy Efficiency ordisability: assessments for planned refurbishments Scheme with allowances purchased to cover promote staff training and development and investigation into whether an asset 2017 emissions of 7,076 tonnes of CO at a 2 with a focus on fostering innovation: level BREEAMInUse certification would be cost of 121,707.20. seek to diversify our workforce to suitable for certain properties within the support the nature of the Companys portfolio.
A number of developments have operations or the communities in been reviewed for SKA suitability, with the which we operate, taking into account current redevelopment of the food court at relevant skills, experience, knowledge, WestOrchards, Coventry in process of being personality, ethnicity and gender whilst SKA assessed.
maintaining our responsibility to select the bestcandidate: Redefine International P. L. C. 50 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Redefine International is committed to employees, agents, contractors, tenants, and R esilient maintaining its culture of openness and suppliers fairly and equally, regardless of their investment transparency.
There is a strong work ethic gender, sexual orientation, family status, race, amongst staff and team spirit is fostered colour, nationality, religious or political belief, Approach through regular meetings and team building age or disability.
The Company seeks to implement an effective days which encourage better working The Company is committed to having an investment strategy that realises the full relationships and provide the forum for appropriate level of diversity that reflects the potential of our investments for both our sharing ideas with the executives in a less nature of the Groups operations and which shareholders and the communities in which formal environment.
As the Company best supports the achievement of strategic we operate throughout the investment expands, and the number of employees objectives.
Over the last year diversity across lifecycle.
and responsibilities increases, the Board the Group and the Board has remained The Group will achieve this by: committees have ensured that the necessary unchanged.
The Nominations Committee internal controls have been implemented, identifying investment risks during regularly considers skills, experience, and that executives and employees remain acquisition due diligence and identifying knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender well rewarded.
The Board recognises the opportunities to add value: of the Board and has set a target to extend importance of culture and providing a good the female representation at Board level to considering the social and environmental working environment to attract and retain atleast one third by 2020. performance of our assets: and high calibre staff.
To this end, an employee monitoring and measuring our resource During the year a wide pool of candidates survey was undertaken to provide a forum for consumption to identify efficiencies, were selected for consideration as a new confidential feedback.
The Board was pleased particularly relating to energy and reduce nonexecutive.
The Company hopes to that there was a generally positive response our carbon emissions footprint and the make an announcement regarding a new to the survey, whilst providing for areas of operational costs for our tenants.
appointment by the end of the year.
focus for further improvements to employees satisfaction and health and wellbeing.
Employee turnover has been modest during Performance 2017.
All employees are based in the UK It is the aim of Redefine International to We have continued to take important or Germany, where there are few human extend diversity within the Group and steps in the deployment of our resilient rights issues.
No human rights concerns or acknowledge, accept and accommodate the investmentstrategy.
whistleblowing reports were received from differences between individuals.
The Group The Company has invested time with its employees during the year.
strives to treat all employees, prospective CSRadvisers to prepare utilities and waste data sets aligned to EPRA sBPR 2ndedition Employees and diversity core requirements.
Data capture has been significantly improved and a new 1 1 1 Total Men % Women % reporting format is now presented in line Board nonexecutives 7 7 6 86 86 1 14 14 with industry accepted environmental Board executives 4 4 4 100 100 .
Senior management 9 9 5 56 56 4 44 44 In 2017, Redefine International celebrated Other employees 206 207 132 64 65 74 36 35 its tenth anniversary since listing and to Total 226 227 147 65 67 79 35 34 commemorate this milestone, the Company 2 All employees working part time 49 43 16 33 33 67 undertook a community project called 2 All employee leavers total 21 33 Tenfor10.
This entailed investing ten 1 days into initiatives designed to support the Figures for 2016 are shown in brackets.
2 communities in which we operate.
See our All employees excludes Board nonexecutives.
case study for more information on page 55.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 51 Our Tenant Energy Data TED initiative considered SKA assessments for all Performance commenced during the year.
The initiative is suitable development projects to ensure The Company has continued to refine its aimed at understanding how the Company development activities consider the procedures to manage environmental risks, can support and influence tenants to reduce materials used and their associated reduce cost and futureproof its assets across their energy consumption.
TED proved to impact on the environment.
Specifically: be a complex task due to factors such as led to developments at Southwark, the continuation of an asset management tenant nondisclosure, time factors to which Derby, Banbury and the West Orchards working group: to ensure lessons tenants did not wish to commit and general in Coventry undergoing scoping review.
learnt are discussed and best practice data unavailability.
Significant progress was Dueto a combination of timing and the disseminated amongst the growing team: however made on the eight hotels under third type of fitout planned for Southwark, ensuring Health, Safety and Environmental party management, which given their relative Derby and Banbury, the fitout itself HSE compliance audit scores across size should make a material difference.
was unable to benefit from the SKA UK retail and shopping centre locations certification process yet West Orchards in Energy efficiency audits have been undertaken are over ninety per cent, driven by the Coventry is expected to gain certification across a third of our existing shopping centre relationship between managing agent, post year end.
locations, in order to identify areas where Centre Management teams and the energy conservation measures can be realised Energy Performance Groups Health and Safety Manager: at either no cost or via low cost projects.
Certification EPC risk the HSE audit scores are generated from The Companys exposure to EPC risk from Over the next financial year the BBP Better software which is provided by a third the forthcoming MEES and present Section Buildings Partnership 2017 will launch their party HSE compliance auditing company 63 legislation has been thoroughly reviewed Acquisitions Sustainability Toolkit.
The software captures, for the UK portfolio with a view to identifying investigated to ensure the Group is equipped tracks and analyses HSE compliance and integrating applicable EPC improvement with practical guidance on how to ensure activity related to a set of predefined measures into asset business plans ahead of sustainability risks and opportunities are indicators.
The current scope will be legislative deadlines.
Addressing the MEES captured as part of the acquisition process.
broadened to include the remainder of the riskhas been viewed as a necessary UK assets and German investments over proactive step, and balances sustainability the forthcoming year: R esilient with regulation and stakeholders interests assets the Group has undertaken Fire Risk alike.
Aminimum EPC rating level of D will Assessments and Water Hygiene be sought for planned refurbishments and Approach Audits with external auditors across upgrade works to our portfolio assets.
Redefine International will undertake asset the UK Shopping centre portfolio to ensurecompliance: management which maximises net asset value Performance data whilst providing the best experience possible continued commitment to The Company is committed to monitoring for occupiers and visitors alike.
participation in the GRESB Real Estate and measuring the environmental impact of Assessmentprocess: energy, water usage and waste management Redefine International will uphold this which falls under its operational control.
Since commitment by: completed an EPC risk review of the November 2014, Redefine International has UKportfolio: engaging with and contributing to maintained a data management system to ensured all funding raised from charitable charitable and community initiatives on an capture this information at a property level.
activities undertaken at each UK Shopping ongoing basis: Inorder to enhance our level of utilities, waste centre are channelled to the nominated engaging with local authorities and and emissions disclosure this year, we have local charity which has fostered a great supporting their community campaigns: adopted guidance provided within the EPRA community spirit: sBPR 2nd edition in accordance with the collaborating with tenants to conceive and conducted a tenant satisfaction survey promote joint community projects: core requirements.
with the objective of seeking feedback understanding, enhancing and promoting forimprovement: and the Groups role as a placemaker, with a focus on creating and maintaining prosperous communities in the local areas where we invest: ensuring key environmental and social risks are well managed when the Group is undertaking development activities and throughout the management of our portfolio: and engaging with tenants to better respond to their needs and position ourselves to anticipate future requirements.
Redefine International P. L. C. 52 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued EPRA Sustainability Performance Measures for our managed portfolio Absolute Abs Like-for-Like LfL Impact area EPRA code Indicator Index Units of measurement 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % Energy ElecAbs, Electricity Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh MWh 12,994 12,154 7 8,518 8,412 1 ElecLFL DH&CAbs, District heating and Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh 1,569 1,832 14 1,111 1,346 17 DH&CLFL cooling FuelsAbs, Fuels Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh 9,622 8,530 13 4,736 4,150 14 FuelsLFL 1 Proportion of energy data estimated 1% 0% Greenhouse gas emissions GHGDirAbs, Direct Scope 1 tonnes CO e 1,792 1,570 14 872 764 14 2 GHGDirLfL GHGIndirAbs, Indirect Scope 2 location based 5,187 5,406 4 3,480 3,762 8 GHGIndirLfL Scope 2 market based 4,135 5,406 24 2,434 3,762 35 Scope 3 446 470 5 294 325 10 1 Proportion of GHG data estimated 1% 0% 3 Water WaterAbs, Water Landlord procured cubic metres m 99,480 96,966 3 86,568 92,046 6 WaterLfL 1 Proportion of water data estimated 0% 0% Waste WasteAbs, Waste Recycled Metric tonnes 20% landlordmanaged WasteLfL % weight by disposal route Offsite Materials Recovery Facility 15% Incineration with energy recovery 64% Proportion of waste data estimated 2% Normalisation Energy kWh million net rental income 259 252 3 154 156 1 GHG tCO e million net rental income 124 144 14 76 96 22 2 3 Water m million net rental income 1,064 1,086 2 926 1,031 10 Disclosure coverage Energy, GHG, Water No.
of assets 39 19 Waste 15 0 Total number In Organisational Boundary Managed Assets 41 1 Estimation methodology used: Energy, GHG, Water prorata estimation based on nearest available period of recorded consumption using primary evidence.
Waste estimation based on industry standard conversions volume to weight.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 53 Absolute Abs Like-for-Like LfL Impact area EPRA code Indicator Index Units of measurement 2017 2016 Change % 2017 2016 Change % Energy ElecAbs, Electricity Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh MWh 12,994 12,154 7 8,518 8,412 1 ElecLFL DH&CAbs, District heating and Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh 1,569 1,832 14 1,111 1,346 17 DH&CLFL cooling FuelsAbs, Fuels Landlord procured and submetered to tenants MWh 9,622 8,530 13 4,736 4,150 14 FuelsLFL 1 Proportion of energy data estimated 1% 0% Greenhouse gas emissions GHGDirAbs, Direct Scope 1 tonnes CO e 1,792 1,570 14 872 764 14 2 GHGDirLfL GHGIndirAbs, Indirect Scope 2 location based 5,187 5,406 4 3,480 3,762 8 GHGIndirLfL Scope 2 market based 4,135 5,406 24 2,434 3,762 35 Scope 3 446 470 5 294 325 10 1 Proportion of GHG data estimated 1% 0% 3 Water WaterAbs, Water Landlord procured cubic metres m 99,480 96,966 3 86,568 92,046 6 WaterLfL 1 Proportion of water data estimated 0% 0% Waste WasteAbs, Waste Recycled Metric tonnes 20% landlordmanaged WasteLfL % weight by disposal route Offsite Materials Recovery Facility 15% Incineration with energy recovery 64% Proportion of waste data estimated 2% Normalisation Energy kWh million net rental income 259 252 3 154 156 1 GHG tCO e million net rental income 124 144 14 76 96 22 2 3 Water m million net rental income 1,064 1,086 2 926 1,031 10 Disclosure coverage Energy, GHG, Water No.
Redefine International P. L. C. 54 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Our LfL portfolio for the purpose of the Building certification and labelling EPRA disclosure is mostly composed of % of managed portfolio with BREEAM or LEED Rating our UK Shopping centres, and to a lesser New Construction, Refurbishment, InUse 0% extent our German shopping centres.
These SKA Ratings Project In Progress, Bronze Targeted 5% properties have the largest environmental impact of all assets under management.
Actual LfL increase in electricity consumption As our data management programme is EPRA commentary was less pronounced one per cent.
Water continually evolving, we are not yet able to The Company has enhanced its environmental consumption saw a six per cent decrease due report the specific end use of procured energy performance data disclosure to align with the to decreased demand.
We have also considered the EPRA EPRA sBPR 2nd edition and our reporting to In relation to intensity of environmental guidance in relation to segmental analysis.
the GRESB Real Estate Assessment.
We believe that reporting managed assets performance, we have chosen to use We now present consolidated property net rental income as the denominator to provides a fair overview of performance, energy, greenhouse gas GHG, water and given that the majority of environmental be consistent with our GHG disclosure waste data on both an absolute Abs and methodology.
However, we recognise impact is associated with our shopping likeforlike LfL basis, covering assets centre assets and to a lesser extent a small that other normalisation factors may be in both our UK and German portfolios.
moreappropriate for use in the future, number of multilet offices.
We will continue Webelieve that adopting this approach to consider the need for further segmental withaparticular focus to ensure that provides greater transparency and likeforlike performance changes can be analysis in the future development of our comparability for our stakeholders in .
respectto the environmental performance Our absolute scope 1 and 2L GHG emissions A small proportion of our data may be of assets under management.
remained broadly the same as conveyed by subject to estimation: this is completed to As per mandatory greenhouse gas the mandatory GHG emissions reporting table ensure that our reporting per asset covers disclosure, our organisational boundary for see page 58. the correct reporting period and is complete.
environmental disclosure is based on the Estimation is only made where actual billed We expect to continue to enhance our data principle of operational control, and therefore or metered data, and where the date of reporting programme during the course of includes all property assets where we are the data recording falls within six months the next year to provide better insight into responsible for the procurement of energy, orless from the periodto be estimated.
where energy and water data is submetered water and waste services.
A total of 41 assets Ourmethodologiesuse prorated calculation exclusively to tenants, as well as improve the fall within the boundary in both the 2016 and or .
coverage of our data management system.
We have provided In terms of absolute energy consumption data to cover 95 per cent of these assets for change, electricity and gas consumption the current reporting period.
Only two assets increased by seven per cent and 13 per cent in Germany under our operational control respectively in the past year due to property are excluded from the disclosure, due to lack acquisitions and increased occupancy of reliable and accurate data.
and heating demand across our multilet properties.
District heating consumption fell significantly due to reduced demand for heating within our German shopping centreassets.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 55 Case study Ten for 10 At the Grand Arcade Shopping Centre In January 2017, in Wigan, the Centre Management team supported ten local groups including Redefine International the British Heart Foundation, New Lodge Preschool and the Green Slate launched Ten for10 CommunityFarm.
a community West Orchards, Coventry and Byron Place, Seaham had large teams supporting local litter engagement picking and community cleanup projects.
Staff at Weston Favell Shopping Centre, programme enabling Northampton supported the Salvation Armys homelessness project by volunteering with us to contribute and their street team, and the team at StGeorges, connect with the local Harrow assisted at a Mother and Toddler group and marshalled the Run Wembley communities in which community event.
Birchwood Shopping Centre, Warrington helped to remodel a we operate.
sensory garden for their Charity of the Year, Brainwave.
Incelebration of Redefine Internationals tenth Head office staff supported the Grenfell anniversary, staff across our property portfolio Tower relief effort by collecting, donating and our head office pledged to donate ten and delivering much needed essentials for working days per location to local community the victims of the disaster, which occurred groups and charities through the Ten for 10 in June2017, as well as volunteering at one volunteering programme.
of the many donation centres set up in The scope of the project enabled the Redefine WestLondon.
International team to work with a wide range In total, 26 community groups and of people within the local community, from organisations benefited from the initiative, school children to the elderly, providing much which ran until August 2017, with 127 days needed support and making a difference to volunteering completed across Redefine the lives of so many.
Internationals six UK Shopping centres and the head office team.
Redefine International P. L. C. 56 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued The action plan identified targets for Legislative value enhancement Case study improvement of the carbon and energy Strong data A Group Health performance of the building and how these legislative value management and Safety targets would be met through physical platform Manager improvements to the property, all produced enhancement and registered by a Section 63 Advisor.
Redefine International continues to consider Categories of EPC risk were assigned based on ways to deliver compliance strategies that analysis of data provided.
The categories were: are aligned to investors interests.
This is risks that were yet to be fully underpinned by our commitment to resilience investigated Risk : in governance, investments andassets.
risks under control with planned Spanning two geographic locations, the actions accounted for where required Group continually seeks to better understand ManagedRisk : and legislation that affects the portfolio from an A legislative A 100% risk is managed and declared safe in environmental perspective.
2015 marked an portfolio EPC risk respective of relative jurisdiction specific gap analysis early step in ensuring the EPC strategy was free strategy EPC legislation and known portfolio developed in the most cost effective manner impacts have been assessed SafeZone.
whilst targeting a risk free status.
EPCs which may soon to expire, rated either During the last two years, any EPCs which F or G or lease or break dates forthcoming were found to be missing were instructed and were assigned category 2.
With respect to any EPCs reviewed and seen to be within the MEES, this will mean that any areas of demise risk zone were revisited.
Risk zone EPCs were planned for lease from April 2018 may be classed as either any existing F and G rated at risk of impacting on asset unit expected areas of demise across our properties, soon rentable value ERV.
Thereby any EPC to expire EPCs prior to the MEES regulations recommendations such as improvements to coming into play on 1 April 2018, affecting all improve building fabric, heating efficiencies new leases.
Across Scotland, risk in relation and lighting can be planned in earlier to Section 63 meant that from September stages and either accrued centrally where 2016 upon a new sale or lease of a building required or foster tenant engagement into 2 greater than 1,000m, an approved Section a planned programme of building upgrades 63 action plan must be in place and made to ensure their occupation remains risk available in the same way as an EPC and free as each lease nears expiry and EPC reviewedannually.
recommendations are implemented, ensuring minimum disruption and maximum value.
Thetotal F or G figure is relatively low across theportfolio and the Group will target planned refurbishments to achieve a minimum ratingof D. Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 57 We are now 100% compliant with energy performance certifications with action plansinplace for all F and G rated units.
Our German assets have been reviewed as ENEV Energy Saving Ordinance KrWG Circular Economy Act part of the legislative gap analysis with respect Display a building energy performance Disposal of waste in line with to the three pieces of German legislation, certificate: provide a certificate to regional requirements being EDLG Energy Services Act, ENEV Energy potential tenants buyers The disposal of waste is undertaken in line Saving Ordinance and KrWG Circular Economy Redefine Internationals portfolio has been with requirements through the hire of a Act.
From information provided by Redefine checked in the respect of building energy competent waste disposal company where the International to third party consultants, the performance certificates required for display.
Company is responsible for waste generation.
following conclusions were drawn: This comprises all buildings with a floor On the basis our UK and German based 2 space of 500m or greater which the public EDL-G Energy Services Act assets are compliant, data has to be access frequently such as supermarkets.
The Reporting of total energy There are also a number of buildings in relationship between Redefine International consumption:energy audits Redefines portfolio which have been leased ofproperties and operations and that of their CSR Advisers is one of since July 2009 at which point building energy assurance and provides a data repository Whilst the balance sheet of Redefine performance certificates have been provided which can be used during regular review, International exceeds the threshold as set to the interested party.
Third party consultants reporting and in leading high level through out by the EDLG, neither the number of understand this applies to five units in a mixed toasset level discussions on where employees nor the turnover exceed the use building in Leipzig and three units in a compliance activity should be focused.
Therefore Redefine mixed use building in Munich.
It has been Asnapshot into this world here shows some does not qualify under the EDLG and does noted that any buildings leased or sold in the legislative risks and Redefines interpretation not have to meet the requirements.
EDLG future by Redefine must continue to have of responsible compliance activity.
German legislation spans from the EU Energy building energy performance certificates Efficiency Directive Article 8.
In the UK, this With each part of the Legislative Value which are provided to interested parties was translated into UK law in June 2014 as the Enhancement LVE process working actively atthispoint.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
with one another in equilibrium, Redefine The same third party consultants deemed the International is sure to maintain its LVE UK companies to stand outside of qualification process and broaden key areas of focus as and of ESOS phase one in this respect and when required to maximise the opportunity compliance activity surrounding ESOS Phase presented by .
2 will be revisited ahead of the compliance notification date of 5 December 2019.
Safe zone vs at Risk vs Managed Risk related to EPCs 2015 2016 2017 Safe Zone Safe Zone Safe Zone 35% 48% 93% Risk 5% Managed Risk Managed Risk Managed Risk 7% 60% 52% Redefine International P. L. C. 58 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate social responsibility continued Mandatory GHG emissions reporting table 2016 2016 2017 revised % change reported Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e 2 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 1,792 1,570 14 2,089 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e Scope 2L location based 5,187 5,406 4 7,422 2 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Scope 2M market based 4,135 5,406 24 7,422 Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e Total scope 1 & 2L 6,979 6,975 0 9,511 2 Scope 1 & 2L intensity tCO e m net rental income 75 78 107 2 provides a strong basis on which to focus Methodology Data qualifying notes environmental efficiency improvements Redefine Internationals carbon emissions The boundary of Redefine Internationals and strengthen reporting against best disclosure has been produced in accordance carbon emissions disclosure is based practice standards and industry benchmarks.
with guidance issued in the ISO 14064 on the principle of operational control.
Special comment should be noted for the 1:2006 international standard and the GHG Therefore emission sources within real significant action taken in respect of Redefine Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting estate assets owned and managed by Internationals preparation for the upcoming Standard Revised Edition.
Location based Redefine International are included in the MEES legislation across England and Wales emissions factors are sourced from the UK reported emission figures.
We do not have and Section 63 in Scotland, leaving the Government 2016 & 2017 and International responsibility for any emissions sources Company 100 per cent risk free.
In addition, Energy Association to cover German assets.
that are not included in our consolidated the commitment given by their CSR Steering Guidance on the reporting of Scope 2 GHG statement.
We are not responsible for the group has been invaluable to reaching their emissions under the GHG Protocol was purchase of the energy supplied to our years CSR Targets.
Redefine International is updated in 2015 and we are now required head office in London.
Emission sources aproactive Company that considers their CSR to report two different values to reflect the relating to occupier activities that do not fall responsibility to be embedded within their locationbased and marketbased emissions under the operational control of Redefine core operations and integrated within their resulting from purchased electricity.
The International are excluded, except where we investment strategy for short, medium and locationbased method uses an average are responsible for procurement and supply long term growth.
Our engagement with the emission factor for the national grid on of energy to occupiers.
Due to adjustment of Company has shown that employees have whichelectricity consumption occurs.
The our emission scope compared to the previous high levels of interest with respect to the marketbased method reflects emissions year 2016, we have chosen to recalculate the Company CSR initiatives and are well equipped fromthe electricity that companies have previous years emission figures as the hotels, to proceed with their implementation and, by chosen to purchase in the market.
Where a although owned are not under the operational ensuring that sufficient time and resources marketbased emissions factor is unavailable control of Redefine and had previously been are made available, Redefine International the residual mix or locationbased factor included in prior years reporting.
We have will effectively tackle both the straightforward has been applied.
Markets differ as to what also adjusted our normalisation metric, from and the more challenging targets which have contractual instruments are commonly Net Operating Income to Net Rental Income, been approved within the CSR Roadmap available or used by companies to purchase to ensure that the measure of carbon intensity for the 2018 financial year.
We confirm energy or claim its specific attributes.
Redefine is better reflective of our business type.
For that environmental data published in this International has chosen to use a supplier 2016 and 2017, there have been no reported report provides a true representation of the specific emissions rate.
This method has been fugitive emissions from airconditioning Companys current performance.
Savills will used in alignment with the GHG Protocols refrigerant leaks, and there has been no continue to support Redefine International quality criteria.
In alignment with UK DEFRA topup of refrigerant volume.
over the coming year to achieve their 2018 Environmental Reporting Guidelines, we CSR targets and will provide progress updates CSR advisers statement have used the conversion factor for the year within the CSR Committee held quarterly prior As Redefine Internationals strategic adviser the emissions took place.
Data is disclosed to preparing next years CSR Annual Report on corporate social responsibility, Savills in accordance with the requirements of the and corresponding updates to their website.
would like to acknowledge the continual Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and improvement demonstrated by Redefine Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Jonathan Hale International in terms of their focus on how Associate Director they have chosen to implement, maintain Savills and improve Redefines CSR strategy.
Thecontinuation of robust data collection 26 October 2017 supported by core reporting systems Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 59 CSR target roadmap Progress achieved against CSR targets set for 2017 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Further improve GRESB score Proactively invest in sustainability Maintain compliance and improve targeting three Green Stars for 2017. measures within our portfolio and Health, Safety and Environmental We will do this by a broadening the abide by EPRA guidelines.
available dataset to obtain greater energy audits where appropriate for coverage: b setting corporate targets new investments.
for example emissions and energy consumption: and c implement green .
We target 100 per cent compliance Ensure full data picture is available Improve tenant awareness and with Energy Performance for all operational sites.
seek feedback for improvements Certifications EPCs ensuring all through engagement in a Fand G ratings have ongoing action satisfaction survey which will plans in place.
The assessment will include sustainability and health include FRIs and Eor D rated EPCs and wellbeing aspects.
Complete staff training for all staff Paying it back: 2016 was Redefine Undertake fitout projects on CSR and sustainability issues.
Internationals tenth anniversary to SKA Assessment Bronze so to celebrate we implemented a level as a minimum across all community project called Ten for suitableproperties.
Across our portfolio of shopping centres and at the Companys head office, we invested ten days into initiatives designed to support the communities in which we operate.
Good progress Sound progress Some progress CSR targets for 2018 Resilient governance Resilient investment Resilient assets Develop a stakeholder engagement Independently verify the performance of our Set a property wide relative reduction programme to provide a strategy, policy assets through certification of our portfolio target for total energy consumption on a and action plan for mobilisation across during operation, refurbishment, or new likeforlike LFL basis in terms of energy 2 the managed estate to cover: tenants, construction using appropriate green building per unit floor area kWh m. communities and employees.
Review the Company induction format to Continue to maintain high levels of tenant Facilitate the transition to greener forms include a section specifically on sustainability satisfaction through an engagement of transportation via the installation of for the benefit of all new employees programme in order to act on the findings electric vehicle EV charging points across and to maintain awareness amongst from the most recent survey.
Harmonise Company Health, Safety Ensure employees are made aware of Improve data across our German Assets and Environmental HS&E policies Company initiatives which support their health to ensure the ability to measure key across Redefine Internationals two and wellbeing and gain an insight into their performance indicators KPIs can .
