Sustainability Building a better business Fergusons Better Business framework comprises 13 material issues which actively support our growth, improve associate engagement, address our top risks and compliance requirements or are important to our shareholders, customers and suppliers.
We strive to make these issues an Our material issues Our principles integral part of how we do business, which is reected in this report.
Talent management and development We are committed to people Our development at every level of people Many of the issues are described within All the organisation.
the key resources and relationships section on pages 22 to 25.
Competitive pay and reward We offer competitive remuneration to our people.
All Stakeholder engagement The framework was established Associate engagement We value our associates and actively following consultation with our work to improve associate engagement.
A comprehensive review of our sustainability strategy Diversity and inclusion We understand, respect and value isconducted each year and takes into personal and cultural differences.
All account feedback from our investors, suppliers, customers, associates and third parties.
Health and safety We will not compromise the health or safety of any individual.
All Our values Ethical behaviour and human rights We adhere to strict Human Resources policies and comply with our own All Codeof Conduct.
Product quality and integrity We work with our suppliers to maintain Our We act with integrity excellent standards of product quality products We conduct all our activities with and safety.
Responsible sourcing We expect our suppliers, contractors and agents to adhere to our Code of Conduct and to adopt similar standards.
We drive for results Promoting eco products We are a positive link in the sustainable and improvements construction supply chain.
We listen and respond to the needs of our customers, then exceed their Environmental efficiency We run efficient operations that consume Our expectations.
We are not happy with less energy and produce less waste.
operations the status quo, and constantly strive to improve.
Compliance with the law We are committed to observing both thespirit and the letter of the law.
Protecting information We protect both digital and physical We value our people information on behalf of our stakeholders.
We understand, respect and value personal and cultural differences: Active corporate citizen We voluntarily contribute our time and Our we are open and honest in all our our financial support to the communities communities dealings with our people.
34 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Key to drivers of profitable growth Operating model and All nine of our drivers Engaged associates Organic expansion All e-commerce development of profitable growth Excellent service ethic Bolt-on acquisitions Pricing discipline Strong sales culture Adjacent opportunities Own label penetration Sustainability and drivers Opportunities Risks ofprotable growth A multi-skilled and well trained workforce will help us Changing operating models require us to constantly The symbols above are displayed in to deliver against our objectives and adapt to changing up-skill our people.
A competitive marketplace puts greater customer needs.
emphasis on excellent career development to attract talent.
the table to the left to indicate which of our strategic drivers are most directly Well structured remuneration and incentive programmes An uncompetitive remuneration programme could impact supported by each of the Better Business align associate and company objectives in order to ourability to attract and retain the best people.
drivers are summarised on page 17.
Motivated and engaged people deliver excellent Low associate engagement can lead to sub-optimal business customer service, develop strong supplier relationships results and poor retention of our people.
Governance and maximise operational efficiencies.
The overall Better Business framework A diverse workforce brings with it the widest range In an ever-changing market a lack of diversity can limit business is reviewed annually to test the ongoing of knowledge, skills and experience and promotes progression.
materiality of the issues identied.
An inclusive environment allows our people The Groups General Counsel is tofeel at ease in the workplace.
responsible to the Board for the overall A robust health and safety programme protects our Our principal risks relate to manual handling, working at height, programme.
Objectives and, where people, customers and suppliers.
It also improves the use of motorised equipment and vehicle collisions.
If not appropriate, quantied targets are set productivity by reducing the number of days lost to injury.
mitigated, these risks can harm our associates, impact our for each material issue.
Group-wide productivity and incur costs.
See page 47, Health and safety.
KPIs have not been set for all issues A commitment to high ethical standards strengthens The business is exposed to risks of bribery and fraud, which can as it is not always practical to bring our reputation with customers, suppliers and other damage our reputation.
Compliance programmes are in place distinct local methods under one stakeholders.
Improved performance is the primary goal.
Business units monitor Sourcing and supplying safe, quality products improves Product-related litigation is recognised as one of our principal performance throughout the year and our margins, enhances customer satisfaction and enables risks.
For more detail on how we are managing the risk, performance reports are submitted to our people in branch to devote more time to service.
the Executive Committee and the Board at regular intervals.
Working with reputable suppliers gives our stakeholders There is increasing focus on supply chain transparency confidence in the integrity of our supply chain, including duetotherisk of business interruption or reputational harm.
standards around ethical labour, modern slavery, conict Better Business minerals and anti-bribery and corruption.
progress in 2017 Where the opportunity exists, we can gain market share Building regulations increasingly focus on sustainable The following two pages provide an by supplying eco products and offering training and construction.
Growth opportunities can be missed if we overview of our progress in the year advice to our customers.
donotadapt to our customers changing product needs.
It is referenced when Better energy and waste management decreases Energy costs and increasing green taxes can reduce further information on these topics costs and improves operational efficiencies.
We have reduction targets in place canbe found elsewhere in this report.
A greater level of detail is available onthe Ferguson plc website Compliance with legal regulations gives us a licence Mitigating the risk of non-compliance with increasing levels to operate.
ofgovernmental regulations is a priority see page 48. www.
Withoutcertain licences the Company cannot operate.
Robust systems and processes together with an Information security is one of our principal risks.
informed workforce allow us to protect our sensitive For more detail, see page 46. orcommercial data.
Engagement with the communities in which we operate Ferguson has many locally established competitors who promotes our business and enhances people skills are activein the community.
A lack of engagement with our andengagement.
communities can weaken our reputation with both customers andemployees.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Sustainability continued Health and safety Our people Our products Ferguson had set a 2 per cent reduction target for each of the three health Our progress on the six people issues Product quality and integrity and safety metrics during the year is described on pages 22 to 24.
During 2016 17, we continued to embed under review.
Diversity and health and safety statistics our quality control procedures for Injury rate 7.2% deterioration and our human rights statement are sourcing from the Far East.
Quality teams 1.63 per 100,000 provided below.
in our Asian sourcing entities continue to hours worked visit and assess our suppliers.
The overall All material issues relating to our people Lost workday 8.9% deterioration framework for product integrity was directly affect all of our strategic drivers rate 53.75 per 100 employees reviewed and strengthened and on page 17.
The effectiveness and Fleet third party 6.0% improvement additional resource was added to the level of engagement of our people collision rate 14.45 per 100 vehicles quality team in the UK business.
iscrucial in delivering on our strategy and maintaining the sustainability of The deterioration in our injury and lost workday rates is disappointing and is the business.
Responsible sourcing primarily as a result of deteriorating Each business assesses its suppliers rates in the USA.
Further information Talent management against set criteria to provide protection on our key health and safety risks and anddevelopment to both us and our customers in the Case study the mitigating actions being taken is event of a product failure or breach Page 22 provided in the key resources and Working with ofregulation in the supply chain.
responsible Page 24 suppliers Competitive pay and reward Pages 23 to 25 One of the steps Modern Slavery Act Pages 22 and 23 taken by the Company to The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Ethical behaviour assess the ethical Act requires Ferguson plc and its group and human rights Associate engagement behaviours of of companies the Group to make an suppliers is to screen Page 24 Page 23 annual statement outlining the steps the their company names through a third-party business is taking to identify and prevent Human rights risk assessment modern slavery within our organisation Diversity and inclusion portal.
This allows Both the United Nations Global and its supply chain.
for identication Total Total % Compact and Universal Declaration of of any issues men women women Through its various business divisions, Human Rights have been considered in such as adverse Directors Board 7 4 36% the Group sources, distributes and sells determining the human rights issues that media relating to 1 products in mature markets in North regulatory breaches Senior leadership 78 16 17% are material to Ferguson.
These topics or employment America and Western Europe.
A small include associate policies covering 2 Total associates 31,434 9,631 23% practices, sanctions, percentage of the Groups own label topics such as anti-discrimination, health criminal activity or 1.
T he Senior leadership group at Ferguson products are sourced from other regions, and safety and ethics and conduct.
links to senior ranking consists of managers drawn from business units principally in Asia.
All of these issues are managed through public officials.
and central functions with responsibility for Tens of thousands of planning, directing or controlling the activities of policies and programmes of work and It is recognised that there could be a the Company.
our suppliers have are regularly monitored for compliance.
T otal associate numbers of 41,065 are reported small risk of human trafficking or slavery been assessed over above total men plus total women including Business partners and suppliers are the last two years.
in the manufacturing, distribution and all continuing businesses.
The lower number of expected to conform to Fergusons No high risk issues 33,000 reported on page 22 is the number of logistics activities that are connected Full Time Equivalent associates for the ongoing were identied.
The Code of Conduct with our business.
Ferguson plc has zero businesses only.
Ethical screening is detailed on the Ferguson plc website tolerance for such activities.
continues on higher Our diversity policy statement can be www.
The Group is undertaking a number of steps to minimise the risks of slavery Page 23 occurring in our business or our supply chain.
We built upon our existing processes for background screening of suppliers so that now we have screened tens of thousands of our suppliers see case study to the left.
No slavery risks were identied in the process.
The businesses continue to screen their highest risk entities based on spend value, geographical location and business type.
36 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Performance at the end of 2016 17, one All Scope 1 and 2 emissions and selected Training on combating modern year into the target period, is positive Scope 3 emissions are reported.
slavery was delivered in local across all three performance measures.
Further detail on the data provided can language to associates in the Groups be found in the Basis of Reporting sourcing operations in China in 2016.
Carbon 3.0% improvement 26.3 document on the Ferguson plc website tCO e per mrevenue 2 Similar training is planned for the www.
Groups Taiwanese operations Total waste 3.9% improvement 4.4 tonnes per mrevenue in September 2017.
Page 25 % of total waste 1.6% improvement Audits and site visits of suppliers in low I am personally recycled from 30.1% to 31.7% cost countries are undertaken on their engaged with Compliance with the law appointment and periodically thereafter.
health and safety Total revenue of 17,324 million including Legal and compliance teams discontinued businesses is used when calculating Procedures are in place for on-boarding specialists from the relative carbon and waste performance.
across the Group work with the and evaluating such suppliers.
our businesses The lower number of14,878 million reported on businesses to adhere to all legal and page 12 is the revenue for the ongoing businesses.
to ensure that The Group has maintained a regulatory requirements.
we consider Total carbon emissions Codeof Conduct and a condential and act on their Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 whistleblowing line, applicable Protecting information views for best toall Ferguson businesses, which 468,322 448,966 455,144 As our channels to market develop practices and allow people to speak up in 116,234 110,697 116,257 so too does the technology that we opportunities for confidence and without the fear employ and the data that we hold.
We are committed to protecting the John Martin 214,273 194,079 199,416 Group security of our systems and information This statement is made on behalf Chief Executive so that customers can transact with of all subsidiaries of Ferguson plc 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 page 18 us safe in the knowledge that we www.
com and is made Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 have the appropriate safeguards pursuant to section 54 1 of the Act Total waste in place.
The Group operates an IT andconstitutes our Groups slavery Tonnes governance framework, including a and human trafficking statement for the fullset of dedicated IT policies, aligned financial year ending 31 July 2017.
76,201 75,026 75,397 to known security and operational risks.
18,902 22,611 23,865 Further information on the steps taken by A broader Group information security 8,573 7,313 8,657 the Groups UK subsidiary can be found policy determines how we protect all at www.
information wherever it exists and in 48,726 45,102 42,876 whatever form electronic or hard-copy.
Promotion of eco products 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 Pages 46 and 60 Our businesses continue to monitor the Landlled Incinerated Recycled market for eco products and promote Due to rounding of the gures in the bar charts and these products where there is customer tables there is not always a precise correlation with Our communities the sub-total and total performance gures.
For example, customers of Inaccuracies identied in prior year numbers our online business Build.
com can lter resulted in immaterial adjustments to the absolute their product search to view products carbon and waste totals in the charts above.
Active corporate citizen with recognised national environmental Our businesses seek to be contributing tCO2e m revenue labels.
The UK and Dutch businesses members to the communities in which each have a dedicated showroom to Onethey operate.
The Group supports Carbon year promote renewable technologies and emissions 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 variance anumber of charitable organisations publish targeted marketing material on both at a Group and a business unit level.
2 emissions 21.6 20.4 19.6 -4% In 2016 17, Ferguson plcs businesses contributed to a range of charities, Page 24 Scope 3 emissions 7.1 6.7 6.7 0% including support for the homeless, scholarships for young apprentices and Total emissions 28.7 27.1 26.3 -3% provision of care for sufferers of cancer Our operations and other illnesses.
Constant currency revenues are used in order to remove the impact of currency uctuations from Our people engaged in numerous Environmental efficiency our performance.
This has reduced the relative community and charity events during carbon gures for prior years.
Ferguson plc set five-year targets to the year.
Further information and case Our approach to measuring carbon was developed reduce carbon -10 per cent and waste in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol studies of the events our associates GHGProtocol.
Emissions are calculated using -15 per cent per m revenue and to and businesses have supported DEFRA and IEA carbon factors and are reported increase the percentage of waste that is astonnes of CO2 equivalent abbreviated as over the last year can be found at tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential recycled to 40 per cent.
GWP ofeach of the basket of six greenhouse has set its own targets for carbon and gases, asdened by the Kyoto Protocol.
waste to support the achievement of the Group goals.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
