Corporate social responsibility Syncona aims to be a socially responsible organisationwhich operates fairly andtransparently.
We aim, at all times, to conduct our business activities ethically and in line The BACIT Foundation charity with best practice, having consideration beneficiaries for the year ended of ourstakeholders who include, but are 31March2017 are set out below: notlimited to, patients, shareholders, our Alzheimers Research UK team, charities such as the Wellcome Trust alzheimersresearchuk.
org and Cancer Research UK and the Alzheimers Research UK is the UKs businesses in which we invest.
leading dementia research charity We are committed to growing our business specialising in finding preventions, in line with our guiding principles: causes, treatments and a cure for dementia by funding world-class, Transparency pioneering research at leading Integrity universities.
Charitable objectives Delivering material benefit for patients ofTheBACITFoundation through new product innovation and The Alzheimers Society To support the prevention, treatment, development alzheimers.
uk cure and ultimately the eradication Ensuring a safe environment for The Alzheimers Society is the UKs of cancer in all of its forms and any employees and minimising our leading dementia charity.
information and support, improve care, fund research and create lasting change To promote and assist: By building a strong business, we for people affected by dementia.
maximise the income we can provide the study of and research into to those charities we support through Beating Bowel Cancer thenature, causes, diagnosis our annual donation.
org andpathology of cancer Beating Bowel Cancer is here to raise andanyallieddiseases: Charitable contributions the alarm for a disease that takes more the development and provision A principal reason for the establishment of than peoples health it takes their ofallforms of preventive, curative, BACIT in 2012 was to make a substantial dignity.
Founded in 1999, they do all it management and palliative annual donation to charity.
To date we takes to fight for life.
They provide a lifeline treatment of cancer and havedonated a total of 18.1 million.
The of emotional and practical support, from anyallieddiseases: and Company will be making further charitable thefear of first diagnosis to the trials of education and training in subjects donations of 4.75m in the 2018 financial treatment.
They work with individuals, relevant to the study of cancer year.
Much of this charitable contribution local communities, medical professionals, andany allied diseases.
supports the healthcare space in and government, helping raise public recognition of our vision to deliver To co-operate with, and promote awareness and improve early diagnosis transformational treatments to patients.
andassist the work of, The Institute of of the disease.
They are determined to Cancer Research and, or alternatively, Looking forward, we will continue to push our society beyond the discomfort such other charitable organisations donate 0.3 per cent of our NetAsset Value and awkwardness of bowel cancer, whose objects include any of those each year to a range ofcharities, thereby into a new era of open progress.
above as The BACIT Foundation ensuring that our contribution to these Butterfly Thyroid Cancer Trust maydetermine in addition to or worthy causes mirrorsthe success butterfly.
uk insubstitution for The Institute ofourbusiness.
Founded in 2003, Butterfly Thyroid ofCancerResearch.
Half of our annual donation goes to Cancer Trust is the first registered charity To promote and assist such other TheInstitute of Cancer Research, an in the UK dedicated solely to supporting charitable objects and charitable organisation which we are delighted people affected by thyroid cancer.
organisations as The BACIT tosupport as it pursues its mission of Working alongside an expert medical Foundation may from time makingthe discoveries that defeat cancer.
multi-disciplinary team and Cancer totimeconsider desirable.
Theremaining 50 per cent of the donation Research UK, they can ensure access to is made to The BACIT Foundation, the very best support for their members.
whichdistributes the funds to a range of charities.
Syncona Limited 46 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Cancer Research UK Downside Up The ICR has charitable status andrelies cancerresearchuk.
org on support from partner organisations, Cancer Research UK is the worlds leading Downside Up is a Russian non-profit charities and donors to fundits research cancer charity dedicated to saving lives organisation that provides support and and innovation.
through research and whose vision is to advice for families raising children with The James Wentworth-Stanley bring forward the day when all cancers are Downs Syndrome, develops innovative Memorial Fund cured.
In 2015 16, CRUK committed a total childrens training and parents support jwsmf.
org of 432 million to cancer research projects methods, disseminates knowledge and The James Wentworth-Stanley Memorial and it is the worlds largest independent experience among Russian professionals Fund was set up by Jamess parents supporter of cancer research.
and society, and works towards raising tohelp raise awareness of anxiety, public awareness about Downs Syndrome Child Bereavement UK depression and suicide among young withtheaim of changing attitudes.
uk people and to tackle the terrible and Child Bereavement UK supports families The Egmont Trust shocking statistic that suicide is the and educates professionals when a baby egmonttrust.
org greatest cause of death amongst young or child of any age dies or is dying, or when The Egmont Trust works to improve the men in the UK.
They provide lives of children and families living with JDRF face-to-face bereavement support for HIVand AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa by jdrf.
uk children and families at a growing number supporting local, dedicated organisations JDRF formerly known as the Juvenile of locations across the country: they driving local, cost-effective solutions.
Diabetes Research Foundation is a provide specialised training, resources and Fight for Sight charitable organisation committed to information for schools: and every year fightforsight.
JDRF funds they train more than 8,000 professionals Fight for Sight is the UKs leading charity world-class research to cure, treat tohelp them better meet the needs of dedicated to stopping sight loss by funding and prevent the chronic condition while grieving families.
With programmes giving support and a voice to those Cure Leukaemia at leading universities and hospitals the affected including children, adults cureleukaemia.
co. uk charity aims to prevent, treat and reverse and their families.
Cure Leukaemia helps connect blood the sight loss caused by a wide range of The Louis Dundas Centre cancer patients with pioneering drug and different diseases and conditions.
forChildrens Palliative Care transplant treatments.
The charity helps The Institute of Cancer Research gosh.
org louis-dundas-centre finance the internationally renowned Centre icr.
uk The Louis Dundas Centre for Childrens for Clinical Haematology at Queen Elizabeth The Institute of Cancer Research, London, Palliative Care is intended to be a Hospital in Birmingham, to fund life-saving is one of the worlds most influential cancer world-class centre of research, teaching clinical trials to treat patients that have research institutes, with an outstanding and practice in palliative care for children exhausted standard treatment options.
record of achievement dating back more and young people.
Cure Leukaemia recently launched a than 100 years.
Today, the ICR is ranked Maggies 1million appeal to fund a transformational asthe UKs leading academic research maggiescentres.
org expansion of the Centre, which will double centre, and leads the world in isolating Maggies is about empowering people its capacity for patients, world first clinical cancer-related genes and discovering tolive with, through and beyond cancer trials and specialist research nurse new targeted drugs for personalised bybringing together professional help, positions.
Not only will the expanded cancer treatment.
communities of support and building Centre help save more lives it will also The ICR employs leading scientists from design to create exceptional centres hasten global progress towards finding over 50 countries around the world and forcancer care.
Maggies runs centres effective treatments for all blood cancers since 2005 alone, 20 drug development where people are welcome at any time, within 25 years.
candidates have been discovered based from having just being diagnosed, or on ICR research, nine of which have undergoing treatment, to post-treatment, progressed into Phase 1 clinical trials recurrence, end of life or in bereavement.
or beyond, one of which was approved by NICE in 2012 to treat advanced prostate cancer.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 47 Corporate social responsibility continued Marie Curie SSAFA mariecurie.
uk Marie Curie is for people living with any SSAFA is one of the UKs leading armed terminal illness, and their families.
It provides practical, offer expert care, guidance and support financial and emotional support to anyone tohelp them get the most from the time who is currently serving or has served in they have left.
Their nurses work night the Army, Navy or RAF, and their families, and day, in peoples homes across the and has been running for over 125 years.
UK, providing hands-on care and vital Supporting Wounded Veterans emotional support.
Marie Supporting Wounded Veterans aim Curie also support people throughout isautonomy and independence, their illness by giving practical information, Helping Maggies employment and meaningful occupation, support from trained volunteers and Maggies Centres is a provider of free for wounded, mainly ex Iraq and being there when someone wants to talk.
practical, emotional and social support Afghanistan, campaign veterans, via topeople with cancer and their family NSPCC skihabilitation, mentoring, a specific pain andfriends, following the ideas about nspcc.
uk management programme in partnership cancer care originally laid out by The NSPCC are the leading childrens with King Edward VII hospital in London, MaggieKeswick Jencks.
charity fighting to end child abuse in the and with support into employment.
They help children who have been The world of cancer is changing.
Women for Women International abused to rebuild their lives, protect Withadvances in medicine and earlier womenforwomen.
uk thoseat risk and find the best ways of diagnosis, the chances of surviving Women for Women International helps preventing abuse from ever happening.
cancer long term are double that of 40 women in countries affected by conflict years ago.
But as the number of people The Rwanda Hope Foundation and war to move from crisis and poverty living with cancer increases, so does the prismthegiftfund.
co. uk to stability and economic self-sufficiency.
need to findexpert support to cope with The Rwanda Hope Foundation RHF Since 1993, it has supported more than the complex challenges that living with represents a new approach to fighting 450,000 women across eight countries andbeyond cancer brings.
Through enterprise education earn and save money, improve health Maggiesdoesand the generosity of programmes and a revolving debt equity and well-being, influence decisions in Syncona andThe BACIT Foundation fund, RHF helps local Rwandan their home and community, and connect ismaking thatpossible.
entrepreneurs and social entrepreneurs to networks for support.
Donations to RHF The Foundations generous donations www.
co. uk are toMaggies allow us to plan ahead to made to Prism the Gift Fund for onward ensure we are meeting the changing transmission by it to RHF.
andemerging emotional, practical andsocial needs ofpeople with cancer Scope and their families andfriends across scope.
Weare incredibly Scope exists to make this country a place grateful for the long-term financial where disabled people have the same support whichunderpins our ambition opportunities as everyone else.
Until then, to reach and support even more people theyll be here.
They provide support, affected bycancer that need our help.
information and advice to more than a quarter of a million disabled people Laura Lee and their families every year.
They raise Chief Executive, Maggies Centres awareness of the issues that matter.
And with your support, theyll keep driving change across society until this country isgreat for everyone.
Syncona Limited 48 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Bioethics Diversity Environment Syncona believes that medical We are committed to promoting a diverse Syncona is committed to operating its technologycan provide significant workforce.
Our position isone of equal business in an environmentally responsible benefitsto life, however we recognise opportunity in the selection, training, career and sustainable manner.
thatthese technologies carry with them development and promotion within Syncona believes its direct environmental responsibilities.
We place high priority on Synconas Investment Manager and impact to be relatively low, with the the safety and efficacy of the products Investment Advisor team, regardless of age, investment team largely based at Syncona developed by our life science companies gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, Investment Management Limiteds head and expect that any decision to religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
To demonstrate the commercialise aproduct or therapy should A breakdown by gender of Syncona Groups commitment to operating in an involve careful consideration of the risks Limiteds Boardas an average over the environmentally responsible way, Syncona and the benefitsof the technology in light 12month period to 31 March 2017 intends to set out a detailed environmental oftheinformation available.
isasfollows: policy and reporting structure within the Animal welfare next 12 months which will include Syncona is committed to high standards Board gender breakdown information on Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
of ethical care across all aspects of Male 82% our business, and research activity.
Female 18% The Companys Strategic report is Acknowledging that, at this time, research set out on pages 1 to 49.
Approved involving animals remains an essential by the Board on 5July 2017 and signed toolto increase our understanding of how on its behalf by: human bodies work, our approach is based on support for the use of animals inresearch if the potential health benefits are compelling, appropriate welfare standards are met and alternatives cannot be found.
We expect our investee companies to meet all legal and regulatory Jeremy Tigue requirements which set a high standard Chairman on this important issue, and to adopt the 5 July 2017 widely used 3 Rs approach to ensuring In Synconas Investment Manager and high quality scientific research: Investment Advisor team, a breakdown by 1.
Replacement: promoting the use gender as an average over the 12 month ofother methods.
Reduction: reducing the number ofanimals used.
Refinement: minimising pain, Male 58% suffering, distress or lasting harm, Female 42% aswell as improving the welfare oftheanimals used.
Health and safety We are committed to ensuring we provide a safe environment for employees, seeking to ensure that high standards of health, safety and welfare provisions are achieved and maintained in our business and we expect our life science portfolio companies to seek the same standards.
Synconas Investment Manager and Investment Advisors team had no reported health or safety incidents in the year to31March 2017.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 49
