Strategic report|Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Were unlocking the power of data to make a difference in society and help create a better tomorrow for consumers, clients, our people and our communities.
Data is central to how we all live.
It has A financial identity is critical to assure How we make a difference the potential to transform our lives for lenders that people and small businesses Scientists and researchers at Experian the better.
Our innovative products, can make repayments and get benefits DataLabs are using big data to help services and use of data and technology and access to other services from their organisations solve strategic challenges.
enable people and businesses to make government.
Without a full and accurate Data on all aspects of modern life can the right decisions whether its securing profile, people cannot get loans or can offer valuable insights into how to solve the lowest interest rate on a loan, getting only access them at very high interest some of societys biggest challenges.
credit to buy a home, or simplifying the rates.
Banks, utility providers and other process of healthcarepayments.
But we dont just use our data and clients can rapidly check someones expertise to look at the big picture.
We identity with products like Prove-ID.
As the worlds largest credit bureaux use it to help individuals make the most operator, we have an important role to Sometimes the most basic element of their data to help them pay for play in enabling access to finance for of identity simply proving that you healthcare, buy their first home, build millions of people who could otherwise are who you say you are can be the their business or get a loan.
We also help be excluded from mainstream credit and biggest barrier to accessing credit.
people build and protect their financial services.
We help people and businesses This is often the case in parts of the identity and get out of debt.
make the most of their data to borrow world where personal documentation is within their means, get services at sparse.
It is a big issue for those caught This makes a big difference to millions affordable rates, and defend against up in the current refugee crisis, which of people around the world.
has displaced millions of people from Helping people gain access their homes.
In 2017, we took part in the to essential services We work with partners to develop new multi-stakeholder Bali Process on People products designed to create social Our Credit Services business, which Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and benefits, while generating revenue for represents over half of our global revenue, Related Transnational Crime, to find ways our business too.
Our social innovation enables organisations and lenders to to help refugees rebuild their identities.
programme has helped almost 9 million make fast, fair decisions on credit, helping people access essential services and people get access to essential services.
earned almost US$6 million for our We produce over 5.5 million credit reports business since 2014. a day, which help clients make more informed decisions about the services How we work is just as important as what they offer their customers.
Were committed to always acting with integrity.
That includes treating data, people and the environment with respect.
54 Strategic report|Corporate responsibility 9 million Our social innovation programme has helped nearly 9 million people access essential services since launch.
m US$6 Almost US$6m has been earned from our social innovation programme for our business since 2014.
55 Strategic report|Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Our data and expertise are helping Health is one of the most important people around the world to transform factors in anyones life.
We use data their financial profiles from thin files to connect people with the potentially with little to no payment records life-saving healthcare services they to thick files that provide a fuller need.
In the USA, more than 60% of reflection of their financial behaviour.
hospitals and thousands of clinics, The thicker a persons credit profile is, labs, pharmacies and healthcare the more likely they are to get loans at providers rely on Experian Health.
Our affordable interest rates or gain access growing Experian Health business has to other services.
In Colombia, many introduced new solutions to help patients poor residents cannot get a government understand and manage the costs of subsidy on a mortgage, despite being healthcare services.
We will also begin eligible for one, because their credit offering financial education support for history is too thin.
In 2018, we will work people facing large medical bills and we with the Colombian government to help have launched Experian Health Cares residents build a sufficient credit score to connect them with new sources of and provide them with tips on how to charitable funds, using our Financial manage that credit score in the future.
Alternative data, such as utility and rental As well as enabling people to make payments, has the power to fill credit the most of their data, we help them Our volunteers profiles with years of repayment history.
to protect it and support victims of helped almost In 2017, over 15 million tenants in the fraud and identity theft.
Services like USA had their rental payments recorded CreditExpert and CreditTracker alert on Experian RentBureau, and rental customers to suspicious behaviour and 26,000 payments of over 1 million private and our consumer websites educate people social housing tenants in the UK are held on how to ward off fraudsters.
We are people with financial on our Rental Exchange.
Using this data providing additional support for groups education in Brazil can help people build their credit profiles.
that are particularly vulnerable to fraud, from young people in the USA to during 2017.
We also help small enterprises improve the elderly in the UK.
We have reached their credit profiles through our Credit over 3,300 people directly in the UK Services business, empowering them through education and in the USA we to get the loans they need to grow their are helping to prevent identity theft by businesses.
In the USA, small businesses donating credit reports to foster care create nearly two-thirds of new jobs, but agencies.
Thanks to access to our credit they often struggle to access loans.
reports, those agencies can easily spot if someone is fraudulently using the We offer a range of products and identity of young people in their care.
services to help them overcome this challenge, such as our Commercial Credit Score Simulator.
We provide financial education and business management training to support entrepreneurs.
In 2017, we supported 134 microentrepreneurs in Brazil through our established Real Dreams programme, 140 small business owners through our business hubs in South Africa and 1,000 women through financial education inVietnam.
56 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories SOCIETAL IMPACTS Using alternative data to help millennials get credit Im an Account Executive at Experian.
Most millennials dont have a traditional credit history to prove we can be trusted to repay loans or credit.
Using data, Im working to change that, while also helping small enterprises by enabling them to do business with my generation.
At Experian, we look at alternative data I see my role as a bridge between Im proud to be helping to create a new sets like paying rent and utilities that millennials and an older generation, generation of customers for small can show how a millennial is actually connecting young consumers with the businesses while giving my fellow a low-risk candidate for credit, even if resources experienced lenders can millennials the financial access his or her credit score doesnt reflect provide.
A lot of my clients are smallthey need.
Through our data, were providing business lenders with strict underwriting Alex Robbins opportunities for people who wouldnt criteria.
My lenders need to improve their Account Executive, Credit Services, ordinarily have access to credit so they underwriting to win lifelong customers, Experian North America can buy their first house, get a car but theyre understandably afraid of or start that business theyve always risk.
We can help them identify their dreamed about.
best opportunities using data, including information like rent payments, which they may have overlooked.
1,300 In 2017, we helped almost 1,300 microentrepreneurs develop their businesses.
57 Strategic report|Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Alternative Community Hours of Reduced data spend volunteering emissions m m % 15 US$8 39,000 2.5 Time volunteered by Since 2016, we have cut In 2017, over 15 million We invested over our people to support the carbon intensity of tenants in the USA had US$8m into our financial education their rental payments our business by 2.5% to communities and community recorded by Experian.
Online Recovery Portal, which connects programmes.
In Brazil, volunteers Helping people to understand and manage their finances them with their lenders to renegotiate committed more than 350 hours to debts.
The portal has helped people teaching 584 young students about By educating people to understand their repay over 2.9 million individual debts, financial education through games.
credit profiles, were empowering them worth over US$3bn.
Our Debt Advice We volunteered over 1,000 hours to improve their profiles and manage Centre in Nottingham, UK, has provided organising and delivering donated gifts their finances better.
financial education and debt assistance and food during the holiday season in We work with partners to support to more than 1,200 people since its the USA and almost 120 employees financial education programmes around launch in 2015, helping to build their celebrated Mandela Day by supporting the world.
In 2017, we replicated our financial confidence and resilience.
their local communities in South Africa.
Values, Money and Me financial education In Australia, we supported 600 students Engaging our people programme in the UK and Ireland with a with financial education sessions.
These In 2017, our employees volunteered programme in public schools in Brazil.
are just some of the ways our people are almost 39,000 hours to support our Through an interactive website, children making a difference.
community and financial education learn the basics of managing money and how to make informed decisions when they grow up.
Community investment Our experts trained around 2,500 people 2017 2016 Year ended 31 March US$000 US$000 in Turkey to help university students Funds from Experian plc 3,359 3,272 and entrepreneurs understand how to borrow responsibly and manage financial Financial donations and investments from Experian subsidiaries 2,237 1,594 risks.
We also provided support for Employee time volunteered 1,243 1,296 40 refugees to help them open bank Gifts in kind 648 620 accounts and build credit histories Management costs 907 957 in their new homes in Bulgaria and Total from Experian 8,394 7,739 Germany.
With mentoring from our volunteers 13 refugees got into new jobs As % of Benchmark PBT 0.75% 0.68% and two opened their own businesses.
Employee fundraising 656 937 Financial awareness can help people stay Value of out of work volunteering enabled by Experian 229 304 out of debt, but sometimes debt becomes unmanageable.
We offer advice and Total value of all giving 9,279 8,980 support to help people take control As % of Benchmark PBT 0.83% 0.79% and turn their lives around.
In Brazil, For more information on how these figures are calculated, see the 2017 Reporting Principles and Methodology over 11 million people are enrolled in our at www.
58 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories SOCIETAL IMPACTS Helping people clear their debts We developed the online recovery portal to help people manage and clear their debts.
Its especially important in Brazil because, if you have debts, we say you have a nome sujo.
Literally translated, it means dirty name.
And if you have this negative name, its impossible to get credit for anything for a car, a house, for anything.
Thats what it was like for Fabio.
His debt Fabio enrolled on our website, where hed paid it all back.
In ten minutes, it was had been building up for six months or he could view the debt he owed to the sorted he had a clear name.
Thats what so, and it was getting more and more lender as well as proposals to make a Limpa Nome means.
unmanageable until there was no chance settlement of dispute with the bank.
Lucas Lopes that he could repay it.
He thought hed have The bank made a special condition for Product Manager of Limpa Nome, to spend hours in a bank or a collection him instead of paying R$1,000 in one Serasa Experian agency, speaking to them and getting them month, he could pay R$70 a month until to negotiate with the lender for him.
m 2.9 We have helped almost 2.9 million people clear their debts through Limpa Nome.
59 Strategic report|Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued and affordable rates.
We aim to find the Our focus on energy efficiency measures Working with integrity and respecting human rights right balance between giving our clients in buildings and data centres has the data they need to do that, while continued to help us achieve these Our Global Code of Conduct sets out protecting personal privacy.
reductions, as well as consolidation of our business practices and values the our offices.
behaviour we expect from our employees Our dedicated teams check for in everything they do.
Alongside the inaccuracies in the information we Were investing in measures to optimise Code, we have specific policies that cover receive and alert data providers to help energy use in our buildings.
We also ethical and human rights risks related them improve the quality of their data.
prioritised energy efficiency and other to anti-bribery and corruption, human This helps to make sure that individual environmental considerations in the resources, health and safety, and labour credit profiles are as accurate and design of our new facility in So Carlos, practices in the supply chain.
up-to-date as possible, so lenders and Brazil, which is working to achieve other organisations can make informed certification to the Leadership in Energy We are committed to respecting human decisions when assessing applications and Environmental Design 'LEED' rights in our business and beyond.
We for loans or other services.
align our policies with the principles of the UNs Universal Declaration of Minimising our In March 2017, we celebrated Earth Human Rights.
Our statement on slavery environmental footprint Hour by supporting a carbon offsetting and human trafficking outlines our project that will offset 320 tonnes of CO e The biggest environmental impact of our 2 commitment to preventing modern emissions through the Brazilian Amazon business is the carbon footprint from slavery in our supply chain.
We plan to Verified Carbon Standard verified by the our data centres, office buildings and increase our employees awareness Reduced Deforestation project.
of the risks and develop risk-based Experian volunteers in Nottingham and monitoring or assurance programmes Our total carbon footprint was 54,190 Dublin will plant one tree for each tonne where appropriate.
tonnes of CO e in 2017: this is a 0.6% 2 of CO e offset.
From Costa Rica to South 2 reduction from the previous year.
Since Africa, our employees around the world The right to privacy is an increasing focus 2016, weve cut the carbon intensity of marked Earth Hour by switching off their for business and human rights groups.
our business by 2.5% to 11.7 tonnes of lights as a symbol of their commitment to Protecting data privacy is therefore a CO e per US$1,000 of revenue and we 2 protecting our planet.
We use data aim to achieve a 5% reduction by 2018. responsibly and balance the right to privacy with the benefits that data and Our carbon footprint analytics can bring for people, business and society.
Year ended 31 March Emissions from: 2017 2016 Safeguarding data and privacy Scope 1 Thousand tonnes of CO e 4.4 4.4 2 Safeguarding the vast amount of data we Location-based Scope 2 Thousand tonnes of CO e 37.0 38.0 2 hold is essential to maintain our licences Market-based Scope 2 Thousand tonnes of CO e 34.2 36.6 2 to operate and earn consumer trust.
Scope 1 and Scope 2 The threat of cyber-attacks is constantly normalised by revenue using Kilograms of CO e per 2 evolving and we make significant location-based emissions US$1,000 8.9 9.3 investments to protect our data.
We have reported on all the emission sources within our total carbon footprint which includes scope 1, 2 and 3 falling within our Group financial statements in line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and All employees must complete annual Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
The data has been training on information security and prepared in accordance with the UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version.
Detailed information on Experians environmental performance and the 2017 Reporting Principles and Methodologies data protection.
Our Global Information document are available at www.
Values set clear guidelines for how we manage and use data in compliance with regulations.
Strategic report People value their privacy, but they need This Strategic report was approved by a duly authorised committee of the to share some personal information with Board of directors on 17 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: lenders and other organisations so they Charles Brown can access credit and services at fair Company Secretary 17 May 2017 60 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories SOCIETAL IMPACTS Keeping things cool in our data centres When you tell people you want to put holes in the roof of a bullet-proof building, you really have to have thought it through.
Thats how our free air cooling project started at our data centre in Nottingham.
Thats a lot Its the biggest single energy saving of data, a lot of IT equipment, and that project we have made.
It paid for itself means a lot of heat.
Like a big fridge, in two years and now it saves us money.
it takes a lot of energy to cool it down.
We use about 20% less energy now on We spend about 1.5 million a year in cooling, even though weve actually electricity just on the UK data centres.
doubled the amount of equipment we have inside.
Thats why we did this free air cooling project.
Its the biggest environmental Barry Westbury project weve done, but its common VP, IT Operations and Compliance, sense really.
Why not just take the air Experian, Global % from outside the data centre, suck it in, 20 filter it and blow it across the floor to Free air cooling reduce the cooling costs.
has helped us use 20% less energy on cooling.
61 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories IDENTITY AND FRAUD PROTECTION Playing a part in helping auto companies fight fraud The guys Im working with go above and beyond when it comes to protecting people from fraud.
Jess Salafranca Cabieces from Volkswagen, and people from lots of other auto companies they take fraud so seriously, Im proud to be helping them.
A classic case of car fraud is where We went in, and everyone knew Jess And so what came out of this, which is someone goes from one car distributor really well hes clearly putting in loads of really nice, is we agreed to investigate to another getting car loans.
It becomes extra hours to file each and every report opening a channel where the police fraud when they change their data, like for his customers and company.
We did would send us information about their name, for each loan they take out.
things the Spanish way we went to the suspicious activity, and wed share it with The only way these auto companies bar, had a nice coffee and some ham, the auto companies on Hunter.
Its extra can tell this is happening is if they bread and tomato.
And we were chatting intelligence, which means better defence communicate with each other.
And thats with the officers in the traffic unit.
what were helping them do.
Theyre We talked to a sergeant about our whole It really goes beyond just data sharing, using our technology and working collaboration how it works with our and so far beyond regular project plans, together in their fraud-operating group, Hunter tool, and how we could work with papers and Excel spreadsheets.
Its a constantly helping each other.
The sergeant was really real partnership, and one that has a real reallyimpressive.
interested so we were there for a couple impact I can see it happening and feel I had a great chance to see for myself of hours discussing it.
how seriously the guys take their fraud Alexandros Triantafyllou roles when Jess took me with him to the Head of Fraud and Identity, police station to file a report.
We met one Experian Spain and Portugal morning outside the headquarters of the traffic police.
Its a really big building, the whole central unit.
It really goes beyond just data sharing... it's a real partnership and one that has real impact.
