Strategic report|Our people Our people - creating a world of opportunity Every day, our people help to unlock the power of data for consumers and businesses.
We recognise that our work carries great responsibility and that how we work is as important as what we do.
We are therefore focused on engaging our people, sustaining a positive culture, and attracting and retaining great talent.
We want to create a great place for our people to work in support of delivering sustainable growth.
We will also integrate The Experian Way Culture aligning our culture Employee engagement the with our brand into our global performance management power of our Brand Pioneers process Performance for Growth so As we consulted widely on the We have always believed that data has that it becomes part of how we assess, development of our new brand, we the potential to transform lives.
This develop and promote our people.
This were keen to harness the talents and financial year, we communicated this will be live for our 2018 performance enthusiasm of our frontline managers.
through a new brand proposition of cycle.
Finally, we are embedding the new Our belief was that if we could excite powering opportunities and helping to brand into our hiring and onboarding our 3,000 people leaders across the create a better tomorrow.
Our brand processes, so that we can present it fully globe, they would play a lead role in articulates why we exist, what we believe to prospective and new employees.
inspiring all our employees with our in and how we make a difference for new purpose and brand intent.
We did consumers, customers, communities and In December 2016, we launched the this by 'hiring' 150 Brand Pioneers from our own employees.
To support this all regions.
They co-created toolkits activity internally, we again engaged To ensure our culture aligns with our and communication materials with us, our Brand Pioneers to help us develop brand, we aim to do the following for to engage their fellow managers and what we called a Brand and Culture caf our people: then all employees with the brand.
Our intention was to continue the helped us to develop The Experian Way.
create a trusting environment that interactive and informal tone wed set in empowers them: We are now embedding The Experian all our employee communications about Way into our core people processes.
the brand and how it translates into our reward quality, commitment and In January, we launched a new One culture.
We set up 67 cafs across many performance: Experian global recognition programme.
of our office sites and in all regions, and encourage innovation and smart ideas: This allows our people to recognise and invited employees to come along, have inspire each other, fostering celebrate each other, in the moment and drinks and cake, talk to Brand Pioneers collaboration and meaningful publicly, on an internal social networking and other leaders, take away a branded relationships: and site.
The recognition categories are built gift, and even take a group photo or selfie.
provide global opportunities to help around The Experian Way.
We erected a Brand and Culture wall in our people grow and achieve their all cafs, where people could leave a full potential.
Feedback on the cafs has been fantastic and below are a few photographs to bring it to life.
48 Strategic report|Our people The Experian Way The Experian Way is a unique and consistent way of working globally.
Delight customers It informs how our people act and At Experian, whether your behave, which shapes our culture.
role brings you into contact with Its defined across five key areas of customers directly or not, all of us strategic importance: contribute to meeting customer needs.
At the heart of what we do are the relationships we invest in and nurture.
Collaborate to win One Experian mindset we work as one united team and use the combined strengths and capabilities of our people, products and services across teams, functions and Innovate to grow regions.
This translates into seamless At Experian, its the responsibility of experiences for our customers.
each one of us to find opportunities and improve the way we do things to help our business and our customers grow.
Safeguard our future At Experian, each one of us acts as a guardian for the protection of data, information, assets and our people to safeguard our future.
Value each other We make Experian a great place to work.
We treat each other with respect, trust and integrity.
49 Strategic report|Our people Our people continued strategy and the sense of inclusiveness strategic thinking and decision making.
Global People Survey part of an and belonging embodied in our culture.
However, like many organisations, we evolving employee listening strategy Each region has agreed D&I action plans experience a disproportionate decline In 2017, we moved to a new supplier based on our global framework and we in the number of women employed for our Global People Survey and track progress as part of our Global beyond middle management levels.
In building their D&I plans, the leadership level, the split of women has enabled us to provide a more agile the regions and core business activities to men is 25:74.
While this compares approach to connecting with our people, differentiate their focus so they respond positively with our FTSE 100 peer group, and to utilise mobile-enabled technology.
to local needs and hotspots, while we have a number of actions in place to The new annual survey will also be part maintaining global consistency across improve this.
of a more comprehensive employee some core themes.
Our Group Operating listening strategy, which will include This year, alongside our continued Committee also pays close attention to ongoing sentiment tracking, and new commitment to Everywoman, the progress in this area.
joiner, onboarding and exit surveys.
We online self-development platform, are keen to have a continuous feedback We have a significant millennial employee we have introduced the Women in loop with employees, through all key base 53% globally and experience Experian group.
Made up of senior stages of the employee lifecycle, so we greater attrition across this group female ambassadors from across the can proactively respond to their needs.
than for other generational groups.
We business, this network is committed to Our next main survey will run from the recognise that our millennial group has accelerating the development of women end of May 2017. different aspirations and we have been by provision of learning support through Talent strengthening and working to ensure we respond to their our Everywoman portal, with networking diversifying our talent pool agile approach to working.
We continue to opportunities and policy development that use our in-house predictive analytics tool enhances gender diversity, e. g. enhanced Our talent strategy aims to drive the to help us predict which individuals are at parental leave in North America.
attraction, growth and retention of a risk of leaving.
This enables us to manage deep pool of talented employees, who We have established global goals for the voluntary attrition of this group, reflect our global reach, our clients, and women in leadership positions and which has fallen in the last 12 months our belief in the value of diversity.
It then have a strategy and plans to support from 20.3% to 16.8%.
focuses on releasing the talent of every their achievement including executive employee, to deliver our performance As at December 2016, 45% of our global sponsorship of top female talent, gendergoals.
Our talent strategy and our employee base was female 8,042 balanced shortlists, training in inclusive diversity and inclusion 'D&I' agenda and 55% was male 9,911.
In terms leadership and identifying flight risks are just two of the many ways in which of ethnicity, 26% 4,742 of employees through our in-house predictive analytics we aim to achieve this for all our people.
classified themselves as white and 15% tool.
While we currently have a focus on We also continue to invest in targeted 2,639 as non-white.
The remaining gender diversity, we intend to extend our leadership development, as part of 59% 10,572 were not classified, either learnings across other diversity groups.
because local legislation does not allow The current picture, and our progress us to request this data or because Continued emphasis on D&I at the leadership level, are shown in the employees elected not to disclose it.
The Our objective is to create an environment table below.
Details of our Board average age of our workforce is 38. in which everyone can flourish, diversity can be found in the Corporate irrespective of their gender, ethnicity, To continue as a high-performing group, governance report.
thinking style, experience, age, sexual we need to have rich diversity at the orientation, physical ability or economic senior levels that are responsible for our background.
This aligns to our talent Senior leader diversity mix September September September September September September December December December 1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total no.
For more information on how these figures are calculated, see the 2017 Reporting Principles and Methodologies document at www.
50 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories IDENTITY AND FRAUD PROTECTION Helping hospitals prevent medical identity theft to protect patients from fraud Im a Senior Vice President of Sales, responsible for leading Experian Healths teams as they assist hospitals, physicians, labs and pharmacies across the USA.
We provide technology to help keep One of the biggest issues with this type As more healthcare companies begin the costs and payment processing of fraud is that it leaves its victims with to adopt it, this PIN will be the one thing component of healthcare easy and little or no recourse for recovery.
They you will need to carry with you, as it transparent.
The part of my work I often experience financial repercussions will be your unique identifier for all your am most passionate about, however, and discover that faulty information has healthcare experiences.
is our effort to decrease identity theft been added to their personal medical A lot of processes in hospitals today are inhealthcare.
still manual, but I want to change that.
Medical identity theft is one of the fastest To address this issue, my team and I want to automate systems so hospital growing areas of identity fraud in the I partnered with Experians Decision staff can focus on where they are most world.
With everything moving online at Analytics team to create a new tool that needed.
I am proud to work at a company a fast pace, healthcare providers may protects patients online portals in much thats at the forefront of solving the major not always keep up with the protections the same way that banks have protected problems in healthcare IT.
their online clients for years.
Being able to provide technological Unfortunately, that means hackers can Additionally, our team is in the process of solutions in an industry where you can sometimes acquire a patients personal launching a Universal Identity Matching directly see the benefit is both personally information name, Social Security solution a unique PIN which acts like and professionally rewarding.
Number, health insurance number the Social Security Number for your to illegally obtain medical services or healthcare information.
Nicole Rogas devices, insurance reimbursements Senior Vice President Sales, or prescription drugs.
Experian Health Medical identity theft is one of the fastest growing areas of identity fraud in the world.
51 Strategic report|Our people Our people continued Global talent and leadership Gender split of employees development programmes Building a strong and diverse talent and leadership pipeline is a significant part % % of our talent agenda and we have a suite 45 55 of global programmes to accelerate our employees development.
We revisit Global Global these programmes regularly, to ensure employees employees they deliver the maximum impact, and continue to add new programmes to drive are female are male our agenda forward.
Our programmes are designed to ensure we have a talent development response at key .
High Performance Master Class Generational diversity Launched in 2016, this externally facilitated year-long programme is for talented senior leaders in our most critical % roles globally.
It aims to help leaders 38 53 create a high-performance environment, drive significantly enhanced outcomes Average Workforce over the course of the programme, and age of our classed as take these lessons to help Experian reach its full potential.
The huge success of the workforce millennial 2016 programme has led us to look to extend it across the organisation.
As well as launching a second programme with a new cohort of leaders in critical roles, we have developed an abbreviated version which we will roll out to 200 additional Employees by region leaders by September 2017.
CEO Forum This development forum exposes senior % % talent to the CEO and other senior 39 20 executives and is designed to maximise attendees potential.
It is closely linked to North Latin the High Performance Master Class and America America we select members from the leadership succession talent pool.
Of the 28 people who attended the CEO Forum in the last two years, seven 25% have been promoted, which is ahead of the average % % for Experian.
Three of those promoted 23 18 were women.
In the last two years, ten women 36% have participated in our UK and EMEA CEO Forum.
Ireland Asia Pacific Experian Business Network EBN We launched this development network for high-potential and diverse emerging talent As at 31 March 2017 excluding CCM.
In total, 644 employees have been or are currently part of the EBN.
52 Strategic report|Our people Talent and succession planning review December 2016 % % % 97 53 77 of senior leadership have at least two have at least one roles have successors successors who are successor ready ready to provide ready now or ready now or ready within emergency cover.
Given the numbers of participants and the our strategic objectives.
The executive We pay close attention to the succession length of time that the programme has leadership and the Boards Nomination into these roles, ensuring that we have been running, in 2014 we started to track and Corporate Governance Committee detailed development plans for these promotion rates for participants attending regularly review our senior leadership leaders so that they are next role ready.
in the previous two years.
These development actions take many people who attended EBN in the last two different forms, including leadership The most recent review, as at years, 26 have been promoted, which is profiling, secondments, formal mentors, 31December 2016, highlighted that: ahead of the average for Experian.
We also pay close of those promoted were women.
attention to the depth of talent in our 97% of senior leadership roles regions and business areas, to ensure we have successors ready to provide Emerging Talent Network have strength in depth for these roles.
emergency cover: In 2015, we launched a similar 53% have at least two successors development programme to the EBN for Talent mobility also remains a key who are ready now or ready within talent earlier in their careers.
This is our focus, as building global capability is two years: and entry-level talent programme and invites crucial to our sustained success.
We are our junior talent to take their first step in continuing to see an increase in cross- 77% have at least one successor ready learning about their leadership style and border moves at more junior levels.
Of now or ready within two years.
It is running in three of our the 108 new cross-border moves made Our focus continues to be on developing regions and is soon to be launched in our in 2016, over half were below executive the strength and depth of our talent remaining business operations.
We are also offering our people pipeline.
As well as reviewing our most opportunities to work outside of their Talent and succession planning senior people and our progress against local markets for short periods of time, Succession planning is also integral to our talent management plans, we also thus allowing them to benefit from our talent strategy, ensuring we have assess whether we have our most significant stretch assignments.
the leadership resources to achieve capable people in our most critical roles.
Employees by region Global cost profile North America 6,400 Labour 54% Data 15% Latin America 3,300 Marketing 10% United Kingdom 3,700 IT 9% EMEA Asia Pacific 2,900 Central Activities 2% Other 10% As at 31 March 2017 - excluding CCM.
Unless otherwise stated, the data in the Our people section includes employees from the email cross-channel marketing business CCM now classified as discontinued operations.
