Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility The Boards aim is to invest responsibly.
The Board Governance is responsible for the denition and implementation Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3iInfrastructure and its activities.
For full details of of the Companys corporate responsibility policy, the Companys governance structure, please see however in practice it relies heavily on the relevant the Governance section of this report and visit the policies and procedures put in place by 3iGroup Governance and CSR section of the Companys website that apply to the Investment Adviser and, atwww.
Bribery Act For more information on 3i Groups corporate responsibility The Company does not offer, pay or accept bribes policies, please refer to its website: www.
com and is committed to working only with third parties .
The Board believesthat these whose standards of business integrity are substantively policies meet the Companys objectives in this area.
The Company also expects the Responsible Investment policy businesses it invests in to commit to avoiding corruption in all its forms and to comply with anti-bribery, anti-fraud 3i Group is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible and anti-money laundering laws applicable to them.
Investment RI and has embedded RI policies in its TheCompany has an anti-bribery policy and is fully investment and asset management processes.
compliant with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act.
The Investment Advisers philosophy on RI canbe summarised as follows: Environment the effective assessment and management of As an investment company with no employees, governed environmental, social, business integrity and corporate by a non-executive Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure has governance matters has a positive effect on the value no material direct impact on the environment.
Its carbon of portfolio companies, and hence on 3i Infrastructure: emissions are negligible, and limited to Board members travel to and from Jersey to attend Board meetings.
compliance with local laws and regulations may not be enough to meet global expectations, deliver value and Procurement enhance its reputation and licence to operate: and 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and procedures it is vital that the Investment Adviser seeks to identify in relation to the procurement of services received all material environmental, social and governance from third-party providers.
As far as possible, the ESG risks and opportunities through its due Company will work only with suppliers who support diligence and effectively manages them during the its aim to source products and services responsibly.
period of the Companys investment.
3iInfrastructure aims to have a collaborative relationship with its service providers and, wherever possible, The Investment Advisers RI policy makes clear that will work with them when problems or issues arise to it aims to use its inuence to promote a commitment help them meet its requirements.
inportfolio companies to: Prompt Payment Code comply, as a minimum, with applicable local and international laws: 3i Group performs most payment and treasury functions for the Company and is a signatory to the Prompt mitigate adverse environmental and social impacts Payment Code.
The Code encourages and promotes andenhance positive effects on the environment, best practice between organisations and their suppliers.
workers and relevant stakeholders: and Signatories to the Code commit to paying their suppliers uphold high standards of business integrity within clearly dened terms, and to ensuring there is a andgoodcorporate governance.
proper process for dealing with any issues that may arise.
The main features of the policy include: Modern Slavery Act clear statements of the commitment to mitigate The Board is committed to investing responsibly and notes adverse environmental and social impacts and the statement made by 3i Group plc under Section 54 of uphold high standards of business integrity the Modern Slavery Act 2015 MSA, which applies to the andgoodcorporate governance: Companys Investment Adviser.
The Company itself is not an exclusion list of businesses and activities in which subject to the MSA as it is a Jersey company.
investment is precluded: Please go to www.
com to view 3is statement under a referral list of businesses and activities which may section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in respect of the be particularly sensitive and may require additional financial year ended 31 March 2016. scrutiny: and a set of minimum ESG standards that portfolio This Strategic report is approved by order companies should meet, either at the time of oftheBoardAuthorised signatory investment or within a reasonable period thereafter.
Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited Details of the Investment Advisers RI policy Company Secretary are available on 3i Groups website: www.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Governance and accounts Introduction to Governance 54 Leadership 55 Effectiveness 59 Relations with shareholders 63 Accountability 64 Remuneration 69 Directors statement 71 Independent auditors report tothe members of 3iInfrastructure plc 74 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 78 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 79 Consolidated balance sheet 80 Consolidated cash ow statement 81 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 81 significant accounting policies 82 Notes to the accounts 87 Investment policy 102 Portfolio valuation methodology 103 Information for shareholders 104 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 53
