GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH Wizz Air is the largest low-cost airline in Central and Eastern Europe.
That means that we play a large part in the lives of many people whether our customers or our colleagues as well as being important to the communities which we serve.
We appreciate and value that position, but that means that we appreciate that we must ensure that our business approach not only provides the opportunity to travel to more and more people but also takes account of economic, environmental and social developments affecting our communities and our people.
Responsibility for the environment Wizz Air believes that our industry has to be responsible for the environments in which we operate.
We also believe that there are many things that we can do that are not only good for business, but also good for the environment.
Thats why we are always looking at opportunities to use the latest, innovative technologies that not only deliver operational efficiencies but also reduce our environmental footprint.
Operating the most modern, most efficient aircraft One of the cornerstones of Wizz Air business model has always been the operation of the latest technology, most efficient aircraft.
We currently, as at 31st March 2017, operate a fleet of 79 Airbus A320 and Airbus A321ceo aircraft, with an average age of just 4.4 years one of the youngest in Europe.
The Airbus A321ceo, a type of which we currently operate 16 with a further 15 to be delivered before the end of 2018, is already todays most efficient single-aisle aircraft.
All of our new-delivery aircraft are equipped with sharklets, which deliver an average 3.9% in-flight fuel saving compared to standard wing-fence aircraft.
However, in 2019, we will receive the first of the 110 Airbus A321neo aircraft which we have on order, equipped with nextgeneration Pratt & Whitney PW1100G geared turbofan engines.
The technology in these engines is new and disruptive to the market and according to manufacturers estimates, should deliver the lowest specific fuel consumption in its category and a reduction of 15 percent in fuel burn compared to todays single aisle aircraft, as well as lower CO2 emissions and lower noise levels.
Fuel saving initiatives Wizz Air currently has over 60 fuel saving initiatives which are either in the research and development phase or are already embedded in our operations, such as cost index optimisation or the use of thrust reversers.
Whats good for business is good for the environment less fuel consumed means fewer emissions.
Contributing to the economy Wizz brings the opportunity to travel at the lowest fares to its millions of passengers.
Giving affordable access to our customers to explore the wider world, or to travel quickly and cheaply to see friends and relatives or to develop their careers abroad, improves lives.
But more than this, Wizz Air is often the first airline at an airport to offer international flights connecting cities throughout Europe.
And that, in turn, means more visitors, boosting both local tourism as well as business links.
As a result, Wizz Air does not only provide job opportunities to each of the more than 3,000 aviation professionals already working in the Wizz team, but through our continuously developing network and operations we support numerous workplaces at our 141 destinations.
Indeed, based on the research of ACI Europe, every 1 million carried passengers per year supports 750 local jobs, meaning that the 24 million passengers we carried in the 2017 financial year Wizz supported over 18,000 jobs.
Responsibility for our colleagues and our community It may sound a clich, but we know that at Wizz Air its true: our people are the most important element of Wizz Airs success.
We support our colleagues with new, outstanding career opportunities in this exciting industry.
We are immensely proud of the diverse Wizz team and ensure that we engage with and take feedback from our colleagues, to increase our already high employee satisfaction rate.
For our customers, we are continuously developing our services to enhance the WIZZ customer experience.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 60 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Responsibility for our colleagues and our community continued Wizz promotes an active lifestyle Wizz Air, as the largest low-cost airline in Central and Eastern Europe, is proud to promote an active lifestyle.
Since our very first flight in 2004, Wizz Air has been democratising air travel.
Our motto back in 2004 was that Now We Can All Fly and we believe that, just as with air travel, an active lifestyle should also be available for everyone.
Thats why Wizz announced its title sponsorship of the Budapest Half Marathon, Skopje Marathon and Kyiv Marathon in 2014 and added the Cluj-Napoca Marathon to its sponsored sports events in 2016.
In April 2017, we announced that we would be sponsoring the Sofia Marathon.
The number of participants in the events has been continuously increasing, with more and more runners coming from all over the world including an ever increasing number of Wizz colleagues.
Wizz supports communities Wizz knows that the opportunity for more and more people to afford to fly is changing the world for the better.
But we also know that we can do more to support the communities that we serve!
Thats why we support charity activities, initiated by our cabin crew, to support their local communities.
These activities range from helping struggling families in Poland, supporting childrens medical services in Hungary, creating better educational conditions in Romania and Latvia or giving presents to orphans in Macedonia.
The care and attention of our cabin crews is making life better not just above the clouds!
Diversity and equal opportunities Wizz Air is an equal opportunity employer.
We are committed to treating our potential and current employees fairly, regardless of race, gender, age, marital status and anything else not related to our employees ability to do their jobs.
This principle is enshrined in our code of ethics, The Wizz Way.
Compliance with The Wizz Way is expected of all colleagues in the Wizz team.
By way of example, we value diversity and employ more than 3,000 colleagues of 39 nationalities.
The male to female ratio is balanced.
We currently have 1,838 women and 1,495 men working at Wizz.
Male female ratio within Wizz m:1,495 f:1,838 Male female ratio function head level m:20 f:4 Male female ratio within the management team and Management team: m:26 f:4 the Board of Directors Board: m:8 f:2 Employee relations Wizz feedback survey Wizz Air is a people business.
We know that our people are the backbone of our business and it is their dedication, day in, day out, that allows us to deliver our low-cost, quality service.
But we know that we cannot take our people for granted and that competition for the high quality people whom we seek is keen and may become even more so.
Wizz Air has always valued genuine engagement with employees.
We believe that this engagement is selfevident in the commitment shown by colleagues day-in, day-out whether its office colleagues going the extra mile or the passion for outstanding service of our cabin crew.
In May 2016 Wizz Air conducted the Wizz Feedback Survey to measure the satisfaction level of its employees and ask for their feedback on the major employment topics.
The survey confirmed that our colleagues are highly engaged and consider Wizz as an employer of choice.
The general satisfaction of the Wizz team is 85 percent, which is 25 percent higher than the average 2 engagement rate measured in Europe and 20 percent higher compared to the global results.
Recruitment and career As a fast-growing company Wizz Air is continuously recruiting to find new colleagues passionate about the aviation industry, whether they are talents early in their career or experienced professionals with significant expertise and successful track records.
The Company recruits an average of 500 new employees each year.
We also pride ourselves on the possibility for internal career development for colleagues and the number of promotions within the Company last year once again demonstrated that commitment, dedication and hard work are recognised in the best ways possible career and personal development.
2 Based on the 2016 Trends in Global Employee Engagement report by Aon.
pdf Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 61 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Employee relations continued Company events Wizz Air believes that the engagement of its employees is key to keep on achieving outstanding business results.
Thus, besides providing motivating tasks and professional challenges daily, the airline puts a great emphasis on building a community.
Some events recently enjoyed by the Wizz team include: A Wizz Christmas party, which was attended by over 1,000 colleagues.
Visits by senior management to each of our operating bases, with an opportunity for feedback to be given by colleagues.
Team building events to develop co-operation within departments and between different functions.
Running events It is an old saying that a healthy body helps a healthy mind, but its something that we certainly believe at Wizz.
Thats why we encourage our employees to lead a healthy lifestyle including participating in a number of running events sponsored by WIZZ.
These include the Budapest Half Marathon, Kyiv City Marathon and Skopje Marathon, and they are also provided with the opportunity of taking part in the Budapest Runway Run and Kosice Runway Run, two of the most unusual running events for aviation enthusiasts.
Representing the Wizz brand At Wizz we believe that all of our employees represent the Company, every day.
Thats why we are delighted that Wizz Air has a strong brand which all members of the Wizz team can be proud of.
However, we also need a team of people who represent the very best of the Wizz spirit.
These people are the WIZZ Ambassadors.
The Wizz Ambassador programme programme was launched in 2011 and currently, 24 colleagues from cabin operations elected through a public Facebook vote represent Wizz at schools, events, press conferences, recruiting trips and more.
They represent their base, their country and the Company as the face of Wizz.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 62
