40 41 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Fire drill training Trevor Schultz Chairman of the HSES committee Respect for the environment, worker safety 24 hour and strong stakeholder relations are the operation at the Sukari foundation of Centamins success.
Gold Mine Dear shareholders The board of directors is ultimately Other responsibilities include: SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT THE MINE LIFECYCLE responsibility for sustainability related I am presenting this report in my Reviewing all monthly and quarterly issues, and we have a dedicated capacity as chairman of the health, reports on issues related to health, safety, environmental and safety, environmental and sustainability, including community sustainability board level committee sustainability HSES committee, and environmental reports.
The committee is made up a committee of the board of Overseeing the development and of three board members: Edward Centamin plc.
EXPLORATION FEASIBILITY CONSTRUCTION PRODUCTION CLOSURE implementation of our HSE policies Haslam, Mark Bankes and me as for our exploration activities in chairman.
Effective from 5 February From exploration to extraction, Aim for the smallest Conduct Environmental Recruitment process Prioritise workplace Remediate and restore Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
possible social and and Social Impact safety land 2018, our newly appointed Increase communication construction to closure, sustainability environmental impact Assessments ESIAs with local communities Establish community Post closure training for nonexecutive director, Alison Baker, is a vital consideration at all stages of This year we also reinforced our Establish good Hold discussions with development alternative livelihoods Implement environmental will join the committee.
All our key governance community relations and host governments on programmes management systems commitment to sustainability and community programmes issues such as and programmes to Work to ensure efficient policies integrate sustainability linked part of the CEOs performance The committee meets up to four times infrastructure and Employ local people in mitigate impacts use of natural resources considerations, and we have security bonus to the achievement of specific exploration teams to and monitor to ensure Implement safety per year, and its core responsibility is ensure sufficient local Produce site-specific compliance with developed systems and processes to strategies HSES KPIs, including: to make recommendations to the knowledge to assess community and applicable host country ensure we identify and manage the potential social and environmental plans, and international laws.
board regarding all matters of zero fatalities: risks and opportunities from the environmental issues which comply with all Work to manage and environmental management, health host country legislation a yearonyear decrease in LTIFR: Establish a grievance minimise grievances environmental and social factors that and safety and stakeholder and IFC performance mechanism Ensure sufficient financial arise in our business.
We also work to zero severe or major consequence standards engagement particularly with any resources set aside to engage effectively with all our environmental incidents: Draw up any necessary meet all closure communities near our operations.
resettlement action plans obligations and stakeholders to ensure their views are a yearonyear increase in water Public communication development legacy plan taken into account throughout our recycling: programmes to ensure local communities aware business.
a yearonyear reduction in GHG of positive and negative emissions per tonne milled: and impacts of mine Develop closure plan an increase in total community investment.
Scope and boundary of this report This report focuses on the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, Centamins only current operational site.
Data presented covers our performance for the 2017 calendar year, which corresponds to our financial year.
Where noted, references may be made to historical results.
All financial figures are quoted in United States dollars unless otherwise noted.
This is our first report produced in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Standards Core option guidelines, including the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement.
Previously our approach to sustainability has been reported as part of the corporate social responsibility chapter in our annual report.
The most recent annual report was published in March 2016.
Boundary Unless noted otherwise, this report covers sustainability matters related to the Sukari Gold Mine in Egypt, our only operational site.
However, reference is made to our exploration activities in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire, when they are material, provide context and to demonstrate how sustainability issues are considered throughout all our activities.
42 43 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued This year we reviewed the Centamin strives to operate at the Egypt, and in French for our Payments to government contribution to the ability of authorities As shown below, Centamins total requirements of the UKs Modern highest international standards.
In employees in West Africa.
Failure to to foster local economic development.
economic value distributed in Egypt in Centamin strives to be a good Slavery Act 2015 2015 Act.
As doing so, we have appointed Digby comply with our code of conduct and The Egyptian government, for 2017 was US$133 million to the corporate citizen within all host noted in the directors report, the Wells to work with us to ensure the other policies can lead to disciplinary example, owns 50% of the Sukari Gold Egyptian government via profit share, countries.
Centamin recognises the committee agreed to review the 2015 mine is run in line with international action or termination of employment.
Mine and as part of the permitting corporate taxes, royalties and licence importance of paying a fair share of Act further, with a view to enhancing best practice.
In 2018, the HSES agreement receives a 3% royalty and fees.
These figures are fully reported taxes and royalties, and of reporting Bribery and corruption in all forms is the Companys existing human rights committee shall evaluate the 50% of the profits after recoverable in the annual report, as part of our these in a transparent and accountable strictly prohibited.
We do not get policies during 2018, giving stakeholder engagement plan and expenses and payment of the royalty annual ESTMA declaration, and as an manner.
The payments Centamin involved in political processes nor do consideration to the 2015 Act and work with our consultants to identify are deducted.
annual requirement under the FCAs makes often represent a significant we make any political contributions.
related UK guidance on adherence any improvements as we develop rules are independently audited.
In line with Toronto Stock Exchange with the Acts principles.
standards of reporting in line with 2017 2016 requirements, all payments to GRI requirements.
Sustainability governance government are fully reported and Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Australia Egypt Burkina Faso Cte dIvoire Australia US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ US$ In developing projects in West Africa disclosed through our annual Centamins governance of any feasibility and social and Extractive Sector Transparency sustainability is set out in a suite Profit share paid 111,629,332 18,503,333 environmental studies will be prepared Measures Act ESTMA declaration, of policies including our: Corporate and taking account of both local and which is available online.
The London indirect taxes 997,048 1,550,333 621,956 7,599,793 code of conduct: international requirements.
Stock Exchange disclosure and Royalties 19,344,126 17,314,743 health, safety and environment transparency rules on the reports on All employees and contractors receive Exploration HSE policy: payments to governments regulations training on sustainability policies, licence fees 148,267 35,253 22,468 corporate and social responsibility 4.3A also apply to the Company and including our code of conduct, as part policy: Mining and are available online.
of the onsite induction process, with other licence fees 1,057,361 833,666 231,536 776,153 70,353 anticorruption and bribery policy: refresher courses run annually.
We This sustainability report provides and Infrastructure expect all employees and contractors further details of all these policies improvements 350,000 1,095,868 whistleblowers policy.
to adhere to the highest standards of and how they are implemented.
Total economic personal and professional integrity.
All All key sustainability policies are value distributed 133,377,866 981,933 35,253 1,550,333 37,767,436 798,621 70,353 7,599,793 our policies and the code of conduct available on our website.
These are readily available on site and policies commit Centamin to the provided in both English and Arabic highest standards of ethical, for workers at the Sukari Gold Mine in environmental and social practices.
IT service desk based at Sukari Explosives operative loading blast hole 44 45 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Stakeholder engagement Centamin also seeks to employ people If an issue cannot be easily resolved OUR STAKEHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES from the local community early on in then it is escalated to operational Centamins stakeholders are a critical AND HOW WE ENGAGE Investor roadshows Information sharing the process to help strengthen local management level and the Sukari part of its business.
The Company other forums and input via unions community relationships and build general manager GM for aims to build strong, mutually Private meetings and Performance reviews calls, including with CEO and appraisals and maintain social licence to operate.
Centamin plc also has a beneficial relationships with all Formal AGM most recent Daily pre-start and At Sukari, the only operational site, whistleblowing policy, which is stakeholders throughout every stage held 21 March 2017 toolbox meetings the directors of security and public available on the Companys corporate of the mine lifecycle, from exploration Site visits Training programmes Materiality assessment relations PR are responsible for website at www.
Centamins key process ongoing regular and adhoc stakeholders are: Responding to CDP At the exploration sites in West Africa, communications with local questionnaire grievances are dealt with by project employees and unions: Responding to rating stakeholders.
agency questionnaires community officers, and escalated to communities local to or affected by Grievance mechanism the site manager for resolution if our operations: necessary.
Managing grievances is an important shareholders: GOVERNMENTS NGOs LOCAL COMMUNITIES part of Centamins interactions with contractors and suppliers: In developing projects in West Formal meetings and Formal meetings Materiality assessment local stakeholders and governance of correspondence NGOs: Africa, any feasibility and social and Correspondence Grievance mechanism sustainability.
Currently at Sukari Gold Materiality assessment Materiality assessment Regular and ad-hoc environmental studies will be prepared central and local government: and EMRA representatives meetings between Mine, grievances are managed taking account of both local and on site at Sukari communities and head of media.
security, PR department international requirements.
and group head of Centamins security manager Formal discussions with local sustainability and business maintains an open door policy, and development manager stakeholders, including local anyone is welcome to register a communities and authorities, occur at grievance or discuss any issue that has all sites at the exploration stage, and arisen.
Most issues are quickly as part of the ESIA process.
This is resolved through open and backed up by a policy of regular and transparent discussion.
open communication between management, authorities and the UNIONS SUPPLIERS AND CONTRACTORS MEDIA local community.
Materiality assessment Procurement team account Publications and online process management relationships information Union office based on site Tender documents Press releases and market statements Unions participate in mine Supply contracts management meetings Interviews Materiality assessment Site visits Regular press conferences Recreational activities at Sukari 46 47 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Materiality assessment High impact issues: By identifying and comparing the Mosque at Sukari Gold Mine CASE STUDY differing priorities between both During September and October 2017, safety: internal management and external in line with the requirements of the emergency preparedness: stakeholders, this exercise has also GRI, Centamin conducted a materiality legal compliance: proved a useful tool to help assessment survey to help prioritise waste management: and Centamins executive management sustainability issues and understand environmental incidents.
which topics are most important to For example, energy efficiency and air stakeholders.
The survey asked Medium impact issues: pollution were ranked as top six representatives from internal and cyanide management: priorities by external stakeholders, but external stakeholder groups to skills transfer and training: they ranked 21st and 15th respectively consider and prioritise a list of 41 energy efficiency: for internal stakeholders, thus economic, environmental and social air pollution: highlighting a need for internal sustainability related issues.
local economic development: and management to examine why this As shown in the material issue matrix land disturbance.
below, the survey identified eleven issues as sustainability priorities, and it is Centamins performance against these issues in 2017 that forms the bulk of the content for this sustainability report.
Of the eleven material issues identified, five were of high impact i. e. the issue appeared in both internal and external stakeholders top ten priorities and OPERATING IN DYNAMIC POLITICAL ENVIRONMENTS six of medium impact i. e. the issue appeared in both internal and external All three countries where Centamin has either operational or exploration activities have suffered some degree of civil unrest or stakeholders top 20 priorities.
conflict over the last decade.
Egypt was the scene of two high profile revolutions in 2011 and 2013.
Cte dIvoire emerged from a civil war in 20102011 and still has pockets of unrest, and Burkina Faso has experienced two coup attempts since 2015.
Part of the way the Company manages this political and conflict risk is to ensure it meets obligations under national mining codes, adheres to the expectations of international rules and conventions, and offers complete transparency for payments to government.
Centamins legally binding mining conventions or codes guarantee fiscal stability, govern taxes applicable and allow for international arbitration in the event of force majeure or a dispute.
Our most material issues This, however, is just part of the story.
Far more important are the strong relationships the Company builds with local communities and host countries.
Through this model, Centamin has found that should strife arise, common interests and shared values reassert themselves.
By delivering value to local communities and for host countries, Centamin has come to be regarded as an important High impact issues contributor to social, economic and industrial development.
Some of the ways this has been achieved include: Safety Emergency preparedness providing work and training opportunities to local and national people: Legal compliance joint ownership structures: Waste management payment of taxes, royalties and dividends: use of local and nationalbased suppliers: Environmental incidents contributions to the development of key local infrastructure, including roads: support for schools and hospitals, and participation in key community celebrations: and a philosophy of transparency, openness and approachability at ground level.
Medium impact issues Through this model Centamin has found that its local communities and host governments become partners in our progress.
Cyanide management Sukari Gold Mine, for example, was built during the first revolution in Egypt and business continued unabated through the second.
Skills transfer and training Energy efficiency Air pollution Local economic development Land disturbance Current or potential impact on the business Importance to stakeholders 48 49 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Our workforce Respect for the environment, worker safety and strong Workforce statistics stakeholder relations are the foundation of Centamins success.
Head office Ensuring these issues are managed to worldclass standards Egypt Sukari B urkina Faso Cte dIvoire and admin is critical to our continuing success and underpins every Total offices Expat National Expat National Expat National decision we make.
Total combined workforce 2,503 39 161 1,897 14 100 35 257 Contractors at Sukari Gold Mine employ an additional 623 Egyptian nationals, which is 87% of the Note to table: contractor workforce.
Details of the Companys diversity policy and explanation on cultural considerations at an operational level in Egypt are set out in the nomination committee report.
Each employee received an average of 3.8 days training in 2017.
Despite a mining history that dates back to employing local people and electrical engineering and thousands of years to the Pharaohs, providing worldclass training and instrumentation and soft skills such Centamins human resources policy Beyond this, approximately 50% of and the host government.
Secondly, it Egypt does not have a developed skills development opportunities to as time and people management.
aims to attract, develop and retain Sukari Gold Mine employees are from helps to maintain both a competitive mining industry and Sukari is the only all employees.
the highly skilled workforce needed Upper Egypt the region where Sukari base in terms of costs and a high Centamin also works with the mining modern mine operating in Egypt.
to operate a worldclass gold mine.
A number of employee retention rate.
Over the last All workers and contractors receive departments at a number of Egyptian Under Egyptian law, the number of benefits for the business arise from three years, Sukari Gold Mines This means despite high education essential safety training as part of the universities University of Alexandria nonEgyptians employed is capped minimising the number of expats on employee turnover rates have been levels, the mining skills base of the induction process.
Centamin also uses and the University of Cairo, to provide at 10% of the workforce.
First and foremost it helps to exceptionally low at below 1%.
bulk of Centamins workforce tends to a combination of onsite classroom short bursaries and the opportunity for page 49, 71, or just over 5%, of reinforce social licence to operate, by be fairly low and technical skills must learning, onthejob learning through work experience at Sukari Gold Mine employees at the Sukari Gold Mine forming a deep partnership between be learned on site.
An important wider skills shadowing and mentors to help for students.
the Company, the local community aim of our business is to help employees learn the latest In 2017, Centamin provided training modernise Egypts mining sector, technologies and build the specific on 29 different topics from waste through the development of a highly knowledge and skill set required for management to working at heights, skilled and knowledgeable workforce.
Training is provided at all Accommodation at Sukari and in total each employee received This is an important part of Centamins levels of the Company, from drivers to an average of 3.8 days training.
contribution to Egypt and is one of the department heads, and includes both reasons the Company is so committed technical skills such as welding, Average training days per employee of Sukari Gold Mine 2017 2016 2015 Average number of training days per employee 3.8 4.7 2.7 Example of training courses provided at Sukari Gold Mine in 2017 Course Number of people trained Chemical management 561 Hazard identification and risk assessment 1,286 Working at heights 647 Defensive driving 419 Isolation and lockout 1,295 50 51 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Developing a safety culture utilise technology and engineering to All employees and contractors are CASE STUDY: MOHAMMED FARGALLY minimise exposure to risk.
Finally, required to report all hazards, near The health and safety of the workforce where risk exposure cannot be misses and incidents for investigation is essential for Centamin, and the Centamin looks for motivated workers who show initiative, take responsibility and are willing to learn.
The aim is to develop the raw removed, risks are managed through by the HSE department.
The HSE Company is committed to creating a talent of Centamins workforce into highly skilled professionals with the technical knowledge modern mining requires.
careful administration and monitoring team investigate the cause of all zeroharm working environment.
It is Mohammed Fargally, our mining manager, is an Egyptian national from Alexandria, and has been at Sukari Gold Mine almost since including the compulsory use of incidents and identify corrective and critical to the Companys success that inception.
He joined the Sukari exploration team as a junior geologist in 1998 after he had completed his military service.
remedial actions to reduce the chance all employees come to work every day He explains, I started at Sukari Gold Mine as a junior geologist a very long time ago: they found me at the gates, and right from the of recurrence.
This helps us to identify knowing they are in a safe start I have had very good training.
The expat geologists I worked with were great mentors and every day I learned something new.
Centamins HSE standards are taught areas for improvement.
environment, and that they take The Company also sent me to Tanzania and Sudan to develop my experience.
to and refreshed for all staff and responsibility both for their own safety Once the mine became operational, Mohammed was given a role in production and developed further skills, until he became an contractors on an annual basis, and all Where events are deemed to occur and the safety of their colleagues.
He explains, The skills and knowledge I built here meant that I was able to spend some time working on visitors to site are taught safety due to employee disregard for safety Centamins health, safety and projects in Yemen, Sudan and Ghana.
This was great experience for me and not something I dreamed would happen.
The procedures and issued with standards or negligence, remedial Government of Yemen has even asked me to give lectures on Sukari Gold Mine and the Egyptian mining industry.
environment policies and procedures appropriate PPE on arrival.
Centamin action may include additional training are based on a principle of shared After completing a stint outside Egypt, Mohammed returned to Centamin and Sukari Gold Mine: After a few years, I decided it was provides additional special training or disciplinary action such as responsibility and are designed to time to come back to Egypt and I am pleased to rejoin my Centamin family, says Mohammed.
Sukari Gold Mine is a flagship where needed and has a dedicated suspension or dismissal, depending on project in this region and exciting to be part of.
I am a mining manager now, and part of my role is to mentor others and help them ensure everyone shares and emergency response team.
Each the severity of the incident.
Sometimes people leave to become expats.
We are always sad to lose good staff, but we are also proud because it contributes to the creation of a safe department also has team members incentivise continual improvement in means we have done our job well, and it is good for Egypts mining industry.
who are trained in first aid and safety standards and performance, in emergency response to act as first 2017, Centamin added achievement of Centamins HSE policies are responders until the emergency key safety KPIs including hazard underpinned by a rigorous set of safety response team arrives.
There is also a reporting targets to the bonus systems and procedures that comply specially trained underground rescue structure, and staff can earn up to 2.5 with all relevant host country laws.
team for the underground mine, and additional days salary each quarter for Centamins safety procedures utilise a underground operations include a achievement of safety targets hierarchy of control approach.
This number of refuge chambers where including Take5 completion, approach first seeks to eliminate or workers can seek shelter in the unlikely no outstanding investigation remove any known hazards.
Where event of rock fall or cave in.
recommendations and having all hazards cannot be removed or staff training up to date.
eliminated, Centamin looks to use alternative and safer methods or to Trevor Schultz reviewing operations at the Sukari processing plant Maintenance engineer at Sukari Gold Mine 52 53 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued As illustrated in the table below, in implementation.
This year we also To achieve this, Centamin continues to ZERO TOLERANCE TAKE5 HELPS FOR DRUGS AND ALCOHOL IMPROVE SAFETY PERFORMANCE 2017 Centamins LTIFR decreased by linked part of employee quarterly work daily to build a safety risk and 4% on 2016, MTIFR also decreased by bonuses to the achievement of hazard awareness culture into all Centamin takes a zero tolerance In 2016, to help entrench safe practices and deepen risk assessment understanding, 13%.
The total number of hazards safety KPIs.
elements of Sukari Gold Mine, and approach to drugs and alcohol, and the Take5 programme was introduced.
This is an additional tool, which compels and reported increased by 17% and more continues to invest in training for all random drug and alcohol tests are helps all employees to conduct final pretask safety checks to identify and control Centamins ultimate safety goal is zero frequently conducted on site.
All potential hazards before starting work.
than 41,400 Take5 reports were employees and onsite contractors.
harm that means no fatalities, no lost employees who fail drug or alcohol submitted.
The improvement in safety Take5 is not designed to replace formal risk assessments, but to complement them time injuries and no medical treatment tests are subject to disciplinary action or and entrench safety thinking throughout all activities.
All employees are issued a Take5 performance is largely attributable to dismissal.
Any employee taking injuries, and we target yearonyear booklet for use.
The booklet includes daily forms for completion.
Take5 forms require an increased focus on hazard medication is expected to notify and reductions across all these key indicators.
employees to: awareness, safety training and register the medication with the onsite describe the task: doctor, to ensure it will not impact their list the hazards: and Health and safety performance at Sukari performance or affect a drug test.
The Company also has an alcohol identify the actions to be taken to control the risk.
2017 2016 2015 selfdetection facility so any employee During 2017 more than 41,400 Take5 forms were completed and Centamin believes Total hours worked 5,464,321 5,187,635 5,032,828 can test themselves before their shift.
this approach of regular selfdirected micro risk assessments has helped drive a LTIs 7 7 3 decrease in lost time and medical treatment injuries in 2017, despite an increase in 1 hours worked.
The Take5 process Underground operation at Sukari Gold Mine CASE STUDY 1: THINK Think through the task youre about to do, consider all steps required from start to finish and ensure you are fit, trained, competent and authorised to complete the task.
2: IDENTIFY Have I identified any potential hazards?
DEVELOPING A SAFETY CULTURE 3: CONTROL What control measures are required In the remote part of Egypt where the Sukari Gold Mine operates, awareness of basic safety standards and risks has historically been to complete the task safely or very limited or almost nonexistent.
The wearing of seat belts in cars, for example, is rare and not publicly enforced, nor is protective minimise risk or harm to myself, equipment readily available or used.
Centamin works hard at the Sukari Gold Mine to develop and maintain a robust safety culture others or property?
For this reason, safety is one of Centamins top priorities.
Safety awareness and training is a core part of every employee induction, 4: EQUIPMENT and the Company uses a variety of methods to strengthen safety awareness and culture on site.
Do I have the correct PPE The cornerstone of Centamins approach to safety is communication.
Centamin aims to maintain a constant flow of safety information and tools to complete the throughout the Company.
Every shift begins with a prestart meeting, which includes a safety item and a reminder to complete task safely?
One of the key messages used to drive home the importance of following safety procedures is to relate safe work practices and risk assessment to family.
Centamin reminds staff they are responsible not just for themselves but also their workmates and that everyone wants to return home unharmed at the end of each shift or rotation.
5: CONDITIONS Centamin also uses hardhitting graphic information posters throughout site to remind staff of the importance of following safety Are conditions safe to complete rules.
The posters cover both onsite issues such as appropriate control procedures, and incamp and leisure time behaviour such as the task what else is happening the fire risk from smoking in bed.
Centamins efforts to promote the importance of safe behaviour extend beyond the mine gates too.
Regular toolbox meetings remind staff that safety measures such as wearing a seat belt are as important off site as on.
54 55 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Developing strong and stable Centamin attributes the stable However, four women are employed in Building mutually beneficial industrial relations industrial relations to the mutual the Alexandria office.
In West Africa, respect it tries to build with the women make up a higher proportion Centamins employees are a critical relationships with local communities workforce, and the generous of the employees and contractors.
part of the Company, and this view remuneration and bonus packages Women are also represented at senior sets the tone for Centamins approach available.
For example, onsite cleaners management level, for example US$500,000 community investment in 2017, more than threefold 2016 levels.
All employees receive approximately five times more Centamins group sustainability and are free to join trade unions and, at US$2 million invested in community projects since 2015, including new equipment for than the average base salary in Egypt.
business development manager is Sukari Gold Mine, Centamin helped Marsa Alam public hospital, upgraded roads in Cte dIvoire, and construction of The Companys bonus schemes offer female.
Across the group a total of employees to establish a union classrooms in Cte dIvoire and Burkina Faso.
up to 200 days salary for achievement 34 women are employed.
Centamin following the first revolution in 2011. of all production and safety KPIs.
works to ensure women have pay Approximately 40% of the workforce Nearly US$50 million of goods and services procured from local communities in 2017. parity with men in similar positions.
at the Sukari Gold Mine are members Developing a diverse workforce of the union.
Union representatives Centamin is an equal opportunity Strong and mutually beneficial leaders such as the mayor or Performance meet regularly with the Sukari Gold employer and the Companys code community relations are critical to community elders can formally request As shown overleaf Centamin has spent Mine general manager to discuss any of conduct prohibits any form of Centamins ongoing success.
That is specific items or contributions to more than US$2 million on community requests or issues should they arise.
However, no women why Centamin seeks to build and projects, and sometimes mine projects since 2015.
In 2017, the Stable industrial relations have are employed at the Sukari Gold Mine.
maintain strong and open relationships management and government Company invested more than half a prevailed for much of the mine life to This is mainly due to social conditions with local communities in a number of representatives may suggest specific million dollars on community projects, date, with zero days lost to strike in Egypt and in the Middle East where, different ways.
All community investment a threefold increase on 2016. action or industrial unrest since 2011. in general, female employees are not from local communities, secondly by and development decisions are The bulk of this has been spent on encouraged to work at remote sites.
utilising local suppliers to multiply the discussed and signed off at projects near to Sukari Gold Mine Local regulations include a number of economic impact of operations, and operational management level, or at the Companys only operational site, provisions to restrict the working hours finally through direct contributions to board level for larger investments.
particularly at Marsa Alam, a town between 7.00pm and 7.00am and help communities develop the The approach to community project 25km from Sukari Gold Mine and the type of work women can undertake on schools, hospitals and other funding focuses on addressing six key sites nearest community.
Over an operational mine site: these include infrastructure they need to blossom.
themes: US$300,000 was spent on community restrictions on working underground, This is particularly important for the projects in Egypt, which includes the working with explosives and operating Sukari Gold Mine given the long term addressing infrastructure needs: purchase of a CT scanner for one of mobile equipment.
nature of the exploitation lease, which assisting with income generating the public hospitals in Marsa Alam see allows for 30 years of mining and initiatives: case study A scanner in the works.
includes the possibility for an enhancing education and improving Centamin also increased its extension of an additional 30 years.
educational opportunities for local contributions for the communities near communities: Centamins community development exploration projects in Burkina Faso improving access to healthcare: contributions are decided in and Cte dIvoire, building classrooms consultation with local communities, improving social welfare and for nearby schools, and donating local and national government and enhancing livelihood: and medical supplies and antivenoms to Centamin representatives.
Local market in Cte dIvoire Food preparation area at the Sukari bakery 56 57 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Community spend 2015-2017 Supply chain management In 2017, 324 or 44% of all Centamins Currently, the Sukari Gold Mine in suppliers at Sukari Gold Mine were Egypt is Centamins only operational 2017 2016 2015 Total Centamin recognises that the supply Community spend US$ US$ US$ US$ Egyptian, and US$50 million, or more site.
Sukari Gold Mine has a large chain is a potentially enormous lever Egypt 333,484 67,731 1,317,655 1,718,870 than 21% of Centamins total reserve base and operating licence of for economic development for host procurement spend, was with Egypt 30 years with provision to extend for communities and countries.
Over the past three another 30 years, so the project has a local companies can create additional Cte dIvoire 175,649 45,523 1,080 222,252 years Centamin has paid nearly long life.
However, a proportion of employment opportunities in host Total 579,905 172,144 1,389,261 2,141,310 US$200 million to Egyptian suppliers.
every annual budget is ringfenced for communities and help to increase Note to table: the closure fund.
A provision is made incountry skill levels and expertise.
Closure planning In 2016 generators donated to Marsa Alam power station to the value of US$1,095,868 are not shown in this table.
for the ongoing and continual Therefore, the Companys approach is The successful closure of a mine is as rehabilitation and restoration of land to utilise local skills and products important as the successful operation throughout the mine life.
wherever practicably possible and Emergency response unit at Sukari of a mine.
Centamins closure planning COMMUNITY economically viable.
HEALTH is guided by the legislative All suppliers are subject to Centamins requirements of host countries and code of conduct and sustainability relevant international best practice policies, and supplier contracts include guidelines.
The aim at closure is to clauses to ensure respect for the restore all sites and the surrounding human rights and commitments to environment to a stable and antibribery and corruption standards.
sustainable condition with as much original biodiversity as possible restored, and to ensure all health and safety requirements are met.
A SCANNER IN THE WORKS: IMPROVING ACCESS TO HEALTHCARE IN UPPER EGYPT Marsa Alam, the town closest to Sukari Gold Mine, is located in a remote area of Upper Egypt, and access to essential healthcare services is limited.
Marsa Alam has two public hospitals, however they are small regional hospitals and do not have a full suite of Geologist in the Cleopatra development drive at Sukari modern medical equipment.
This means that when serious illness or injury occurs, people have to travel to larger hospitals in either Hurghada or Edfu for diagnosis or treatment.
Both Hurghada and Edfu are more than 200km, or a threehour drive on sometimes poorly maintained roads, from Marsa Alam.
As part of the focus on improving access to healthcare for local communities, in 2017 Centamin approached Marsa Alam hospital and consulted with government to identify any facilities or equipment it could contribute to improve health services for the community.
The hospital and government requested a CT scanner, and ensuring the hospital had space and appropriately trained staff to use it.
Centamin agreed to provide a scanner and the associated equipment to Marsa Alam hospital.
The scanner will arrive and be ready for use in 2018.
This will help to improve healthcare for the local community and it may also create benefits for Centamin operations.
If a serious accident occurs on site or a worker falls seriously ill, they can be fully checked over quickly.
58 59 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Energy and emission management power sources to fuel operations, and throughput during 2017.
Importantly, Responsible management some solar energy is already used for Centamins energy efficiency per From the pit to the plant, Centamins example, in areas of the employee tonne of ore milled decreased by approach to energy is focused on of natural capital camp at Sukari Gold Mine.
During 3%: this is due to increased use of steady and secure supply of power to 2017, Centamins board approved the the newer and more efficient MAK operations.
Sukari Gold Mine is Reduction in environmental incidents by 41% over two years although up 23% from the prior year preparation of a feasibility study for the generators.
Alongside this increase located in a remote area of Upper installation of a 15MW solar power in power consumption, as shown Egypt where no connection to the 24% reduction in fresh water off take and a 99% increase in water recycling over two years.
plant on site at Sukari as a lower cost, below, fuel consumption at Sukari national grid is available.
The nearby clean energy alternative for diesel fuel.
Gold Mine increased 5% in 2017 to CDP water and carbon questionnaires completed for the first time.
city of Marsa Alam has its own power It is hoped this will generate enough 148.3 million litres.
plant, however its capacity would not power to allow one of the older, less be enough to meet industrial needs.
During 2017, Centamin completed the efficient diesel generators to be Therefore, all of Sukari Gold Mines CDP emissions investor response and switched off.
This will reduce both power needs are met by a Centamins approach to environmental Environmental management systems As illustrated below, a total of 27 formally calculated GHG emissions for overall greenhouse gas GHG combination of MAK and Wartsilla management is underpinned by a also include robust documentation environmental incidents occurred at Sukari Gold Mine for the first time.
See case dieselfired generators with a belief that it must act as a responsible and monitoring systems to ensure the Sukari Gold Mine in 2017, a 23% In 2016 Centamins scope 1 and 2 study Renewing power options.
registers and permits are up to date.
increase on 2016, and a 41% reduction emissions were 395,932.93 CO e 2 over two years.
The bulk of Centamins As shown below, in 2017 Sukari Gold and emissions intensity was 34.25 per This reliance on diesel generators for Centamins commitment to Sukari Gold Mines environmental environmental incidents tend to be Mine consumed 388,931MWh of tonne of ore milled: these figures will power means the bulk of Centamins environmental responsibility is formally management system, for example, limited to localised spills of power: this represents a 2% increase provide the baseline for future greenhouse gases flow from the onsite set out in the HSE policy, which includes a regular monitoring hydrocarbons or process water.
on 2016 power consumption, and is in emissions reporting and help to power station.
Centamin constantly commits us to: programme to evaluate performance line with an increase in production set emission reduction targets.
reviews the viability of alternative against national environmental laws All incidents are reported to the ensure compliance with all relevant and international industry best relevant authorities and the local legislation, the conditions of practice.
The monitoring programme appropriate cleanup action is quickly FUEL CONSUMPTION ELECTRICITY CONSUMED ENERGY EFFICIENCY licences and permits, and million litres MWh KWh tonnes milled covers all aspects of onsite taken.
For any incident that involves international best practice environmental management, including hazardous chemicals or materials, in 148.3 388,391 33.71 141.3 380,021 standards: 130.7 369,948 chemicals and hazardous substances, line with best practice, specially 32.76 32.29 implement the necessary control energy and emissions, water use, trained staff members undertake the measures for the responsible biodiversity and waste management.
Centamins target management of critical natural is to reduce the number of Level 1 to 3 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Environmental incidents resources such as water: and environmental incidents yearonyear, One of the most important ways ensure negative impacts to the and to have zero Level 4 or 5 incidents.
Solar panels utilised at remote locations at Sukari Centamin monitors environmental environment are minimised as far CASE STUDY Centamin has no Level 5 environmental performance is by tracking as practicably possible.
incidents in its corporate history.
The environmental incidents that occur on, Centamins approach starts at the only Level 4 incidents in the last three or near, site.
A risk matrix is used to feasibility stage of any project with years occurred in 2015: both involved assess environmental risks, and ESIAs undertaken.
These assessments ruptures to the tailings line from the determine the consequence of a help us to understand the specific process plant.
As a result of these negative environmental incident that environmental risks linked to projects incidents, the Company introduced may occur.
and are used to inform a sitespecific new administrative and engineering environmental management system, controls and upgraded the tailings line.
RENEWING POWER OPTIONS which is in line with national regulations.
The remote part of Upper Egypt where Sukari Gold Mine is situated has no direct access to Egypts national grid.
The nearby city of Marsa Alam has its own power station, however its capacity is only enough to meet the needs of Marsa Alam residents and not the demanding loads of a largescale mine such as Sukari Gold Mine.
Currently Sukari Gold Mines power needs are met by two onsite diesel power stations generating combined power of 68MW.
Using Environmental incidents at Sukari Gold Mine diesel generators, however, adds to overall operating costs and generates the bulk of all Sukari Gold Mines greenhouse gas 2017 2016 2015 emissions.
Centamin has been monitoring and assessing the feasibility and economic viability of other forms of power generation, including renewables, for Sukari Gold Mine.
Level 5 Catastrophic Given Sukari Gold Mines location in Egypts Eastern Desert, where there is a yearround supply of sunlight, solar power is an obvious Level 4 Major 2 option.
Sukari Gold Mine already has some solar photovoltaics on site to help meet the needs of part of the employee camp, and this Level 3 Moderate 3 4 5 year decided that the falling costs of photovoltaic technology make solar a costeffective option to install on a larger scale.
Level 2 Minor 15 10 30 Centamins board has approved the preparation of a feasibility study for the installation of a 15MW solar power plant on site at Sukari as a lower cost, clean energy alternative for diesel fuel.
It is hoped that this will allow the Sukari Gold Mine to reduce the use of, or Level 1 Negligible 9 8 9 turn off completely, one of the older and less efficient MAK generators.
If successful, further solar power may be added to the Sukari Total 27 22 46 Gold Mines energy mix in the future.
60 61 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued Managing water seawater to provide potable water for required, or is lost through Managing biodiversity every annual budget for ongoing site taken to ensure the pipeline was use in the camp and administration evaporation.
The average evaporation and closure restoration to ensure all positioned in an area without coral Mining is a thirsty business, and many The size, scale and location of mining blocks, and during the final stages of rate at Sukari Gold Mine is about four sites are restored to emulate their reef and the pipeline is fitted with a activities and processes across the operations often mean they can have a the extraction process.
Recycling water also original state or better when series of microgrills to ensure no fish gold mining cycle require a secure, negative impact on nearby flora and makes business sense: it takes a operations cease.
or other life enter the pipes.
See case steady supply of significant amounts of fauna.
Centamin takes due care to Strict permits under Egyptian national significant amount of energy to pump study Pipeline positioning helps water to operate effectively.
The minimise the negative effects its regulations govern all water abstracted At Sukari Gold Mine, the local area is water the 25km from the Red Sea and protect Red Sea biodiversity.
Sukari Gold Mine is situated in Egypts mining activities may have on the local and to ensure permit limits are not barren desert, with minimal flora and to run the desalination plant.
Eastern Desert, an area that receives environment, and to restore sites and exceeded, the pipeline from the Red fauna.
Therefore, there is limited need Centamin expects to encounter on average 1mm of rainfall annually repair any damage done as much as Sea has been designed to be no more During 2017, Centamin abstracted to restore habitat, and the focus is to significantly different biodiversity and one of the driest parts of the practicably possible.
Centamin than 60mm in diameter, which means a total of 7,404 million litres of water.
ensure the site is stable with limited challenges at the West African world.
Therefore, responsible operations do not impact the habitats it is physically impossible to exceed This is 1,312 million litres less than scope for erosion.
exploration sites, and will undertake management of water at Sukari Gold of any endangered species.
ESIAs and baseline biodiversity Mine is critically important.
The most significant biodiversity At the same time, water use efficiency surveys to assist in developing To align with industry best practice, Recognising water is a precious challenge arises from the pipeline to has improved 34% since 2015 and detailed biodiversity action plans for Sukari Gold Mines desert location Centamin makes detailed records of resource, Centamin aims to use all the Red Sea, which is a popular diving water recycling rates have improved each project, should they proceed into means ground water supplies are the full range of biodiversity present water as efficiently as possible.
There spot and noted for its spectacular from 26.5% in the same time period to feasibility stage.
limited, therefore seawater from the on a site as part of the ESIA.
The are a number of closed loop cycles coral reefs and range of fish.
When 52.8%, an improvement of 99% over Red Sea, which is 25km away from the Company also ringfences a portion in throughout the process plant and the planning the pipeline, great care was the last two years.
Reusing and mine site, is Sukari Gold Mines onsite sewage treatment plant, and recycling water throughout our primary water source.
Ease of access Centamin thickens tailings to maximise Depicting naturally occurring coral reefs along the red sea coastline operations reduces the amount of to the Red Sea was a critical water recycling.
water we need to abstract from the consideration when deciding where to Red Sea and it also helps to reduce position the mine.
More than 99% of Centamin does not discharge any our costs as it reduces the need for the water used on site is seawater, and water back into the environment.
Any pumping along the pipeline, saving the process plant was built to use salt remnant water stored at the tailings power and the associated fuel costs water.
There is a reverse osmosis storage facility TSF is pumped back and reducing emissions.
desalination plant on site, which treats to the process plant for reuse as TOTAL WATER OFFTAKE WATER USE EFFICIENCY TOTAL WATER RECYCLED WATER RECYCLED million litres KL tonne milled million litres % 9,723.77 0.92 3,936.64 56.27 3,913.28 8,716.94 44.76 0.75 7,404.60 0.61 2,582.57 26.51 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Tailings storage facility at Sukari PIPELINE POSITIONING HELPS PROTECT RED SEA BIODIVERSITY Almost all of Sukari Gold Mines operational water needs are met via a pipeline connecting the site to the Red Sea.
The Red Sea is a 2 popular tourist spot and known globally for its coral reefs, beautiful beaches and diving.
With an estimated 16,000km of coral reef coverage, the Red Sea is also home to many different species of fish and other sea life and is regarded as a biodiversity hotspot.
Therefore, ensuring Sukari Gold Mine has zero or minimal impact on the seas biodiversity and tourism is of critical importance to Centamin.
This was a central consideration for the design, positioning and construction of the pipeline.
Prior to construction, an ESIA was completed and a number of supporting studies, including an independent bathymetric survey to ensure the pipelines path position avoided coral reefs.
Pipes enter the Red Sea at the beach area at Marsa Umm Tundubah where the land isnt occupied or grazed and the sea doesnt have any back reef.
The pipeline extends 200 metres into the sea and is buried in a specially built trench to minimise disturbance to sea life or divers.
The construction methods for the pipe and trench were carefully considered and chosen to minimise sediment movement from trenching.
The pipeline opening is covered by a mesh screen to prevent fish or small organisms entering it.
It is also fitted with an internal travelling screen, as a backup measure should the first screen fail.
The pipeline is also subject to regular inspections and maintenance.
