38 39 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Andrew Pardey Chief executive officer Improving standards, modernising our industry.
Sustainability has been, and continues Our people are our most valuable asset.
We are committed to Sustainability highlights to be, critical to Centamins success.
attracting, energising, developing and retaining a highly skilled From workplace safety to training and Continued improvement on LTIFR and experienced workforce, and to ensuring a safe workplace development, it gives our business a critical advantage if we can ensure where all workers return home safely at the end of each shift.
A drop in MTIFR for second year running worldclass standards are upheld Andrew Pardey, CEO Each employee received an average of 3.8 days training relating to any issue affecting our people, our host communities and Over 44% of our suppliers at Sukari are Egyptian the natural environment.
4% improvement in energy efficiency over two years Centamin has benefited from eight Take5 prestart microrisk assessment see case study below successive years of production at US$300,000 in local projects, the country as a whole.
In 2017 each although up 23% from the prior year.
Sukari and as we evolve, so do our including procuring a new CT scanner employee receiving an average of 3.8 Crucially, given Sukaris location in 15% annual decrease in total water abstracted efforts on sustainability.
For example, for one of the key public hospitals near days training.
Egypts Eastern Desert, we have also this year has been the first time we Over 50% of all water recycled our operations in Egypt.
driven a 99% increase in water recycling Beyond our workforce, approximately reported greenhouse gas emissions over two years and decreased our 99% improvement in water recycling over two years We are committed to helping 44% of all our suppliers at Sukari are and water data to the international overall abstraction.
modernise and grow the wider mining Egyptian, helping further develop the environmental body CDP.
This Board approval to prepare a feasibility study for the installation sector in Egypt.
Egypt has a 6,000year capacity and quality of the Egyptian Enormous challenges remain on all sustainability report itself is part of our of a 15MW solar power plant at Sukari history of mining, which has stalled in mining sector as a whole.
sustainability fronts, both at our Sukari evolving efforts and is the first time more recent times.
Our hope is that mine and in our West African Over US$2 million invested in community development projects weve reported against the Deposits in the desert by employing a workforce that is exploration projects.
We look forward in all host countries over two years international Global Reporting Centamin is committed to being a approximately 95% Egyptian, and to meeting those challenges in the Initiative GRI standards.
CDP water and GHG questionnaires completed for the first time responsible steward of the environment, providing worldclass training and years ahead.
including minimising our water and Modern, safe mining in Egypt skills development opportunities, it is A new CT scanner providing 3D xrays donated to Marsa Alam energy use wherever possible.
This year not only Centamin that benefits from Much of this report focuses on our public hospital near the Sukari mine in Egypt Andrew Pardey has seen us reduce environmental the upturn in skills and capacity, but flagship Sukari mine in Egypt, which Chief executive officer incidents by 41% over two years continued to deliver a strong safety record this year, achieving a decrease in both lost time and medical treatment injuries, despite an increase in hours worked.
It also continues to foster strong relations with the local community, based on mutual respect, and this year invested more than
