Our strategy for a sustainable future We recognise our ongoing responsibility to not only deliver financial performance but also make a positive contribution to society and create lasting benefits for stakeholders in a manner that is responsible, transparent and respectful to the rights of all Strategic objective To sustainably grow total shareholder return while maintaining a strong investment grade rating and acting as a responsible operator Glencore Annual Report 2017 20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information CEOs review Page 04 We believe that by being a better operator with a reputation for doing things the right way, we will be seen by our stakeholders as a partner Strategic priority of choice.
We are achieving this through taking an approach Integration of of continuous improvement.
This approach is delivered sustainability through our health and safety programmes, advancing our throughout environmental performance, respecting human rights and our business by developing, maintaining and strengthening our relationships with all ofour stakeholders.
We recognise that a robust and sufficiently flexible balance sheet contributes to the delivery of sustainable, long-term shareholder returns Strategic priority and ensures that Glencore is well placed to withstand Maintain the cyclical nature of the natural resource industry.
a robust We aim to increase returns on capital and cash flows and flexible while targeting a maximum 2x Net debt Adjusted balance sheet EBITDA ratio throughout the cycle.
We aim to only deploy capital when strict and clearly defined financial criteria, relating to returns and payback, can be met.
Our major industrial assets We seek to increase the value are mainly long-life and of our business by improving low-cost, reflecting our the competitiveness of our Strategic priority substantial investment into assets through an ongoing existing assets as well as our focus on cost management Focus on cost appetite, capabilities and and logistical capabilities, belief in some commodities including operating safely control and and geographies where and efficiently.
We take a our peers are not materially disciplined approach towards operational present.
Our industrial assets all of our assets and will provide a consistent source divest when another operator efficiencies of volumes for our marketing places greater value on operations, which are them, or curtail production in supplemented by third party response to oversupply when production.
Our marketing it makes sense to do so.
activities use their scale and capabilities to extract additional margin throughout our business model and provide a superior service to our customers and a reliable supply of quality product.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 21 Our strategy for a sustainable future continued Performance in 2017 SafeWork programme Updated our progress in integrating Strategic priority Continued to progress our SafeWork climate change issues into our business Integration of programme, an initiative that focuses on through our second report on climate eliminating fatalities and serious injuries.
change considerations for our business.
sustainability Regrettably, there were nine fatalities Water management throughout from nine incidents during the year.
Completed assessment of sites at a We continue to work towards the high risk of water-related issues and our business elimination of fatalities from our finalised our water management business.
More positively, our TRIFR guideline, which aligns with the ICMMs and LTIFR improved by 24% and 27% position statement on water and its respectively compared to 2016. water management framework.
Climate change Community engagement On track for meeting group-wide carbon Our community development emission intensity reduction target of programmes are an integral part of our Improved our TRIFR by at least 5% on 2016 levels by 2020. community and stakeholder engagement strategies.
In 2017, we spent $90 million Committed to Task Force on Climate- 24% on these programmes 2016: $84 million.
Performance in 2017 Conservatively repositioned Bonds Strategic priority Revised capital structure and credit Issued $2.1 billion of bonds with maturities Maintain profile managed through targeting a of 5 and 10 years.
Post-2018 maturities maximum 2x Net debt Adjusted EBITDA capped at c. $3 billion in any one year.
a robust through the cycle, augmented by an Credit rating upper Net debt cap of c. $16 billion.
and flexible Credit rating upgraded to Baa2 Year-end Net debt and FFO Net debt stable by Moodys and BBB balance sheet were $10.7 billion and 108.3% respectively.
positive outlook by Standard & Poors in line with lower leverage.
Conviction to create value Targeted bolt-on acquisitions, lowCredit facility cost risk organic growth and recycling Revolving credit facility refinanced Managed Net debt of capital enabled capital efficient and resized to reflect reduced funding growth in compelling commodities.
Committed available liquidity of c, $12.9 billion at year end covers $1 0 1 6bn more than 3 years of bond maturities.
range Performance in 2017 Industrial Supply Strategic priority Increased Adjusted EBITDA mining Continued our disciplined approach Focus on cost margins of 38% and 41% respectively to supply.
Partial restart of idled in our metals and energy operations zinc production planned for 2018. control and reflect the benefit of higher prices that The balance of this capacity will more than offset modest inflationary be restarted at the right time.
operational and cost pressures as well as the efficiencies optimisation of cost structures and efficiencies over the past two years.
Marketing Achieved c. $3.0 billion Adjusted EBIT across our marketing business, underlining both supportive market Adjusted EBITDA conditions during the year as well as upside to a positive commodity cycle.
60% across industrial business Glencore Annual Report 2017 22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Key performance P rincipal risks indicator and uncertainties Page 40 Page 42 Priorities going forward KPIs Principal risks Sustainability Transparency Safe and healthy Health, safety and We will continue to We are committed to workplace reduce environment, implement activities that operating transparently, TRIFR, LTIFR and includingpotential further integrate sustainability responsibly and meeting or occupational catastrophes throughout our business to exceeding applicable laws disease cases Emissions and support our commitment or external requirements.
Environmental climate change to continuously improve performance our standards of health, Community relations water withdrawn, safety, environmental and and human rights greenhouse gas GHG community performance.
emissions, meeting Skills availability our commitments on and retention climate change Long-term value for communities community investment spend Priorities going forward KPIs Principal risks Balance sheet strength Investment grade rating Returns to shareholders Reductions in We are committed to We will preserve a robust Funds from operations, commodity prices maintaining our balance capital structure and business Net funding and F luctuations in supply sheet strength to ensure it is portfolio that reflects our Net debt of, or demand for, capable of supporting growth commitment to targeting, Value for our commodities in and shareholder returns receiving and maintaining a shareholders which we operate regardless of the commodity strong BBB Baa investment Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, price environment.
In this regard, Fluctuations in currency Net income attributable we are targeting a maximum exchange rates to equity holders 2x Net debt Adjusted L iquidity risk EBITDA through the cycle, augmented by an upper Net Counterparty credit debt cap of c. $16 billion.
and performance Priorities going forward KPIs Principal risks Industrial activities Positioned to leverage Returns to Geopolitical risk Our industrial activities our scale and diversity shareholders Funds including social unrest will continue to focus Our marketing activities from operations, Net Laws, regulations, on controlling costs and priorities are to maximise funding and debt enforcement, permits generating sustainable the returns and cash flows Value for our and licences operating and capital from the pool of allocated shareholders to operate efficiencies.
Our marketing capital, which, in turn, Adjusted EBIT EBITDA, business supports the supports the strengthening O perating and cost risk Net income attributable creation of incremental of our balance sheet.
Our to equity holders Cyber risk value through critical mass, presence at every stage blending, storage and of the value chain means geographical arbitrage.
that Glencore is uniquely positioned to leverage our scale and diversity.
