2017 2017 2017 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2017 2017 2017 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Sustainable Overview development We are continuing to implement activities and processes that support the full integration of sustainability throughout our business.
This is complemented by the group-wide application of the principle of continuous improvement.
We are committed to operate transparently and responsibly.
Our sustainability strategy, policies and procedures support good business practice and drive positive change throughout our business.
We are committed to protecting the wellbeing of our people, our host communities and the natural environment, while sharing lasting benefits with the regions where we work and society as a whole.
Lost time injury Total recordable injury frequency rate frequency rate per million hours worked per million hours worked 1.34 4.35 1.40 4.05 1.02 3.09 CO e Scope 1 CO Scope 2 2 2 million tonnes million tonnes 23.0 14.3 23.1 12.2 21.6 11.9 Water withdrawn Community investment 3 1 million m spend US$ million 954 94 971 84 924 90 1 2015 data is not directly comparable to later periods due to changes in data reporting methodology, as set out in our 2016 Sustainability Report.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 24 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Committed to creating a sustainable future The commodities that we Sustainability framework produce and market have an essential role in everyday life and support the Corporate strategy development of emerging economies.
Our activities Integration of Maintain Focus on cost and our presence deliver sustainability a robust and control and throughout our flexible balance operational lasting benefits to our business sheet efficiencies stakeholders and to society, creating value both locally and globally.
We are Values committed to creating Safety Entreprenuerialism valuefor our stakeholders in Simplicity Responsibility Openness a manner that is responsible, Code of Conduct transparent andrespectful to the rights of all Group sustainability strategy Board HSEC Committee Oversight and ultimate Health responsibility.
Our approach to sustainability reflects Become a leader in the protection and improvement of our peoples our commitment to operate in a Our Board receives regular and communities wellbeing responsible and transparent manner.
updates and has detailed We recognise our role in protecting Safety oversight of how our business the wellbeing of our people, our Become a leader in workplace is performing across all host communities and the natural safety, eliminating fatalities our internally defined andinjuries environment.
We believe that our  presence delivers lasting benefits material risk areas.
Environment within the regions where we Minimise any negative operate and society as a whole.
environmental impact from Sustainability principles, ouroperations and apply guidance and policies Through the integration of the precautionary principle Integrated throughout the sustainability throughout our indecision-making business and give guidance business practices, we aim to on the standards we expect.
Community and human rights embody Glencores five values that Foster sustainable growth and define our purpose, our priorities respect human rights wherever and the fundamental principles weoperate by which we conduct business.
Our sustainability strategy, policies and procedures support good Group HSEC policies Material topics business practice and meet or Internal and external exceed applicable laws and external materiality assessment requirements.
Our sustainability process to identify Operational policies materialtopics strategy sets out our ambitions Developed for the specific needs against four core pillars with clearly Material topics are the focus of individual assets defined imperatives, objectives, of our sustainability strategy priority areas and targets.
review and reporting Operational activities Our sustainability strategy is focus on addressing reviewed annually to confirm that Management, data reporting, andprogressing the it is continuing to fulfil the needs risk management and assurance material topics of our business.
to monitor compliance Glencore Annual Report 2017 25 Sustainable development continued Further details on our sustainability All of our sustainability the advent ofa systematic global strategy, our approach to its communications are available on approach to societys overall implementation, performance our website: www.
We believe that we and ambitions are available in our sustainability.
can play a role in supporting our  publications, host governments to meet the SDGs.
which include an annual External commitments In addition, we uphold the sustainability report published We are signatories to the United International Labour Organization in accordance with the core Nations Global Compact UNGC, ILO Declaration on Fundamental requirements of Global Reporting aligning our strategies and operations Principles and Rights at Work and the Initiative GRI : with its principles, which cover UN Universal Declaration of Human human rights, labour, environment Our approach to sustainability Rights.
We work in accordance with and anti-corruption.
In line with the anumber of specific international Sustainability report and highlights UNGCs requirements, we publish frameworks, including the Core anannual communication on our Data book and GRI references Conventions of the ILO and the progress.
The UNGC also encourages UN Guiding Principles on Business Payments to governments report participants to support the and HumanRights.
We are members Sustainable Development Goals Modern slavery statement of the Plenary of the UNs Voluntary SDGs, with an emphasis on Principles on Security and collaboration and innovation.
Wewelcome the SDGs and Achieved On track Not achieved Performance overview Progress against our core sustainability strategy pillars 201520 Strategic priorities Progress in 2017 Status Safety No fatalities Nine fatalities occurred at Glencore assets during 2017 50% reduction of Group LTIFR by the end of 2020, Our LTIFR improved by 24% compared to our 2015 baseline, 1 against 2015 baseline of 1.34 mainly due to the exclusion of Glencore Agriculture.
In 2017, our LTIFR was 1.02 per million hours worked 2016: 1.40 including Glencore Agriculture 50% reduction in TRIFR by 2020 using 2014 figure Our TRIFR improved by 38% compared to our 2014 baseline, 1 of5.02 as a baseline mainly due to the exclusion of Glencore Agriculture.
Our 2017 TRIFR was 3.09 per million hours worked 2016: 4.05 including Glencore Agriculture Year-on-year reduction in the number of new cases 46 new cases of occupational disease recorded, a 48% decrease Health ofoccupational disease on2016 89 cases recorded, includes Glencore Agriculture No major or catastrophic environmental incidents Zero major or catastrophic environmental incidents Environment Established a group-wide carbon emission-intensity Our 2017 carbon emission intensity increased marginally to reduction target of 5% on 2016 baseline by 2020 4.78tGHG tCu from 4.75tGHG tCu in 2016.
We are implementing initiatives to deliver our 2020 carbon target.
High water risk assets to implement five-year water The identified high risk sites are currently carrying out operational targets for 201721 changes which are intended to result in overall improvements Continue internal and external audit programme Our internal and external audit programme for high-risk tailings forhigh-risk tailings storage facilities storage facilities was ongoing throughout the year Community No serious human rights incidents Zero serious human rights incidents and human rights Implement our social value creation strategy Identified material assets to report their socio-economic contribution data Distribute the Community Leadership Programme The toolkit was distributed to all assets.
Training on the toolkit took Toolkit to all assets place in Australia and South Africa.
Further training sessions will be held in Canada and South America in 2018 1 Baseline figures include Glencore Agriculture.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 26 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information We have been a member of the system for classification and labelling apply our risk management International Council on Mining & of chemicals GHS, the EU REACH framework and its supporting Metals since 2014.
We endorse its regulations on the registration, guidelines.
We align our framework sustainable development framework evaluation, authorisation and with international standards and it principles and are an active member restriction of chemicals, and the provides a harmonised approach of its working groups.
London Bullion Market Association tomanaging our health, safety, LBMA Responsible Gold guidance.
environment, community, human We strongly support transparency in Where appropriate, we participate rights and reputational risks, as well the redistribution and reinvestment in the REACH consortia related as those linked to the management of the payments we make to local to the materials we produce: these of financial and legal issues.
We are include the consortia for zinc, active participants in the Extractive Our assets use the framework to cadmium, sulphuric acid, lead Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
identify hazards, particularly those and preciousmetals.
We comply with the EU Accounting with potentially major or catastrophic and Transparency Directives: in line We submit annual reports to consequences, and to develop plans with those provisions, we publish the CDP climate change and to address and eliminate, or mitigate, separate annual reports detailing water programmes.
For each of the material payments made to identified catastrophic hazards we governments, broken down Risk management and assurance have implemented a standardised by country andproject.
The identification, assessment approach to identifying and and mitigation of risk determines understanding their causes As part of our commitment to our approach to sustainability andcontrols.
responsible product stewardship, we management.
All of our assets follow the UN globally harmonised Glencore Annual Report 2017 27 Sustainable development continued Our internal HSEC assurance Materiality assessment review of material topics at global programme has a primary focus We focus the reporting of our and local levels.
It also includes on our systematic management of sustainability performance and information that reflects our the catastrophic hazards and their progress on topics identified as being understanding of the issues that relevant controls and critical controls.
material to Glencores development, affect our business and the natural Senior subject matter experts performance, position and or future resources sector, our regulatory participate in the assurance prospects.
Every two years, we requirements and the topics raised programme: our Board receives undertake a materiality assessment during engagement with our people reports on its findings, which are to establish the material topics for and external stakeholders including actively followed up and verified.
our sustainability strategy review local communities, investors, the The assurance programme is and sustainability reporting these media, governments and NGOs.
contributing to improving standards topics have the potential to have We consider a topic material if senior and performance group-wide.
the greatest impact on Glencores management determines that it business activities.
may significantly affect our business Stakeholder engagement In line with the GRI guidance operations or have a significant We engage with all relevant onmateriality, our materiality impact on any of our stakeholders.
stakeholder groups to build assessment involves a group-wide meaningful relationships and understand their expectations and aspirations.
Through recognising the importance of open and transparent engagement, we are able to Engaging with our stakeholders minimise our negative societal impact, optimise the value we bring to local communities, and maintain our licence to operate.
The geographies and markets in which we operate are extremely complex and we conduct dialogues on local, national, regional and international levels.
As a result, we engage on a broad variety of topics with a wide range of stakeholders with diverse interests and opinions.
Where appropriate, we take an informed and constructive role in public policy development processes.
We need constructive relationships We hold regular face-to-face meetings, For example, we are working with with our stakeholders to optimise our conference calls and participate policy makers directly and through business.
We listen to and work with inmulti-stakeholder discussions.
trade associations, on issues related others, to explore the challenges Weparticipate in roundtables with to clean energy, carbon reporting and we face as a business.
government and other industry carbon pricing, recognising that representatives to discuss new policies Our stakeholders include our employees governments and industry must as well as amendments to existing and contractors, host communities, work together to establish policy legislation.
We hold transparent civil society, unions, governments, negotiations with union officials to frameworks that deliver the optimal business partners, non-governmental discuss wage and benefit agreements.
balance of social, environmental and organisations, investors and the media.
Our employees receive regular briefings economic considerations appropriate We reach out to them on local, national, on health and safety matters.
Many of for individual nations.
our assets hold regular open days, when local community members can visit We engage with all stakeholder groups oursites and interact with our to build meaningful relationships and operational teams.
understand their expectations and aspirations.
This minimises any potential These activities are complementary: negative societal impact, optimises the together, they form part of our response value we bring to local communities, to global business issues and help us and maintains our licence to operate.
to identify the issues that are of most importance to our stakeholders.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 28 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Business model Page 16 Material topics The topics identified as being material to Glencores development, performance, position and future prospects: Processing Blending Extraction Logistics Exploration and refining and production marketing optimisation Catastrophic hazard management Health and safety Climate change Water and effluents Waste and air emissions Human rights Community Product stewardship HSEC pillars key Health Safety Environment Community and human rights Workplace health and safety An important tool in improving Our progress in 2017 The health and safety of our people safety at our operations has been Catastrophic hazard management isour top priority.
Our ambition is to the recording of high potential We are committed to ensuring become a health and safety leader, risk incidents HPRIs.
the safety and wellbeing of our and to create a workplace without The reporting of HPRIs represents a people and the communities and fatalities, injuries or occupational positive part of our strategy to reduce environment around us.
We take a proactive, fatalities and, as such, we do not events that take place in the natural preventative approach towards target a reduction in this metric.
resource sector can have disastrous health and safety.
Our aim is to impacts on workers, communities, establish a positive safety culture During 2017, 78% of our recorded the environment and corporate that supports all of our employees HPRIs related to six hazards mobile reputation, as well as having and contractors being empowered equipment: 30%: ground strata substantial financial cost.
We are to have the authority to stop work failure: 13%: lifting and cranage: 9%: actively identifying, monitoring and if they consider a workplace or working at heights: 8%: energy mitigating the catastrophic hazards situation unsafe.
We believe that all isolation: 7% and fire and explosions: within our business.
The Board occupational fatalities, diseases and 4%.
For each of these hazards, we receives regular updates on this injuries are preventable.
have developed protocols that detail area and actively encourages an the actions necessary to identify and approach of ongoing improvement.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 29 4.05 Sustainable development continued mitigate their associated risk.
Climate change Lost time injury Thereported HPRIs also help us to The impact on our business frequency rate identify the activities that we need to As a significant producer of energy prioritise in order to advance further products and a significant energy 1.02 our safety performance.
consumer we are aware that energy is a key input and cost to our business We are encouraging our workforce 2015 1.34 as well as being a material source torecognise the need to record and 2016 ofour carbon emissions.
We are 1.40 report HPRIs through the promotion working to mitigate the physical of a risk-based safety culture.
2017 1.02 impacts of climate change where we It is with deep regret that we have can and consider resource efficiency not met our goal of zero fatalities.
In when making operational decisions.
Total recordable injury 2017, nine people lost their lives at our Wherever we operate, we seek frequency rate operations, compared to 16 during tooptimise our energy and 2016.
All loss of life is unacceptable carbonfootprint.
3.09 and we are determined to eliminate We recognise the global climate fatalities across our Group.
change science as laid out by the 2015 4.35 Our lost time injury frequency rate Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 2016 LTIFR reflects the total number of Change and acknowledge the global LTIs per million hours worked and climate change goals outlined in 2017 3.09 does not include restricted work the United Nations Convention on injuries or fatalities.
Our LTIFR are Climate Change Paris Agreement.
recorded when an employee or Number of Following the broad consensus HPRIs reported contractor is unable to work following reached by nation states, we an incident: days recorded begin on anticipate a global shift towards a the first rostered shift that the worker lower-carbon economy, supported 368 is absent after the day of the injury.
by appropriate policies and bringing In2017, our LTIFR was 1.02 per million significant economic changes.
2015 338 hours worked 2016: 1.40 including We believe the implementation 2016 405 and 1.22 excluding Glencore of measures by national and intraAgriculture and reflects the 2017 368 national governments, as well as continuing progress we are making public sentiment, will continue to to embed a culture of safety at all drive public policy developments our assets.
We are progressing well New occupational andprogrammes to restrict global disease cases against our long-term goal of greenhouse gas emissions GHGs.
reducing employee and contractor lost-time injuries by 50% by the end This is likely to affect our business 46 of 2020 against a 2015 figure of 1.34. and represents both risks and opportunities that our company 2015 127 The total recordable injury frequency needs to manage.
We support a rate TRIFR is the sum of fatalities, 2016 89 least-cost pathway to achieving lost time injuries, restricted work climate change goals that considers 2017 46 injuries and medical treatment the cost and consequences of all injuries per million hours worked.
available policy options and does not Themetric represents all injuries that hinder socio-economic development.
require medical treatment beyond first aid.
We are on track to meet the Addressing climate change progressive improvement required across our business toachieve our long-term goal of To address the impacts, opportunities achieving a 50% reduction in and risks relating to climate change TRIFR by the end of 2020, using our within our business, we have 2014 TRIFR of 5.02 as the baseline.
established an internal crossOur2017 TRIFR of 3.09 is a 38% functional and cross-commodity improvement against the working group, led by our Chairman 2014baseline.
with Board oversight to consider andexamine climate change issues.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information The working group is overseeing We play an active role in engaging CO e Scope 1 2 theongoing integration of carbon with governments and other million tonnes emissions and energy into our annual interested stakeholders to develop business planning process and the strategies for reducing the impact of 21.6 mapping to 2020 of our forward climate change.
We actively support projected energy and carbon the development of low emission 2015 23.0 footprint.
This work is feeding into technologies and some renewable adetailed review of our carbon energy sources.
It We are investing in a number of low 2017 21.6 includes an assessment of potential carbon energy projects that address mitigation and abatement projects, direct and indirect emissions from and underpins the basis of our our operations.
They include CO Scope 2 2 internal Marginal Abatement Cost million tonnes treatment of fugitive emissions from Curve MACC.
coal processing and ventilation air In mid-2017, the work undertaken by methane and thelarge-scale CCS 11.9 our climate change working group coal energy demonstration project resulted in Glencore establishing an feasibility stage in Australia 2015 14.3 initial group-wide carbon emissiondescribed on page 32.
2016 12.2 intensity reduction target of at least Reporting on our emissions 5% on 2016 levels by 2020, measured 2017 11.9 We divide CO emissions reporting 2 in terms of tonnes of greenhouse into three different scopes, in line gases emitted per tonne of copper with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, equivalent industrial production Total energy use and measure both the direct petajoules tGHG tCu.
and indirect emissions generated In line with our expectations, our 2017 by the industrial activities, entities 202 energy emission intensity increased and facilities where we have marginally compared with 2016, operational control.
During 2017, we emitted 21.6 million This slight increase reflects energy 2016 222 tonnes CO e of Scope 1 direct 2 use relating to pre-stripping activity emissions from our consumed fuel.
2017 202 and construction work for future This figure includes emissions from production improvements.
reductants used in our metallurgical The small increase in 2017 was smelters.
It also includes CO e 2 anticipated when our 2020 target of methane emissions from our was established.
Structural carbon operations, which is around 36% intensity improvements are planned ofour Scope 1 emissions.
Our 2018 carbon reduction in Scope 1 emissions budget process showed that we are is mainly due to lower coal seam on track to meet our 2020 target as emissions at our Australian we progress towards higher energy coal operations.
efficiency levels and carbon-efficient In 2017, we emitted 11.9 million operational changes.
tonnes CO of Scope 2 location-based 2 How we are taking action indirect emissions which applied We use renewable energy sources appropriate country-by-country where possible: renewable sources grid emission factors to all of our deliver 13.5% of our total energy purchased electricity, regardless needs 2016: 14% excluding Glencore of specific renewable electricity Agriculture.
In Australia, we use contracts.
Our Scope 2 reduction coal seam gas from our mines to was mainly due to the closure of supplement power generation at a our Alumina operations in early 2016, number of our assets and have flares as well as some energy efficiency installed at those underground coal gains at our ferroalloys smelters.
mines with the necessary supply and concentration of methane.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 31 Sustainable development continued Our Scope 3 emissions include This is the TPIs highest score and those from a broad range of sources, recognises the work that we have Carbon capture including use of fossil energy that we undertaken to identify and address and storage CCS produce and shipping transportation.
the risks to our business posed by We report our Scope 3 emissions climate change.
We publicly report to the CDP In 2017, The Transition Pathway Carbon Disclosure programme.
Initiative TPI, which aims to define In 2017, Glencore achieved a CDP what the transition to a low carbon score of B 2016: B. economy looks like for companies inhigh-impact sectors such as oil and gas, mining and electricity generation, awarded Glencore a Level Four Strategic Assessment.
Cross reference table to Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures The International Energy Agency has Governance: Disclose the organisations governance around climate-related risks and opportunities identified CCS as a vital technology if the world is to meet its greenhouse a Describe the Boards oversight of climate-related Board Committees: Page 87 gas reduction targets.
Risk Board leadership: Page 90 Since 2009, Glencore has participated b Describe managements role in assessing and Work at Board meetings: Page 89 in a number of Australian low-emission managing climate-related risks and opportunities.
HSEC Committee report: Page 100 technology projects.
Strategy: Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on One of these is the Integrated the organisations businesses, strategy, and financial planning where such information is material Surat Basin CCS project, which was established in 2010 to demonstrate a Describe the climate-related risks and Principal risks and uncertainties climate opportunities the organisation has identified over change: Page 50 the effectiveness of CCS technology the short, medium, and long term.
b Describe the impact of climate-related risks and Principal risks and uncertainties climate The purpose of the study is to opportunities on the organisations businesses, change: Page 50 deliver an integrated CCS project strategy, and financial planning.
incorporating carbon capture, c D escribe the resilience of the organisations 2017 Climate Change Considerations transport and sequestration to strategy, taking into consideration different climatefor Our Business: Page 20 establish a basis for permitting of related scenarios, including a 2C or lower scenario.
long-term CO storage in a suitable 2 location in Queensland.
Risk management: Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risks This study will provide a framework a Describe the organisations processes for Principal risks and uncertainties climate for a genuine best practice model identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
change: Page 50 to deliver a viable commercial 2017 Climate Change Considerations approach to reducing CO emissions 2 for Our Business: Page 14 in Queensland and elsewhere in Australia, reducing Australias overall b Describe the organisations processes for managing Addressing climate change across our carbon footprint and benefiting all climate-related risks.
business: Page 30 emitters of CO requiring storage.
2 c D escribe the targets used by the organisation to Principal risks and uncertainties: Page 50 manage climate-related risks and opportunities For more information about CTSCo, Key performance indicators: Page 41 and performance against targets.
Metrics and targets: Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material a Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to Reporting on our emissions: Page 31 assess climate-related risks and opportunities in Key performance indicators: Page 41 line with its strategy and risk management process.
b Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 and, if appropriate, Reporting on our emissions: Page 31 Scope 3 greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and the Key performance indicators: Page 41 related risks.
c D escribe the targets used by the organisation to Addressing climate change across our manage climate-related risks and opportunities business: Page 30 and performance against targets.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 3 Financial Stability Boards Task In 2017, we withdrew 924 million m Water withdrawn 3 Force on Climate-related Financial of water 2016: 971 million m or 3 million m 3 Disclosures TCFD 829million m excluding Glencore We support the recently published Agriculture.
The like-for-like increase 924 recommendations of the Financial is mainly due to two assets increasing Stability Boards TCFD.
The TCFD has their dewatering efforts as their 2015 954 developed a voluntary framework for operational profiles reached the reporting of climate-related groundwater aquifers and all assets 2016 971 financial risk disclosures for use aligning with our revised water 2017 924 by lenders, insurers, investors and reporting requirements.
We are an active member of the 2015 data is not directly comparable to later periods due to changes in data We welcome the opportunity International Council on Mining & reporting methodology disclosed in our to engage with our stakeholders Metals ICMM s water management 2016 Sustainability Report.
on climate change matters and working group and participated report on our progress against the in the development of its Position Aiming for A initiative.
During 2017, Statement on Water Stewardship.
we produced the second edition of During 2017, our internal water our Climate Change Considerations working group finalised our water for our Business publication.
This management guideline in line with publication analyses the robustness the ICMMs position statement on of our portfolio against climatewater and water management related scenarios and provides framework.
Furthermore we an assessment of the risks and completed our high-risk site opportunities available to Glencore assessments related to water and in a low-carbon economy.
set up a process for the internal sharing of best water-related In response to the guidance practices.
In 2017, we harmonised produced by the TCFD, we have our water metrics to align with the provided a cross-reference table Water Accounting Framework WAF on page 32.
The table references of the Minerals Council of Australia.
the sections in this report and other publications that meet the Going forward, we will pilot the guidance of the TCFD.
ICMMs catchment-based approach to water management during the Water and effluents first half of 2018.
Catchment-based Water is an essential component of water management is a our business activities.
We recognise comprehensive, systematic approach that water is a shared and finite to identifying, evaluating and resource and we are conscious of responding to local water-related the increasing concerns of our local risks through the lifecycle of an asset stakeholders and other local water as well as capturing an assets impact users regarding ongoing availability on other local water users.
of water, security of access and the We publicly report to the CDP Water potential for impacts on watersupply.
We are committed to managing our impact on water resources responsibly.
We prioritise efficient water use, water reuse recycling, responsible waste water disposal and maintaining any equipment that may pose a hazard to water quality.
We engage with local water users to avoid material adverse impacts on the quality and quantity of local water sources or compromising their access to water.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 33 Sustainable development continued Waste and air emissions Community engagement and Total amount of hazardous Our operations emit emissions such social commitment compliance and non-hazardous as sulphur dioxide SO, dust and The communities surrounding 2 mineral waste generated nitrogen oxide as well as generate million tonnes our operations are our neighbours, waste, which can affect the employees, business partners environment and nearby and future workforce.
We monitor all material commitment to two-way dialogue emissions and continuously look for with our local communities, we aim 2015 2,111 ways to reduce those that pollute the to secure a broad base of support 2016 2,025 air around us.
Wherever we operate, for our activities.
We aim to foster we comply with relevant regulatory sustainable growth where we 2017 2,129 limits and or international standards operate.
We work with communities for air emissions regarding SO.
to deliver socio-economic 2 Our open cut operations emit dust development through investment Sulphur dioxide emissions from excavation and movement of thousand tonnes in infrastructure, procurement, material.
We monitor dust levels at health and education projects.
affected communities and minimise 358 We contribute to society throughout dust in a number of ways.
our value chain, via employment, 2015 366 Our metal and coal assets generate procurement, enterprise tailings, which are stored in purposedevelopment, infrastructure and 2016 402 built tailings storage facilities.
2017 358 continuously monitor our tailings Our community development facilities for integrity and structural programmes are an integral part stability.
Flooding and seismic activity of our community and stakeholder Community investment are the main natural phenomena engagement strategies.
We design spend US$ million that may affect them.
We have an our programmes to help reduce ongoing assurance programme dependency on our operations, that specifically focuses on our 90 encourage self-reliance and tailings facilities.
contribute to sustainable growth 2015 94 Our assets continually review their in our host regions.
In 2017, 2016 84 waste management procedures we spent $90 million on these and identify opportunities for programmes 2016: $84 million.
2017 90 improvement, to minimise the impact of the waste we produce.
Human rights and grievance mechanisms Community complaints The increase in waste produced We prioritise respect for human during 2017 was primarily due to rights everywhere that we operate.
increased stripping ratios at a 1,063 We uphold the human rights of our number of assets and the reopening people and our local communities, of an Australian coal operation.
2015 1,741 including vulnerable groups such 2016 963 as women, children, indigenous people and victims of conflict.
2017 1,063 Respect for human rights is enshrined in Glencores Code of Conduct, which lays out the essential requirements for our people and stems from our values.
It also Glencore Annual Report 2017 34 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information explicitly aligns our security At operations with a relatively high Further details of such will be set procedures with the United Nations risk of breaches of security-related, out in our Sustainability Report.
Voluntary Principles on Security and human rights, we require our own We take all complaints seriously Human Rights Voluntary Principles.
employees and private security and continuously look for new ways We also endorse the Voluntary contractors to undergo specific to minimise our impacts.
Principles within our public Group training on human rights, aligned Human Rights Policy.
Where Product stewardship possible, we also provide awarenessOur products are vital to todays As a member of the Voluntary raising sessions on the Voluntary society, creating devices used daily, all Principles Initiative, we are working Principles to public security forces over the world.
Our goal is to provide with the member governments, deployed on our concessions.
competitively priced commodities companies and NGOs to develop that meet our customers needs and further our approach towards human All our operations are required to contribute to global society, while rights.
We have implemented the have in place grievance mechanisms addressing any associated health, Voluntary Principles at our assets that are accessible, accountable and societal and environmental risks.
with a high risk of human rights fair, and that enable our stakeholders breaches since 2013. to raise concerns without fear of We work with experts, industry recrimination.
We align our grievance consortia and our peers to study Our Group Human Rights Policy mechanisms with the requirements the properties and impacts of our applies to all Glencore operations of the UN Guiding Principles on products throughout their lifecycles, and offices over which we have Business and Human Rights.
to spread understanding of our operational control.
We engage with a broad requires our operations to identify As a member of the Voluntary range of stakeholders, including civil and assess risks of human rights Principles Initiative, we are working society, governments and our breaches as part of our general with the member governments, customers, to promote responsible risk assessment processes, which companies and NGOs to further commodity sourcing.
In 2017, include baseline and impact studies develop our approach towards Glencore did not produce, process at existing operations and due human rights.
or market any conflict minerals diligence on new operations During 2017, we received originating from the conflict areas and business partners.
1,063 complaints from the as defined under the Dodd-Frank Assets conduct regular human communities living around our Act tin, tungsten, tantalum rights training for their workforce.
The majority of the and gold from the DRC and This covers general human rights complaints received related to three adjoining countries.
awareness during day-to-day assets, Chad E&P, Mount Isa Mines activities for our wider workforce, and Pasar, and concerned impacts as well as focused Voluntary from construction works Chad and Principles training for our security emissions Mount Isa and Pasar.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 35 Sustainable development continued Not only do we have a diversified We periodically review the skills of portfolio of commodities and our current workforce against future Our people services, our presence in 90 business requirements and take the marketing offices and 150 assets in necessary steps to match available Our employees and contractors more than 50 countries means our talent against our current and are fundamental to our success.
In our Baar future requirements.
When At Glencore, our people are at the corporate office, we employ people appropriate, employees receive heart of everything we do.
We foster from 54 different nationalities, with training and skills development an environment where our different the gender balance approaching to support their advancement.
backgrounds, cultures and beliefs 40% female.
Details of senior are supported and encouraged.
We During the year, a number of our management diversity is set out recognise that diversity brings new regional businesses were recognised on page 90. ideas, innovation and different ways for their efforts to develop and of working and that mutual respect support their employees: Our people leads to a driven workforce, We are proud of our people and our our Australian copper business dedicated to our common goals.
shared commitment to who we are, received industry awards We respect and implement relevant what we do and to continuously recognising its outstanding local regulations and the International improving the impact of our actions.
achievement in vocational Labour Organization Declaration on We recognise that our presence can education and training Fundamental Principles and Rights bring significant economic benefits our Canadian Raglan nickel mine at Work.
to our operating countries and the was recognised by the Conseil du communities living near to our assets.
Patronat of Quebec for high rates Diversity Where possible, we employ of job retention.
This is particularly Reflecting the wide geographic locally and our training and skillspleasing considering the harsh footprint of our workplaces, diversity development programmes support operating environment in the is at the core of Glencores approach this ambition.
Reflecting the diversity far north of Canada to its people.
Our diversity policy of our business and workforce, we promotes a diverse and inclusive Our global rate of turnover was tailor our training programmes to workforce.
We have established 9%: similar to that experienced meet the skills needed in the guiding principles to improve in 2016 10%.
communities that support our assets.
genderbalance, encourage and support diversity and to prevent The success of our business is reliant Union relations discrimination of gender or any on attracting and retaining the We recognise and uphold the rights otherdiverse attribute.
Our principles best people at every level.
We offer of our workforce to a safe workplace support increased diversity awareness regular assessments of skill levels and collective representation and throughout our business.
and competence, with the aim of freedom of association.
We are identifying good performance, talent committed to working honestly Group-wide, we employ and potential, and offering suitable and openly with labour unions 12,037 women, which is 14% rewards, development opportunities, at all of our locations and treating of our employees.
While several of our assets successfully engaged in labour re-negotiations during 2017, there were various instances where labour disputes occurred.
Although where Workforce numbers at year end we find ourselves in dispute with our 2017 labour force or a part of it we usually excluding can find an acceptable solution 2015 2016 agriculture through negotiation, occasionally Employees 100,614 95,958 83,679 a situation can be challenging.
Contractors 55,854 58,874 62,298 Total workforce 156,468 154,832 145,977 % of female employees 16 17 14 Glencore Annual Report 2017 36 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information At CEZ, a zinc refinery in Canada, owned by the Noranda Income Fund NIF and in which Glencore has a 25% stake and operates, members of the United Steelworkers Union USW went on strike in February.
The labour dispute resulted from the NIFs cost reduction initiatives to adjust to market terms after the conclusion of a 15-year term where the NIF enjoyed the advantage of fixed processing fees.
In November, the 371 members of the USW voted in favour of a new six-year collective agreement.
The agreement was a compromise between the NIFs need to restructure its cost base and the USWs goal of keeping its members pension benefits unchanged.
During 2017, in Australia, we negotiated new enterprise agreements EAs with local Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union CFMEU lodges at 13 of our coal operations.
At our Our progress in 2017 in all our people while never Oaky North mine we have been During the year, we continued compromising on their safety negotiating with the CFMEU on a toadvance the perception of our and well-being.
This is important new agreement for nearly three years.
We took steps to our success and the superior In early 2018, following an extended toimprove the consistency of our returns we aim to achieve for all labour dispute, we reached an employee communications, to our stakeholders.
in-principle agreement with national, address transparently public state and local CFMEU leaders: concerns and to engage actively Simplicity regrettably Oaky Norths union with interested stakeholders.
We aim to achieve our key members voted against the Together, these efforts are reinforcing deliverables efficiently as a path proposed agreement that would Glencores position as an employer to industry-leading returns, while have resulted in a return to work.
of choice in the main markets in maintaining a clear focus on The in-principle agreed EA positions which we operate.
excellence, quality, sustainability the mine for a successful future.
and continuous improvement Our Fundamental Values in everything we do.
Wellbeing Our objectives and policies towards Our entire workforce shares our people reflect our values: Responsibility responsibility for creating, fostering We recognise that our work can and maintaining a culture of safe Safety have an impact on our society and work.
Our goal is a trained, competent Our first priority in the workplace is the environment.
We care about and motivated workforce.
We actively to protect the health and well-being our performance in relation to promote and support health and of all our people.
We take a proactive environmental protection, human wellness programmes for all of our approach to health and safety: our rights, and health and safety.
Additionally, confidential goal is continuous improvement in and voluntary counselling services the prevention of occupational Openness are made available to our employees disease and injuries We value open relationships and and their dependents to help communication based on integrity, resolve both personal and  co-operation, transparency and related problems.
Our approach fosters the highest mutual benefit, with our people, level of professionalism, personal our customers, our suppliers, ownership and entrepreneurial spirit governments and society in general.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 37 Sustainable development continued Group Policy Framework including via the compliance team, Our policy framework encompasses the Group intranet or local intranet of Compliance our values, Code of Conduct and the specific asset at which they work.
Glencores success is founded on a policies, procedures and guidelines Our managers and supervisors are reputation, built over many years, on various compliance topics responsible for ensuring employees as being an honest and reliable including anti-corruption, sanctions, understand and comply with the business partner.
By upholding our anti-money laundering, the policies and procedures.
We monitor commitment to ethical business prevention of fraud, market abuse, and test their implementation on practices, we seek to maintain this the prevention of the facilitation of a regular basis.
Employees and reputation and meet our long-term tax evasion, anti-trust, data protection contractors who have access to a objectives through being regarded and conflict of interest.
This work computer must confirm their as a business partner of choice.
framework reflects our commitment awareness and understanding to uphold good business practices of our compliance requirements Our Approach and to meet or exceed applicable electronically every year.
Certain We seek to maintain a culture of laws and external requirements.
assets implement their own policies ethical behaviour and compliance We emphasise their importance and procedures in addition to those throughout the Group, rather than in our business activities, including of the Group.
These are designed to simply performing the minimum recruitment, induction, supplier address specific local requirements, required by laws and regulations.
briefings and external engagement while being consistent with our Wewill not knowingly assist any activities.
Training and awareness on policy framework.
third party in breaching the law, or our policies, procedures and In accordance with our Code of participate in any criminal, fraudulent guidelines, as well as strong Conduct, anybody working for or corrupt practice in any country.
leadership, are critical components Glencore who breaches the law, the of our compliance programme.
To support this, we have Code of Conduct, or other policies or They ensure our employees implemented a Group compliance procedures may face disciplinary understand the behaviour expected programme that includes a range action including dismissal.
In 2017, of them and provide guidance on of policies, procedures, guidelines, Glencore dismissed 284 employees how they can identify and practically training and monitoring.
2016: 318 and 2015: 523 for approach legal and ethical dilemmas Ourpermanent and temporary breaching the Code of Conduct.
in their daily work lives.
employees, directors and officers as The dismissals predominantly related well as contractors, where they are Compliance officers are full time to failures to follow safety instructions under a relevant contractual compliance employees who provide or policies, or misappropriation of obligation must comply with our dedicated compliance support to the company property.
compliance policies, procedures and business.
Compliance coordinators, guidelines that apply to their work, guided by the Group compliance The Group Business Ethics in addition to complying with team, take on the role in addition to Committee BEC applicable laws and regulations.
They support our The BEC comprises Glencores CEO, When we enter into joint ventures employees in day-to-day business senior management and members where we are not the operator, we considerations, particularly those of the compliance team, as well as seek to influence our partners to seeking advice on ethical, lawful external counsel.
The BEC considers adopt similar policies to ours.
compliance issues relevant to the The Group currently has Group and reviews and approves our 111compliance officers and policies, procedures and guidelines.
Employees may access The BEC reports to the Audit the telephone, email and postal Committee.
The policies, procedures contact details of our compliance and guidelines approved by the BEC officers and coordinators via the are implemented by our compliance Group intranet, their local intranet team.
The BEC meets two times per and notice boards.
year and its sub-committee meets four times per year to consider in Employees can access the more detail matters addressed compliance policies, procedures and by the BEC.
guidelines through various channels, Glencore Annual Report 2017 38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Training and Awareness Bribery and corruption Sanctions Policy sets our approach Our employees receive induction Glencores Global Anti-Corruption to sanctions and how we seek to sessions and ongoing training on a Policy is available on the Group comply with applicable sanctions range of compliance issues.
It contains our clear position and appropriately manage sanctions 31,737 employees and contractors on bribery and corruption: the risk.
The Glencore Sanctions 2016: 29,569 completed our Code of offering, paying, authorising, Procedures outline the steps and Conduct e-learning, which includes soliciting or accepting of bribes is procedures we take to ensure guidance on raising concerns.
We conduct analysis compliance with the Global addition, 22,872 2016: 20,119 for corruption risks within our Sanctions Policy.
completed e-learning training on our businesses and seek to address these global anti-corruption policy, which risks through policies and procedures, Prevention of Facilitation includes guidance on giving and training and awareness raising, of Tax Evasion receiving gifts and entertainment.
The Group does not tolerate tax The target audience of the Code of evasion of any kind, including Glencore is a member of the Conduct e-Learning is employees facilitation of tax evasion by any Partnering Against Corruption with regular access to a work person employed or contracted to Initiative PACI.
Members collaborate computer and the training on the Group or acting on its behalf on collective action and share leading anti-corruption targets those whose and has procedures which seek to practice in organisational compliance.
function may require them to interact prevent any such facilitation.
The initiative is based on a with third parties.
For those commitment to zero tolerance on employees who do not have regular Reporting Misconduct bribery and implementation of access to a work computer, we If one of our people encounters a practical and effective anticorruption provide training in other ways situation that appears to breach our programmes.
We are also an including induction sessions, pre-shift policy framework that individual associate member of the Maritime general training and toolbox talks.
In must raise this promptly with his or Anti-Corruption Network MACN.
addition, compliance officers and her immediate supervisor or coordinators conduct face-to-face The Group has also implemented the manager.
Alternatively, the individual training for relevant employees to Third Party Due Diligence Procedures may raise the concern with another raise awareness about compliance which seek to ensure that our third appropriate manager, compliance risks related to their functions and to party relationships are in accordance officer or coordinator, or a member train them on Glencores compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the BEC.
If a concern remains policies and procedures.
and the Global Anti-Corruption Policy.
unresolved through local channels, it The procedures set out a process can be referred to the Groups Raising Monitoring whereby circumstances that may Concerns programme.
In countries As part of the Group compliance pose a corruption risk are reviewed, with low levels of internet access we programme, we conduct monitoring addressed and taken into have telephone numbers, made to test and verify compliance with consideration when deciding known to our people via notice the Group policies, procedures and whether and on which conditions boards.
Those who call or use the guidelines and with the laws and to proceed with a third party online form may choose to raise their regulations applicable to Glencores relationship, particularly concerns anonymously.
Nobody marketing and industrial activities.
intermediaries, joint-ventures and working for Glencore suffers This entails performing periodic and service providers on a risk basis.
demotion, penalty or any other ad hoc testing reviews in accordance disciplinary action for raising a with the corporate testing and Sanctions concern in good faith.
monitoring plans, analysing Glencore is committed to respecting, In 2017, the Raising Concerns documents and procedures and, upholding and complying with all programme received 183 2016: 153 inthe case of findings, collaborating sanctions applicable to our business reports from employees, contractors with the relevant marketing office or and to all transactions in which we or third parties regarding situations industrial operation to determine engage, regardless of our role or in which Group policies appeared to themost appropriate course of location.
The applicability and scope be breached.
action, including any required of the applicable sanctions can differ correctiveaction.
per transaction, jurisdiction and other factors.
The Glencore Global Glencore Annual Report 2017 39
