STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Internal control framework and activities Financial reporting systems Treasury operations UK Bribery Act 2010 The management structure of the Group and internal policies and The quality of financial accounting and reporting is ensured The Group operates a centralised treasury function, which is The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control framework through a set of control procedures in the following areas: responsible for payments on behalf of all operating subsidiaries of adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
within the Group encourage the achievement of strategic objectives accounting methodology, preliminary review of new transactions, the Group.
Use of this centralised system achieves the best level of This is reflected in every aspect of the way the Group operates.
within the set risk tolerance levels.
documentation, accounting techniques and financial closing control over the payments function without compromising the speed Bribery is a criminal offence in the countries in which the Group procedures.
Accounting policies are developed centrally for and reliability of payments.
Corrupt acts expose the Group and its employees to the This framework includes: each of the Groups subsidiaries and are adapted for the specifics risk of prosecution, fines and imprisonment, as well as endangering All transactions with banks on accounts maintenance, deposits and of each entity and Group-wide policies.
Employees responsible the Companys reputation.
The Group has a Code of Conduct in an appropriate tone set from the top Board level, borrowings and foreign currency transactions are also performed at for accounting and reporting functions have powers to review place, which refers to its Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy.
aimed at building the appropriate control environment relevant headquarters level in compliance with the treasury policy upcoming transactions and propose adjustments, where necessary, and ethical climate: approved by the Board.
The policy extends across all of the Groups business dealings in to ensure proper accounting and tax treatments.
The use of a all countries and territories in which the Group operates and applies centralised Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system in all major management support of a comprehensive risk management to Directors, managers and all employees of the Group, as well as Group companies ensures the unification of the business and Controls over IT systems used in financial accounting system for more detail please refer to relevant business partners and other relevant individuals accounting processes.
The Group implements a multi-level set of pages 68-74 : and reporting and entities.
controls over financial and accounting data recorded in the system.
The Group uses a 1C:Enterprise 8 ERP system for the automation of strong segregation of duties including internal controls These controls involve the accounting department of each everyday enterprise activities.
These include various business tasks over sensitive transactions: The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy and applies subsidiary, senior management of the subsidiary and controls at within economic and management functions, such as management a zero-tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any the relevant headquarters level.
In addition, the accounting and specific control activities implemented at all levels of the Group: accounting, business accounting, HR management, supplier of the Groups employees or by business partners working on reporting data are regularly audited by internal and external auditors.
and relationship management SRM and material requirements the Groups behalf.
The policy prohibits the payment, offer or planning MRP.
The Group also uses the ERP system for budgeting, a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
authorisation of bribes, the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, or Procedures for approval of capital and current expenditures accounting, HR record-keeping and payroll, supply chain the payment, offer or promise to pay any facilitating payments.
The Group prepares annual operating and capital expenditure The governance framework reflects the specific structure and management, operational reporting and procurement.
Any breach of this policy is regarded as a serious matter by the budgets based on its current and strategic goals and objectives.
management of the Group, where authority and control are Company and is likely to result in disciplinary action.
The Group operates an IT management framework based on COBIT delegated by the Board to different levels, from senior management In addition to periodic control of actual versus budgeted financial Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology, which to the managers of the Groups operating entities and then As part of implementation of internal procedures to comply with the performance, a procedure of ongoing control and authorisation provides a complete set of high-level requirements to be considered cascaded down to business and project managers as appropriate.
UK Bribery Act, the Group has a formalised Whistle-Blowing Policy of expenses is in place.
The current system of pre-approval of for effective control of each IT process.
At the beginning of 2018, which defines the processes in place for staff to communicate, in significant transactions, along with accounting procedures in Within this framework, authority is delegated with clearly prescribed an external audit of the IT controls was carried out, and no critical confidence, concerns about possible improprieties, unethical or the ERP system, achieves a level of control over the amount limits and decisions are escalated where either project size or risk weaknesses of the control system and procedures were reviealed.
illegal activities and ensures that arrangements are in place for and appropriateness of expenses.
profile require a higher level of authority.
In addition to controls The external audit was carried out by an independent Center for the independent investigation of such matters.
operating at transaction level production, exploration, construction, Cyber Security, Jet Infosystem.
No other services were provided procurement, the control framework also includes a set of general by Jet Infosystem.
The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel access procedures for transaction approval, financial accounting, reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee and that it has provided protection and budgeting see details on the next page.
to whistle-blowers from adverse personnel action.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have All policies and procedures on prevention of bribery and corruption been or are being taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses in the are annually reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee for any Groups system of internal controls.
This has involved considering changes required to be recommended to the Board.
The the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes management reports to the Committee on the implementation of that it believes are reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on policies and procedures within the Groups operations are reviewed the results of the review of risk management and internal control on a regular basis as well.
activities undertaken by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board considers that the risk management and The Code of Conduct, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the internal control systems are in accordance with the relevant Whistle-Blowing Policy are available on the Companys website: principles and provisions of the UK Code and other www.
Jonathan Best Chair, Audit and Risk Committee POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 92 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 93 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT The remuneration of Mr Nesis, Group CEO and the only Executive The Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders last year included Director on the Board, includes a simple and clearly defined KPIa three-year planned increase for the base salary of our Group CEO component, derived from top-level strategic goals, encompassing and senior management team base, after their remuneration had operating and financial metrics that he can influence.
In the same fallen significantly below peer benchmark as their salaries are way the KPI structure for all our senior managers and key employees denominated in Russian Roubles.
The policy stated that the CEOs is tailored for individual responsibilities and performance.
To reflect salary would be increased in Roubles by up to 10 percentage points the aim of zero fatalities at our operations, the bonus calculation above the Russian domestic inflation rate in both 2018 and 2019, Throughout the company we aim at rewarding our system for the Group CEO, some senior managers and mine subject to a Committee review based on market conditions, exchange management has a major focus on health and safety KPIs, rates, the Company results or other considerations.
people fairly in line with the Companys strategic, adjusting bonus outcomes on all KPIs in the case of fatalities.
As per the policy, the Committee carefully reviewed whether operational and financial objectives in creating this increase remains appropriate for 2018.
Given the favourable The same remuneration principles are applied to our senior long-term sustainable stakeholders value.
economic environment in Russia throughout 2017, with a significant management team, which is composed of highly talented and slowdown of domestic inflation and strengthening of the RUB US$ committed professionals who deliver outstanding operating and exchange rate 58.3 RUB US$ average rate, 15% appreciation financial performance under complex market conditions.
We aim to compared with 2016, the Committee decided that there would ensure the corporate cohesiveness of the team as well as to support be no additional increase to the Group CEOs salary in excess of individual success and development.
The approved salary increase will be 2.5%, which is The purpose and structure of the key elements of the Remuneration in line with Russian inflation and the average increase for the rest of Policy is set out below: our workforce.
The revised Group CEO base salary of US$434,662 per annum using 60 RUB US$ exchange rate is still below the The general structure of the executive Directors Remuneration peer group median based on 2016 benchmarking performed by Policy successfully achieves our top corporate goals.
In 2019, the Committee will again carefully review whether The drivers of variable pay KPIs are stretching, well aligned with a further above-inflation increase remains appropriate.
the Companys strategic objectives and cascade throughout the organisation in a way that ensures our employees pay is aligned Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
Dear Shareholders to Polymetals performance and to the wider principles of the policy.
Any increase in non-executive Directors fees will normally be in line with UK inflation and market levels for similar roles in UK-listed Following the extensive review of our Remuneration Policy in 2016, Taking into consideration the key conclusions of the extensive external The policy is consistent with UK market and governance practice entities, except where a change in the scope of the role occurs.
Board review undertaken in 2016, the Committee performed its own including, but not limited to, in the following aspects: we are delighted that 99.10% of shareholders approved the Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Companys revised Remuneration Policy at the 2017 Annual General comprehensive effectiveness review in 2017, including refining the Performance-related pay makes up a significant proportion of and have not been increased since 2011.
As a FTSE 250 company listed on the London Meeting, which applies for a period of three years until May 2020. the remuneration package 53% and 71% of total remuneration Our Remuneration Report detailing remuneration outcomes for Stock Exchange, our forward-looking action plan includes measures for target and maximum performance scenarios, respectively, Corporate governance and approach to disclosure to ensure that we stay on top of the increasingly complex and rapidly 2016 also received strong support from 99.63% of shareholders.
with an appropriate balance between reward for shortand As a FTSE 250 company listed on the London Stock Exchange, changing regulatory framework on remuneration matters.
We are also long-term performance.
we comply with the strictest of corporate governance requirements.
As outlined in the Chairmans Statement and reported in more detail working jointly with other Committees, largely in reviewing KPIs and Senior management interests are aligned with those of our We remain committed to full adherence of all regulatory requirements in the Group CEOs Review, Polymetal maintained its track record general pay structure the Safety and Sustainability Committee as shareholders and the Companys long-term objectives.
and best practice as reflected in our Remuneration Policy, decisions, of solid operational delivery and project execution, meeting our well as gender pay as part of the new broader gender agenda the 50% of the bonuses awarded each year to the Group CEO and disclosure practices and requests for shareholder votes.
increased production guidance for the sixth consecutive year.
the senior management team are deferred into shares in the Over recent years, our management team further consolidated and Moving forward Company through the Deferred Share Award plan DSA over a improved the performance of existing assets and increased Remuneration principles and strategy In 2018, our focus remains on careful oversight of the Remuneration period of three years and clawback and malus provisions apply the resource base through exploration and acquisitions.
This has Our remuneration policy is underpinned by the Companys strategy Policy implementation as well as key corporate governance matters, to the unvested awards.
led to good free cash flow generation, as reflected in the significant and is result-oriented.
We aim to develop and operate in a safe including the smooth transition of new Committee members, gender dividends of US$1,048 million paid to our shareholders since the and sustainable manner across high-grade mines in selected The Performance Share Plan PSP provides an additional pay and adjusting to what is likely to be far-reaching new regulatory IPO in 2011.
At the year end, Polymetal had delivered a 4.4% geographies within the CIS and to generate free cash flow in order focus for key employees of the Group on delivering superior and governance frameworks as they emerge.
dividend yield on a three-year average basis.
to pay substantial and sustainable dividends.
To achieve this, we Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Stringent PSP vesting have developed a competitive advantage with our hub-based conditions, based on above median relative TSR and The Committee composition has changed due to the Board At the same time, the Company continues to meet the increasingly system and refractory ore processing as well as applying a strict underpinned by positive absolute shareholder returns, succession programme and we have welcomed Giacomo Baizini, demanding requirements of a London premium-listed company, capital and project management discipline throughout the Group.
are therefore fully aligned with shareholdervalue creation.
who brings wealth of experience of working in both natural in terms of environmental, social and governance matters.
resources and large corporates in Russia and beyond.
We are A vesting period of four years under the PSP, over which Some 70 separate KPI metrics are included in the variable part of Our Employment Policy is aligned with our strategy, as it calls for looking forward to working with Ollie Oliveira, our new Committee clawback and malus conditions apply to the unvested awards, remuneration at all levels of the organisation to reward those responsible behaviour and personal accountability, as well as a Director, with his strong background in finance and operational and with an additional post-vest holding period of one year ensures employees who are able make a difference.
Polymetal is included commitment to best practice in all matters and at all levels of the strategic roles primarily in the mining and resource sector.
Existing that management focus on the long-term interests of the in the FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG Leaders and Euronext-Vigeo organisation.
Our general approach is to motivate and compensate Committee member, Len Homeniuk, will not be offering himself for Company and of its stakeholders.
indices and supports the Carbon Disclosure Project as well as the employees fairly and competitively for their contribution to the re-election having served on the Board for approximately seven UN Global Compact and Global Reporting Initiative.
business and to promote an open, positive and co-operative The Group CEO owns a shareholding equal to 8,780%, of his years since the IPO.
The new Directors are familiar with the current attitude in the workplace.
base salary, far exceeding minimum shareholding requirements remuneration practices in similar environments and as a Committee Our ability to retain employees at all levels of the organisation of 500% of base salary.
we will facilitate the transfer of knowledge of remuneration matters remains high, despite strong competition for talent in our industry In making remuneration decisions, the Committee considers and of the Group practices to our new colleagues.
The management KPIs include significant weighting towards and regions of operation.
The Companys commitment to the both the performance of the Company and the current environment sustainability metrics, with the Group CEOs component highest ethical standards, its operational excellence and Finally, 2018 will be the first year of potential PSP vesting with surrounding executive pay, where there is a clear expectation of purposefully focused on health and safety.
implementation of international best practice is reflected in respect to 2014 grant, subject to vesting conditions being met.
shareholder alignment and appropriate pay for performance.
our staff turnover, that has been steadily reducing over the On behalf of the Committee and of the Board, I continue to welcome Key committee decisions last seven years and was 5.4% in 2017.
Remuneration structure feedback from shareholders and look forward to receiving your As communicated within last years Remuneration Report, Alignment with our corporate strategy is taken into consideration support at the AGM.
In our 2017 Remuneration Report, we outline how the Committee and in accordance with the revised Remuneration Policy, and to in all components of our remuneration structure which is based supervised implementation of the approved Remuneration Policy, bring it closer to the industry level, the salary of the Group CEOs on a healthy balance between fixed and variable pay, use of the including planned base-salary increases, annual bonuses and the in Roubles was increased by 25% in 2017.
KPIs tailored to key strategic objectives, as well as the strict vesting grant of performance shares.
The Company performed well on all conditions of our Performance Share Plan and substantial minimum metrics and this was reflected in the Group CEOs remuneration.
The Committee applied no discretion in its decision.
Christine Coignard Chair, Remuneration Committee POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 94 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 95 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE The overview below summarises our Remuneration VARIABLE PAY OUTCOMES Policy as described in the Chairmans letter, the alignment of remuneration framework with our Awarded in 2017 corporate strategy, the drivers of fixed and variable KPIs Measure Link to Strategy Weights % of base salary Annual bonus payment pay and actual payment to the Group CEO for 2017. made in respect of Achieving production budget, Koz 2 25% 38% performance for the year comprised 55% of base Total cash cost per ounce of gold 25% 23% 1 salary, or US$ 241,557. equivalent produced, US$ Further details on the OUR REMUNERATION POLICY performance measures, Completion of new projects 25% 19% 1 targets and actual outcomes on time and within budget are provided on page 100.
Target, % of base salary 2 Health and safety 25% 0% Total achievement before penalty factor 100% 79% Penalty factor for fatal severe cases Up to 50% of -24% 4-year vesting based on Performance -30% of actual bonus earned for 150% relative TSR against Shares Share Plan non-safety related bonus earned FTSE Gold Mining Index KPIs 10% for each fatality two severe 1-year holding period cases up to 37.5% of total bonus 50% subject to 1 3 Shares 1 3 Shares 1 3 Shares Total 100% 55% 3-year deferral 100% Annual bonus Cash PSP VESTING AND SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE 2018 will be the first year of Total shareholder return potential Performance % Base Share Plan PSP vesting, 100% 160 subject to the share price 140 performance against global 120 100 peer group over the 80 performance period.
Further 60 Year 40 details on PSP are provided 0 1 2 3 4 5 20 on page 108.
Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Polymetal FTSE Gold Mines SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION The graph opposite sets Group CEO out total remuneration for 1 the Group CEO for 2017.
CEO 2018 proposed base salary vs market benchmark CEO pay vs TSR performance Further details are provided US$ thousands Base salary Total Annual bonus Pension on page 106.
1,400 800 40% US$426,991 US$726,928 US$241,557 US$58,380 1,225 700 30% 600 30% 1,050 500 875 44% of maximum 400 20% 700 bonus 20% 300 525 55% of base 435 200 10% salary 350 100 175 5% 2015 2016 2017 Median Upper Quartile Median Upper Quartile Polymetal 1 Benchmarking performed by PwC in July 2016 Total CEO pay, US$thousands TSR performance POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 96 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 97 1-year post-vest holding STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Summary table The Committee received shareholder approval of the following Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 16 May 2017.
The new policy covers a period of three years from the date of approval up to May 2020.
Element and purpose Performance metrics used Element and purpose Performance metrics used link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable Executive Director Group CEO Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Base salary The Committee reviews base salary In accordance with the policy, the Not applicable.
Deferred Share 50% of the annual bonus earned is Not applicable.
Entitlement to this deferred To attract and on an annual basis, taking into Group CEOs salary increased in Awards plan DSA paid in cash and the remaining 50% component is subject to retain high-calibre account general economic and Roubles by 25% from 1 April 2017, Deferral to encourage is compulsorily deferred into shares, continued employment over executives.
market conditions, underlying Group and may increase by up to 10 retention and alignment which are released annually to the the deferral period.
performance, the level of increases percentage points above the with shareholders.
employee over the next three years in In normal circumstances, DSAs made across the Group as a whole, Russian domestic inflation rate in equal instalments.
will continue until the normal the remuneration of executives in 2018 and 2019. time of vesting upon cessation Clawback and malus provisions apply similar positions in FTSE and global The Committee will carefully review of employment due to death, for the unvested portion of the DSA: the mining peers, and individual whether these increases remains injury, ill-health, disability, Remuneration Committee may, at any performance when setting base appropriate in 2018 and 2019 based redundancy, retirement, or any time up to and including vesting, salary for the following year.
on the market conditions, exchange other circumstance which the reduce the number of shares that vest, rates and the Companys results or Committee determines Good should it consider that a material other relevant considerations, and Leaver Circumstances.
misstatement, misconduct and or a suspend if they are not justified.
Alternatively, the Board may failure of risk management occurs.
determine that DSAs will vest The annual base salary for the Dividend equivalents will be received on immediately.
In both reporting year and the current year vested shares, reflecting the value of circumstances there would be is set out in the Annual Report on dividends which have been paid during no pro-rating of the DSAs for Remuneration and page 108. the period from the grant date to the the time from the award date vesting date.
Pension The Group does not fund any Does not exceed the mandatory Not applicable.
until cessation of employment To provide funding pension contributions or retirement contribution made to the pension or for performance.
benefits, except contributions to the fund of the Russian Federation.
No performance conditions mandatory pension fund of the Currently 10% of total pay.
apply to the DSA shares as Russian Federation, as required they have been subject to by Russian law.
The Group pays defined contributions to the mandatory Performance Share Under the PSP, annual rolling Maximum grant permitted under Vesting is based on relative pension fund.
This permits retiring Plan PSP conditional share awards are made the plan rules is 200% of salary.
TSR, measured against the employees to receive a defined To provide long-term with a four-year vesting period and an constituents of the FTSE Gold Default grant level is expected monthly pension for life from the alignment with additional mandatory holding period Mines Index and also on the to be 150% of base salary.
shareholders interests of one year following vesting.
Threshold vesting is equivalent by delivering sustainable Peers are ranked and the Benefits The Group does not provide any Not applicable.
Stretching performance targets reward to 20% of the award.
above-market Companys position benefits for its Group CEO.
participants for delivering positive shareholder returns.
Dividend equivalents will be determines vesting: absolute and superior relative TSR received on vested shares, Annual bonus The annual bonus result is Maximum bonus opportunity The annual bonus is earned based performance against global peers over 0% vests for below reflecting the value of dividends, To focus on achieving determined by the Committee after 125% of base salary.
on the achievement of a mix of the performance period.
median performance: which have been paid during the annual performance the year end, based on performance financial and non-financial measures.
20% vests at median Target bonus opportunity Clawback and malus provisions apply period from the grant date to the goals, which are against defined targets.
For 2017, performance metrics and performance: 100% of base salary.
for the unvested portion of the PSP, vesting date.
based on the associated weightings for each were: Annual bonuses are paid three whereby the Remuneration Committee 100% vests at top decile Threshold nil annual bonus for Groups KPIs production 25% : months after the end of the financial may, at any time up to and including performance and above.
year to which they relate.
total cash costs 25% : vesting, reduce the number of shares Vesting occurs on a linear line that vest, should it consider that a completion of new projects on basis between median and top 50% of the annual bonus earned is material misstatement, misconduct, time and within budget 25% : and decile performance.
paid in cash and the remaining 50% and or a failure of risk is compulsorily deferred into shares, health and safety 25%.
No award will vest if absolute management occur.
which are released annually to the TSR is negative, regardless of There is an additional penalty factor employee over the next three years in Retesting of the performance relative performance.
for fatal severe cases for up to 50% equal instalments through the conditions in future years is not of the annual bonus earned for The Committee may substitute, Deferred Share Awards plan.
No allowed under any circumstances.
vary or waive the performance clawback is applied to the cash part targets if an event occurs The Committee has discretion to First grant under the PSP was made of the annual bonus, as this provision which causes the Committee vary the list and weighting in April 2014: first normal vesting would contradict the labour law of to consider that the target is no performance metrics over the life of April 2018, subject to performance the Russian Federation.
In addition, conditions being met.
Details of the DSA are set out the Committee has discretion to vary The Committee has discretion on the next page.
performance metrics part-way to vary the proportion of through a performance year if there awards that vest to ensure that is a significant event which causes the outcomes are fair and the Committee to believe that the appropriate and reflect the original performance metrics underlying financial are no longer appropriate.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 98 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 99 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Notes to the policy table Element and purpose Performance metrics used Performance measures and targets link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable The Committee selected the performance conditions indicated in the policy table because they are central to the Companys overall strategy, Minimum shareholding The Group CEO is required to build 500% of base salary for the Not applicable.
and include the key metrics used under the annual bonus and LTIP by the Group CEO to oversee the operation of the business.
requirements a minimum shareholding over a Group CEO.
Performance targets for all incentive plans are reviewed annually and, where appropriate, are typically set at a level that is in line with the To strengthen alignment four-year period.
between interests of Unvested shares under the PSP or executive Directors and DSA are not taken into account when those of shareholders.
The Long-Term Incentive Plan calculating progress towards the Following shareholder approval at the AGM in June 2013, the Companys LTIP as amended was put in place.
The key terms of the LTIP minimum shareholding requirements.
are described in the Remuneration Policy table above.
For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been The Board believes that the LTIP ensures continued alignment of the executive teams performance with shareholder interests and rewards met, share price is measured at the superior long-term performance and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board also believes that the LTIP is in line with UK end of each financial year.
best practice and follows fully the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other relevant guidelines, while also containing Post vesting and tax, all shares acquired features which are superior to common practice in the UK, such as a positive TSR underpinning for vesting of the PSP.
under PSP and DSA awards must be retained until the shareholding Remuneration policy for other employees requirement is met.
The Remuneration Policy for other members of the executive team and broader management team within the Group is consistent in both structure and KPIs to that of the Group CEO.
While the value of remuneration will vary throughout the Group, depending upon the individuals role, significance to the business and level of responsibility, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of a base salary, an annual Non-executive Directors bonus and participation in the LTIP the PSP and DSA.
Fees for non-executive The fees of independent non-executive Fees are reviewed, but not Not applicable.
Directors Directors are set by reference to those necessarily increased on Employees up to three levels below the Board approximately 400 employees throughout the Group participate in the PSP at the discretion To attract and paid by other FTSE peer companies.
The PSP policy default grant level is 150% of base salary for the Group CEO, 100% for Executive retain high-calibre Committee members and 50-100% for employees at the level below the Executive Committee.
Fees are set to reflect the Any increase in non-executive non-executive Directors.
responsibilities and time spent by Directors fees will normally be in Shareholding requirements are also set below the Board level.
Operation of the DSA program for the most senior employees mirrors the non-executive Directors on the affairs line with UK inflation and market executive Directors arrangement set out for in the policy table, where 50% of the annual bonus is deferred into shares and released annually of the Company.
levels for similar roles in UK-listed to the employees over a period of three years.
companies, except where a No fees are paid to non-independent, change in the scope of the role non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration Policy for the wider group of employees is aimed at aligning pay with the achievement of targeted results for each occurs.
Current fee levels are Non-executive Directors are not employee.
The Companys policy on fair pay provides for the payment of additional remuneration for employees living in difficult climatic set out in the Annual Report eligible to receive benefits and do locations and the delivery of appropriate levels of pay for different levels of work.
The bonus component of remuneration for mid-level on Remuneration.
not participate in incentive or management and operational staff is measured based on the achievement of production targets, increasing output, the level of justified cost pension plans.
savings and health and safety records.
In terms of pension arrangements, the Company applies a consistent approach for the Group CEO and other employees and adheres to the mandatory pension contributions required under applicable laws.
The following fees are paid in addition to the non-executive Director base fee: Salaries are considered for annual increases based on the Companys performance results, inflation rates and the competitive level of Committee Chairmanship fee: salaries versus the wider market.
Committee membership fee: and Board, Committee and General Top-down approach to remuneration structure within the Group Shareholder Meeting attendance fee.
The Remuneration Committee Maximum Proportion of determines the framework and No.
bonus percentage bonus deferred Normal LTIP broad policy for the remuneration Employee level of employees of salary into shares DSA award grant of the Chairman.
1 Group CEO 1 125% 50% 150% The remuneration of non-executive Executive Committee 7 100% 50% 100% Directors is a matter for the Chairman of the Board and the executive Mine managing directors and other C-level executives 15 100% 50% 100% members of the Board, i. e. 2 Senior managers and key personnel 650 30-60% n a 50-100% the Group CEO.
Other employees 11,350 10-30% n a n a Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own fees.
1 The maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary.
2 LTIP participants from the pool of senior managers and key personnel are recommended by the Company and approved by the Board.
Being granted options in one year does not necessarily mean they will be granted the following year.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 100 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Illustration of application of remuneration policy Approach to recruitment remuneration The composition and structure of the remuneration package for the Group CEO under three performance scenarios maximum performance, The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive overall package, as appropriate, to attract and motivate target performance and minimum performance is set out in the chart below.
the right talent for the role.
If an executive is promoted to the Board from within the Company, any pre-existing awards or benefits that were made available to him or her prior to becoming a Director and not in anticipation of an imminent promotion to the Board will be retained This chart shows that the proportion of remuneration delivered through short-term and long-term incentive schemes is in line with our and allowed to vest or be provided under the original terms.
Remuneration Policy and changes significantly across the three performance scenarios.
As such, the package promotes the achievement of both short-term and long-term performance targets and drives the alignment of the Group CEOs interests with the interests of shareholders.
The following table sets out the various components, which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, be set at a level consistent with the scope of the role at a level not exceeding that of the Group CEO as set out in the Remuneration Policy table, Application of remuneration policy and be subject to the same constraints as those of existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below.
Maximum Area Policy and operation 29 32 39 Total: $1.7m Base salary The base salary level will be set by taking into account the experience of the individual and the salaries paid and benefits in comparable co mpanies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment, the Committee Target may choose to set the base salary below market median and increase the amount paid over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the 47 41 12 Total: $1.1m individual, subject to the Companys ability to pay.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table, no benefits will be provided to recruited Directors.
Minimum Pension Pension contributions will be limited to the mandatory contributions required by Cypriot Russian Kazakh Total: $0.5m 100 Armenian or any other applicable law, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 Annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual opportunity is 125% of base salary.
50% of any bonus is deferred into shares under the DSA, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
Note: Scenario values are translated at the budgeted exchange rate of 60 RUB US$.
Long-term incentives The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the PSP part of LTIP at the Remuneration Committees The scenarios are defined as follows: discretion and in line with the details set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
The maximum annual grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary and the normal grant level is up to 150% of Minimum Target Maximum base salary.
Performance measures would apply, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy table.
Fixed elements Base salary and pension Base salary and pension Base salary and pension Replacement awards The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or timing than the awards to be forfeited as a consequence of the individual joining the Single year variable Performance against quantitative Performance against quantitative Performance against quantitative Company.
In determining the quantum and structure of any replacement awards, the Committee will seek KPIs is below budget by more KPIs is at budgeted levels.
Full KPIs is above budgeted levels.
to replicate the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of the than 10%.
Non-achievement of achievement of non-financial KPIs.
Full achievement of non-financial forfeited remuneration.
The maximum value of replacement awards is capped at 50% of the individuals qualitative or non-financial KPIs.
100% of base salary pay-out KPIs.
125% of base salary pay-out base salary, and at least 50% of any replacement award should be delivered in the Companys shares.
Other Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support may include, but not be limited, to payment Multiple year variable Share price performance Scenario is based on 150% policy Share price performance is in of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution to stamp duty and is below the median of FTSE awards.
Share price performance the top decile of FTSE Gold replacement of non-transferable household items.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Gold Mines Index constituents.
is at median of FTSE Gold Mines Mines Index constituents.
Shares equivalent to 150% of base salary Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and the provision of equivalent to 30% of base salary vest under the PSP 100% of total tax advice.
The Company will reimburse the executive Director for all reasonable expenses, which he she vest under the PSP 20% of total shares available.
may incur while carrying out executive duties.
No allowance has been made for share price appreciation or for the payment of dividend equivalents.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 102 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Policy on payment for loss of office Current directors service contracts The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take into account individual circumstances, Group CEO including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties and applicable share plan and pension scheme rules The table below highlights key elements of the service contract of the Group CEO with JSC Polymetal, the Russian holding company including any relevant performance conditions.
of the Group where he holds the CEO position: Vitaly Nesis is an executive Director of Polymetal International plc and Group CEO of JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the Group, Date of contract 1 September 2013 incorporated in Russia.
Further details are set out in the current Directors service contracts section on page 105.
1 Expiry of term 31 August 2018 The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director policy on payment for loss of office.
Payment in lieu of notice None Pension None, except for defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation Area Policy and operation 1 Employment contract expected to be renewed on the same terms for a further period of five years.
Notice period Polymetal International JSC Polymetal 6 months from Company With immediate effect from Company Following the expiry of the previous five-year employment contract, on 23 August 2013, JSC Polymetal, a 100% indirect subsidiary of the 6 months from Director 1 month from Director Company incorporated in Russia, entered into an employment contract with Mr Nesis as its Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO.
The contract became effective on 1 September 2013.
The contract was entered into for a period of five years and expires on 31 August 2018.
Compensation for No entitlement in respect of directorship of Polymetal International.
loss of office in Up to three times average monthly salary in respect of directorship of JSC Polymetal in accordance with Under the terms of the contract, the Group CEO undertakes to perform general management of JSC Polymetal and arrange for its service contracts provisions of the labour law of the Russian Federation.
commercial, economic, social and other activities with a view to providing for JSC Polymetals further development.
The employment contract does not contain any specific grounds for early termination.
The contract can be terminated at any time on one months notice Treatment of annual Where an executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of the performance year, but before by Mr Nesis and with immediate effect by JSC Polymetal in accordance with Russian labour and civil law.
This could result in compensation bonus awards the payment of the annual bonus is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that of three average monthly salaries.
performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an executive Director s employment is terminated during Mr Nesis entered into an appointment letter as amended with the Company in relation to his appointment as an Executive Director.
a performance year, a pro-rated annual bonus award for the period worked in that performance year may be This appointment took effect on 29 September 2011 and was conditional on admission of shares to trading on the London Stock Exchange: payable, subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Mr Nesis is subject to annual re-election.
Mr Nesis does not receive any fees in respect of his appointment as a Director of Polymetal International plc but is entitled to reimbursement of his reasonable expenses incurred in relation to carrying out his duties as a Director.
Treatment of unvested In normal circumstances, DSAs will continue until the normal time of vesting upon cessation of employment The appointment of Mr Nesis as a Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Mr Nesis can Deferred Share Awards in Good Leaver Circumstances.
Alternatively, the Board may determine that DSAs will vest immediately.
In both terminate his appointment as a Director on six months notice.
He is not entitled to receive any compensation in respect of his role as under plan rules circumstances there would be no pro-rating of the DSAs for time from the award date until cessation of Director on termination of this appointment.
The full terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Jersey and its office in Cyprus.
Treatment of unvested Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Group, unless the cessation is due to Performance Share Good Leaver Circumstances, in which case the award will usually vest as normal in accordance with the terms Plan awards under of the award.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately.
Non-executive Directors plan rules The Committee will determine the proportion of the award that will vest, taking into account where relevant the Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Rather, the terms of their appointment are set out in letters of appointment.
The appointment of each of the non-executive Directors took effect from admission until the next AGM of the Company, subject to annual extent to which the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the end of the performance period, and any other factors the Committee may consider relevant.
The appointment of any non-executive Director may be terminated at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
A non-executive Director is not Exercise of discretion Any discretion available in determining the treatment of incentives upon termination of employment is intended entitled to receive any compensation on termination of his or her appointment.
Each non-executive Director is subject to confidentiality only to be relied upon to provide flexibility in unusual circumstances.
The Committees determination will take restrictions without limitation in time.
into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Group.
The full terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Corporate event In relation to PSP awards, in the event that the Companys shares cease to trade on the London Stock Jersey and its office in Cyprus.
Exchange or any other recognised stock exchange Delisting or the Directors of the Company pass a resolution to the effect that Delisting is imminent or where the Board determines that a significant event Dates of contract or appointment for non-executive Directors are set out in the table below: has occurred, which may be a demerger, winding-up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, or any other event as determined by the Board, at the discretion of the Board and, where applicable, with the Director Date of contract or appointment Notice period consent of the acquiring company, PSP awards will not vest but will be exchanged for new PSP awards.
Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 1 month In the event that the PSP awards are exchanged for new PSP awards: Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 1 month The award date of the new PSP award shall be deemed to be the same as the award date of the Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 month original PSP award.
Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 1 month The new PSP award will be in respect of shares in a company determined by the Board which may include any acquiring company.
Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 1 month The new PSP award must be equivalent to the PSP award and will vest at the same time and in the Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 1 month same manner as the PSP award.
Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 1 month Where relevant, either the vesting of the new PSP award must be subject to any performance conditions Christine Coignard 1 July 2014 1 month which are, so far as possible, equivalent to any conditions applying to the PSP award, or no performance 2 1 January 2018 1 month conditions will apply but the value of shares comprised in the new PSP award shall be the value of the Tracey Kerr 2 number of shares which would have vested under the PSP award if they had not been exchanged for Giacomo Baizini 1 January 2018 1 month new PSP awards.
2 Ms Kerr and Mr Baizini were appointed by the Board with effect from 1 January 2018 as independent non-executive Directors.
They are subject to election at the 2018 AGM.
DSAs shall vest immediately and shall not be pro-rated for time or performance if any of the events referred to above occur.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 104 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 105 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Statement of consideration of shareholders views Single total figure of remuneration Summary The Company received shareholder approval of its Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 16 May 2017 to cover a period of three years The tables below set out the total 2017 remuneration for the Group CEO.
In accordance with the revised Remuneration Policy and to bring 99.10% of votes in favour.
The policy applies from the date of approval.
The Directors annual Remuneration Report was put to an advisory the salary of the Group CEOs in Roubles closer to the industry level, 25% increase was made in 2017 to his base salary.
As a result of the shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM of the Company and received 99.63% vote.
The Committee regularly consults with the Companys major strong performance of the Company and achieving the set KPIs other than health and safety performance, the Group CEO received a shareholders, and sought their feedback on the revised Remuneration Policy.
bonus of 44% of maximum opportunity for the year which constitutes 55% of his base salary or US$ 241,557, with 50% of bonus deferred into shares vesting over a period of next three years under the terms of the DSA.
19,638 total shares vested in 2017 under the DSA.
In addition, under the PSP, a conditional award of 47,249 ordinary shares with no par value was made to Mr Nesis in 2017, Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the group making the total number of options outstanding under the PSP 236,087.
In determining salary increases for the Group CEO, the Committee takes into account a range of factors, including overall base salary increases awarded to the wider employee population during the year.
Single total figure of remuneration Additional information Audited Polymetal is firmly committed to acknowledging and rewarding employees hard work and achievements.
To help us attract and retain Annual bonus targets and outcomes the best candidates, we offer competitive remuneration package and benefits which exceed regional averages in our areas of operation.
The targets for annual bonus measures and performance against these targets are set out below: We also aim to provide a pleasant and effective working environment as well as training or further education and other opportunities to our employees.
In 2017, 10% average compensation increase for the general workforce was made: in accordance with the new payment policy 2017 approved by the shareholders and to bring the salary of the Group CEOs closer to the industry level, a 25% increase was made to the Group Measures Weight Threshold Target Maximum Outcome Achievement CEOs base salary in Roubles.
Hence, the average compensation increase for the general workforce in 2011-2017 has been equivalent to Achieving production budget, Koz 25% 1,225 1,362 1,430 1,434 38% 16% per annum in Rouble terms, compared with an average base salary increase of 10% per annum in Rouble terms for the Group CEO.
Total cash cost per ounce of gold 25% 718 653 620 658 23% For 2018, in line with Russian inflation, a 2.5% increase for all employees was approved by the Committee.
The Committee also carefully equivalent produced, US$ oz reviewed whether an increase to the Group CEO in excess of 2.5% was appropriate in accordance with the policy, however, considering the favourable economic environment in Russia and strengthening of the Russian Rouble throughout 2017, no additional increase to the Group Completion of new projects 25% 1 point 10 points 10 points 7.5 points 19% CEO was recommended.
on time and within budget Health and safety 25% Nil fatalities: Nil fatalities: NA 2 fatalities 0% Annual report on remuneration reduction of reduction of and LTIFR by 10% LTIFR by 10% 2 severe Application of remuneration policy in 2017 y-o-y y-o-y cases Single total figure of remuneration audited information US Dollars Total achievement before penalty factor 100% 79% No discretion has been used in respect of non-executive and executive Directors remuneration throughout the reporting period.
Our Group Penalty factor for fatal severe cases Up to 50% of NA NA NA 2 fatalities -24% CEO is the only executive member of the Board.
The table below sets out 2017 remuneration for the Group CEO.
bonus earned and -30% of for non-safety 2 severe actual The Group CEOs remuneration is denominated in Russian Roubles and converted to US Dollars for presentation purposes.
The approach to related KPIs cases bonus exchange rates and Russian Rouble remuneration equivalent is set out in footnote 1 to this table.
10% for each earned fatality two Performance severe cases Base Taxable Annual Share Plan 2 up to 37.5% of salary benefits bonus PSP Pension Total total bonus 1 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Final achievement for the year 55% 426,991 303,289 241,557 152,329 58,380 40,792 726,928 496,410 Penalty factor for fatal severe cases is up to 50% of the annual bonus earned for non-safety related KPIs.
This resulted in the Group CEO Note: The amounts are translated at the average rates of the Russian Rouble to the US Dollar for 2016 and 2017, respectively.
1 50% of the bonus received in 2017 will be deferred into 10,261 shares on 15 March 2018 at USD 11.8 RUB 687 per share using average price for the 90-day period ending receiving a bonus of 44% of maximum opportunity for the year which constitutes 55% of his base salary or US$ 241,557.
In line with policy disclosed on page 97, deferred shares will be released in equal tranches over a period of three years in March 2019, March 2020 and March 2021 and are not subject to further performance conditions.
2 Deferred Share Awards Plan No PSP awards vested or exercised in the year.
In accordance with the DSA, part of the award of shares under the DSA, which were granted in March 2014, March 2015 and March 2016, vested on 15 March 2017 and were transferred to the Group CEO.
In addition, further to the bonus approval for the year ended 31 December Details of total fees paid to non-executive Directors and the Chairman during 2017 and 2016 are set out in the table below: 2017, the Group CEO will receive on 15 March 2018 a deferred bonus award in shares under the terms of the DSA as per the schedule below.
Share awards will vest annually over the next three years in equal instalments in March 2019, 2020 and 2021.
Under the terms Total fees US$ of the DSA, dividend equivalents will be received on vested shares reflecting the value of the dividends, which have been paid during the 2017 2016 period from the grant date to the vesting date.
Dividend equivalents will also be paid as shares.
Bobby Godsell 374,203 388,666 Number Jonathan Best 222,057 226,709 of DSA Additional Total number Russell Skirrow 196,370 199,827 Number shares share awards of shares Outstanding of deferred DSA vested in for dividend vested under shares Leonard Homeniuk 180,648 191,650 Name Position Year of grant shares granted 2017 equivalents DSA grant under DSA grant Christine Coignard 223,271 232,515 Vitaly Nesis Director 2014 30,081 10,027 1,983 32,064 Konstantin Yanakov 2015 22,178 7,393 2,064 15,937 8,305 Marina Grnberg 2016 6,656 2,219 202 2,290 4,568 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 2017 7,909 69 7,978 Total non-executive fees 1,196,549 1,239,367 Total 66,824 19,639 4,318 50,291 20,851 Note: The amounts for 2017 and 2016 are translated at average GBP US$ exchange rates.
Non-executive Directors do not receive performance-related pay.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 106 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 107 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Performance Share Plan Percentage change in Group CEOs remuneration Under the PSP, a conditional award of 47,249 ordinary shares with no par value was made to Mr Nesis in 2017, making the total number Excluding the value of long-term incentives, the percentage change in total remuneration for the Group CEO was a 46% increase from of options outstanding under the PSP 236,087.
It is exercisable following respective four-year vesting periods, subject to performance US$$496,411 in 2016 to US$726,928 in 2017 following 25% base salary increase effective from 1 April 2017.
It was also positively measures determined by Polymetal.
For this award, vesting is based on relative TSR, measured against the constituents of the FTSE Gold affected by 15% appreciation of Russian Rouble against US Dollar.
The average percentage change in total remuneration for all employees Mines Index and also on the Companys absolute TSR.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines vesting 0% vests for in US Dollar terms in the same year was a 33% increase mainly driven by Rouble appreciation and general increase in workforce.
below median performance: 20% vests at median performance: 100% vests at top decile performance and above.
No award will vest if To ensure the comparability of this figure, and to minimise distortions, the all-employee remuneration figure is based on full-time absolute TSR is negative, regardless of relative performance.
Number of Number of Relative importance of spend on pay Year of PSP share PSP shares Total number Outstanding grant Year awards vested of PSP shares shares under The chart below shows how employee remuneration costs compare with profit before tax and distributions made to shareholders in Name Position of vesting granted in 2017 vested PSP grant 2017 and 2016.
Vitaly Nesis Director 2014 2018 74,165 74,165 Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 2015 2019 66,166 66,166 In 2018, the Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy for executive and non-executive Directors as follows: 2016 2020 48,507 48,507 2017 2021 47,249 47,249 GROUP CEO Total number of options outstanding under the PSP 236,087 236,087 Base salary In accordance with the policy and following careful consideration by the Committee, the Group CEOs salary will be increased in Roubles Other scheme interests awarded during the financial year by a total of 2.5% in 2018 in line with the rest of the workforce.
Base salary for the Group CEO for 2017 and 2018 is set out below: No other share awards were made to the Group CEO in 2017.
1 1 2018 salary 2017 salary % change Total pension entitlements Group CEO RUB 26,079,690 RUB 25,443,600 2.5% Save for the Groups defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation during the financial year ended 31 December 2017, no amounts were set aside or accrued by the Group to provide pension, retirement or other benefits to the US$ 434,662 US$ 424,060 2.5% Directors and senior management.
1 Base salary for 2018 is translated at the budgeted exchange rate of Rouble to US Dollar for 2018.
Loss of office payments or payments to past directors The Committee also carefully reviewed whether an increase in excess of 2.5% for the Group CEO was appropriate as per the policy.
No loss of office payments or payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
However, considering the favourable economic environment in Russia and reasonably stable RUB US$ exchange rate throughout 2017 58.3 RUB US$ average rate, 15% decrease compared to 2016, no additional increase was recommended.
Directors shareholdings The Group CEO is required to retain a shareholding equal to five times his base salary, i. e 182,275 shares.
The Committee will review whether a further above-inflation increase remains appropriate in 2019 based on the market conditions, exchange rates and the Companys results or other relevant considerations.
For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been met, the share price is measured at the end of each financial year.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price of US$12.42 per share at 31 December 2017 translated at the closing exchange Pension and benefits rate of the US Dollar to the Russian Rouble as at 31 December 2017.
No pension or benefits plans are in place for 2018, except for the defined pension contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the Russian Federation.
Shares that count towards shareholding requirements include unrestricted shares.
The table below sets out the number of shares held, or potentially held, by Directors.
For details of outstanding conditional share awards held by the Group CEO at 31 December 2017, Annual bonus refer to page 105.
The prospective targets for annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Board, particularly in the gold mining industry, because of the sensitivity of information that their disclosure may provide to the Companys competitors, given that these are largely Shares held Options held based outside the UK and hence are not subject to the same reporting requirements as the Company.
Targets and outcomes will be Shareholding Subject to Current disclosed retrospectively at the end of the performance year.
requirement Owned performance Vested but Exercised shareholding Guideline Director % of salary outright conditions unexercised in year %salary met Vitaly Nesis 500% 3,200,709 8,780% yes 1 Leonard Homeniuk 64,000 NA Bobby Godsell 2,000 NA 2 Marina Grnberg 23,400 NA 1 Shares are held by a Person Closely Associated with Mr Homeniuk.
Relative importance of employee pay 2 Shares are held by Ms Grnberg and a Person Closely Associated with her.
US$m Performance graph The graph on page 97 illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment 33% 4% -1% companies, of which the Company is a constituent, from the date of the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in October 2011.
382 189 376 363 65 To provide context to the Companys performance in its specific sector of operation, we also provide an illustration of the Companys TSR Special relative to the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index.
dividends 273 116 Group CEOs pay in the last five years Regular dividends US$ 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Group CEO total remuneration 726,928 496,411 511,665 907,790 1,081,572 Annual bonus % of maximum 44% 40% 33% 90% 88% Total employee Return to Underlying profit PSP award % of maximum pay shareholders before tax 2016 2017 POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 108 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 109 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES REMUNERATION REPORT Long-term Incentive Plan Deferred Share Awards Plan and Performance Share Plan Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration Deferred Share Awards Plan In 2017, the Remuneration Committee had four meetings.
Further business conducted by the Committee was approved by written The Committee intends to defer annual bonus awards earned for the 2018 performance period in line with policy.
The following key areas were covered: Performance Share Plan KPI structure review with particular focus on the choice and applicability of a sustainability KPI: The Committee intends to make an award under the PSP to the Group CEO in 2018, in line with the policy disclosed on page 97.
Vesting is review of KPIs for 2017: based on relative TSR measured against the constituents of the FTSE Gold Mines Index and on the Companys absolute TSR.
Peers are approval of annual bonus and share deferral under the DSA: ranked and the Companys position determines vesting: approval of PSP grant including target levels and results of the previous grants : TSR vs. FTSE Gold Miners Pay-out gender equality in pay: Below threshold Below median performance 0% comprehensive  review, including feedback from the senior management: Threshold Median performance 20% terms of reference review: Maximum Upper decile performance 100% annual reimbursement policy review: Straight-line vesting will occur between median and upper decile performance.
No award will vest for performance below median, or if the annual Remuneration Report review: Companys absolute TSR performance is negative, regardless of relative performance.
review peers disclosure of targets in remuneration reports: Non-executive Directors target KPI disclosure: There was no change to the non-executive Directors fees in 2017.
Fee rates for 2017 and 2018 are set out below: review of regulatory changes and development of the Directors remuneration reporting: and Role 2018 fees US$ 2017 fees US$ monitoring of market practice and changes in investors expectations.
Non-executive Chairman 337,125 337, 125 The Board considers that the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee complies with the requirements of the UK Code.
Senior Independent Director No additional fee No additional fee Independent non-executive Director basic fee 134,850 134,850 In 2017, the Committee performed its comprehensive effectiveness review.
It was based on an internally developed questionnaire, taking into account on the one hand external factors including our Group regulatory environment, applicable governance as well as internationally Additional fees acknowledged best practice, and on the other hand internal factors relating to Group matters including the Remuneration Policy and its Audit and Risk Committee Chair 40,455 40,455 application together with Committees terms of reference, yearly agenda, ways of working and output.
Both Remuneration Committee Chair of other Committees 20,228 20,228 directors and senior management involved in remuneration matters took part in the exercise.
Committee membership fee not payable to the Committee Chair 13,485 13,485 The review was a good opportunity to reflect on the Committees work and have an open discussion about areas for improvement.
Board and Committee meeting attendance fee 4,046 per meeting 4,046 per meeting The outcome was positive, particularly in relation to shareholder votes and good working relationships with the Board and the Group CEO.
The Committees remits, ways of working and priorities were clarified.
Note: Non-executive Director fees are denominated in British Pounds Sterling and for presentation purposes the figures are translated to US Dollars at the exchange rate of British Pound to the US Dollar as at 31 December 2017.
Statement of voting at AGM Remuneration Committee At the AGM held on 16 May 2017, votes for the Remuneration report and Remuneration policy were as follows: The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent non-executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder where applicable, in the matters to be decided.
Mr Homeniuk will not be offering himself for re-election at the 2018 AGM of the Votes for Votes against Withheld Company.
Mr Oliveira will become a member of the Committee subject to him being elected as a director of the Company at the 2018 AGM.
Remuneration Report 296,298,722 99.63% 1,101,272 0.37% 0 The membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
Remuneration Policy 294,388,477 99.10% 2,675,792 0.90% 335,724 Name Role Advisors Christine Coignard Chair  LLP PwC provided Polymetal with information and support in relation to the general remuneration matters and Leonard Homeniuk Member implementation of the Companys remuneration policy.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG and a signatory of the RCG Voluntary Code of Practice, and incorporates the principles of the Voluntary Code of Practice into its engagement.
No other Jonathan Best Member services were provided by PwC during 2017 other than external assurance services for the Companys Sustainability report and tax Giacomo Baizini Member advisory.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2017 totalled US$16,654 2016: US$13,875, with fees quoted in advance and based on the level of complexity of the work undertaken.
The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee under its terms of reference are: PwC was selected in 2013, after submitting a proposal to management, to carry out benchmarking as part of a competitive process, to make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive management: the results of which were presented to the Remuneration Committee for approval.
to determine, within agreed terms of reference, the remuneration of the Chairman and specific remuneration packages for each of During its work in 2017, the Committee was aided by the Group CEO, and senior finance and human resources executives of the Company.
the executive Director, the Company Secretary and members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments: Approval to formulate suitable performance criteria for the performance-based pay of executive management: This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by to review and oversee all aspects of any executive share scheme operated by or to be established by the Company: and to oversee and advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or the Group.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance section on the Companys website: www.
Christine Coignard In 2017, the Financial Reporting Council the FRC announced plans for a comprehensive review of the UK Corporate Governance Chair, Remuneration Committee Code, which is expected to include changes relating to remuneration matters.
The Committee will closely monitor the development and implement any changes if required.
POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC 110 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 111
