CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY A safe, ethical and responsive business To achieve sustained commercial In 2017, we continued to report in Understanding what matters success, it is essential for Petrofac to accordance with the Global Reporting most to our stakeholders have a strong commitment to corporate Initiative GRI G4 core guidelines, We work with a number of CR advisors to responsibility CR.
We remain acutely and introduced several new understand the issues that are of most aware of the changing political, social performance indicators.
interest to our stakeholders including clients, and economic environment, and we suppliers, NGOs, government representatives, We also improved our CR reporting at see that our CR capability has a direct employees and industry associations.
com with the publication impact on our ability to: of more of our policy statements.
In 2017, we continued this process via formal discussions with a range of our Deliver sustainable value to Enhancing our compliance senior managers.
Based on this programme our stakeholders To be effective, our CR policies and of engagement, we produce a materiality standards must be clearly understood Maintain strong employee engagement matrix opposite, which sets out the CR and actively implemented.
During 2017 issues that are important to our stakeholders Bid for challenging projects we therefore extended our CR awareness and have the potential to impact our programmes and enhanced our Optimise the performance of our assets business.
This matrix is updated annually compliance processes.
to reflect feedback from both internal and Operate safe and secure projects Supporting local suppliers external stakeholders, taking account of Manage our risks and contractors changing attitudes and priorities.
It is used One thing that sets Petrofac apart is to inform our approach to CR and guide During 2017, we continued to formalise the extent to which we work with and the quality of our CR programmes.
our approach to CR, with several new support local suppliers and nurture local initiatives, greater rigour, and improved The remainder of this section of the report supply chains.
Importantly, these partners reporting standards.
is structured around many of the topics are expected to abide by all of our CR highlighted in the matrix.
They are therefore covered Raising our reporting standards by many of our related awareness and The better we measure our CR performance, compliance programmes.
the better we can manage it.
4 46 6 P Pet etr rof ofa ac c A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Strategic report 22 Zero 0.05 Awards in recognition of Fatal accidents Recordable HSSEIA and worker welfare incident rate To be successful in the long term, it is vital for any business to take a disciplined approach to Corporate Responsibility.
Policies and processes are important.
However, to be effective, they need to be actively managed and monitored.
At Petrofac, the quality of our compliance is just as important as the strength of our commitment.
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive THE PETROFAC MATERIALITY MATRIX AND ISSUES FOR 2017 A6 A3 B1 B4 E3 E6 C4 E4 B2 D1 E1 E2 E5 C3 C5 D2 C1 G3 D3 G7 F2 A1 F1 G6 G4 A5 B3 G8 G5 A4 A2 E7 F3 F4 C2 G1 G2 G9 F5 Low Medium High IMPORTANCE TO PETROFAC A C E G Protecting the environment Governance and ethical Ensuring safety, asset integrity Developing our people business practices and security A1 Biodiversity and habitat protection C1 Trade sanctions E1 Political risk G1 Industrial relations disputes A2 Legacy soil contamination C2 Whistleblowing E2 Worker welfare G2 Disease prevention A3 Energy and climate change C3 Anti-bribery and corruption E3 Contractor safety management G3 Diversity and equality A4 Waste management C4 Ethical conduct E4 Major accidents process safety G4 Employee recruitment A5 Water management C5 Responsible governance E5 Worker safety fatalities G5 Occupational health A6 Environmental E6 Emergency preparedness G6 Wellbeing and stress management E7 Security risks G7 Learning and development G8 Succession and career planning G9 Employee retention See page 61 See page 64 See page 48 See page 51 B D F Generating economic value in-country Respecting human rights across Engaging with local communities our supply chain B1 In-country value D1 Human rights F1 Indigenous populations B2 Revenue and tax transparency D2 Modern slavery F2 Land acquisition and resettlement B3 Joint venture management D3 Labour rights F3 Community investment B4 Supporting local suppliers and F4 Social licence to operate contractors F5 Employee volunteering See page 58 See page 55 See page 53 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 47 IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS Low Medium High CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Petrofac benefits from a strong safety record.
To maintain our performance, we continue ENSURING SAFETY, ASSET to enhance our well-established programme of health, safety, security, environment and INTEGRITY AND SECURITY integrity assurance HSSEIA measures.
We also continue to refine the way we COMMITMENT measure our performance and, during the past year, we launched 16 new global We are committed to protecting our people, our clients and the communities we work HSSEIA standards in key areas such as in, as well as the assets we design, build, operate and maintain.
Our aspiration is for Workers Welfare and Golden Rules zero incidents.
Total man-hours Lost time Recordable incident Across Petrofac, our aspiration is for zero worked by employees injury frequency rate frequency rate safety incidents, and this is encapsulated in and subcontractors per 200,000 man-hours per 200,000 man-hours our vision, Horizon Zero.
We aim to achieve millions of hours zero harm to our people and assets, 239 0.009 0.05 the local communities and environment.
millions of hours per 200,000 per 200,000 man-hours man-hours Safety Reflecting on our safety performance 2017 brought further improvements to an already strong safety record.
For example: 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 Fatalities there were no reportable PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE fatalities at any Petrofac sites in 2017.
Lost time injury frequency rate 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities edged down to 0.009 per 200,000 man-hours, compared to an industry Re-visit the way we learn and We modified our reporting to Continue to strengthen the average of 0.054 as extrapolated share lessons from incidents increase the visibility of high sharing of lessons from incidents potential incidents HiPos and particularly HiPos across from 2016 figures from the promote greater awareness the business International Association of Oil of lessons learned Target the common causes of and Gas Producers, IOGP.
HiPos with action plans to heighten awareness and enhance competency Recordable incident frequency rate especially safe lifting and driving fell to 0.05 per 200,000 man-hours, Complete implementation of We rolled out five Drive Safe Develop further the Driving compared to an industry average of 0.21 our Group-wide driving safety modules covering: Seatbelts, Standard and ensure consistent IOGP, 2016 figures.
Some of the more campaign that was launched Fatigue, Speed, Reversing and implementation across the Group significant achievements include: at the end of 2016 Mobile phone use, across all our sites Britannia and Kittiwake UK offshore assets achieved 14 and 12 year Enhance Control of Work We developed a project Build further in-house across our projects stage-gate review process and HSSEIA capability to support LTI-free milestones respectively enhanced application of Control pre-commissioning and of Work during commissioning commissioning activities Eight years LTI-free at the Jasmine FPSO in the Gulf of Thailand Enhance oversight of We implemented an offshore Enhance the programme integrity management structures survey programme of in-depth integrity reviews ZADCO UZ750 project in the UAE and conducted in-depth integrity across our projects reached more than 58 million reviews of all 23 of our operated man-hours LTI-free offshore structures Improve Group-wide Did you know?
e-learning Strengthen active engagement Kuwait Oil Company presented a engagement on critical programme extended, of Technical Authorities in safety award for achieving 50 million integrity management issues supported by various integrity operations activities safe man-hours awareness initiatives Improve the visibility and reporting of key integrity risks, and embed 53 million man-hours without an LTI into Enterprise Risk programme at the Sohar Refinery Improvement Enhance security on projects We launched new Security Expand Security Focal Point Programme in Oman that do not warrant a dedicated Focal Point training for senior training to include additional In Malaysia we received two awards Security Manager on site site personnel site personnel from PETRONAS for excellence in Align emergency response We restructured our Emergency Update and communicate the Safety, Health & Environment and and crisis management Communications Centre and Group Crisis Management Standard for Integrated Operational & Asset across the Group developed a functionally to reflect 2017 developments integrated ERCM framework Integrity Assurance.
48 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 183 244 239 0.019 0.013 0.009 0.16 0.10 0.05 Strategic report We are still on the journey towards Implementing a new Driving Asset integrity Horizon Zero, but the awards and Safety Policy driving-related incidents Ensuring the integrity of our performance show that we are continue to be one of the biggest risk operating assets heading in the right direction factors for Petrofac.
In 2017, we raised We are committed to designing, and must never be complacent.
the profile of this issue with the creation building and operating assets that are and adoption of a Global Driving Safety safe, reliable and meet or exceed their Hanif Hashim Policy.
This was followed up with the specified purpose.
Petrofac Malaysia General Manager implementation of our Group-wide driving safety campaign.
For more Key to this is our Asset Integrity Framework, In evaluating our safety performance, information on this campaign, see the which enables us to take a structured and we pay particular attention to high potential case study on page 50. consistent approach to integrity across all incidents HiPos that could have resulted Group operations.
As we often operate in a fatality or serious injury had the Listening to the business needs ageing assets, it is particularly important circumstances been slightly different.
and setting the tone from the top for Petrofac to take a rigorous approach In 2017, the rate fell to 0.019 from 0.021 we once again conducted 12 global to asset integrity management.
Despite a reduction in our HiPo HSSEIA Deep Dives at all our key offices.
rate, driving and lifting operations continue The output from these was fed into our In 2017, the Group was responsible for to give rise to the majority of these incidents annual safety conference attended by managing and ensuring the integrity of a accounting for 29% and 41% respectively, our 50 most senior leaders who, together, total of 21 operating assets.
The number so we will further strengthen our established common priorities for the of assets varies throughout the year, as programmes in these areas during 2018. next 12months.
new assets come on stream and others Conducting a series of Group HSSEIA transition out.
We also seek to apply these Strengthening our safety culture audits we commenced a series of asset integrity principles across the wider Our performance can be attributed to integrated Group HSSEIA audits across Group services to clients in support of the strength of the Petrofac safety culture, our offices, project sites and operated their operations.
which was bolstered by several new assets.
In 2017, we set an aggressive initiatives in 2017.
These included: target of 10 audits, all of which were Reflecting on our asset integrity Implementing the new Petrofac successfully completed, with the findings performance Assurance Index the Petrofac Golden reported to senior management, In evaluating our asset integrity Rules of Safety, which have been in place provided to the respective management performance, our main area of focus is for many years, effectively address most teams, and fed back into the HSSEIA managing process safety hazards and safety risks.
The new Petrofac Assurance planning process.
reducing HiPos, or incidents that could Index helps us determine, location-byhave resulted in significant environmental location, whether these Golden Rules Extending our safety commitment or operational issues.
For 2017, five asset are understood and being followed, to our suppliers and partners integrity-related HiPos were recorded as well as identifying opportunities All Petrofac safety policies and procedures on Petrofac operated assets down from for improvement.
apply equally to our suppliers and partners 11 in 2016. as well as our own employees.
In 2017 Increasing the visibility of high we brought more rigour to these Regrettably, during 2017, we experienced a potential incidents by adopting the relationships with a new Contractor number of failures in our pipelines in Mexico Mining the Diamond initiative, we modified HSSEIA Management Standard, which see Protecting the Environment section our HSSEIA reporting processes to bring sets clear expectations covering every for details of the impact.
These were increased visibility to HiPos.
By highlighting stage of a project from pre-qualification subsequently repaired and a programme their prevalence, we can keep the business right through to close-out.
of work was initiated to fully understand the focused on understanding and addressing true condition of the surrounding pipelines the root cause of serious incidents.
and minimise the likelihood of future Rolling-out our Line of Fire campaign incidents.
This follows a basic strategy of: our analysis revealed that a large understand the condition, understand proportion of safety incidents resulted how the condition is changing and have from individuals unintentionally placing a strategy to manage it.
We therefore rolled out our new Line of Fire safety campaign to remind all personnel to be aware of, and stay well clear of, potential safety hazards such as moving vehicles or lifting operations.
To date we have delivered this training to 90,000 workers across our projects.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Seeking continuous improvement in asset integrity DRIVING NEW We continue to review and enhance our LEVELS OF SAFETY approach to asset integrity and assurance.
Developments in 2017 included: AWARENESS WITH OUR DRIVE SAFE Revitalising our design integrity assurance programme we enhanced CAMPAIGN the level of reporting to the Quarterly Asset Integrity Review Board, to provide information to senior executive management.
Implementing an offshore structures survey programme following the recent pipeline surveys and tank surveys, we performed a systematic review of all Petrofac-operated offshore structures, established a better understanding of risks, and developed improvement programmes.
Increasing the awareness of asset integrity across the Group we extended our Did you know?
initiative of education on asset integrity, and distributed several Addressing our biggest single The campaign was delivered across the new asset integrity-related articles and area of safety risk Group via several different channels, videos on our Group intranet.
We analysed the main cause of the including toolbox talks, posters, banners driving incidents within Petrofac and and videos.
Awareness training also Security across our industry, and developed a included accident simulation using a Remaining attentive to a fastDrive Safe campaign to address these seatbelt Convincer.
For 2018, we will changing security environment issues: fatigue, speed, reversing, mobile develop further our well-established Petrofac works in some challenging phone use and not wearing seatbelts.
Driving Standard, and work with our environments with fast-changing security people and partners to ensure it is issues.
Our aim is to protect our employees, understood and implemented.
partners and assets in a responsible manner, and to prevent any security-related disruption to our operations.
Updating our Managing Our Security Refreshing our travel policies Risks Handbook to enhance the to reflect the changing security Our security team is therefore closely delivery and management of security environment, we conducted a full integrated into the wider HSSEIA services, we refreshed and rolled out our review of our travel policies.
community, and our Security Policy sets Managing Our Security Risks Handbook, Increasing the awareness of out the responsibilities of our leadership providing guidance to those people security issues we developed a and each of our business units.
responsible for managing our security new awareness campaign, including risks and protecting our assets.
The success of our approach is demonstrated Implementing a series of Security by the fact that, in 2017, there were no Warehouse and Laydown Yard Assurance visits our central security significant security incidents to report.
Security to reduce the risk of theft teams visited a range of project sites to of our inventory, we developed and conduct independent security assurance Enhancing the protection we provide rolled-out a new security checklist and and validation surveys, and identify to our employees, partners and assets an accompanying training programme.
To reflect the fast-changing security Developing a new emergency environment, we continue to review response and crisis management and refine our approach to security.
framework to coincide with the Developments in 2017 included: restructuring of our Emergency Launched new Security Focal Point Response Service Centre ERSC, training to ensure consistency of we reviewed and refreshed our approach and reporting, we launched a emergency response and crisis new one-day training course for senior management procedures.
personnel at any sites where the threat does not warrant a dedicated Project Security Manager.
50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report 12,500 6% 800 Headcount at 31 December 2017 Approximate New joiners in 2017 7.5% overall reduction on 2016 voluntary attrition To enable us to attract the right people, support them in their development, and DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE strengthen our leadership capabilities, we employ HR professionals with expertise COMMITMENT in a number of people-related disciplines.
They are based in each of our key As a service business, it is our people, their attitude and skills which set us apart locations, use common tools, follow from our competitors.
We are therefore committed to developing all of our people, consistent processes, and deliver against identifying and nurturing future leaders, and enabling everyone within the business a business-focused HR strategy.
to perform to their true potential.
A key to our distinctive, delivery-focused Gender Profile % Age Profile % Grade Prole % culture is the strength of our values safe, ethical, innovative, responsive, quality and cost conscious, and driven to deliver.
These values are therefore linked to our Group-wide performance management process and celebrated through our annual EVE Excellence, Values, Energy Awards.
Our PetroVoices survey enables us to Male 89% Under 30 13% Senior management 2% monitor employee engagement, build on Female 11% 30 to 39 36% Managers strengths and address concerns.
Several Technical experts 9% 40 to 49 29% of our 2017 HR initiatives were a direct Supervisors 50 to 59 17% response to the results from our last survey Senior professionals 25% 60 and Over 5% conducted in 2016 such as greater focus Professionals on career development discussions as part Senior support 45% of the performance management process.
General support Technical support 19% We will be following up on existing action plans and launching a new PetroVoices survey in 2018.
PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE Adapting to a challenging 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities business environment Enhance our talent We began rolling out our Talent and succession modules As covered elsewhere in this Annual management and career Learning Hub integrated to be rolled out Report, the Group continues to adapt progression programmes cloud-based system across Ensure the Learning Hub lives to a challenging business environment.
the Group enhancing our up to its objectives As evidence of this, we saw a continued focus on performance Strengthen the Personal management and e-learning Development Plan programme, reduction in our headcount, which fell by with reviewed and approved plans around 7.5% to reach 12,500.
This was as in place for our top 200 leaders a result of further efficiency gains and our Develop the Groups 76 senior managers attended Focus on our people management formal exit from various operations.
leadership capabilities Leadership Excellence training capabilities through, for example, delivered by the London the enhancement of our In response to the business environment, Business School Leadership Development we paused our graduate development Pathway programmes programmes for the year, but intend to Improve understanding of 22 Townhalls and 11 office Continue to implement and review this as the business environment Petrofacs business strategy briefing sessions held with communicate measures to drive improves or where contractual employees to engage and share employee engagement business priorities commitment exists, such as in Oman.
Given the relative scarcity of oil and gas Continue to extend our We communicated our aims to Further strengthen succession jobs, voluntary turnover levels are thought to succession planning all business units and support planning, ensuring that all MDs programmes functions, and engaged an and executive management be low throughout the industry.
At Petrofac external executive search agent roles have plans in place they remain at 6% unchanged from 2016.
Enhancing our talent management and career progression programmes The Group promotes a culture that values meritocracy, openness, fairness and transparency.
In support of this, our Diversity and Inclusion Policy complies with all relevant legislation and best practice, Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED strives to create an inclusive working environment for all, and deals with any complaint of discrimination seriously.
Employees are made aware of this policy through their employment and we regularly monitor its effectiveness in areas such as recruitment and promotions, access to learning and career development.
Petrofac is committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination throughout ALIVE TO EMPLOYEE ATTITUDES the employees career with the Company, commencing with the recruitment and selection process and by providing A disciplined follow-up to our In response, Group Chief Executive Ayman ongoing support, training and development.
employee engagement survey Asfari met personally with 125 of our most If necessary, the Company will engage with Every two years, our PetroVoices global senior people to update them on the Occupational Health Services to ensure survey acts as a sounding board: it gives Company strategy and understand their appropriate support is given to employees us an overview of employee attitudes career goals.
This information was then with pre-existing health conditions and across the Group, alerts us to concerns cascaded down through the organisation.
to those who may develop a disability that may otherwise be overlooked, In addition, a number of related during employment.
and enables us to track employee engagement initiatives were delivered, engagement levels.
including Ask the Leader sessions, 22 With a clear emphasis on identifying and In our 2016 survey, three themes recurred, Townhalls to share priorities, 11 sessions developing talent within our business, we irrespective of business unit, location or to promote understanding of our financial launched the Learning Hub, a new integrated grade: people wanted the senior leadership performance and business risks, talent cloud-based system, which will over time team to be more visible: they wanted a management training, and related support performance, talent, succession clearer understanding of how reward and communications via our newsletters and competence management, as well as recognition works within Petrofac: and they and intranet sites.
wanted a better understanding of how we We want to be sure that the initiatives assess and manage talent.
This brings greater consistency to the have a positive impact.
So, the process ay people are developed and managed, To dig a little deeper, we held focus of two-way communications continues.
and helps Petrofac to build capability groups in each key location.
We then The focus groups continue to meet and drive performance.
It also means put together a programme of activities periodically, and our next PetroVoices employees have easy and direct access to to address the concerns and help make survey is scheduled for 2018. all of their competence, e-learning training, Petrofac an even better place to work.
Similarly, all line managers and department Building an engaged workforce Improving the consistency and heads have easy access to information with a sense of ownership capability of our HR operations about the people in their teams.
We actively encourage employee share A number of initiatives were introduced to ownership, believing that it builds commitment improve the integration of HR teams across Training was offered to all managers on how to the Companys goals.
In 2017, 38% of our the Group, and enhance the skills of the to use the new system, as well as their role in employees participated in at least one of the people within them.
For example, all HR setting objectives and conducting mid-year Petrofac employee share schemes.
teams now report to the Group HR function, and end-of-year reviews.
Some 90% of rather than the individual business units.
employees who completed their mid-year Staff in our UK business groups were also We also ran a global training programme reviews also had a career development given the chance to decide which local on Influencing Skills for our HR teams and discussion with their supervisor.
charitable organisations should receive the have more training planned for 2018. largest donations from the Companys Enhancing our reward and Give As You Earn match-funding scheme.
We aligned third-party recruitment with recognition processes This generated a good response with regular recruitment across our engineering In response to concerns raised in the those voted for including cancer support and construction projects during 2017 PetroVoices survey, we published global groups, a home nursing team, a neonatal to streamline processes and focus more job title conventions and detailed descriptions unit and a hospice.
In accordance with attention on utilisation and cost.
A system of our grades in order to give our employees our Standard for the Prevention of Bribery was implemented to manage these more clarity on our organisation design and and Corruption, no political donations or resources along with their payroll.
To explain the process contributions were made during the year.
we will be launching an online CV tool to to line managers, a grading workshop was assist internal recruitment and development also developed.
52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategic corporate giving across the Group, we support community-based ENGAGING WITH initiatives, with a particular focus on science, technology, engineering and LOCAL COMMUNITIES mathematics STEM education.
The aim is to contribute to a new generation of COMMITMENT engineers and scientists by supporting the education and career development Wherever we work, we are committed to being a good corporate citizen.
In particular, we aim to engage with local communities and other stakeholders to understand and manage the social impacts of our business, address any concerns, Reflecting on our 2017 performance and maximise the benefits we are able to bring.
Our overall approach and philosophy remained largely unchanged in 2017, with continued Often, we have a contractual or regulatory obligation to manage the impact our business may have on local communities.
Across the Company, we also encourage support for many of our long-established a culture of active community engagement, and support many related initiatives.
Overall, the value of the investment mirrors the extent of our in-country Social investments Community development Strategic corporate giving operations.
In 2017 spending increased to US$3.8 million, from US$2.7 million in US$3.8m US$2.1m US$1.7m 2016, largely due to a one-off contribution of US$1 million towards the Nairiyah National Construction Training Centre in Saudi Arabia.
A priority for 2017 was to continue to enhance the coherence, consistency and 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 efficacy of our approach, to raise the profile of community engagement issues across PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE the Group, and incorporate them into our wider business processes.
For example, 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities our community engagement approach and credentials play an increasingly prominent Enhance capability building We worked with the Tabasco Review and update our existing role in the bidding process.
In addition, our programmes within State Training Institute for social programmes in Mexico the communities in which Work in Mexico IFORTAB to support our changing risk assessment and security teams seek we operate to run a range of vocational business operations to understand and address any situations development programmes Develop a strategy to address where community relations could negatively for the local community land access blockages and impact a project.
We supported major vandalism in Mexico assets infrastructure improvements Strengthen social investment to 15 schools in Mexico projects in Tunisia to support Continuing with our community In partnership with the local the drilling campaign planned development initiatives fishing industry in Tunisia we for late 2018 We typically conduct community improved road access to the development initiatives when we act fishing ports and provided engines for local fishing vessels as the operator of a clients assets.
Target corporate giving to US$1.7 million contributed to Review and update the corporate In Mexico strengthen community-based support STEM initiatives, including giving strategy STEM education initiatives US$1 million towards the Nairiyah Align initiatives across the Group In previous years, we had been particularly National Construction Training to the revised strategy active in Mexico, and supported a range Centre in Saudi Arabia of projects related to sustainable livelihoods.
Here, our investment reduced from US$2.2 million in 2016 to US$1.8 million The Petrofac Social Performance Our community engagement initiatives in 2017 75% of which is cost recoverable.
Framework governs the way we approach fall into two main categories: This fall was largely due to the divestment community engagement.
It consists of our Community development where our of the Pnuco field, changes to land Social Performance Standard and a set of operations are located close to local access payments and the continued guidelines, which enable us to meet the communities, we generally work with renegotiation of our Production commitments set out in the Petrofac stakeholders to plan and implement Enhancement Contracts elsewhere in Ethical, Social and Regulatory Policy.
initiatives that will benefit local people, the country.
However, we continued to such as skills training, creating invest in capability building initiatives to opportunities for local labour, and enhance technical skills and agricultural investing in local supply chains.
Meanwhile, in Tamaulipas state, we invested in measures to support turtle conservation programmes.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 53 US$3.5m US$2.7m US$3.8m US$3.0m US$2.3m US$2.1m US$0.5m US$0.3m US$1.7m CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In Tunisia In Malaysia Our Tunisian operations, located in the At the end of 2016, to commemorate Kerkennah Islands, restarted in May 2017, achieving a 50 million man-hours LTI-free following a lengthy suspension due to milestone, our E&C division donated social unrest linked to the local economic US$50,000 split across 10 countries.
Prior to start-up, consultation with In 2017, US$5,000 of this was presented local community groups and stakeholders to the Rumah Safiyyah Childrens Shelter was undertaken to ensure our community to support various road and fire safety development programmes were education programmes in conjunction appropriately focused and sustainable.
with the local Malaysian Fire and Rescue Department.
Through 2017 around US$370,000 was provided for various local projects.
In the UK These focused on improving the public We encourage charitable donations infrastructure, supporting the local fishing through a Give As You Earn Scheme industry with the purchase of the first and a match-funding programme.
five new engines for 15 fishing boats, Despite the difficult climate of the past and a bursary programme to support few years, our employees remained more than 70 gifted students at 12 primary committed to improving the lives of others.
In 2017, 18,000 was raised by employees, with a like-for-like contribution of 18,000 UNDERPRIVILEGED Enhancing our strategic corporate from Petrofac.
The total amount was CHILDREN IN INDIA giving programmes donated to a number of local and national We have a formal corporate giving strategy UK charities nominated by our employees.
focusing on initiatives that promote STEM INDIA education and improve employability for Looking ahead to 2018 young people from marginalised groups.
In 2018 we will continue with the same The theme of our corporate giving We also support various philanthropic overall approach and philosophy.
programmes is all about increasing initiatives that enhance employee the skills and employability of young engagement, by working with charities For our community development people.
In India, we support two that are relevant to employees or are programmes, we will continue with our charities that provide education for located close to our offices.
planned investments in Tunisia, with underprivileged children.
additional support for the local fishing Highlights from 2017 include: industry which is the main source of local In both Delhi and Chennai, we support employment, and a further contribution to In the UAE the Bharat Lok Shiksha Parishad BLSP the local transport infrastructure which will Around US$300,000 was contributed to welfare programme, which funds 200 improve access to and from the islands.
This was one-teacher schools, known as Ekal Meanwhile, in Mexico, to support the ongoing a considerable increase on 2016, thanks Vidyalayas.
By sourcing someone from migration of our Production Enhancement largely to our employees involvement in the local community, who teaches Contracts to Production Sharing Contracts, the Relay for Life event organised by reading, writing and mental arithmetic, we will be undertaking a social performance Friends of Cancer Patients FoCP.
the scheme delivers basic skills to young and environmental baseline study and More than 50 Petrofac employees and people who otherwise go uneducated.
update our programmes to reflect the family members took part in the 24-hour nature and extent of our changing business relay, raising US$143,000 to support Meanwhile, in Mumbai, we partnered operations and increased responsibilities.
cancer patients and their families.
with the SMILE Foundation to improve the lives of underprivileged children For our strategic corporate giving In India living in urban slums and marginalised programmes, we will review and update There is a regulatory requirement for us communities.
In this way, we contributed our strategy and work with the country to spend at least 2% of our revenues to the education of 400 children, operations to support alignment of on social investments, which led to an supplementing their education, and programmes to the revised strategy.
investment of more than US$300,000 raising awareness and support from We will also be commencing new initiatives in support of three education programmes local communities.
in Oman, including a partnership with the targeting under-privileged children.
engineering faculty of the Sultan Qaboos We supported the SMILE Foundation University.
In India, our CSR Committee for one year, while our BLSP partnership will review our partnerships and projects continues through 2018. for 2018.
Elsewhere, we will continue with the same approach as in 2017.
54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Understanding and addressing potential human rights issues is a matter of priority RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS for Petrofac, and a Labour Rights Steering Group made up of relevant heads of ACROSS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN department, which reports directly to executive management and has Board COMMITMENT oversight of Directors, has been leading our response.
Petrofac operates in challenging environments where human rights issues can become a source of risk, both for our business and for some of the people who Our newly developed Labour Rights work on our sites.
Standard sets out the expectations and requirements of our people, subcontractors We are committed to embedding and advancing respect for human rights throughout and suppliers.
Meanwhile, our annual our business operations, including our extended supply chain.
As such, we aim transparency statement, published in to work in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact and its principles, compliance with the UK Modern Day as well as the core conventions of the International Labour Organization ILO.
Slavery Act, sets out our commitments Labour Rights Standard Labour Rights Standard as to how we intend to strengthen our Subcontractor roll-out Supplier Screening approach and embed the underlying by value Questionnaire principles throughout our operations.
Checking the chain Through our due diligence programmes, we know that our main exposure to potential human rights issues is through our supply chain and, more specifically, its employment of low-skilled migrant workers from high risk countries.
We are New and existing Completed self-assessment aware that the labour practices of agents subcontractors received questionnaire 16% used by some of our subcontractors launch communication 97% Are yet to complete 84% potentially expose the company to labour New and existing subcontractors pending 3% rights risks.
Many of these issues are not always immediately evident and we are working with our subcontractors to map PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE out our supply chain, and identify and address any recruitment violations and 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities welfare infringements Strengthen our approach We developed and launched Launch a training and A further area of potential vulnerability to protecting human rights a Labour Rights Standard awareness programme to and eradicating modern to address the requirements support implementation of is our use of contracted security providers.
day slavery of the UK Modern Day Slavery our Labour Rights Standard To better understand the related risks, Act MSA Develop a labour rights we intend to conduct security and human Our initial statement in subcontractor management rights risk assessments, and monitor compliance with the UK process compliance with our newly strengthened MSA was published Fully integrate our Labour Rights A risk-based programme to Standard into our digital supplier requirements and expectations.
communicate and embed the and vendor management system Standard across our business Publicly report further progress on In addressing potential vulnerabilities, and supply chain was our efforts to implement the we are assisted by an increased awareness commenced, starting in our requirements of the UK MSA Engineering & Construction of human rights issues across our sector, division on projects in the and the emergence of new regulations, MENA region such as the UK Modern Day Slavery Act.
Seek opportunities to We joined the oil and gas Further strengthen our This means that many of our clients and collaborate with industry industry association for collaboration with industry partners stakeholders, such as international partners to drive innovation environmental and social issues Share the outcomes of our work investors and finance providers, are and improvement IPIECA and actively supported with stakeholders seeking assurances that we are doing initiatives as a member of the what we can to eradicate the potential for Human Rights Task Force We collaborated with the Building abuses.
It also means that our vendors and Responsibly industry group to suppliers are under pressure, not just from promote the welfare of workers Petrofac but also our peers, to introduce in the construction industry new protections and report on their respective performance.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 55 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED PLACING AN EMPHASIS ON WORKER WELFARE IN MALAYSIA We also believe that, aside from our A formal review of the Labour Rights responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, programme was undertaken by our MALAYSIA the introduction of greater human rights Group Internal Audit function to evaluate protections can benefit our business.
its design effectiveness Design Build When workforces are treated with respect Work commenced on a new Welfare and dignity, productivity can be increased Standard to be launched in 2018. and the scope for delays and disputes For Petrofac, topics like safety, significantly reduced.
Our commitments for 2018 security and human rights are and beyond Delivering progress in 2017 not just about good corporate In 2018, our priority will be to continue to Petrofacs Ethical, Social and Regulatory citizenship.
We also see them roll out and embed the various initiatives policy prevents us from engaging in any and resources that were developed in as business issues.
For us, business activities that could implicate the 2017.
This will include: asafe site is an efficient site.
Company in the breach of internationally recognised labour standards.
Most human The new Labour Rights and Welfare When worker welfare is rights protections were implicitly covered Standards prioritised, productivity can through a range of Company policies and The new training and awareness be increased and the scope standards, however, in 2017, our priorities programme for delays and disputes were to make our commitment more visible, make the protections more explicit, and The newly updated Code of Conduct.
make progress in embedding a respect for human rights throughout our supply chain.
Meanwhile, we will strengthen our A good example of our approach is the Significant developments included: subcontractor compliance assurance RAPID project in Malaysia, where theres processes and extend our third-party due a visible commitment to worker welfare.
Our initial statement in compliance with diligence programme, which will help us To keep standards high, the Petrofac-built the UK Modern Day Slavery Act was to adequately screen all new and newly onsite accommodation that houses 1,800 published in May, in which we reported contracted suppliers.
We will also workers and supervisors is independently on progress and outlined our commence a series of project audits to audited on a regular basis.
It is judged commitments for the year ahead assess the level of compliance in sites against stringent criteria like cleanliness, Our new Labour Rights Standard and address any issues encountered.
Petrofac has was launched in August, which was received a Focused Recognition Award distributed internally and to our main Looking further ahead, we aim to expand from PETRONAS for its worker welfare, subcontractors, and is being on our reporting and extend our efforts accommodation and recreational facilities.
communicated to all our suppliers deeper into the supply chain.
We also intend to increase our engagement with industry A grievance management procedure has New labour rights clauses were and other stakeholders on joint initiatives also been implemented, to ensure that finalised and included in all new to adopt common principles and practices, workers concerns can be aired and third-party contracts develop practitioner tools, and drive addressed.
Similarly, Petrofac enjoys New wording was developed for innovation and continuous improvement.
The congested, inclusion in our Code of Conduct muddy site is amongst the most challenging the Company has worked in.
We engaged with various industry social Even so, by the end of 2017, the team had responsibility and human rights groups clocked up nearly 9 million man-hours to share technical know-how and without a single Lost Time Incident, contribute to the development of good andhad received HSSE awards from practice guidance PETRONAS on three separate occasions.
A training and awareness programme for employees and subcontractors was One of the keys to this success is the developed and an initial session delivered strength of the partnership between to our Executive Management Petrofac and its suppliers.
We chose to work exclusively with locally based subcontractors, helping them to source, recruit and train a high proportion of Malaysian workers, and ensuring that they understand and respect our CSRcommitments and standards.
56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report 9m man-hours without a single Lost Time Incident 1,800 workers and supervisors is independently audited on a regular basis Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 57 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Alongside client value and shareholder value, we consider in-country value ICV GENERATING ECONOMIC as one of the three core outcomes of our business model.
The concept of ICV VALUE IN-COUNTRY seeks to formalise and quantify the net contribution Petrofac makes to the COMMITMENT economies in which we operate.
The support of local economies has As well as being the right thing to do, always been important to Petrofac.
we see this as a source of competitive Across many of our projects we have advantage, helping us to keep costs started to evaluate our impact.
We are also Wherever the Company operates, down, improve the quality and availability becoming more consistent in the way we we are committed to employing local of local suppliers, and build stronger set and monitor ICV targets, and share the people, working with local suppliers relationships with local stakeholders.
lessons learned across the Group.
We are and developing local capabilities.
also providing increased support to our In this way, we aim to make a positive supply chain through our training and and measurable contribution to the project engagement initiatives.
economies in which we operate.
Reflecting on our 2017 performance We continue to purchase a large proportion Goods and services Key project jobs Our worldwide of goods and services from local vendors contribution to public and suppliers, and also support a significant nances total taxes 1 number of local jobs.
Typically, this goes paid US$m well beyond our contractual and regulatory obligations regarding local content.
US$1.2bn 75,500 US$422m Working with local suppliers In 2017, just taking into account the key projects listed on page 37, we purchased more than US$1.2 billion worth of goods and services.
This is down from US$2.3 billion spent on key projects in 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 2016, reflecting the changing stage of 1 Total taxes have not been their delivery.
Meanwhile the proportion subject to audit.
of locally sourced goods and services increased from 33% in 2016 to 50% PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE in 2017.
2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities For various reasons, including the size of Increase in-country value across In Oman, we undertook a Enhance the Oman In-Country the country and the capability of the local our projects and operations roadshow event connected to Value ICV programme through supply chain, the level of local content our new Salalah LPG project creation of a centralised varies by country.
For example, in the UAE, that involved around 120 function to share learnings where we are delivering projects worth representatives of the local between projects supply chain Further progress the Saudi US$2.9 billion, more than 71% of We have continued to increase localisation strategy towards procurement came from the local supply 2 our in-country value in Saudi a 70% IKTVA by 2021 chain.
The equivalent figure in Malaysia 2 Arabia in terms of IKTVA was 73%, Algeria 63% and in Saudi 50%.
Support in-country competency Saudi Future Generation Expand the provision of development programmes Programme strengthened its quality technical training engineering, construction, and for Omani nationals at the supervisory skills training to our Takatuf Petrofac Oman TPO Al Khobar engineering office Centre of Excellence In partnership with Takatuf a subsidiary of Oman Oil Company we created a leading technical training centre capable of training up to 350 students Meet new compliance and We published our tax strategy Continue to enhance our reporting obligations and submitted our first tax risk management and country-by-country tax report compliance procedures Increase tax transparency 2 IKTVA In Kingdom Total Value Add score is Saudi Aramcos measure of local content.
58 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 2.2 2.3 1.2 55,000 69,500 75,500 US$605m US$571m US$422m Strategic report Supporting local employment In 2017, we: Priorities for 2018 We continue to work towards gathering Local delivery is intrinsic to the Petrofac Published our tax strategy, providing consistent data to report on the level and business model.
We will therefore continue further insight into how we approach nature of employment on our key sites.
to make a contribution to the economies in the management of our tax affairs Our aim is to understand the total number which we operate.
And this contribution available in the Responsibility section of jobs created, as well as the ratio tends to be commensurate with the extent of www.
com between local and expatriate workers.
Submitted our first country-by-country At the close of 2017, and just taking into report, in accordance with the OECD In Oman, for example, we will continue to account the key projects listed on page 37, standard, which provides visibility to tax develop the breadth and depth of our ICV we supported over 75,000 jobs at our authorities in respect of income taxes contribution, including the first year of project sites.
Around 95% of these were paid and certain measures of economic operations for the Takatuf Petrofac Oman through our subcontractors, the remainder activity on a country-by-country basis training centre, the growth of our new being a mix of expatriate and local Petrofac Muscat-based engineering centre, and Worked alongside our clients, employees and contractors.
the continued support of local suppliers.
subcontractors and suppliers, including supporting and guiding businesses The extent to which subcontractor jobs are in our supply chain, to achieve day-one held by locals or expatriates is determined compliance with the introduction of partly by local content requirements and VAT in the Gulf Cooperation Council partly by the availability of qualified region in 2018 candidates.
In some countries, such as Algeria, the percentage of local The total amount that we pay in taxes is subcontractor workers can exceed 85%.
not limited to the corporate income tax In others, such as Saudi Arabia, it can fall disclosed within the financial statements.
It also includes employee and employer taxes and social security payments, VAT Making a significant contribution and sales taxes, and other taxes such as to public finances withholding, property and other indirect Through the taxes we pay, Petrofac makes taxes.
The total amount paid by Petrofac a significant financial contribution to the to governments worldwide includes those public finances of the local economies in taxes which are borne by Petrofac, as well which we operate.
as taxes collected by Petrofac but which are recoverable from tax authorities or In 2017, the total amount paid to customers and supplies.
VAT and sales governments in tax was US$422 million, taxes are shown on an accruals basis.
comprising corporate income tax, employment taxes, other forms of tax and social security contributions.
Decreases in total taxes paid have largely resulted from material projects reaching completion in jurisdictions which operated VAT regimes in the reporting period.
Transparency in tax reporting Ensuring tax compliance and increasing tax transparency continue to be priorities for governments, regulators and businesses.
During 2017, several new compliance and reporting obligations affecting our business came into force.
We monitor regional and global best practice, maintain membership of industry groups and follow and provide input into tax policy development.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 59 INVESTING FOR OMAN With regards to local sourcing and vendor development, we continue to OMAN seek new opportunities to create ICV.
For example, in 2017 we ran a supplier roadshow to support our recently Design Build awarded Salalah LPG extraction project, attended by 15community leaders and We have been active in Oman since 120 representatives from the local supply 1988, where we are working on several chain, and a number of additional mega-projects, have recently secured community contractors were engaged as several new business wins, and continue a direct result.
To date, we have invested to increase our locally based capabilities.
over US$1.4 billion in ICV, of which some In support of a Government-led 85% has been spent through local goods Omanisation agenda, we are pursuing and services, as well as supplier an In-Country Value ICV strategy development and training initiatives.
based on four key pillars: Omanisation in operations, local vendor development, As our Country Manager, Ray Richardson local sourcing of goods and services, says: A few years ago the contracting and developing local skill sets.
community had little choice but to look outside of Oman for goods, services and By the start of 2017, some 830 people skills.
There is were directly employed by Petrofac, now a much wider variety and availability more than 35% of whom were Omani of local services and, for our part, we nationals.
In addition, up to 12,000 people have actively worked with several key are employed through subcontractors suppliers to help them improve and and, again, many of them are Omani scale up their local operations.
We also have a growing office greater capacity, capability and in Muscat, and are developing a locally competition available right here in based engineering centre.
To help develop local skills sets, we have Currently with a number of high value a 40% share in Takatuf Petrofac Oman Oman projects about to go into execution TPO, which is creating a new US$30 we look forward to developing our million training centre with a full-time existing ICV footprint within the key faculty of 45 people.
This will help to pillars of our operational reach.
deliver a steady stream of job-ready graduates, and can also upskill existing field personnel.
12,000 People are employed through subcontractors 830 People were directly employed by Petrofac US$1.4 bn Invested in ICV to date 60 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT COMMITMENT We are committed to working in an environmentally responsible way and limiting the environmental impact of our operations around the globe.
Our target is zero environmental incidents.
Our combined Scope 1 IES greenhouse E&C and EPS Number of spills Hydrocarbon spilled and Scope 2 greenhouse gas intensity greenhouse gas intensity above one barrel volume in barrels gas emissions 000 tCO e per million 000 tCO e per million 2 2 Tonnes of carbon emissions boe production man-hours worked 000 tCO e 2 235 77.0 0.23 2 52 Scope 1 000 tCO e per million 000 tCO e per million Spills Barrels spilled 2 2 boe production man-hours worked 12 Scope 2 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 Scope 1 Scope 2 PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities Revise our existing Environmental Management Our E&C and Engineering & Production Services Implement additional new requirements to ensure System EMS to meet the requirements of the latest divisions and our Mexican operations updated their Group-wide compliance with ISO14001:2015 international standard ISO14001:2015 EMS in accordance with the latest requirements and achieved ISO14001:2015 certification Update our corporate assurance programme to Significant environmental measures related to air Continue to strengthen the environmental include significant environmental aspects emissions, energy efficiency, and spill response assurance programme were incorporated into an updated assurance tool used for reviews of our projects and facilities Improve our environmental reporting We conducted training programmes to enhance the Continue to maintain independent third-party implementation of our Environmental Data Reporting verification of reported environmental performance Guide bringing greater consistency and on emissions and spills comparability to our reporting Continue to improve energy efficiency Initiatives were launched across our projects and Continue to focus on improvements in energy operations that delivered significant energy savings efficiency, including participation in the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS Enhance our oil spill response capability A number of oil spill response simulation exercises Ensure all components of the Emergency Response were carried out in consultation with clients and and Crisis Management teams are strengthened regulatory agencies through integrated training A Remote Piloted Aircraft System RPAS Integrate environmental, asset integrity and social programme was implemented on a small number of economic aspects into oil spill risk ranking across onshore assets with positive results: improving early the Group detection and minimising environmental impacts Reducing greenhouse gas emission intensity in our Energy consumption optimisation and Continue to achieve a reduction in our greenhouse Integrated Energy Services IES and Engineering & implementation of technical solutions resulted in a gas intensity targets Construction E&C business divisions by 2% year reduction of greenhouse gas intensity of 14% on year over 2015 as baseline 000 tCO e million boe produced in IES and 2 8% 000 tCO e million US$ revenue in E&C 2 business divisions Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 61 260 244 235 21 18 12 82.0 90.0 77.0 0.50 0.30 0.23 1 3 2 6 16 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED As an oil field services company that We have now revised our spill reporting intentionally cutting into the pipelines we designs, develops and operates large-scale methodology to be in line with the industry operate on behalf of our client.
facilities, Petrofacs business is directly practice and avoid the double reporting of linked to environmental considerations.
spills between ourselves and our clients.
Hopefully a new piece of legislation that This includes energy and climate change Within our Annual Report, we will be fines individuals found to be responsible for concerns and the risk of environmental reporting spills from: causing oil spills, along with a reduction in incidents, as well as the environmental the compensation provided to landowners, All Petrofac owned and operated facilities performance of our own operations.
will have a positive impact on the number and assets including projects of pipe spills caused by vandalism.
We are We conduct comprehensive environmental Assets where Petrofac is the operator also increasing pipeline inspection activities risk assessments and reviews in all stages and has an equity share in the to reduce the time it takes to identify a of our new projects.
We also follow a hydrocarbons being produced pipeline spill.
This includes the installation systematic approach to environmental of flow meters and increasing the visual Assets where Petrofac is the operator management, even in places where this surveillance of pipelines through line walks and licensee is not required by local regulations.
The hydrocarbon spills at facilities we In terms of our emissions performance, We expect there to be an increase in spill operate on behalf of our client, but the all indications such as our participation numbers and volumes during 2018 as client remains as the licensee, will be in CDP suggest that we perform Petrofac has now entered into a Production reported by our clients and will not be comparably with our peers.
In 2017 we Sharing Contract with Pemex in Santuario, included in our data.
achieved a rating of C, which is in line with Mexico, which is an area affected by the average for our direct competitors.
vandalism, and any such incidents will be There were two reportable hydrocarbon Regrettably, it falls below the B rating recordable in our reporting going forward.
spills involving more than one barrel of we achieved in 2016.
This drop was hydrocarbon this year.
The hydrocarbon due to a change in the way companies Continuing improvements in spill volume was 52 barrels in 2017, are rated following a revised CDP energy efficiency regrettably an increase from 16 barrels scoring methodology.
For many years, energy efficiency has in 2016. been an area of focus.
This is indicated by Furthermore, for all of our business lines, a large number of local initiatives, and is Both the spills occurred at offshore facilities we aim to achieve a 2% year-on-year prominently featured in the Policy Vision operated by Petrofac in the North Sea, UK.
reduction in greenhouse gas emission of our Environmental Policy, which is The release of 50 barrels was due to the intensity over the baseline year of 2015, intended to guide all of our activities.
breakage of a non-operated export pipeline.
These targets are supported by strategies and Once again, we are able to report on During 2017 the volume of oil spilled actions to optimise energy consumption, several such successes for 2017. through acts of vandalism dramatically implement technical solutions, and increased in the assets we operate for our encourage employee-led initiatives.
Adding value to our clients operations client in the Southern Region of Mexico.
Our teams often go beyond client We have been working with the local Our energy data and greenhouse gas requirements as they seek to optimise communities and regulatory bodies in an emissions are assured and verified by an energy efficiency and save natural attempt to reduce the number of spills we independent third party Ricardo, UK.
In doing so, they consider are experiencing in this region.
In this area, the entire life cycle of a project, and are vandals tamper with both wellheads and Reflecting on our overall performance often able to propose solutions that pipelines resulting in oil releases to the Overall the trend was positive for 2017, can have significant long-term surrounding environment.
with lower emissions and fewer spills.
Investigation and clean-up of contaminated In terms of emissions, we achieved Mexico areas is carried out for each spill, and we a significant improvement in our Our Mexican teams initiated a continue to liaise with clients to address the performance.
We have achieved a 14% bio-remediation project to treat soil root cause of the incidents.
reduction in greenhouse gas intensity in that has been contaminated with Integrated Energy Services and an 8% spilt hydrocarbons.
This approach To prevent vandalism on the wellheads, reduction in Engineering & Construction bio-simulates and accelerates a natural Petrofac installed tamperproof valve covers divisions over 2016, meeting our emission fide-contamination process through and subsurface H valves on wellheads in reduction targets.
the introduction of indigenous locations that had a high incidence of microorganisms, nutrients and oxygen.
This resulted in a significant The change was largely due to energy drop in the number of wellhead related efficiency initiatives implemented in our Lined pits are constructed at a spill-site, oil spills.
Unfortunately, we are now offices and training centres, optimisation and microorganisms and nutrients are then experiencing a rise in the number of of operations in Malaysia, and lower fuel added, followed by the contaminated soil.
releases associated with people consumption at our projects.
Aeration is carried out at regular intervals 62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION UNITED ARAB EMIRATES BY ALMOST 50% IN SHARJAH Reducing energy consumption by almost 50% in Sharjah The facilities management team in our Sharjah offices have achieved a significant reduction in energy consumption, earning them an award for energy management.
Johnson Controls, who provide a range of building services at our two Sharjah office towers, awarded the team their 2017 Energy Management Award.
The team achieved a 49% reduction in energy costs compared to the base year of 2009 thanks to the smart use of analysis tools, reprogramming existing systems, rewiring circuits, shifting to LED lights, and reducing the leakage of cool air by plugging openings in the buildings.
Together, the initiatives have saved around 3,400 tonnes in annual greenhouse gas emissions.
and the soil is repeatedly tested for its United Kingdom Oman hydrocarbon content.
Once the oxidation When lessons are shared across the entire Over the life cycle of an oil and gas of hydrocarbons is achieved, test reports industry, the risk of environmental incidents asset, the choice of ancillary equipment are presented to the regulatory body for can be significantly reduced.
has a significant impact on overall approval before the soil is returned to the environmental performance.
By avoiding the transportation of Oilennium, a company within the Petrofac contaminated soil, the initiative reduces Group, worked with the International Well When specifying the details of a new greenhouse gas emissions and reduces Control Forum to develop a new well LPG facility, our client had included a the risk of driving-related incidents.
During Petrofacs value engineering process, our engineers Saudi Arabia Aimed at anyone involved in well concluded that, by capturing waste A client in Saudi Arabia had originally operations, it covers the recommendations energy from a nearby turbine exhaust and specified a water filtration package with a set out by the International Association of controlling the heat with a damper, they conventional filtration system.
Our engineers Oil and Gas Producers following the could eliminate the need for the heater and thought about the long-term operational Deepwater Horizon incident.
To make their case, implications of this approach.
They were they simulated various design scenarios.
concerned that it would not be energy Intended to increase awareness of well efficient and, to deal with the associated control and integrity issues, it is available, As a result, the client will save an estimated wastewater, it would also require a free of charge, to anyone with internet 7 million cubic metres of LPG and avoid considerable investment in downstream access.
The programme has been widely 16,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas facilities such as backwash pits, pumps commended and, by the end of 2017, emissions every year.
Instead, they more than 24,000 people had completed successfully proposed an alternative the course.
solution that, during the expected operational life of the facility, will avoid more than 3,000kg of greenhouse gas emissions and save half a million gallons of water.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 63 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our Code of Conduct the Code sets out our expectations of everyone who RESPONSIBLE GOVERNANCE works for and with Petrofac.
Through our compliance programme, we aim to ensure AND ETHICAL BUSINESS that all our employees and third parties working with and for us are aware of PRACTICES the Code and abide by its contents.
We continue to increase the scope and COMMITMENT reach of the compliance programme by hiring new resources, introducing new We aspire to be an ethical company.
We therefore aim to make all our employees and partners aware of our commitment to this and the behaviours we expect of them.
tools and strengthening the governance We also continue to review and strengthen our governance of ethical business that informs our approach to ethical practices and increase the scope and reach of our related compliance programme.
We endeavour to ensure that our operations remain Breaches of the Code compliant with our Code, internal policies, of Conduct reported via rules and regulations.
Speak Up Enhancing our compliance 102 policies and processes Across our sector, there is an increasing requirement for organisations to demonstrate the strength of their commitment to ethical business practices, and the integrity of compliance policies and processes.
15 16 17 To this end, in April 2017 we commissioned PRIORITIES AND PERFORMANCE an independent risk consultancy to conduct a comprehensive review of all of our policies, documents, processes and delegated 2017 Priorities 2017 Performance 2018 Priorities authorities.
The aim was to enhance their Launch and roll out a revised The launch was delayed as Launch and roll out of the revised effectiveness and ensure that the organisation Code of Conduct we conducted a fuller than Code of Conduct and associated as a whole, with the assistance of the anticipated review of the Code e-learning Compliance function, continues to identify Continue to embed the new The automated due diligence An enhanced and enlarged Group any compliance related risk which might Standard for the Prevention process was embedded across Compliance function, reporting affect the business and mitigate it in a of Bribery and Corruption, the organisation to the Compliance and Ethics timely and robust manner.
associated processes Committee, will continue to embed An independent consultancy and procedures and audit revised policies, standards and At the end of 2017, this work was still was engaged to conduct a parts of it processes across the organisation comprehensive review of underway.
However, achievements during and support our risk-based our compliance processes, the year included: approach to due diligence of and make recommendations our third-party relationships Creation of a new Compliance Charter The recently created Third Party Risk Committee reviews An increase in compliance-related high-risk relationships resources to assist in the overall delivery Governance was strengthened An individual with seniority will be of the programme with the formation of a new appointed as the single-point committee of the Board.
This of responsibility for compliance A review of our policies and guidelines Committee now has oversight of at each one of our projects to regarding gifts and entertainment and the Group Compliance function.
oversee the embedding of conflicts of interest the programme A review of our due diligence process Prioritisation of the We responded to an increase Continue to respond to the management of and response in information requests on our SFO investigation of third parties and formalisation of a to the SFO investigation policies and processes from related policy existing and potential clients and other stakeholders Formation of the new Compliance and Ethics Committee and the Third Party Risk Committee 64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 41 71 102 Strategic report 2,800 Leaders required to certify compliance with the Code Responding to requests Enhancing our certification process In 2018, as part of the reorganisation of for information Whilst following the Code is an obligation the Compliance function, an investigations During the year, we responded successfully of all employees, upholding the Code and manager, with the responsibility to manage to increased requests for information on looking out for any suspected breaches internal investigations and monitor any our compliance programme.
This was as is a key accountability for all managers possible consequence that may arise from part of general due diligence carried out from first-level supervisors through to them, will be appointed.
This individual will in respect of bid-related and contracting our executive leadership team.
report jointly to the Group Compliance and activities with both current and potential Internal Audit functions and will oversee the clients, giving them assurance on the We continue to refine our Annual Code of activities of those conducting investigations robustness of our compliance governance.
This is an within Petrofac, ensuring that they have annual exercise through which managers received appropriate training.
We also responded to additional ad hoc confirm that they understand and abide by requests from external stakeholders, such the Code, have completed related training, as project finance providers, in relation to and have the opportunity to raise any a number of new contract awards with an possible violations or conflicts of interest.
In 2017, 2,800 managers were required Typically, we were asked by these third to certify and, by the end of the exercise, parties to provide assurance relating to the proportion who had done so was the nature and integrity of our compliance almost 100%.
related policies and processes, how these are implemented and monitored on a Speaking Up about any day-to-day basis.
breaches of the Code We encourage everyone involved with Giving clear guidance to employees Petrofac to raise any potential breaches and partners of the Code and have a non-retaliatory During 2017 we continued with a full policy for those who raise any such issues in review of the Code, to include new, more good faith.
explicit language relating to the protection of human rights and the prevention of In 2017, 102 suspected breaches were bribery and corruption, money laundering reported via Speak Up our multi-language and trade sanctions risks.
The intention phone, online and email whistleblowing was to launch the new Code and related tool, which is accessible to all employees e-learning by the end of 2017.
However, and third parties, each of which was in light of the wider review, this was assessed by the Compliance function and, postponed until 2018. where warranted, was either investigated or was being investigated at the year end.
Compared with 2016, the number of reported breaches increased by 44% up from 71.
All submitted cases and confirmed violations are now reported to the Compliance and Ethics Committee, which will liaise with the Audit Committee on cases relating to any financial breaches.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 65
