COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT George Pierson Dear shareholder Chairman of the Compliance and Ethics Committee In August 2017, the Board approved the formation of the Compliance and Ethics Committee.
This Committee, which consists of three Non-executive Directors, met four times during 2017.
It was established to uphold and oversee the continued implementation of the principles and rules relating to compliance and ethics across the Group, as set out in the Companys Code of Conduct and its Standard for the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption.. One of the Committees key roles is to support the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in all respects of compliance and ethics, and to support the provision of assurance to Petrofacs stakeholders, ensuring that the Companys policies and approach to compliance and ethics remain adequate and effective.
COMMITTEE SUMMARY The Committee, working together with the Board and senior management, aims to promote the importance of, and the Role of the Committee Companys commitment to, its compliance and ethical To maintain direct oversight over key compliance and ethical risks programme with both employees and stakeholders, and to and monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of controls in place drive the compliance agenda at Board level.
and any mitigation activities To evaluate the compliance and ethical aspects of Company Ongoing work culture and make recommendations to the Board on steps to Recognising the need to promote and enhance the Groups be taken to ensure a culture of integrity and honesty compliance and ethics programme further, the establishment of this Committee has enabled greater focus to be given to the work To ensure that ethical policies and practices are subject to an that has been undertaken during the course of the year.
appropriate level of independent internal scrutiny: overseeing the development of, and amendments to the Group Compliance Charter, its Code of Conduct and other compliance policies An independent consultancy was engaged early in 2017 to provide forensic risk consulting services to the Company in relation to the To maintain oversight of the Group Compliance function existing compliance structure, governance, and related process and procedures.
This followed completion of the internal audit To support the Company in any engagement with regulatory bodies, industry groups, advisors and other stakeholders, as work carried out to assess the adequacy of the current controls necessary and where permitted by law, regarding ethical issues environment in relation to the management of the risk of bribery, and compliance matters corruption and or fraud when contracting with third parties, as reported in the Audit Committee report on page 85.
The scope of To oversee, review and approve the adequacy and security work agreed included: understanding the Companys compliance of the Companys whistleblowing line as a tool available for programme and the processes and procedures already in place: employees and third-parties to raise concerns, in confidence, recommending possible enhancements to the Groups antiabout possible wrongdoing bribery and corruption compliance framework and governance: To receive reports and review findings of significant internal and and to suggest appropriate recommendations in relation to external compliance related investigations, audits and reviews financial controls compliance.
and exercise oversight, where possible, over any such investigation impacting the Group During the year, Group Compliance and the independent consultancy worked closely together to identify where proposed Terms of reference ABC enhancements could be implemented and, in light of the The Committee was established during the year and on formation expansion of the Group Compliance functions remit, assessed the approved its terms of reference.
Copies are available on our website.
increased resourcing demands and suggested possible alternative Group Compliance structures for Committee consideration.
Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2017 Members Meetings attended eligible George Pierson Chairman 4 4 Andrea Abt 4 4 Matthias Bichsel 4 4 The senior external specialist and the Companys external legal counsel were invited to attend meetings held during the year.
The Chairman, the Group General Counsel, Group Head of Compliance and Group Head of Legal, and formerly the Director of Legal, Secretarial and Compliance Services, may also be invited to attend meetings as and when appropriate and necessary.
88 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Since formation, the Committee has been actively involved in Third Party Risk Committee assessing the work being undertaken in relation to compliance.
During the year, the Company reviewed the forum by which it Updates have been provided to explain the enhanced compliance considered certain higher-risk third parties, with the aim of processes and procedures that are being embedded across the exercising additional oversight.
As a consequence, the Third Party Group.
These updates have enabled the Committee to monitor Risk Committee TPRC was established, succeeding the existing the continuing development and ongoing implementation of the Agents and Consultants Committee.
The TRPCs remit is to compliance programme.
A key focus of this review has been to ensure the Group engages, renews or varies the terms of reinforce business ownership for compliance risks, as it is believed agreements and ongoing payments with certain third-parties, only this facilitates the embedding of the enhanced compliance after appropriate rigorous due diligence and consideration of the framework across all assets and projects within the Group.
Applications from within the business to enter into, vary or renew any contract or arrangements with any The Companys compliance portal is at the centre of the third-party, as defined by conditions set out in the TRPCs terms compliance programme and is an essential tool for the ongoing of reference, and the circumstances of the proposed appointment scrutiny of third-parties through risk-based due diligence.
Work or variation, will be considered carefully by the TPRC.
Where any has been ongoing throughout 2017 to enhance the functional matters of concern are raised, the TPRC may instruct the Group reliability of this portal and to facilitate automated integration Head of Compliance or any other function, as appropriate, to with the Companys ERP system.
As a result, changes are being take such action as it considers necessary.
The TPRC will report introduced to enable compliance due diligence to be more to this Committee and, at least once a year, will provide a list and automated, thereby enabling greater independent oversight on brief description of all third parties that have fallen within the relevant controls to be exercised by Group Compliance.
envisaged that this work will enable an agreed set of compliance metrics for Group and project related compliance to be produced Conclusion on a more regular basis, thereby capturing individual elements of When I assumed the post of Chairman of this Committee, I was the compliance programme.
This will further enhance the fully aware of the significant effort and resource that the Group had Committees ability to monitor and measure compliance already committed to being an ethical and compliant company implementation at both Group and project levels, and for a and enhancing its compliance framework.
The Board has a firm scorecard of measurable KPIs to be created and reviewed belief that the only way the Company can continue to have a at each Committee meeting.
licence to operate is by applying sound and ethical business practices wherever we work.
We are equally aware that there will Speak Up programme always be more to do and we must always seek to improve and On its formation, the Committee assumed responsibility for the continue to expect the highest standards of behaviour from our Companys Speak Up programme and related policy from the employees and of those working with and for us.
The Board will Audit Committee.
It should, however, be stated that as set out in not tolerate improper business conduct and all necessary action its terms of reference, the Committee aims to work in conjunction will be taken to ensure effective compliance with our policies with the Audit Committee, as required, on the adequacy and and procedures.
security of the programme and will raise any alleged breach of a financial nature to ensure there are no violations to the Companys George Pierson internal financial controls.
Chairman of the Compliance and Ethics Committee 28 February 2018 Going forward, any alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct that are received, either directly or through the Companys Speak Up hotline, will be governed by an investigations protocol, which has been jointly developed by Group Compliance, Group Legal, Group HR and Group Internal Audit.
As part of the new Group Compliance structure, there is now a dedicated resource available to investigate all Speak Up claims, and it is envisaged that this will ensure reported breaches are reviewed and assessed quickly to determine what further investigation is warranted and to ensure that appropriate action is taken.
The Committee receives details of any alleged breaches of the Companys Code of Conduct, the issues reported, together with any proposed action.
During 2017, 102 calls were received in relation to various issues.
Discussions were held with the Committee to outline the relevant investigations and the actions being taken, including preventative activities required to avoid recurrence.
Further details of our Code of Conduct, including the Speak Up facility, are provided on page 65.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 89
