27 GVC aims to provide the worlds safest most trusted gaming platform.
Across our broad product line-up, our objective is that every user plays within their financial means and receives the best service possible.
The Group is committed to three core principles of integrity, fairness and reliability, with our overarching goal, of preventing gaming-related problems arising.
Together with leading research institutes, associations and counselling providers, we have developed measures to create a responsible, safe and reliable place for online gaming.
CUSTOMERS FAIRNESS It is our responsibility to create a gaming environment that is founded on the spirit of fair play.
The trust of our customers is fundamental to our success.
Customer confidence is reliant on us safeguarding the fairness of the games and protecting our customers against fraud.
We work closely with independent authorities which monitor the fairness of the gaming products we offer.
When it comes to fraud and manipulation, our dedicated investigation and online monitoring teams ensure our customers protection.
SECURITY Our gaming sites are subject to strict regulatory oversight and we comply with a wide range of laws, rules, standards and regulations throughout various jurisdictions.
Regular verication of compliance by means of independent reviews confirms that random number generators work as they should and that player funds and personal dataare fully protected.
PREVENTION Gaming is a great source of entertainment for millions of people around the world.
But, for a minority, gaming can cause problems.
We are committed to identifying risks as early as possible and intervening to prevent these problems before they emerge.
We have in place a responsible gaming framework which includes controls to help customers to play within their limits and avoid a situation where gaming causes problems.
RESPONSIBLE GAMING 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2.
party are now well and These have now been embedded into the business ur supply chain is diverse, spanning IT, travel, truly embedded as one enlarged Group.
To encourage the behaviours sponsorship, translation services, telephony G Although our business is always changing, they represent, we introduced an initiative called O and afliates amongst others.
In 2017 we expanding and pushing forward, our people have TheKudos Club, which provides a mechanism for integrated management of our suppliers into a single settled into their roles and teams.
individuals to recognise their colleagues, complete Enterprise Resource Planning system.
challenges related to them and be rewarded for doing Our approach to supply chain management is People so.
In 2017, c. 1,000 employees participated in more designed to: As a result of our disposal of the Turkish-facing than 13,000 challenges while over 1,700 employees operations, 125 roles either went with the new recognised colleagues on over 14,000 occasions.
Reduce risk: owners or left the business.
This is never an easy This has had the effect of increasing employee Develop mutually beneficial long-term business decision, but was essential as part of the disposal engagement and enhancing working relationships.
relationships: and and imperative to support our organisations strategy and future.
2017 Employee statistics Deliver best value from our suppliers on a GVC is a highly diverse and culturally rich organisation long-termbasis.
As part of the strategy it was necessary to restructure embracing 59 different nationalities, making it both some of our teams internally.
To provide our players Our procurement policy includes a Supplier cosmopolitan as well as a challenging place to work.
with a truly engaging and stimulating experience, we Acknowledgement and Self-Certication Checklist, created a new role, Director of Customer Experience Our future success depends on the skills, knowledge which requests information relating to: & Engagement, Sportsbook, as well as a Marketing and endeavours of our employees, which is Financial strength to ensure long-term reliability: Director Casino to oversee all of our casino offerings, supported by our commitment to ongoing training enabling us to increase our marketing potency and and learning.
We foster and nurture a culture that Ability to deliver enduring quality and value: drive casino acquisition and CRM best practice enables people to learn, develop and achieve, Commitment to innovation and ability to help us across our Casino operations.
We also appointed irrespective of their nationality or gender.
Life is develop new products, processes and ways of anew Head of Cashcade to help drive our Casino fast-paced and highly demanding, but for those working that will provide us with a commercial andBingo brands.
with the right skills and temperament, there are advantage: and great opportunities.
Process Commitment to a wider corporate responsibility 2017 KEY EMPLOYEE STATISTICS In 2017, we implemented a new Enterprise Resource agenda relating to the environment, labour Planning ERP system.
This was the first phase of Average number of employees 2,656 employment standards, equal opportunities and Evolve, our HR programme, which was launched Number of employees as at 31December 2,657 employee rights.
to streamline and introduce new and efficient Net change 17.4% procedures to our HR processes.
It includes In return, we aim to operate to the highest Appointments in 2017 1,118 talent acquisition and retention, performance professional standards, treating our suppliers management, development, manager training and in a fair and reasonable manner and settling Voluntary attrition 2017 17.5% succession planning, as well as the day-to-day invoices promptly.
Redundancies in 2017 149 Engagement Total attrition 27.7% With a business of c. 3,000 employees across 14 Average length of service 3 years 8 months locations, it is vital we keep our people well informed AGE BREAKDOWN AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 and aware of our business objectives and how Employees under 25 270 they can help deliver them.
We believe regular and transparent communication is key to ensuring Employees 25-29 54 we have an engaged and motived workforce.
Employees 30-49 1,658 Channels we utilise to do this include: a Group-wide Employee 50 and over 74 intranet which is updated on a daily basis: regular GENDER BREAKDOWN AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 webcasts from the CEO, physical town hall meetings We aim to operate to the highest in our ofce locations: monthly manager briefs which Female 926 professional standards, treating our are cascaded to all employees via their managers: Male 1,730 suppliers in a fair and reasonable as well as discussion forums.
Our Pro Bono and manner and settling invoices promptly.
charity events further details below also increase engagement between employees.
Culture and values Following extensive consultation with our staff, we identied five corporate values which we believe are core to the way in which we operate.
These are: Collaboration Dynamism Ownership Recognition Transparency 3,000 EMPLOYEES across 14 locations, it is vital we keep our people well informed and aware of our business objectives and how they can help deliver them.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 29 4.
PROVIDERS COMMUNITY IMPACT OF CAPITAL ENGAGEMENT n addition to our commitment to provide a e are a low-impact company, but we he online gaming sector is a rapidly evolving safe and secure gaming environment for our are not complacent and monitor our industry, subject to continuous change in I customers, we recognise we have a wider W environmental performance by measuring T areas including regulation, technology and responsibility to support charities located in the the water and energy we consume, the amount of competition.
Our objective is to help current and communities in which our ofces are located.
physical waste we produce and the amount of CO2 potential investors to have a greater understanding As a business we make donations to a variety gas we produce through air travel.
We currently of both our business model and the industrial of responsible gambling organisations across monitor these impacts from our six main ofces environment in which we operate.
and plan to roll out monitoring across our locations There is no set calendar that governs how we interact this year.
CSR goes beyond responsible gaming and as a with our stakeholders, who include investors, lenders, Group we actively encourage and support our Key metrics show that in 2017: politicians, regulators and business partners amongst employees involvement within local communities.
others but we seek to communicate regularly through A total of 4,493 air ights taken by employees We operate a Pro Bono scheme which encourages a variety of channels which include: 2016:3,554 air ights producing an estimated all employees to spend up to two days out of the 1,199 metric tons of CO2 2016: 865 metric tons : Providing shareholders and lenders with ofce on charitable, community or environmental regular updates on both corporate and financial projects each year.
In 2017, we substantially increased Our highest energy consumption resulted developments throughout the course of the engagement in the programme, with our staff from ourseven data centres, which consumed financial year: contributing over 2,000 hours on a varied range of 5.4millionKWh of electricity in total community projects including homeless shelters, 2016:8.4million KWh : and Regular meetings between our executive team and childrens orphanages, helping the elderly and financial analysts, current as well as prospective On average, each full-time employee in our six animal shelters.
investors, but with a focus around the publication mainofces every month used: of our half year and full year results: Compared to 2016, we increased our contribution 225 KWh of electricity 2016: 289 KWh : to responsible gambling charities organisations by Investor and industry presentations, online 39%.
Through the scheme our employees have 520 litres of water 2016: 801 litres : webcasts, the publishing of financial reports and worked on homeless projects in Gibraltar, Soa analysts coverage, to name but a few, all of which produced 5.2kg of waste 2016: 6.5kg : and and Vienna, while in London and Vienna they have are publicly available on our corporate website: assisted a number of local charities for the elderly.
com: and Our Hyderabad workforce has a long-standing Our approach to the environment and the community Using our regular interactions to gain a greater tradition and commitment to working closely with goes beyond our own business.
Our suppliers understanding of investors and other stakeholders numerous educational and child-centric charities, corporate responsibility agenda relating to the perceptions about our strategy, performance providing funds and volunteers at various schools and environment is also assessed before we enter into andprospects.
Over in the Philippines our employees contractual arrangements.
We believe that by aligning have worked with local schools, providing goods our interests we can make a contribution towards and services.
Environmental and wildlife projects sustaining our environment.
supported during the year included cleaning up a local beach in Gibraltar to help protect local marine life and the building of new enclosures for Wildlife Heritage Foundation and local farms.
4,493 ights taken by employees producing an estimated 1,199 metric tons of CO2.
Our objective is to help current and 5.4M KWH potential investors to have a greater of electricity consumed understanding of both our business across all eight of our model and the industrial environment data centres.
225M KWH used by each full-time employee in our six main ofces monthly.
5.2KG 2,000 HOURS of waste produced by each contributed by our staff in 2017 full-time employee in our six on a varied range of community main ofces monthly.
projects including homeless shelters, childrens orphanages, helping the elderly and animal shelters.
