Social investment Charities and NGOs do vital work in areas such as health, 2017 pro bono work by sector % education, human rights and the environment, often with very limited resources.
Arts 6% We can help them increase their impact by providing Education 21% professional communications services for little or no fee.
Environment 2% This pro bono work can play an essential role, enabling Health 16% them to raise awareness and funds, recruit members and Human rights 13% achieve campaign objectives.
It benefits our business too, Local community 42% offering rewarding creative opportunities for our people and resulting in many award-winning campaigns that raise the creative profile of our companies.
In addition to pro bono work, our agencies negotiate free media space for charity campaigns, enabling them to Social impact reach a wide audience.
We also make cash donations and Our support helps NGOs and charities to carry out encourage our people to get involved through volunteering important work in areas such as improving health and fundraising.
Around 53% of our companies have a and education, and protecting human rights.
We have formal volunteering policy and 60% organised volunteering conducted research to understand the value of this impact activities for their people during 2017.
This shows that our pro bono work and included on our sustainability website.
charitable donations generated social benefits worth around 165 million in 2017, 2016: 156 million for What we gave in 2017 example, by helping to improve health and well-being In 2017, our social investment increased to 20.4 million in communities.
2016: 19.5 million, equivalent to 0.97% of reported profits before tax 2016: 1.03%.
Cash donations to Common Ground charities stood at 7.7 million and our pro bono work We launched Common Ground in 2016 a collaboration based on fees the organisations would have paid for between the worlds six biggest advertising and marketing our work if we had charged commercially was worth services groups and the United Nations.
The value of our social investment is to use the power of communication to accelerate progress pro bono work and charitable donations increased towards achieving the 17 Sustainable Development Goals by 5% on the previous year.
Free media space negotiated by our companies was Our focus as WPP is gender equality.
More than 26 worth 29.0 million in 2017 2016: 22.8 million of our companies have participated so far, developing over bringing our total social contribution to 49.4 million 33 projects.
Our industry has particular responsibility for 2016: 42.3 million.
identifying and addressing gender-biased stereotypes in the media and for promoting equal opportunities for women Total social contribution m and girls.
To ensure the longevity of this initiative, we 49.4 have developed a long-term, strategic partnership with 46.9 42.3 Charitable 40.2 UN Women, focusing on collaboration between local 39.4 contributions UN offices and WPP companies.
Pro bono Examples of our work for Common Ground and other Free media space pro bono campaigns are included in our Pro bono book wpp.
com probono2017 and the Common Ground website globalcommonground.
13 14 15 16 17 61 WPPAnnual Report 2017 62 WPPAnnual Report 2017 The annual essay A 20th Century Lesson for 21st Century Brands By Jeremy Bullmore any years ago, the late Len Heath, then in his mid-forties, sold his interest in an Madvertising agency and took meout to lunch.
Afterwards, heoffered to drive me back to my office.
I protested my office was no more than 10 minutes walk away but Len insisted.
And when we got to his car, Iunderstood why.
It was a shining, stunning, elegant, arrogant, latest-model Aston Martin.
It was the first time Id been inside an Aston Martin andit didnt disappoint.
You may be interested to know why I bought this car, said Len.
I bought itbecause I saw an advertisement forit.
But thats not the interesting bit, said Len.
Whats interesting is that I saw that advertisement when I was 14.
63 WPPAnnual Report 2017 The annual essay A 20th Century Lesson for 21st Century Brands Ive never tried to track that advertisement down but I For an advertisement to have enough potency to generate dont feel the need to.
We can know with some confidence a 50,000 sale 30 years later, we can be certain ofmuch a great deal about it: not only what it was like but what it more.
Crucially, there would have been a client perhaps most certainly wasnt.
an individual, perhaps a number of senior AstonMartin It wasnt focused on price.
executives who knew that the car they were offering for It didnt emphasise an easy payment scheme.
It didnt sale was a great deal more than the sum of its mechanical suggest that stocks were limited.
In other words, it was in parts.
Yes, they might have wanted to draw attention to its no way tactical.
Its intention would have been to reinforce brake horsepower and its powers of acceleration and any the facts and feelings about Aston Martin that already other factual aspects of its competitive performance that existed: to increase its wantability: and so to sell as many could be expressed in hard, verifiable numbers.
But they Aston Martins as possible, both immediately and forever: would also have known that there was something about while never seeming desperate to do so.
this car that defied definition or deconstruction.
They wouldnt have used the word brand because in those days only washing powders were brands but they would have A dvertisings evangelists have known from their own besotted feelings for the car and from lengthy conversations with its owners that for a long wanted advertising to be two-dimensional printed image to convey the heady appeal recognised not as a cost but as of this multi-dimensional car, something called artistry was an absolute necessity.
And its true that Someone in their agency must have had the vision.
it can be There must have been a writer and an art director who, almost certainly elliptically, perhaps even poetically, conjured up the words and the pictures that conveyed The client and their agency would have known that the power, the beauty and the downright drama of what, only a tiny proportion of individuals could afford an Aston prosaically, was just an extremely expensive motorcar.
Martin so they must have considered running an exclusively The car in the advertisement that Len Heath saw and direct mail campaign.
Such pinpoint targeting and the the car that, 30 years later, Len Heath bought would, ruthless elimination of media waste could have seemed the physically, have been very different.
But the essence acme of efficiency.
But if theyd adopted that approach, the of Aston Martin, as captured in the advertisement, 14-year old Len Heath would never have been captivated.
had remained alive: and perhaps even been enhanced.
Advertisings evangelists have long wanted advertising to be recognised not as a cost but as an investment.
And its true that it can be.
That Aston Martin advertisement was delivering a return 30 years after it had first appeared.
Abold claim, certainly: and one impossible to quantify: butno one in marketing can doubt its truth.
Not all advertisements, however, have such investment value.
A price promotion advertisement, for example, will contribute nothing to the worth of the brand: indeed, it may actually devalue it.
Online advertising can be exceptionally effective at triggering immediate action: but research studies reveal it to be far less effective than traditional mass media at building and nourishing brands over time: though not, its important to emphasise, at the expense of immediate sales.
64 WPPAnnual Report 2017 The growth of short-termism in marketing has been well-documented.
A McKinsey Global Institute report Now... the wise and sceptical reader will say: Sounds plausible but wheres the evidence?
from last year found most executives believing that We unhesitatingly recommend a new book short-term pressures continue to accelerate.
A chief called Profit Ability: The Business Case for marketing officer islikely to be in his job for a shorter Advertising.
It quantifies the impact that different time than any other senior executive.
Reporting times forms of advertising have on the bottom line in continue to shrink.
Ifpeople are going to be judged and both the short and the longer term.
The authors rewarded mainly on the basis of sales volume this quarter, say: Following a profit-damaging drift to short and may well be working on another brand within 18 termism in marketing, Profit Ability swings the months, theres little to encourage them to acquire and spotlight back onto creating shareholder value.
practise one of the most priceless skills in marketing.
It provides empirical evidence for what Its not just Aston Martin that has brand values which businesses can expect advertising to deliver.
It shows that advertising should be used contain and exceed its functional values.
So do all brands, as a powerful investment for growth.
And its In his foreword, Patrick Barwise, Emeritus those values, far more than patents, that protect their Professor of Management and Marketing at the brands against predators, that preserve their desirability, London Business School, highlights a modern that allow them to command a decent price and just as dilemma faced by many CEOs and CFOs: while long as those values are continually refreshed that give fully aware of the importance of brands, they are them every chance of delivering well into the future.
under constant pressure to deliver short-term results.
He writes: This important, evidencebased study will help them work with their I t costs no more to be consistently CMOs to address this dilemma.
Profit Ability: The Business Case for Advertising, Special Report 2018. true to the voice of your brand: Commissioned by Thinkbox: compiled by Ebiquity and Gain Theory: promoted by Thinkbox and The Marketing Society of Great Britain.
it just demands diligence and Copies available from thinkbox.
a small degree of artistry Over 60 years ago, David Ogilvy wrote: Every advertisement should be thought of as a contribution to the complex symbol which is the brand image.
Properly conceived, every advertisement should be an investment in the value of the brand.
But too many advertisements, and increasingly so, seem content to be no more than impersonal sales pitches.
It costs no more to be consistently true to the voice of your brand and it greatly increases the value of your marketing investment.
All it demands is diligence and a small degree of artistry.
Nobody questions the necessity of capital expenditure in the protection of a companys tangible assets.
For many companies, their most valuable assets are classified as intangible: their consumer brands.
And that intangibility, ifit is to be preserved and quite as much as plant and machinery needs regular, budgeted maintenance.
It needs the protection and regular nourishment that only singular brand communications can deliver.
All advertisements, however modestly, should strive for the Aston Martin effect.
