How we're doing Sustainability review Sustainability and our client work Effective marketing has the power to shape ideas and advisors as well as our Human Rights Policy Statement change behaviour.
It can be a powerful tool to bring about and Sustainability Policy.
Our companies incorporate positive change on social and environmental issues and these principles into their own policies and procedures.
to help brands, governments and NGOs achieve their All our people complete online ethics training, which sustainability goals.
Given the power of marketing, it is helps them deal with a wide range of ethical, social and essential that we meet high ethical standards in our work, environmental subjects they may encounter in their work.
have clear policies and procedures governing the way we Topics covered include diversity, human rights, conflicts operate and support our people to make the right decisions.
of interest and avoiding misleading work.
Our online training on anti-bribery and corruption Sustainability in marketing covers the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and UK Bribery We work with clients on sustainability across our Act on issues such as hospitality and gifts, facilitation disciplines.
This work is growing in importance as more payments and the use of third-party advisors.
of our clients seek to develop brands with purpose and Training is updated every 2-3 years and our people to integrate social and environmental values into their are required to repeat the training following each update communication.
This can include: and on joining the Group.
As part of our audit process, Data investment management: Providing insight into we monitor for non-completion of training and remediate future trends, changing consumer attitudes to social where we find this.
Over 188,100 people have completed and environmental issues and testing the impact of our anti-bribery and corruption training and over 187,100 sustainability strategy and communications approaches.
have completed our ethics training since the last update in Brand consulting: Integrating social and environmental summer 2016. values into brand and business strategy.
Consumer and citizen communications: Helping clients Management and compliance communicate credibly with consumers and citizens on Responsibility for ethics and compliance lies with our sustainability.
This can include cause-related marketing Group Chief Counsel.
We have a Group-level Committee that brings together brands with charities and social that meets regularly to discuss ethical and compliance marketing campaigns for NGOs and governments issues and new risk areas.
Committee members include addressing health, safety and environmental issues.
the Group Chief Counsel, Group Chief Privacy Officer Internal communications: Engaging internal audiences and Deputy General Counsel, Director of Internal Audit, on social and environmental issues.
Group Finance Director and the Chief Talent Officer.
Stakeholder communications: Our public relations and The Committee met twice in 2017. public affairs companies help clients to communicate Senior managers in all our companies and our business with regulators, the media, NGOs and the public on and supplier partners are asked to sign a copy of the WPP sustainability issues.
Code of Business Conduct each year to confirm they will comply with its principles.
Ethical standards and culture Breaches or alleged breaches of our Code are We aim to create a consistent culture across WPP investigated by the WPP legal and internal audit teams.
companies and locations, helping our people to apply Our people can report concerns or suspected cases of our standards and make the right decisions.
Our policy misconduct in confidence through our third party-managed framework is supported by training and guidance for Right to Speak facility, overseen by our legal and internal our people and the work of our HR, compliance, audit audit departments.
Our people can access it via phone and sustainability teams.
or email and report concerns in their local language.
It is The WPP Code of Business Conduct provides the ethical publicised through induction packs, the Group intranet, framework for WPP and our companies.
It summarises the WPP Policy Book and our ethics training.
There were our values, principles and key points of policy that apply to 106 calls made via Right to Speak during 2017, all of everyone at WPP.
It is supported by more detailed policies which were followed up, investigated where appropriate in areas such as anti-bribery and corruption, hospitality and reported to the Audit Committee.
and gifts, facilitation payments and the use of third-party 42 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Associates, affiliates and acquisitions Human rights We expect associate companies those in which we Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for hold a minority stake and affiliate companies preferred WPP.
We aim to prevent, identify and address any negative partners to whom we may refer business to adopt ethical impacts on human rights associated with our business standards that are consistent with our own.
We look for opportunities to positively promote Our due diligence process for acquisitions and expansion human rights, including through our pro bono work.
into new markets includes a review of ethical risks Our human rights policy statement summarises our including those relating to bribery and corruption, human approach.
It reflects international standards and principles, rights or ethical issues associated with client work.
including the International Bill of Human Rights, the UNs Acquired businesses must adopt our policies and their Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the people must undertake our ethics training within a month International Labour Organizations Declaration on of joining the Group.
This is included in the integration Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the plan agreed before the acquisition is finalised and we Childrens Rights and Business Principles.
It is published monitor progress after acquisition.
We are a member of the United Nations Global Compact Compliance with marketing standards and committed to its 10 principles, including those relating We expect our companies to comply with all relevant legal to human rights.
This review forms part of our third requirements and codes of practice for marketing standards communication on progress and further information in the work they produce for clients.
A small number of is published on our website.
the campaigns we produce give rise to complaints, some of which are upheld by marketing standards authorities.
Our direct and indirect human rights impacts Our companies take action where needed to prevent a recurrence.
Direct impact Our agencies have policies and processes to ensure that Indirect inuence Our people online advertising does not appear on sites with illegal, illicit Indirect inuence or unsuitable content.
We work with suppliers and other Indirect inuence partners on this issue and support initiatives such as The City On-site of London Police Operation Creative.
In 2017, GroupM contractors participated in the EU Commission Follow the Money Online Advertising IPR enforcement expert meetings.
Workers in our supply chain Ethical decisions in our work Citizens and consumers impacted by our client campaigns and Our work for clients can sometimes raise ethical issues, pro bono work for human rights organisations for example work for government clients, work relating to sensitive products or marketing to children.
We have a review and referral process for work that may present an ethical risk.
Before accepting potentially sensitive work, our people Our main human rights impact is as a major employer.
are required to elevate the decision to the most senior We aim to embed respect for human rights into our person in the relevant office and then to the most senior employment practices.
This includes encouraging diversity, executive of the WPP company in the country concerned, preventing discrimination, providing safe workplaces, who will decide if further referral to a WPP executive is recognising the rights of our people to freedom of required.
Our people are trained on this referral process association and collective bargaining, and not tolerating during our ethics training.
harassment or any form of forced, compulsory or child Companies also have copy-checking and clearance labour.
Human rights is included in our compulsory processes through which campaigns are reviewed ethics training.
by the legal team before publication.
Requirements We work with supplier partners on human rights and are particularly comprehensive in sectors such as set clear standards through our Supplier Code of Conduct, pharmaceutical marketing which are highly regulated.
43 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Sustainability review Sustainability and our client work We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery, forced Our public affairs companies include: Burson Cohn & labour or human trafficking in any part of our business or Wolfe and its affiliates: Prime Policy Group, Direct Impact supply chain.
See page 60 and our Modern Slavery Act and Penn Schoen Berland: Finsbury: Glover Park Group: Transparency Statement for more information.
Hill Knowlton Strategies and its affiliates: Dewey Square Group and Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates: Living wage OGR: Benenson Strategy Group.
The majority of their In the UK we are now a living wage employer accredited work takes place in the US and the EU, although many by the Living Wage Foundation.
This means that WPP, clients are multinational businesses.
the parent company, and all our UK companies pay the voluntary living wage to our people and all on-site Our standards contractors such as cleaning, security and catering staff Our political activities are governed by our Code of in the UK.
This exceeds the UKs statutory national Business Conduct and other ethical policies see above, living wage.
which commit us to acting ethically in all aspects of our Our policy is not to offer unpaid internships and business and to maintaining the highest standards of apprenticeships anywhere in the world.
These apply to all employees, directors and entities in the Group.
Operating in sensitive countries Many of our companies are members of professional We use a variety of sources to understand and manage organisations and abide by their codes of conduct.
any risks associated with different countries of operation, Examples include the UKs Association of Professional including the Transparency International Corruption Index, Political Consultants APPC, the self-regulatory body Human Rights Watch country reports and any relevant forUK public affairs practitioners, and the European governmental guidance.
We comply with all relevant PublicAffairs Consultancies Association EPACA, the sanctions regimes.
representative trade body for public affairs consultancies working with EU institutions.
Human rights and marketing WPP companies comply with all applicable laws and Client marketing campaigns can have an impact on human regulations governing the disclosure of public affairs rights and, where relevant, we work with our clients on activities.
In the US, this includes the Lobby Disclosure Act these issues.
This includes protecting childrens rights in and the Foreign Agent Registration Act, which are designed relation to marketing.
WPP companies will not undertake to achieve transparency on client representation and require work designed to mislead on human rights issues.
lobby firms to register the names of clients on whose behalf Our companies provide creative services to organisations they contact legislators or executive branch personnel.
involved in protecting and promoting human rights, often A number of our companies are listed on the voluntary on a pro bono basis.
This is our main opportunity to EU Transparency Register of lobbying activities.
Many examples are It is WPPs practice that those of its US companies whose included in our Pro bono book, wpp.
com probono 2017. sole or primary business is lobbying have representatives of both major political parties among senior management.
Public policy and lobbying We will not undertake work that is intended or designed We are involved in public policy activity in two ways.
We do not knowingly represent front groups public affairs businesses carry out work for clients, including organisations which purport to be independent NGOs but direct lobbying of public officials and influencing public are controlled by another organisation for the purpose of opinion.
On occasion, we also engage in the public policy misleading and seek to ensure we are aware of who the process on issues that affect WPP and our companies.
underlying client is before taking on work.
We believe that business can make a valuable Mark Linaugh, Chief Talent Officer, has overall contribution to the debate on regulation and government responsibility for our public affairs practices and is a member policy.
However, to protect the public interest, it is of our Ethics Committee.
Ultimate responsibility for our important that business lobbying is conducted with political activities rests with our Executive Directors.
Any associates carrying out political activities on our behalf are expected to comply with our Code of Business Conduct and other relevant policies.
44 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Political contributions We follow Government rules in relation to cooling-off Our policy on political donations is included in the periods for people joining WPP from public office or the WPP Policy Book that applies to all WPP employees and public sector.
Our internal audit team assesses compliance with our Policy Book as part of its Group-wide Membership of trade associations audit program.
WPP the parent company does not make We are members of trade associations, industry groups political contributions.
WPP companies are not permitted to and memberships organisations which undertake lobbying make cash political donations.
Any other donations require activity on behalf of their members.
prior approval of the Executive Directors.
This includes At a parent company level our memberships in the attendance at political party conferences and events which US are the American Benefits Council, British American are classed as political contributions in some jurisdictions.
Business Inc, The Business Council, Business Roundtable, Council on Foreign Relations, Northeast Business Group Political action committees on Health and the Wall Street Journal CEO Council.
In countries where it is consistent with applicable law, In the UK they are the All Party Parliamentary individuals working at WPP companies may make personal Corporate Responsibility Group, British American voluntary political contributions directly to candidates for Business London Transatlantic Council, Business Disability office.
Several of our businesses, including Burson Cohn Forum, CBI, Chambre fide Commerce Franaise fide Grande & Wolfe Prime Policy, Glover Park Group, Hill Knowlton Bretagne, China Britain Business Council, Institute of Strategies and Wexler & Walker, also maintain political Business Ethics, PARC, Trilateral Commission, Women action committees PACs which accept voluntary on Boards and the World Economic Forum.
donations from their people to support political candidates.
Memberships at an operating company level include During 2017 and early 2018, around $172,000 was given the local advertising, PR, public affairs, market research through these PACs to federal candidates.
or other relevant industry association as well as national chambers of commerce and business councils.
Lobbying and political advocacy We occasionally contribute to the debate on public policy Privacy and data security issues relevant to our business, sometimes operating WPP companies work with many categories of data and through our public affairs companies.
For example, we we use the term data in its broadest sense.
We include support a Brexit deal that allows freedom of movement within this definition client data, consumer data and for qualified employees and we are working with other all information and data related to the operation of businesses and the CBI to engage with the UK Government our businesses.
We have rigorous privacy and data security standards We engage in partnerships and advocacy on and procedures governing how we collect, use and store sustainability issues, for example, through the Common this data to protect consumer privacy and reduce risks Ground initiative in support of the UN Global Goals, to our business.
WPP is one of the founding members of the We further strengthened our procedures in 2017 to Business Against Slavery Forum in partnership with ensure we comply with the requirements of the EUs other businesses and the UK Government.
General Data Protection Regulation GDPR across We gave evidence to a number of Government our business.
committees during 2017 in the UK.
Bethan Crockett, Senior Director of Brand Safety and Digital Risk at GroupM, gave evidence to the Select Committee on Digital, Culture, Media and Sport inquiry on fake news.
Sir Martin Sorrell gave evidence to the House of Lords advertising industry inquiry.
Our companies also contribute to public debate in areas where they have expertise and a special interest our digital and research companies, for example, are involved on privacy and data protection issues.
45 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Sustainability review Sustainability and our client work Our policies and standards Managing privacy risks in our companies Our Data Code of Conduct applies to all WPP companies We take a risk-based approach to managing privacy, and provides a clear framework for the responsible prioritising engagement with our companies who collect collection, management, use and protection of data.
It is and use most personal data.
supported by our global IT security, privacy and social Our annual Data Health Checker survey helps us to media policies and our security standards, known as our identify privacy risks and assess data security practices General Computing Controls, which are based on ISO in our companies.
A summary of results for 2017 will 27001.
These standards will include GDPR from 2018. be published on our sustainability website in due course.
Where necessary, we are reviewing and updating our Our internal audit team reviews privacy risks and policies to ensure they reflect the GDPR requirements.
practices as part of its Group-wide audit program.
In 2018, We have appointed a Group Chief Privacy Officer to lead we will begin auditing company compliance with specific our work on privacy and partner with our companies and GDPR controls, mandated by our Group Chief Privacy security and audit teams to promote privacy best practices.
Privacy leads in our companies oversee the Each of our major company networks now has a GDPR implementation of our policies at a local level.
They report compliance plan for assessing and managing data risks, progress to the Group via our Group Chief Counsel, Group which includes: conducting supplier due diligence: updating Chief Privacy Officer and Group Finance Director.
policies and procedures: and training employees.
Any supplier who collects, manages or stores employee, Some networks have established a GDPR Steering consumer or client data on behalf of WPP, our companies Committee to oversee progress.
In addition, in 2017, and our clients must have the right data security and we created new senior privacy officer roles in our Kantar, privacy standards in place.
We conduct due diligence on GroupM and Wunderman networks to lead their work data suppliers and embed privacy requirements in our on GDPR compliance.
supplier contracts, which include reference to GDPR.
Our companies are embedding a range of privacy best practices to align with the GDPR, such as ensuring privacy Training and resources impact assessments are conducted where appropriate and Our SAFER DATA platform provides information, embedding privacy by design principles within our systems.
guidance and resources to help our people understand We have consolidated and outsourced management of privacy risks and to apply our policies to their work.
our IT systems and infrastructure across WPP companies.
We have added a range of resources to help our This allows consistency in data security practices.
companies comply with the GDPR and engage with clients and suppliers on privacy.
These include our GDPR toolkit, Working with clients and others which contains guidance notes, model data protection We partner with clients, industry organisations and peer contract clauses, template privacy impact assessment companies on privacy issues.
For example, we are working tools, policy templates and other resources.
with the Internet Advertising Bureau IAB Europe to help The portal also includes a SAVEMYDATA reporting develop its GDPR Transparency & Consent Framework.
tool, to allow our people to raise concerns and questions GDPR also represents an opportunity for the Group they have about data issues direct with our in-house to work with clients to help them embed privacy best legal teams.
practice within their marketing and campaign strategies.
Privacy and data protection are everyones responsibility.
This includes, for example, the integration of privacy by All employees in the Group complete our mandatory design principles into deliverables and ensuring GDPR global online Privacy & Data Security Awareness training.
best practice is adopted for managing consent.
This has been completed by 208,419 people since 2016.
We have also conducted over 50 face-to-face training sessions with our companies and country leads on GDPR, in Europe, Asia and North America.
