How we're doing Sustainability review Environment We aim for WPP to be a low carbon and resource in line with the Paris Agreement may affect our client base efficient Group.
and the potential impact on WPP.
We support the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Climate change and our business Disclosures and aim to develop our disclosures in line Climate change is a major threat to global social and with the Task Forces recommendations.
We support urgent action to tackle We estimate the cost to society from our emissions climate change through the Paris Agreement.
We have to be 5.3 million, see page 40. been working to cut our carbon footprint since 2006.
Taking action on climate change reduces risks to our Our climate strategy business.
It cuts costs associated with energy use and travel: We work to reduce our carbon emissions through a enables us to comply with the environmental requirements focus on: in client tender processes: supports employee engagement: Office energy use: Improving the energy efficiency of and strengthens our credibility as advisors to clients on our buildings and IT, and consolidating our office space.
Air travel: Reducing non-essential flights by promoting video conferencing.
We offset 100% of emissions from Governance and risk management our business air travel.
Paul Richardson, Group Finance Director, has overall Renewable energy: Increasing the proportion responsibility for our climate change strategy and of renewable electricity purchased.
He gives an annual assessment of sustainability risks and opportunities including Our target was to reduce carbon emissions to 1.8 tonnes climate change and performance to the Board.
of CO e per person by 2020, a 47% reduction on our 2006 2 Climate change-related risks are integrated into our baseline.
We also have an annual reduction target of 4%.
Performance and We use a carbon intensity target per person, as headcount updated risk implications are reviewed by the Audit is closely linked to levels of business activity and this allows Committee on a bi-annual basis.
Assessment of risk is us to reflect the impact of acquisitions and disposals informed by feedback from investors, clients and our without needing to adjust our baseline.
Types of risk considered include potential for We have met our target ahead of a schedule and will increased regulatory requirements, financial risks associated set a new target during 2018.
We aim to align our target with energy costs, reputational risks, physical risks i. e. with climate science and the requirements of the Science weather-related to our offices, and the opportunities Based Targets Initiative.
to advise our clients on sustainability strategy and We participate in the CDP Climate Change program, communications and low-carbon products.
We are a collaboration of institutional investors, and scored B in analysing how the transition to a low-carbon economy 2017 for our climate strategy and reporting 2016: A-.
Decoupling emissions from business growth Index 2006 100 280 Emissions 258 Headcount Revenue 240 200 169 160 120 85 80 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 54 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Performance in 2017 Carbon intensity 2006-2017 Tonnes of CO e We reduced our carbon footprint per person by 8% 4 50 year-on-year and by 50% against our 2006 baseline.
40 3 We also reduced our carbon footprint per million revenue 30 1.80 1.71 2 by 13% year-on-year and by 67% compared with 2006.
20 1 Since 2006, we have reduced absolute carbon emissions 15.03 10 by 39,800 tonnes, a 15% reduction.
0 0 The reduction in our carbon footprint this year is due 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 to improvements in office energy consumption, an increase in the proportion of energy purchased from renewable Headcount intensity Revenue intensity Target headcount left scale right scale intensity sources including renewable energy certificates RECs and a reduction in business air travel.
Changes in scope 2 carbon emissions factors reflecting a global increase in renewable energy generation have also had an impact.
Building and IT energy use Our energy use decreased by 3% year-on-year due We invest in low-carbon, energy-efficient office buildings.
to improvements in office energy efficiency and We are also consolidating our offices, aiming to use space consolidation of office space.
Since 2006, our total more efficiently and encourage collaboration between our energy use has increased by 7% but energy use per companies.
When we lease, purchase, fit out or renovate person has fallen by 37%.
a building larger than 50,000 square feet, we require it to Air travel fell by 4% year-on-year total miles travelled be certified to an  green building and miles per person.
This is due to cost controls as well standard.
This includes the US standard LEED and the as an increase in the use of our videoconferencing facilities.
We estimate this reduces energy Since 2006, total miles travelled have increased by 32% use by around 21% per location.
but miles per employee has fallen by 22%.
Offices below 50,000 square feet must either be certified or assessed against our own scorecard covering energy and Carbon footprint in 2017 % carbon: water: materials and waste: travel: and health & safety.
Today, over 4.7 million square feet, 20% of our total Stationary fuel combustion 3% floor space, is certified to recognised standards 2016: 18% Purchased electricity 45% against our target of 25% by 2020.
We have made steady Business air travel 39% progress since 2007 when 1% of our floor space was Other estimated impacts 13% certified, and have a pipeline of major projects in cities in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
We aim to design and run our offices in a way that promotes our peoples well-being, looking at factors such as indoor air quality especially in large congested cities, thermal comfort, lighting levels, noise and acoustics.
This is good for our people and can contribute to increased productivity.
To improve our understanding of healthy buildings, we successfully tested the WELL Building Standard at our operating company GTBs new offices in Shanghai.
We aim to follow this standard for major projects.
Our managed print program is being deployed at 56 of our largest locations globally and is expected to reduce paper use by 15% and printer energy use by 61% at these locations.
Emission factors CO e emissions have been calculated on the basis of measured or 2 1.
Reporting standard estimated energy use, fuel use and miles travelled, multiplied by the Our carbon emissions statement 2017 has been prepared in accordance relevant carbon emission factors.
Our data is based on the following with the World Resource Institute WRI and World Business Council emissions factors: for Sustainable Development WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition Emission scope Emission factors used the GHG Protocol.
IPCC 2006 Guidelines for National Scope 1 Greenhouse Gas Inventories fuel used to heat 2.
Greenhouse gases using global warming potentials WPP premises All greenhouse gases emissions figures are in metric tonnes of carbon from the 2007 IPCC Fourth dioxide equivalents CO e. They include three of the six greenhouse 2 Assessment Report.
gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol carbon dioxide CO2, methane Scope 2 For the US: US Environmental CH and nitrous oxide N O.
Per fluorocarbons PFCs, hydro 4 2 purchased electricity Protection Agency eGRID 2016 fluorocarbons HFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF6 emissions have released in February 2018 been omitted as they are not a material source of greenhouse gases For the UK: UK Department for for WPP.
Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Defra, GHG Conversion 3.
Organisational boundary Factors for Company Reporting Emissions data is included for all operations for which WPP and its 2017 For all other countries: subsidiaries have operational control.
International Energy Agency, Associate companies are excluded.
CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion, 2017 Edition 4.
Operational boundary Scope 3 UK Department for Environment, We include the following emissions in our reporting: business air travel Food & Rural Affairs Defra, GHG Direct emissions scope 1 : Fuel used to heat WPP premises Conversion Factors for Company combustion of natural gas and heating oil.
Indirect emissions scope 2 : All purchased electricity, including electricity purchased at grid average carbon intensity, purchased We follow the market-based method of the revised version of the GHG heat and steam, and renewable electricity purchased under specific Protocol Scope 2 Guidance.
For full transparency, we also disclose total contractual instruments, such as green-tariff contracts with supplier electricity purchased at grid average carbon intensity according to the partners and energy attribute certificates e. g. renewable energy location-based method of the Guidance mentioned above.
certificates in the US or guarantees of origin in the EU.
Other indirect emissions scope 3 : Business air travel and an 7.
Data collection methodology estimate for other scope 3 emissions that we do not currently Data used to calculate CO2e emissions is collected quarterly through measure on a global basis, including emissions from leased cars, WPPs financial reporting system, and includes some estimated data taxis and couriers.
This estimate is an additional 15% that we add e. g. in some locations electricity usage is estimated based on to our carbon footprint and is shown under other estimated headcount or floor space.
In 2017, our data covered 99% of our scope 3 emissions.
The remaining 1% was extrapolated based on the Groups total headcount at year-end.
Geographic scope Our CO e emissions data covers our worldwide operations.
External assurance Our carbon data is reviewed by Bureau Veritas, an independent assurance provider.
See its Independent Verification Statement on our website wpp.
57 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Sustainability review Environment Renewable energy Value chain emissions We increased the percentage of electricity purchased As well as managing our direct greenhouse gas emissions, we from renewable sources to 26% 2016: 22%, exceeding can have an influence on indirect emissions associated with our 25% target.
our business activities our value chain scope 3 emissions.
In some of our locations it is not possible to purchase To help us prioritise our efforts, we have analysed our electricity via green-tariff contracts.
As an alternative, value chain emissions using data from the UK.
This showed we purchase renewable energy certificates RECs in the that our main sources of greenhouse gas emissions are: US, our largest market.
Each REC purchased is equivalent Day-to-day activities direct emissions : Emissions to purchasing 1MWh of renewable energy and promotes associated with running our business including office investment in renewable energy generation.
energy use, business air travel, commuting and waste.
We purchased 34,900 Green-e Energy certified RECs With the exception of commuting, these emissions are for 2017, enough to offset 49% of the electricity used covered by our current carbon strategy and target.
by WPP companies in the US.
We work with Renewable Goods and services we buy: Emissions associated with the Choice Energy, a US-based business providing clean goods and services we buy from supplier partners to create energy products and services.
marketing campaigns for clients and to run our business.
Advertising we place for clients: Emissions from the Air travel and offsetting physical dissemination of advertising.
We aim to reduce unnecessary business travel and use audio and videoconferencing to replace some More details on our analysis is available on our website.
We are exploring how we can work with clients to reduce Our videoconferencing network now incorporates over the carbon footprint of media campaigns.
We are integrating the We aim to work with supplier partners in more system into our online collaboration platforms, enabling carbon-intensive industries to improve their reporting us to extend video services to all users within the Group.
We cannot eliminate air travel since face-to-face meetings are often essential to our work with clients.
Carbon emissions in our value chain % We offset 100% of our remaining air travel emissions by purchasing high-quality carbon credits.
We work Advertising we place for clients 81% with South Pole Group, a company that develops emissionGoods and services we buy 15% reduction projects.
In 2017, we invested over 150,000 Day-to-day activities 4% to support four renewable energy-generation projects in faster-growing economies.
Together, these projects generate over 380m kWh of renewable electricity a year and create social benefits including around 400 direct jobs.
For example, we are supporting a wind power project in India which generates 268 kWh a year.
The project has created 210 jobs during construction and 150 permanent jobs.
More information and examples are Waste and resources included on our Sustainability website.
We aim to use resources carefully, to reduce waste and to Our operating companies cover the cost of the carbon recycle as much as possible.
To assist our companies, we credits, based on their air travel mileage, which encourages have identified preferred supplier partners for recycling initiatives to reduce air travel.
Since 2007, we have services in all major markets.
We work with landlords purchased and permanently retired over 1.4 million on waste management in our leased properties.
In 2017, we estimate the Group generated 10,696 tonnes of waste 2016: 10,233 of which 54% was recycled.
The remaining 46% was disposed of via landfill or incineration.
Our main waste types are electronic waste and office consumables eg paper, card, cans, plastic bottles and toner cartridges.
