How we're doing Sustainability review t WPP were privileged to work with many pioneers Sustainability and our strategy of sustainable business, helping our clients to create Our sustainability strategy supports progress on brands with purpose and to embed sustainability our strategic priorities in three main ways: Ainto products, marketing and communications.
Access to new business: A growing number of Our own sustainability strategy helps us to meet changing our clients look for communication services partners client expectations, reduce risks and create a more resilient who share their sustainability values and aspirations.
business for the long term.
Our commitment to responsible and sustainable business Demographic, technological, social and environmental practices helps us to build on these partnerships and to forces continue to generate new challenges, uncertainties meet the sustainability requirements in client procurement and opportunities for our clients.
Clients that engaged with us on sustainability A growing and ageing population is creating new were worth 2.11 billion in revenues to the Group in markets but also putting unprecedented demand on public 2017, equivalent to 14% of the total.
The challenge of climate change Access to skills: Strong employment policies, investment and resource scarcity is increasingly felt by sectors from in skills and inclusive working practices help us recruit, agriculture to construction, while other industries benefit motivate and develop the talented people we need to serve from the opportunities associated with low carbon our clients in all disciplines across our locations, including innovation.
Rapid technological change continues to new markets where our industry is less well established.
disrupt old business models while creating new social Our approach to people management is explained on challenges including those associated with the loss of pages 47 to 51. jobs due to automation.
Efficiency, risk and reputation: Managing the social Increasingly citizens, consumers and employees and environmental impacts of our business and selecting expect business to lead in tackling these societal challenges.
supplier partners who adopt standards consistent with our Pioneering businesses are responding and more of their own can reduce costs and risks to the business as well as peers will join them.
They need the best insight, research improving efficiency and safeguarding our reputation.
and communications services to help them do so effectively.
They want a communications partner who understands The UN Global Goals the changing landscape and shares their values.
The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals WPP companies are already advisors to many such provide a framework for government agencies, civil leading businesses.
As our clients increasingly feel the society and the private sector to work together to impact of these wider trends, so their importance is end extreme poverty, inequality and climate change growing for WPP too.
Communications, with its power to change attitudes and influence behaviour, has a key role to play in helping shift society towards more sustainable development.
We support the Goals and can contribute towards progress through our work with clients on sustainability, the actions were taking within our business in areas such as the environment and education and through the Common Ground partnership see page 61 and our other pro bono work.
36 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Creating value through our business Through our business activities we generate value for share owners, clients, our people and for wider society.
We aim to maximise this positive value where possible, as well as minimising negative impacts.
We draw on our 203,000 people, including associates Share owner equity 9,493 million resources and 369 of the Fortune 500 companies are clients 13,162 share owners relationships of WPP companies Natural resources 329,878 MWh of energy use Thousands of supplier partners To provide services Advertising Health & Wellness across all marketing Media Investment Management Digital, eCommerce & Shopper Marketing and communications Data Investment Management Specialist Communications disciplines Public Relations & Public Affairs Sustainability Services Brand Consulting Developing our Global presence, local insight 3,000 offices Creativity and effectiveness for seven consecutive business to help in 112 countries years, WPP has been ranked Creative Holding clients meet their Global Client Teams serve our 51 largest clients Company of the Year at the Cannes International goals Horizontality 53% of revenues from clients Festival of Creativity and ranked Most Effective served in four or more disciplines Holding Company in the Effie Global Effectiveness Shared values sustainable business practices Index for six consecutive years and for the third integrated into our services, operations and consecutive year, WPP has been named the procurement.
Clients that engaged with us on Worlds Top Holding Company by Warc.
sustainability worth 2.11 billion in revenues Generating value Over 1.2 billion returned to share owners Supplier spend 5.6 billion for our investors, through dividends and share buy-backs Training spend 44.9 million people, suppliers Total tax contribution 1.6 billion Social investment 20.4 million, creating a benefit and society 7.6 billion in salaries and employee benefits to society worth 165 million Governance of sustainability Policy Statement and other policies included in the Paul Richardson, WPPs Group Finance Director, is the WPP Policy Book.
We track progress using our social Board director responsible for sustainability.
Andrea Harris, and environmental key performance indicators.
Group Chief Counsel and Head of Sustainability, has We want to make sure that ESG risks and opportunities operational responsibility for sustainability and reports are managed consistently and that our policies are directly to the Board.
She heads our central sustainability implemented across our companies and locations and with team that develops strategy and coordinates sustainability our suppliers.
Our internal sustainability advisors are working projects and data collection.
It communicates on sustainability with our operating companies to review implementation of our matters on behalf of the Group and works with Group standards and to identify and address areas for improvement.
functions such as our Talent Team, Audit, Legal, Real During 2017, we piloted our sustainability selfEstate, IT and Procurement and our operating companies assessment questionnaire with our six largest companies.
This assessed how our  policies At Board level, the Nomination and Governance covering governance, employment practices, environment Committee has responsibility for sustainability.
and supply chain are being implemented and provided Environmental, social and governance ESG risks are insight into the ESG risks, challenges and opportunities integrated into the Groups assessment of principal risks our companies face at the local level.
which are set out in detail in the strategic report.
The results have been communicated back to our companies who are developing individual action plans to Embedding sustainability in our companies address any gaps in implementation.
We are also using the Sustainability policy is set at parent company level with findings to develop a Group-level action plan which will implementation devolved to our companies.
The Group include on-site assessments, engagement and training for provides a clear policy framework through our Code of our companies and targeted projects to support continuous Business Conduct, Sustainability Policy, Supplier Code improvement on sustainability.
of Conduct, Data Code of Conduct and Human Rights 37 WPPAnnual Report 2017 E c i e n t n s c l e s l y s i, m k e r y i c s o s l c k p o A t m m E a n a g e w S m e u s e t n s p n n e p e o k t i l t r n l y c a i o s s r n c w s u u h e d O b a c r i c n e A p u How we're doing Sustainability review During 2018, our sustainability advisors will be Most stakeholder engagement takes place in the course working with our internal audit function to further embed of doing business.
We also carry out more formal research assessment, management and control of ESG risks into as part of our materiality process, see page 39. the work of our internal audit teams.
We are developing a stakeholder policy to guide our operating companies in their interactions with stakeholders.
Our sustainability priorities We focus on the sustainability issues, risks and opportunities Investor engagement of most importance to our business and our stakeholders.
We engaged with investors, rating agencies and These are grouped into six themes, see diagram below.
benchmarking organisations on sustainability during 2017 including CDP, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, Ecodesk, Stakeholder engagement Ecovadis, Equileap, Ethibel Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good, Stakeholder views, insights and feedback help us to develop Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index, our approach to sustainability issues and to prepare for future Investec, ISS, MSCI, Northern Trust Asset Management, risks and opportunities.
Our most important stakeholder Raiffeisen Capital Management, STOXX Global ESG groups are clients, investors and our people.
Leaders, Sustainalytics, and Triodos Bank.
Governance and management Our client work How we manage sustainability risks How we work with clients and opportunities, including: on sustainability and our Roles and responsibilities for sustainability ethical standards: Risk management Business ethics Stakeholder engagement Client work ethics Tax policy Government relations and public policy Marketing and sustainability including sustainable consumption Marketing compliance Partners JVs, a liates, associates and acquisitions Privacy and data security Sensitive countries Social investment Employment Our key How we support charities How we recruit, retain, develop and social causes through: and engage our people: priorities Pro bono work Access to skills including Donations education and internships Volunteering Diversity and inclusion Employee engagement Employee relations Employee well-being Employment practices human rights Health and safety Training and development Supply chain Environment Our approach to responsible sourcing: How we work to reduce our Fair treatment of suppliers environmental footprint: Living wage Climate change Supply chain labour practices Paper and resource use and human rights Supply chain environmental impacts including environmental impact of campaigns Waste and recycling Water use 38 WPPAnnual Report 2017 t a t i d t o E n n n a n e v e m i c r e n o a g n n a m r n e e a v n o m t G t n e l a m i c t s o e S v n i We are included in the FTSE4Good Index and business experts as well as senior executives in our Group participate in the CDP Climate benchmark, receiving functions and our operating companies.
We updated this a rating of B in 2017. assessment during 2016 through an internal review and We work with clients on sustainability issues, see page interviews with key external stakeholders.
Information on employee engagement is on page 47. updated our assessment using the results of our sustainability self-assessment see page 41.
This provided further insight Our materiality process into the sustainability priorities of our operating companies Our materiality process helps us to prioritise the social, and information requests made by clients across our global environmental and economic issues of most importance to operations.
As a result we have increased the ranking of our business, to identify new issues and emerging trends and two issues: health and safety and supplier diversity.
align our work to the priorities of our stakeholders.
It takes Our materiality matrix, below, shows the issues account of our business strategy and goals as well as external identified as important to our stakeholders vertical axis trends, and current and emerging risks and opportunities.
and our business horizontal axis.
We report on all issues Our first formal materiality assessment in 2014 included identified as highly important and the majority of issues interviews with clients, investors, NGOs and sustainable of medium importance.
WPP materiality assessment Health and safety Ethical standardsOur client work Marketing compliance Diversity and inclusion Our people Government relations Environment and lobbying Supply chain Privacy and data security Social investment Tax policy Governance and management Employee relations Access to skills support for skills Employee engagement Paper and resource use Climate change Supply chain labour practices and human rights Supplier diversity Employee well-being Training and development Fair treatment of suppliers Living wage 2 Marketing and sustainability Supply chain 3 environmental impacts Waste and recycling Biodiversity Employment practices human rights Community relations Social investment pro bono, Water use donations, volunteering Low Medium High Internal assessment 1 Including anti-bribery and corruption, client work ethics such as sensitive products and marketing to children, operating in sensitive countries, ethical standards among partners JVs, affiliates, associates and acquisitions.
3 Including environmental impacts of marketing campaigns.
39 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Stakeholder assessment Low Medium High l a t n e m n o r i v n E S o How we're doing Sustainability review Quantifying our impacts Among the impacts we have valued, our main negative We aim to maximise the positive value our business impact relates to the cost to society and future generations brings and to minimise negative impacts.
To help us of greenhouse gas emissions associated with our business do this, we carry out research to quantify our impacts activities.
Waste disposal is also a negative impact.
in terms of their monetary cost or benefit to society.
Some impacts are very difficult to quantify and we are This enables us to compare the relative significance not yet able to include them in our analysis.
For example, of different types of impacts and, over time, may if our communications services help clients to increase help us to enhance our positive contribution.
product sales this could stimulate growth and help create Our latest research findings are summarised in jobs but could also increase consumption of resources.
They show a significant positive These impacts may also vary significantly from project economic impact through payments to governments, to project depending on the nature of the clients business our people and supplier partners as well as a positive and the particular assignment undertaken.
social impact through our social investment and The methodology used to evaluate our impacts is activities such as training and internships.
outlined on our website, wpp.
Summary of our impact Positive impact Our people Negative impact Governments 7.6bn Indirect impact Paid to our people in 1.6bn salaries and benets, Tax payments to provides cash injection governments support into local economies in public service provision and the 112 countries in local socio-economic The economy which we operate.
Carbon 13.1bn emissions The direct contribution our activities make to the 5.3m worldwide economy.
Net cost to society from greenhouse gas emissions caused by our business activities.
Waste Our impact 0.1m The cost to society Supplier partners from waste we generate that isnt recycled.
3.0bn Youth Our expenditure with employment supplier partners provides indirect benets to the economy, 8.0m supporting livelihoods Internships at Social investment and job creation.
our companies Skills created benets by 397m helping some young Beyond the initial donation, people nd jobs 38.9m our social investment more quickly.
The additional human contributes to improving capital benefit for our health, community sta undertaking cohesion, human training courses.
40 WPPAnnual Report 2017 c i a l c i m o n o c E Sustainability KPIs summary About our reporting We have been reporting on our sustainability performance Performance since 2002.
We aim for sustainability to be embedded into in 2017 the way we work and to reflect this in our reporting to 2.11 billion revenue from clients who engaged Increased with WPP on sustainability investors and other stakeholders.
This year we have further integrated sustainability into our Annual Report through 188,100 people completed refreshed anti-bribery Increased and corruption training since 2016 this review.
We also provide further details, data and case studies at wpp.
187,100 people completed our ethics training Increased since 2016 Sustainability data is for the calendar year 2017.
The majority of our data is collected quarterly through 208,000 people completed online Privacy and Increased Data Security Awareness training since 2016 our Group financial reporting system.
This covers all subsidiaries of the Group 134,000 direct employees.
35% women in executive leadership Improved It does not include associate companies or joint ventures.
49% women in senior management Improved Some people data is collected through an HR Survey issued to our global HR directors.
21% ethnic minorities in senior management No change in the UK and US Our carbon footprint, some environmental and some people data is verified by Bureau Veritas, an independent 28% ethnic minorities in our workforce No change in the UK and US assurance provider.
Its verification statement is published on our website, wpp.
44.9m training spend, 334 per person Reduced 74% satisfied with work-life balance Improved Online information 1.71 tonnes of CO2e per person target 1.8 Improved More information on our approach to sustainability including additional performance data and case 20% of floor space certified to advanced Improved studies from our companies is published on our green building standards target 25% website, wpp.
26% of electricity from renewable sources Improved target 25% 12.7m in pro bono work Improved 7.7m in charitable donations Improved Social investment equivalent to 0.97% Reduced of reported profit before tax 29m worth of free media space negotiated Improved by WPP companies 49.4m total social contribution, equivalent Improved to 2.36% of reported profit before tax 41 WPPAnnual Report 2017
