STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Solihull, Responsible Property Investment Sears Retail Park Building on the strong foundations established by the Property Managers Responsible Property Investment RPI Strategy, the Company has taken further steps during 2017 to strengthen its focus on environmental, social and related corporate governance matters.
Most notably, and with the support of our strategic advisor, Hillbreak, we engaged with many of the Company shareholders to determine a focused approach to Responsible Property Investment that is bespoke to the portfolio, investment strategy and business model.
This included the establishment of a number of commitments and targets for the Company: some requiring immediate action with others setting a longer-term direction of travel.
The commitments, and the progress the Company is already making in relation to them, are set out below.
Key to status symbols Commitment fulfilled Commitment in progress and on track FCPT ESG Commitment Status What we are doing about it Leadership & Effectiveness Measures through which FCPT will demonstrate effective governance in relation to environmental, social and governance criteria ESG Meet the Hampton-Alexander recommendation of Through its approach to succession planning, the Board will seek to improve having at least 33% female representation on our the gender balance of the Board in line with the Hampton-Alexander Board by 2020. recommendations.
As a first step, the Board will require a minimum of 50% of potential candidates nominated at the initial selection stage to be women, as the Directors begin the search for a new non-Executive Director to join the Board in advance of Chris Russells retirement in 2019.
Participate in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Following the release of the 2018 GRESB Pre-Assessment in February 2018, Benchmark GRESB from 2018, with the we are already preparing to participate fully in GRESB, for the first time this objective thereafter of realising year-on-year year, in relation to the year ending 31 December 2017.
We will provide an improvements in score and peer group ranking.
explanation of the outcomes we achieve with shareholders when the results are released later in 2018.
Investment Process Procedures through which FCPT integrates ESG into the investment process Confirm classification of all outstanding assets EPC assessments had been completed for the majority of the Companys 1 within the managers Asset Classification System assets by the end of the year: a small number of exceptions were outstanding by procuring EPC assessments for those assets due to access restrictions seven demises in total.
With two fide minimis for which an EPC is not in place.
Implement exceptions, these remaining demises have been concluded in Q1 2018. routine of Asset & Property Management actions according to the classification of each asset and The distribution of energy ratings for the portfolio relative to rental income the managers corresponding RPI Requirements is illustrated on page 26.
This shows that approximately 6.4% of income is for Asset Managers and Property Managers.
As explained in the chart notation, assessments completed recently which indicate an F or G rating have not been formally lodged on the National EPC Register, pending consideration of potential improvement options within the asset business planning process.
More detailed analysis, particularly with regard to the implications of the new Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards regulations, together with our strategies for addressing letting risks prior to future lease events, will be provided to shareholders later this year as part of a comprehensive Portfolio ESG Review.
Training has been provided to all asset and property managers on the BMO REP RPI Requirements for Asset Managers and Property Managers respectively.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 23 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED FCPT ESG Commitment Status What we are doing about it Where assets have been classified, undertake RPI Appraisals were completed for 100% of all of the Companys assets RPI Appraisals of all Tier 1 assets by end of before the close of the year, well ahead of the phased timetable set by the 2017, Tier 2 assets by end of Q2 2018 and Tier 3 Board.
Asset Business Plans to be updated to reflect the findings of the RPI This has included a comprehensive, desk-based screening of the exposure Appraisals.
Appraisals to be kept updated on an of the Companys assets to flood risk, using a range of up-to-date public and annual basis.
Following this, more detailed risk assessments will be focused on the limited number of assets for which a moderate or high level of potential risk applies, prior to a comprehensive profile of risk being incorporated into the Portfolio ESG Review to be presented to shareholders later in 2018.
These completed RPI Appraisals are currently being used to inform the asset business planning process and will be subject to ongoing annual review.
The data from these asset-level appraisals will be aggregated into the first annual portfolio ESG profile report in 2018.
2 Undertake RPI Appraisals on 100% of new The Company acquired one asset during the year: One Cathedral Square in acquisitions prior to transaction closure, with Bristol.
A pre-acquisition RPI Appraisal was completed, through which no investment critical findings reported to the material investment risks pertaining to ESG factors were identified.
On the Property Investment Committee and relevant contrary, the property boasts a number of positive features, including a high findings and improvement recommendations EPC rating B, LED lighting, a large living wall, extensive facilities for cyclists incorporated into the Asset Business Plan.
and runners, a modern VRF system, and high levels of natural daylight.
Portfolio Attendance to material ESG performance and risk factors across the portfolio Using aggregated data from asset-level The first report will be prepared and distributed to shareholders along with the RPI Appraisals, prepare an annual report to half-yearly results later in 2018. shareholders on the exposure of the portfolio to key ESG risks including those pertaining to energy including MEES, water, waste, flooding contamination, accessibility and building certification.
Establish year-on-year intensity-based energy, Building on the steps that have already been taken with the support of carbon, water and waste reduction targets for Carbon Credentials to develop and implement an environmental monitoring landlord services against an appropriate baseline.
protocol, a comprehensive third-party analysis of data robustness for energy and carbon has been completed by Verco Advisory for the whole of the portfolio, covering annual data for both 2017 and 2016.
From this, the relative energy efficiency and absolute landlord-procured energy consumption of each asset has been determined, allowing assets to be classified according to the relative materiality of their in-use energy performance attributes.
Data is now ready to be incorporated in baselining, from which annual targets will be set during Q2 2018.
Set a long-term 2030 or beyond target for The Manager is currently engaging with the Science-Based Targets Initiative energy and carbon reduction according to a to agree an appropriate methodology for setting a long-term target for energy recognised science-based targets methodology.
and carbon reduction in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.
24 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FCPT ESG Commitment Status What we are doing about it Establish a basis for measuring occupier wellbeing This is a commitment which the Company intends to progress during the and satisfaction across the portfolio and set second half of 2018 with a view to confirming its 2020 target within the next targets by 2020 for improved performance in this Annual Report.
Have in place 100% renewable electricity supplies Supply contracts will be renewed at the end of Q3 2018, at which time the for all landlord-procured power by the end of commitment will be exercised to procure a 100% green electricity tariff, 2018. unless material financial constraints dictate otherwise.
Prohibit new lease contracts with organisations BMO REP has prepared and enacted a Policy on Controversial Weapons connected to the production, storage, distribution and other controversial activities, drawing on the resources available to its 3 or use of Controversial Weapons.
Monitor the parent, BMO Global Asset Management, to actively screen organisations tenant mix of the Company on a regular basis based on their association of their activities with a range of ethical criteria, and exercise discretion when considering leasing including Controversial Weapons.
The Policy and its implementation support to organisations involved in other controversial this commitment of the Company, and ensure that we have the necessary activities and engage regularly with investors on processes in place to address the criteria at each relevant stage of the their expectations in this regard.
property investment and management cycle.
In addition to the exclusionary screening of companies linked to Controversial Weapons, and the discretion we apply to entering into contracts with organisations based on a range of additional ethical criteria, we have also enacted enhanced standard lease clauses in England & Wales, based on the models of good practice established by the Better Buildings Partnership, to address environmental performance and risk.
In particular, we have instructed our retained solicitors to incorporate, wherever possible within new leases, requirements on both the Company and the tenant to share in-use environmental performance data, whilst also prohibiting the implementation of alterations that would weaken an EPC rating.
Transparency Approach to investor reporting and public disclosure on relevant ESG factors Submit the Minimum tier questionnaire of the This is a commitment towards which the Company will be working during the CDP General Climate module in 2019 and the Full course of 2018, ensuring readiness for submission in 2019. tier from 2020 onwards, whilst investigating the potential to submit across the Water and Supply Chain modules.
Align Non-Financial Reporting to the 3rd Ahead of our 2018 commitment, we have prepared an 2017 ESG Data Edition of the EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Report setting out our performance against a range of environmental, social Recommendations.
Include summary of and related corporate governance metrics.
This is aligned to the latest EPRA performance measures in the 2018 Annual sustainability Best Practice Recommendations and will be published on our Report, linked to full ESG disclosure on FCPT website shortly.
This will show positive like-for-like trends for the investment website.
portfolio for 2016-2017, including a 10% reduction in power consumption, an 8% reduction in gas consumption and a reduction in overall energy intensity of 10%.
This is complemented by GHG emissions Scope 1 & 2 intensity reduction of 18% and a 10% improvement in water intensity.
However, as the ESG Data Report illustrates, we recognise that we have work to do to increase the extent of the portfolio for which we hold data, especially for environmental metrics.
Our priorities for the year ahead include extending the scope of the data captured, as well as preparing for third party assurance of our non-financial data to take effect in next years report.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 25 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED FCPT ESG Commitment Status What we are doing about it Produce in the 2018 Annual Report a routemap Many of the activities described above are relevant to the Company improving towards financial reporting in line with the its understanding of the risks and opportunities it faces in relation to climate recommendations of the Financial Stability Board change, and their materiality to financial and operational performance.
FSB Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures TCFD.
The Board has taken an active role in considering and signing-off on the ESG commitments for the Company, including those relating specifically to climate change.
The Board will be receiving a quarterly progress report from the Property Manager at its Board meetings throughout 2018 on the ongoing assessment of climate change risk and opportunity to the Company.
The process of assessing and, where possible, quantifying climate change risks and opportunities both transitional and physical will be overseen by the ESG Committee of the Property Manager.
Continued dialogue with key shareholders is also envisaged as part of this process.
The Board intends that the 2018 Annual Report will be aligned to the recommended disclosures of the TCFD and will, where applicable, identify those disclosures for which further analysis and management action will be required in future.
Provide six-monthly dashboard and commentary The first dashboard and commentary will be prepared and issued as part updates to shareholders on key ESG attributes for of the Portfolio ESG Review, to coincide with the half-yearly results to be the portfolio.
1 An Asset Classification System based on regulatory and performance-related energy risks has been devised by the manager as a means of prioritising and targeting resources at those assets for which the ESG risks and potential enhancement opportunities are likely to be greatest.
2 The RPI Appraisal Tool developed for BMO REP has been established to enable investment and asset managers to collect ESG information pertinent to individual assets, both at acquisition stage and as an ongoing asset management discipline.
3 Including cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines and biochemical weapons as covered by the 1972 Biological and Toxic Weapons Convention, the 1997 Chemical Weapons Convention, the 1999 Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention, and the 2008 Convention on Cluster Munitions.
Whole Company Energy Rating Profile 0.09% 4.38% 1.21% The chart shows the distribution of assessed energy ratings Energy Rating 2.00% as a proportion of the total portfolio Contracted Rental Value 20.58% except for vacant demises, which are based on Estimated Rental A Value figures.
This gives us a comprehensive view of the EPC 20.83% profile of the portfolio as a whole and enables us to target our B asset management approach to addressing those properties in England & Wales for which there is a potential risk in the context C of Minimum Energy Efficiency Standards regulations.
However, it should be noted that not all energy assessments have been lodged D on the National EPC Register: a little under 3% of rental value is associated with such properties for which an EPC has not been yet E registered but for which F or G rating would be applied.
F There is no assessed rating for two residential premises let on long leaseholds due to restrictions on access.
Together, these account G for 0.09% of rental income and are therefore considered deminimis in the context of the wider investment portfolio.
16.88% No rating The Energy Efficiency Private Rented Property England & Wales 34.03% Regulations 2015.
The Company will continue to drive ahead with its Responsible Property Investment Strategy during 2018 and beyond and will provide shareholders with regular updates of progress.
