STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility DOING BUSINESS RESPONSIBLY We are committed to a proactive policy of corporate andsocial responsibility, which reflects the high  standards we have set forourselves.
responsible ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT As an online business, 888s activities have a relatively small impact on the environment.
However, we remain committed to ensuring that wherever possible we minimise what little effect we have with the following areas being the key focus points: Energy consumption: we continuously monitor our energy consumption to help us ensure we are being as energy efficient as possible: Water: we use only ecological detergents in our offices and use water saving devices in most of our locations: and Travel: to minimise the impact of travel on the environment we encourage employees to either cycle to work and, in certain locations, provide buses for commuters.
We also continue to invest in the state-of-the-art technology to help meetings occur remotely.
888 commissioned a study by AVIV AMCG to provide quantitative information regarding its environmental impact, as reflected through 888s greenhouse gas emissions for the period 1 January to 31 December 2015, and to assist it in finding ways to further reduce its greenhouse gas emissions.
Details of the results were set out in the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
Whilst 888 is committed to complying with UK disclosure requirements and appropriately managing its greenhouse gas emissions, given that 888 has low emissions, that little has changed in the way it conducts its business, and in light of the costs involved in monitoring and measuring such emissions, the Board has concluded that a review will be carried out once every several years rather than annually.
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for environmental issues and monitors 888s environmental performance in light of internal targets.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 32 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 888s success depends on the quality and commitment of its people.
We take our responsibilities to our staff around the world very seriously and aim to provide an enjoyable work environment where employees are challenged and motivated to excel, where flair is rewarded, compensation is fair and the balance between work and family is respected.
FOCUS ON TALENT The competition for talent intensified Managerial development: To encourage our employees over 2017 requiring us to think outside Throughout 2017, the Companys professional growth and personal of the box about the processes mid-level management Business development, in 2017 we continued of identification and recruitment.
Leaders Forum or BLF received to focus on internal mobility and career Throughout 2017 we have focused on special attention.
In Q2, we held a global development.
Our internal mobility positioning 888 as an employer of BLF conference that included business programme in 2017 included over choice and rebuilding the 888 employer relevant materials and activities as 180 employee career moves.
New marketing initiatives well as strategic updates led by the also heavily investing in growing have also been introduced using Chief Executive Officer.
This forum managerial skills and capabilities by digital channels, proactive sourcing, has also started to meet on a regular addressing professional development improved job websites and new basis, connecting managers across the using external training, professional employee referral programs.
board with relevant business agenda.
forums and panoramic learning sessions In addition, the connection between - our very own internal knowledge Managing employee performance is the senior managers in the Product, sharing programme.
an important topic on the Companys Technology and Marketing groups agenda, and in 2017 we laid out the was strengthened with a dedicated Finally, our dynamic managerial infrastructure for a new  learning programme aimed programme for new entry managers will based evaluation process changing at professional topics to reinforce be launched globally for the first time our performance values to align our their collaboration.
in 2018 with comparable managerial focus on excellence and team success.
Ultimately, this new process is aimed at achieving a more agile and goaloriented dialogue between managers and employees and is intended to allow us to better link our compensation approach to employee delivery.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility continued PEOPLE AT THE HEARTOF 888 At 888 we are fully committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate and social responsibility.
EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE HR TOOLS OUR VALUES This year we turned our attention to 2017 was a launching point for employee At 888 we are fully committed to providing the organisation with real-time experience enhancing employee maintaining a high standard of corporate insights about our employee workforce engagement to increase pride and and social responsibility.
using digital analytics tools to enable motivation.
Throughout 2017, we better decision-making processes.
aligned our welfare plans across all This ethos is part of our culture and 888 sites, celebrating successes and permeates throughout our business into 888 takes its employees health and safety special events in unique ways.
Such new the everyday business decisions we make seriously and has written policies in place events included recognition of tenure, on a day-to-day basis.
with regard to occupational health and celebrating National Womens Day th safety issues in its major offices.
The and marking the Companys 20 year We also recognise that a responsible Board will consider setting targets with in operation.
approach is not only the correct way to regard to occupational health and safety do business but one that enhances our issues in order to monitor performance.
In addition, in 2017, we initiated divisional credibility amongst all our stakeholders The Board acknowledges its overall gatherings throughout the year sharing and thereby supports the development responsibility for human resources issues professional learnings and vision as well of 888.
The Board acknowledges within 888, including for human resources as recognising special contributions its overall responsibility for social, and labour standards, implementing of employees.
community and human rights issues management structures and systems within 888. to monitor and evaluate employee ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT: performance and satisfaction, promoting diversity at all levels of 888 and within As our business landscape continues 888s supplier base, providing employees to change and adapt, so does our with the opportunity to have formal input organisational structure.
2017 included into matters that affect them, oversee many changes to our divisional working and allocate resources to employee structures allowing us to maintain our training, and to monitor key health and dynamic business edge.
safety performance goals and indicators.
During 2017, there were no material labour Towards Q4, we changed the structure disputes, litigation, or health and safety of our senior managerial group related fines or sanctions imposed on promoting a Chief Operating Officer 888.
888 has adopted a written Board from within the Companys operational diversity policy, in addition to statutory management, Itai Pazner.
This process requirements in this respect in certain of brought along with it additional changes its locations.
During 2017, steps were taken in the remaining divisions creating to maintain and develop arrangements internal shifts and succession within to provide information to employees the BLF managerial group.
regarding financial and economic factors affecting 888s performance, including divisional and Company-wide seminars, email communications and publication of pertinent public financial information on the 888 internal portal.
888, furthermore, makes contributions to employee pensions in accordance with applicable law and practice.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 34 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM PUTTING OUR CUSTOMERS FIRST RESPONSIBLE GAMING ADDITIONAL STEPS TAKEN IN2017INCLUDED The CEOs Strategic Report on page Decreased the amounts customers Steps were taken to ensure 888s 08 includes details of actions taken by can deposit and gamble during various readiness to comply with the GDPR and 888 in 2017 to enhance its responsible periods, through the imposition of strengthen 888s data protection policies, gaming proposition.
updated and new deposit limits.
888 is constantly developing new and Improving anti-money laundering and 888 continued its review of marketing innovative ways to deliver a responsible Know Your Client checks, including practices for various marketing materials gaming environment.
Our goal is to an increase in the amount of information published in the UK, which included ensure that all those who visit our and supporting documentation an extensive review and monitoring of sites can do so with confidence and requested from customers or obtained marketing affiliates and B2B partners that those for whom our games are from third parties earlier in the customer websites, as well as reducing the number not intended, notably underage and life-cycle and updates to the various of affiliates so that we can better monitor vulnerable individuals, will not be drawn circumstances which trigger enhanced and supervise those affiliates that into the gaming environment and those customer due diligence.
remain engaged: and 888 updated the few customers who develop a gambling terms and conditions that apply to UK problem are quickly identified and Implementing organisational changes customers with a view to improving the helped.
Conducting business responsibly in order to strengthen regulatory level of clarity and enhancing compliance is fundamental to the future success of compliance oversight as well as to with consumer protection regulations.
888, and we are absolutely committed improve co-operation between the to a proactive policy of corporate and different departments and streamline the During 2018, 888 intends to continue social responsibility that reflects the high process of settling any conflicts between to upgrade the Observer, expand professional and ethical standards we set them, ensuring that 888s regulatory oversight over compliance of white label for ourselves across the business.
requirements and duty to uphold the partners as well as marketing affiliates, licensing objectives always take priority and continue to strengthen technological Following a licence review carried over commercial interests.
quality assurance and processes which out by the UKGC during 2017, relate to regulation and compliance.
during which 888 fully cooperated Improved the Observer tool with the UKGC and which concluded 888s proprietary customer behaviour in a voluntary regulatory settlement, tracking system so that it captures 888 acknowledged historical failings a broader range of changes in highlighted by the review and accepted player behaviour.
the conclusion of the review which recognised the significant lengths to An external audit was carried out of which 888 had gone in order to address 888s self-exclusion system, including the concerns raised and to prevent the the self-exclusion process on both the issues highlighted from reoccurring.
Bingo and the Casino, Poker & Sports This involved 888s senior management platforms, pursuant to which the system team devoting significant resources to was found to be fit for purpose and a assessing and delivering improvements number of recommendations were made to 888s responsible gaming tools, to 888s senior management, all of which processes and technology, which were implemented in full as of the date is ongoing into 2018. of this Annual Report.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility continued PROTECTING MINORS 888 RESPONSIBLE Underage activity on our sites is strictly prohibited and 888 takes the matter of underage gaming extremely seriously.
responsible Our offering is not designed to attract minors.
We make every effort to prevent minors from playing on our sites and use sophisticated verification systems as well as a third-party verification supplier to Protecting the vulnerable identify and track minors if they log into our software.
The verification process includes both ID3 Global by GB Group and Call Validate by Call Credit.
Fair play For more information see our website: We train our staff to be highly sensitive 888responsible.
com to the possibility of underage activity and make sure we suspend any account suspected to be an underage account.
Anti-crime 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 36 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES Community Diversity 888 is committed to supporting both the various local Diversity is important to us as we believe that only through communities in which it operates and also the broader access to the most diverse pool of people will we recruit and global community.
Our community investment programme retain the most talented individuals to serve our customers.
includes charitable donations and long-standing community We actively seek to recruit and advance women into our top involvement in our key areas across the world.
A summary of the breakdown of men and women across 888 as of 31 December 2017, is as follows: In line with the Companys increased awareness and focus on social responsibility, a new internal programme was Men Women launched in 2017 allowing employees to spend time giving Number % Number % back to underprivileged sectors of the community for Board of Directors 5 83.3% 1 16.7% example, people from minority groups or people with Senior Vice Presidents 4 66.6% 2 33.3% disabilities.
The programme was kicked off in the Israeli Vice Presidents 16 72% 6 28% subsidiary and will extend to remaining Group companies Other Group Employees 787 60% 560 40% over the coming year.
When seeking to recruit new Non-Executive Directors 888 made a donation in the amount of US$5.5 million to the Board, the Nominations Committee considers to GambleAware in 2017 in connection with its voluntary the benefits of all aspects of diversity including, but not settlement following the UKGC licence review.
limited to, age, gender and educational and professional backgrounds, in order to enable it to discharge its duties and Fiscal contributions responsibilities effectively.
Board appointments are made on During the year the Group made fiscal contributions totalling merit by assessing candidates against objective criteria in US$92.1 million 2016: US$ 79.5 million comprising of the context of the overall balance of skills and backgrounds corporation tax of US$6.2 million 2016: US$7.7 million, that the Board needs to maintain in order to remain effective.
VAT of US$10.7 million 2016: US$ 8.3 million and gaming Where appropriate, steps are taken to identify and remove duties of US$75.2 million 2016: US$63.5 million.
Human rights On behalf of the Board: 888 ensures that its policies comply with local law, in addition to reflecting 888s values.
These policies set clear standards of behaviour to which all Group personnel are expected to adhere, including as regards social, ethical and environmental matters.
In this respect, 888 is guided by the ten principles of the United Nations UN Global Compact, which encourages companies to make human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and anti-corruption Brian Mattingley part of their business agenda.
Chairman 20 March 2018 Anti-bribery and corruption We are committed to operating with integrity and complying with all relevant laws, including all applicable anti-corruption legislation.
888 has a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption: a position clearly set out in our Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme which applies to all 888 group personnel.
During 2017, the internal approvals process was implemented as regards gifts given and received as required pursuant to the programme.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 37
