PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 40 Good4Business Business Governance & Ethics We look at our business through our Weshow respect and integrity in our wetake this into consideration and aim G4B lenses of Business Governance & dealings with all of our stakeholders to find alternative ingredients.
By way Ethics, Environment, Sourcing and inthe active pursuit of our G4B values.
ofexample, this year work has been Community & Charity to find ways completed to reformulate all Group ofcreating sustainable value for all.
We do not tolerate corruption in any products to remove all Triclosans.
We support our Business Governance & Ethics employees and work constantly with Against animal testing ourexternal stakeholders to monitor Our Good4Business G4B ethics are We are against all forms of animal testing ourcompliance with the UK Bribery Act embedded throughout the business and in the development or marketing of our and other relevant legislation around are supported by robust governance products.
We do not test ingredients on the world.
We do not commission or principles apply to all of our Group global request any of our suppliers or associates Good4Business Committee operations and to every Board member to test ingredients or our products and employee.
We encourage and We have placed G4B firmly at the heart on animals.
motivate everyone in the Business to of our business.
Every Board Director sits usethese principles in their day-to-day on the Good4Business Committee.
The It has been some years since animal working lives.
Committee is chaired by independent testing on cosmetic products and Non-executive Director Ngozi Edozien ingredients in EU countries was We operate in a business environment and is responsible for agreeing and prohibited.
We fully support the stance which is carefully created to be open, overseeing a programme of specific G4B taken by governing bodies, such as the honest and fair with our suppliers, activities for each financial year and for European Union, and the changes being customers and business partners.
ensuring that our G4B principles are made in this direction in other regulatory reflected in our Group strategy.
environments in China, India, United States and elsewhere to eradicate The Committees terms of reference theuse of animals in the testing of and a copy of the G4B statement are cosmetics globally.
available on the PZ Cussons Group website www.
To safeguard our consumers, we recognise the need for reliable, fully BUSINESS Safeguarding our consumers validated non-animal testing methods GOVERNANCE and we support FRAME Fund for the & ETHICS We put safety first and we will never Replacement of Animals in Medical compromise on it.
The sectors which we Experiments.
We help to fund their operate in are generally highly regulated, independent research activities and and we ensure that we are fully compliant ENVIRONMENT support their campaign for better atall times with local and international science and the advancement of regulations.
Where we feel that it is non-animal methods, which we believe appropriate, however, we will apply our will benefit the whole cosmetics and own standards and protocols in excess household products industry.
oflocalrequirements in order to meet thehighest consumer safety standards or to respond to consumer concerns.
com for more information SOURCING To that end, we regularly review the ingredients used within our range of global products.
Our Materials of Concern Committee monitors the materials which we use in the light of COMMUNITY & CHARITY evolving scientific evidence, regulatory opinion and the views and concerns ofour consumers.
Where the science supports the safe use of an ingredient but there are consumer concerns,
