PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 41 Good4Business Environment We care about how our business may Notwithstanding the challenges, Creating the right packaging for the impact the environment, from the way all of our factories have carbon reduction rightmarket is considered from the early we manufacture products and bring programmes which are delivering results.
stages of new product design, all the way them to market to the way in which These carbon reductions have been through to production.
We understand consumers use them.
We are focused on achieved through our continuous that it is not a realistic target to eliminate a programme of constant improvement improvement programme which is packaging completely and we are within our global operations and are madeup of around 140 initiatives, accordingly developing a Global Packaging committed to yearly reductions in our specific tolocations and factories.
Policy to better identify opportunities to water and carbon consumption and reduce, reuse or recycle.
As part of this, waste generated.
Examples of initiatives going forward we have undertaken anumber of projects arethe manufacturing improvements to optimise structural and material design Water inour soap plant in Aba, improvements to eliminate unnecessary packaging in the efficiency of power generation materials.
For example, we have removed Water conservation has been a key G4B and utility plant, and a group-wide roll 5% plastic weight from our Morning Fresh environmental focus for the Group for out of more efficient LED lighting.
bottles and, where practical, we have also some years and since 2012 we have moved our plastic bottles from polyvinyl achieved excellent savings, reducing Waste chloride PVC to polyethylene consumption by millions of tonnes terephthalate PET and post-consumer This year a global mapping exercise ofwater.
As part of our continuous recycled PET.
hashelped us to reduce solid and liquid improvement program, all factories are waste produced by 54%.
All factories required to have a plan to reduce water In addition to our light weighting have undertaken exercises to analyse consumption.
Typically, this is achieved initiatives, we encourage our consumers the sources of their waste and have through focused improvements in to reuse and recycle packaging and have animprovement plan in this area.
This operating methods and targeted introduced refillable pouches for wastereduction work has consisted investment in water saving technologies.
ofanumber of exercises to help with thesorting and reclassification in the One of our principal focuses has been Tangerang, Ikorodu and Ilupeju factories.
our soap factory in Aba, Nigeria where we invested in new state-of-the-art Water Carbon Disclosure Project CDP recycling technologies which have saved millions of tonnes of water.
Similar The Group has been a participant in the 16% absolute reduction water-saving initiatives have delivered Carbon Disclosure Project for ten years, significant reductions in our Ikorodu currently reporting our Scope 1 and 2 andTangerang factories in Nigeria emissions.
The CDP is an internationally Carbon andIndonesia respectively.
renowned not-for-profit organisation which provides an independent global 9.7% absolute reduction Carbon system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share We have continued to focus on our Waste vital environmental information.
carbon footprint to identify areas for improvement.
This year we have achieved 54% absolute reduction Packaging lifecycle an absolute carbon reduction of 9.7%, well beyond our target for the year.
We continue to seek to create a 3% year-on-year reduction targets across packaging portfolio which takes account carbon, water and waste introduced in 2015.
Carbon reductions have been achieved of both the needs of our consumers and despite a challenging operating environmental impact throughout the environment in the Nigerian market.
the early part of the year we experienced Scope 1 Scope 2 Total gas shortages and problems due to the Financial year absolute tonnes of CO2 absolute tonnes of CO2 absolute tonnes of CO2 unavailability of grid electricity, resulting 2016 17 54,306 18,675 72,981 in the need to switch to diesel fuels 2015 16 60,598 20,124 80,722 forelectricity and steam generation.
The Groups greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from 1 June 2016 to 31 May 2017.
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel to operate our factories, facilities and offices.
Scope 2 Electricity purchased to operate our factories, facilities and offices.
