PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 43 Good4Business Community & Charity We regard health & safety as a Right chemistry to inspire Showing our Inner Hearts fundamental business responsibility.
The Chemistry Challenge is one of Our focus on Community & Charity TheGroups health & safety performance thePZCussons Nigeria Foundations seeks to help and support the local and its regulatory compliance are initiatives to stimulate, inspire and communities which surround our regularly scrutinised by the Groups reward the study of science and factories and offices.
Our activities Executive Committee and the Board.
chemistry among Nigerias Senior centre on enhancing lives and securing Secondary school students.
The futures for families, with an emphasis on Reporting our progress competition has been running since 2013 education, well-being and hygiene.
and is sponsored by two leading Africa The business tracks and reports on brands, Premier Cool and Nunu milk.
The fourkey health & safety performance Our Inner Hearts programme was born winners, their teachers and their schools indicators, enabling us to review our inNigeria and has been adopted by all receive monetary and equipment prizes.
progress, identify any issues and trends ofour global operations.
The programme and develop strategies to combat areas encourages our employees to become Supporting Manchester for improvement.
involved with initiatives which they As a company with its international careabout, giving them support and a headquarters in Manchester and a long In the past year, as part of our G4B framework to benefit local communities and proud history in the region, we business analysis work, in line with and charities.
wanted to show solidarity with the City industry best practice, we have reviewed of Manchester and its people following how we analyse and report our health & Saving lives through handwashing the Manchester Arena Bombing earlier safety statistics.
As a result of improved initiatives this year and helped the victims and their reporting we have seen a slight increase This year our Carex brand once again families with a donation of 50,000 to in our year-on-year figures.
This year we joined forces with United Purpose the official emergency appeal.
introduced the wider metric of Accident formerly Universal Concern to support Incident Frequency Rate AAIFR which Global Handwashing Day.
This annual Strategic fundraising partner includes First Aid Cases FAC.
For event, which was started by the United A long-time charity partner in the UK continuity, this year the table shows both Nations eight years ago, touches over isthe Seashell Trust, which is located FAC and the new AAIFR measurements 200 million people and promotes a close to our Manchester headquarters.
and from next year we will only report simple and life-saving message that the AAIFR.
handwashing with soap saves lives.
Throughout the year, many of our The AAIFR measure includes: All reportable employees have been involved with In Nigeria, the Global Handwashing Day incidents, Time Incidents LTIs including all health fundraising activities such as sponsored was supported by rapper Sunny Neji who &safety occurrences which result in one or more runs, bike rides and cake bake sales to days absence from work excluding the day of the wrote the campaign anthem Wash Your raise money for Seashell Trusts pupils incident, LTIs per 200,000 hours worked, and First Hands O.
Our Carex brand gave schools Aid Cases FAC, being all health & safety occurrences who have severe learning and the chance to compete in a talent including LTIs which result in the employee being physical challenges.
competition to show that they have given first aid.
FACs include cases where employees are treated for incidents which occur outside of the theCareX Factor, enabling children workplace, as any treatment given may enable us to In addition to direct funding, we have also toget creative about handwashing reduce the number of employee days lost and FACs been involved on a strategic level to help byperforming their own version of per 200,000 hours worked.
the charity to secure funding for their Wash Your Hands O.
The appeal seeks to secure donations for 17new In Nigeria, a number of initiatives were childrens homes and the 45m needed supported by the PZ Cussons Nigeria for the new Royal School Manchester Foundation which was started in 2007. special school campus redevelopment.
With funding from PZ Cussons, this year, the Foundation helped to commission many projects including: building Read more of our SeaShell Trust work on page 23 classroom blocks within Iwoye Ijesha Osun State, Wuro Mijiyawa Community Taraba State and Osokwa Community Abia State.
