w w SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our Routes to Our Customers.
We continue to focus on expanding the Superdry business globally.
Our multi-channel business is categorised by the following routes to customer: 1.
Wholesale Our Retail channel comprises the entire owned store portfolio in E-commerce consists of 27 international websites across 18 Our Wholesale channel introduces Superdry complementary points the UK, Europe and North America together with our e-commerce countries covering 12 different languages.
E-commerce connects of sale, tailored to each market, including: websites.
our Wholesale and Retail channels and includes our programme Independent retailers and international distribution with partners including Zalando, La Redoute and The Iconic.
We Owned store portfolio partners use eBay as another sales channel to sell our end of line or There are 220 owned stores, with total space of 1,054,000 square Our partners are responsible for supplying the independent retail discounted products whilst maintaining our brand integrity and feet.
The portfolio consists of smaller boutique stores mostly markets in their respective territories.
This is the largest of our retaining gross margin.
historic ex-franchise stores situated in Continental Europe, our Wholesale routes to market accounting for 40% of total Wholesale optimal medium-sized stores of around 5,000 to 7,000 square feet revenue.
principally in the UK and increasingly so in Continental Europe, and larger stores, such as our flagship stores in London, Berlin and New York.
Superdry outlet stores are an important element of the business model, complementing full-price stores.
While adapted to meet Revenue the different positioning of outlet locations in different geographical % markets, they serve an important and growing route to our customers and optimise the value generated from excess stock whilst protecting the brand integrity of our non-outlet stores.
There are 101 stores in Europe, 99 stores in the UK and Eire and 20 UK & ROI 18% in the USA.
Europe 65% Rest of World 17% International franchise and licence partners Our franchise estate now stands at 319 Superdry branded stores Revenue which includes 97 in France, 33 in Spain and 17 in India.
% We have 16 Superdry branded stores operating under licence in Australia.
Sales made by the licensee are included in the royalties earned from sales in other gains and losses in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income.
UK & ROI 56% Europe 34% Rest of World 10% www.
co. uk 12 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 w w SUPERGROUP PLC SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT 2017 T 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Our approach to each market is considered and seeks to optimise Key Wholesale accounts.
returns and minimise risk by tailoring the channel and marketing strategy to each country and its stage of development.
In delivering this strategy we benefit from deep experience and established capability in the following routes to the customer: owned stores in primary catchments: franchise stores in secondary catchments and developing markets: Own Retail Franchise Superdry branded websites: Wholesale partner websites that build brand awareness and access a Wholesale Own Retail JV different customer base: Franchise department stores: and multi-brand independents.
Franchise Franchise Franchise Licencee E-commerce www www.
