SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability.
As a brand, we produce high-quality, contemporary products with a key focus on design detail, quality standards, end-to-end innovation and value for money.
Our products are strongly linked to our brand values, of which sustainability is one.
co. uk 28 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Introduction Product Our Sustainability As a brand, we produce high-quality, contemporary products with a Our products are strongly linked to our brand values: prior to setting Financial Statements key focus on design detail, quality standards, end-to-end innovation our targets and developing our implementation plan this year, we and value for money.
Our products are strongly linked to our brand sought to obtain a greater understanding of our sustainability footprint, Programme has values, of which sustainability is one.
from the extended supply chain that manufactures finished product, to understanding our raw materials footprint and identifying opportunities We are committed to ensuring that sustainability is at the heart of what made significant for sustainable sources.
We have established three strategic goals which form the basis for activities across the Group.
The three strategic goals are to: Our supply chain progress... and We manufacture the majority of our clothing and accessories in partnership with third party suppliers in Turkey, India, and China.
Our we expect this to factory base comprises 186 Tier 1 factories that manufacture our products, and additional Tier 2 factories that provide specialist value Make the best added services including embroidery, printing and washing to our accelerate in the product, sustainably Tier 1 factories.
We are members of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI and have coming year.
adopted the ETI Base Code as our Ethical Trading Code across our supply base which in turn is based on international standards including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations Core Conventions on Labour Standards.
During financial year 2017, we have identified and started to monitor Tier 2 factories.
These activities have been established in addition to our well-established Tier 1 factory monitoring programme.
We have established global ethical approval and monitoring protocols managed Protect our planet Support our people, by our ethical trading team, who work closely with our suppliers to by using resources our suppliers people monitor compliance on an ongoing basis.
Rolling out this programme responsibly and local to all Tier 2 factories is planned by the end of financial year 2018. communities Significant focus has been placed on establishing our framework, understanding our current position and in developing an Supplier implementation plan to 2020.
To support development of our implementation plan to 2020, our sustainability function works with departments across the business Factory to identify opportunities to operate in a more sustainable manner, as well as establishing targets and the means to monitor our ongoing progress.
The Executive Committee and the Board are appraised fully on the Subcontractor progress we are making: the issues we encounter are considered and reviewed in accordance with our risk management protocols.
co. uk 29 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability.
Innovations Factory locations: At SuperGroup, we are proud to work with suppliers who continue The factories shown on the following map are registered in line with our Tier 1 and Tier 2 factory approval processes and are monitored in to seek innovative and sustainable solutions which is an active part line with our Ethical Trading Code.
of our supplier selection process.
For example, our nominated wash During financial year 2017, our ethical approval and monitoring processes covered Tier 1 factories supplying 100% and Tier 2 factories plant in Sri Lanka has made significant investment in equipment to supplying 83% of volume by number of units delivered.
support lower impacts in water and energy usage by 2020.
One machines uses bubbles to apply garment softeners which reduces % Volume number of units delivered covered by our ethical approval and monitoring process water usage by up to 90%.
Raw materials Tier 1: 100% Tier 1: 100% This year we evaluated our raw materials footprint, identifying key Tier 2: 67% Tier 2: 100% raw material categories for our business and where we can have the greatest sustainability impact.
During the financial year 2018, a detailed implementation plan will focus on improving the sustainable impacts in these key areas: Cotton Cotton represents the largest single raw material used across our product ranges and as a business we acknowledge the importance in securing sustainable sources.
We have mapped one cotton supply chain this year on a trial basis to better understand our impact and guide development of our future targets and initiatives.
We are actively developing cotton supply chain improvements in the upcoming year, working with internationally recognised and local experts, farming communities and suppliers.
Animal welfare We believe it is never acceptable to harm animals in the manufacturing or testing of any of our products.
We have a very strict policy in place on animal welfare and we work closely with our suppliers to ensure it is fully enforced.
In the last year we have: achieved Responsible Down Standard RDS certification from Control Union, which means 100% of down outerwear will be RDS certified from the Autumn Winter 2017 season onwards.
ROW RDS Certification safeguards the welfare of ducks and geese that provide down: and reviewed and further reinforced our testing procedures to ensure Tier 1: 100% our ban on fur is respected throughout our supply base.
co. uk 30 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Sharing in our success is something that we value highly and for the and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled People and Community sixth year colleagues in the UK will have the opportunity to join the people.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, every effort Our people, our suppliers people and our communities are critical Financial SAYE and BAYE share schemes.
would be made to ensure that their employment with us continues Statements to the continued success of our brand.
Supporting our people and and that appropriate training is arranged as necessary.
extending our values to our suppliers people and our communities Our demand for future talent continues to grow, driving a need to people means: both attract new people to the business and develop those already We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the workplace.
Our suite of tools and learning opportunities to equip With this in mind, specific policies are in place covering harassment providing a great place to work for our colleagues: colleagues with the agility and skills to drive the Group forward and and bullying, whistleblowing and equal opportunities.
Our colleagues working closely with our suppliers to maintain transparent offer them rewarding careers has been further enhanced this year.
represent a wide and diverse workforce from all backgrounds, relationships honouring our role in supporting fair and safe The ongoing review of talent across the business has enabled us to sexual orientations, nationalities and ethnic and religious groups.
working conditions in our supply base in line with our Ethical identify colleagues rich in our brand DNA and experience with the With continued overseas expansion, the workforce is becoming Trading Code and extending best practice where possible: and skills to support business development in new territories.
This review even more diverse.
We respect cultural differences and actively seek is conducted bi-annually giving us real line-of-sight of our future to learn about them in each territory in which we operate.
supporting our local communities, youth well-being and talent demands, existing pipeline of supply, as well as planning employment.
We recognise the benefits of encouraging diversity across all areas future succession.
of the Group and believe that this contributes to our continued Our people Looking ahead our people focus will continue to be on how we success.
All appointments are made based on merit and are The unique entrepreneurial and innovative culture which defines recruit and retain the right talent, together with a strategy to develop measured against specific objective criteria including the skills and our heritage continues to be at the heart of our ways of working.
our colleagues ahead of our growth curve.
experience needed for the position.
Our colleagues bring our brand to life and the success of the Diversity We are committed to increasing the participation of women and Group is a direct result of their knowledge, skills, drive, passion and Equality and diversity are fundamental values to us and our ethnic diversity on the Board and at the senior managers level.
As enthusiasm, wherever they are in the world.
We have consistently SuperSay engagement survey scores are world class in this illustrated in the table below, more than half of our total colleagues created and maintained an environment where colleagues can category.
We have an equal opportunities policy and take our are female: flourish and fulfil their potential.
responsibilities under that policy seriously.
In addition, we give full We now employ approximately 5,000 people including part-time colleagues across the UK, Europe, USA and Asia.
Colleague Male Female Total numbers will continue to grow in the coming year as we continue Role Number % Number % Number our growth strategy.
Group Board Directors 7 78 2 22 9 Our SuperSay Group-wide engagement survey is in its third year Executive Committee 6 75 2 25 8 and colleagues again reinforced our view that SuperGroup is a very attractive place to work, with 75% of colleagues believing that it Senior Employees 91 61 57 39 148 is the place where they want to work.
This year we launched a Sales and Service programme in our Retail stores.
Through this Other Employees 1,985 42 2,722 58 4,707 programme our teams report being reinvigorated in the Superdry Total Employees 2,089 43 2,783 57 4,872 brand and a significant deepening of their product knowledge.
Further information on our Board composition and policy on diversity can be found on page 71. www.
co. uk 31 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability.
University partnership Our suppliers people We are in the third year of our partnership with the University Our supplier partners and Tier 1 factories provide jobs to over Global Capacity Building Programme of Gloucestershire where we work closely with undergraduates 94,000 people globally.
We have extended our capacity building programme to over studying for degrees in Fashion, Graphic Design and Photography 19 factories globally, which are visited monthly and undertake Our ethical trading team works closely with our suppliers and setting projects, providing work placements, judging final targeted training and action planning to support improvement factories to support access to fair and safe working conditions coursework and providing materials and support to their respective with the help of local Non-Governmental Organisations and across our supply base in line with our Ethical Trading Code.
We have placed a number of undergraduates within organisations as needed.
the business as part of the requirements to complete their degree We monitor conditions within our supply base, and support courses.
Globally this has resulted in the establishment of stronger sustainable improvement through: management systems to support the sustainable remediation The Princes Trust 1.
Maintained 100% audit coverage for Tier 1 factories.
of endemic issues identified in audits.
We are building a strong and significant partnership with The Working alongside our third party preferred audit provider, we Princes Trust.
As both a large employer of young people and with Core training modules include: Health and Safety Management require, as a minimum, audits to be completed on a semia youth customer base, the work of the Trust and SuperGroup has Systems: Occupational Health and Safety: Supporting the announced basis.
Our colleagues have been inspired to both volunteer accurate keeping of working hours and wage records.
and raise funds on behalf of the Trust.
During this financial year we We then use these audits to prioritise the level of support and have continued to offer a get into work course for young people frequency of follow-up visits.
This course gives young people aged 16 to 25, who Our ethical trading team remains an integral component of the 2.
Growing our ethical trading team in key source countries.
are work ready but do not have vocational skills, a mixture of sourcing team.
This enables us to link ethical trading strategy practical training and work experience.
with our sourcing priorities for example in relation to our capacity Local teams are established in key source countries to provide building programme which is co-ordinated from our head office in practical and sustainable action plans and ongoing monitoring of Charitable activity Cheltenham.
Independence is maintained through regular reporting to conditions on an unannounced basis between audits.
The teams Superdry360, our charity and community support programme, the Transformation Director, Executive Committee and the Board.
support a local approach and knowledge in: continues to grow and is a platform for charitable projects supporting the local, national and international communities in which Our communities a pre-approval assessments to ensure we select the best we operate.
This financial year we raised or donated approximately Youth well-being and employment are important social issues possible factories to work with prior to orders being placed: 367,000, an increase of 167,000 on the previous year.
in the UK and in many other countries in which we operate.
b quick response to critical breaches of our Ethical Trading The investment in our careers website, work experience and In order to maximise the breadth of our charitable impact we also Code within 48 hours: apprenticeship programmes has received overwhelmingly positive match funds raised by our colleagues to benefit various valuable feedback from schools and careers advisers.
c implementation of our mapping and monitoring protocols causes across the globe.
During financial year 2017 we matched for Tier 2 factories, including auditing these factories on an 6,817 of our colleagues activities in support of their chosen Local education unannounced basis: and charitable causes.
Through Superdry School Days we work with local schools to provide opportunities for students to experience working for d training for our suppliers and factories to build capacity to Superdry through engagement in focus groups, job shadowing and manage fair and safe conditions within their own factories and discussing career journeys with Superdry colleagues.
has led to a number of students gaining valuable work experience and has led to full-time apprenticeships being offered in some instances.
We provide a best-in-class work experience programme with placements for at least two students every month across the business.
co. uk 32 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Energy efficiency Renewable energy Electricity is responsible for over 90% of direct Group carbon We continue to procure renewable energy and have set a target of Newlife Charity Partnership Newlife Financial emissions in a typical year and has a significant financial cost.
sourcing 100% renewable electricity for the global Retail estate by Statements From 2016 all damaged product is collected by our partners Therefore, improving efficiency in this area remains a key 2020.
Renewable energy represented approximately 70% of the Newlife the Charity for Disabled Children.
The garments are environmental focus.
Our target is to improve electricity efficiency Groups electricity consumption in the past financial year: with the fide-branded and sold: so far garments with a resale value of of our Retail estate by 35% by 2020 compared to a 2014 baseline majority coming from wind, hydro and solar power.
approximately 250,000 have been donated for the great measured on a kilowatt hour per square metre per year basis.
To work that Newlife undertakes.
Reducing the impact of waste date efficiency improvement stands at 23%.
This has resulted in a Both our UK head office and distribution centre have been officially This approach eliminates any need for landfill and extends saving of 2,870 tonnes of emissions in the past financial year.
certified zero waste to landfill by environmental compliance firm the life of these garments making maximum use of We install the most energy efficient LED lighting as well as smart Valpak.
This means all non-recyclable waste generated on site is the embedded energy and water consumed during the metering and building management systems as standard to ensure moved up the waste hierarchy through use in the creation of energy manufacturing process.
that the minimum amount of energy is used in store operations.
Recycling rates at these locations have We continue with a rolling programme to upgrade legacy stores also increased as a result.
to the latest energy efficiency standards.
Several stores, including Modern slavery our London flagship store, have been refitted with our second We take our global responsibility seriously to eliminate risks of generation, more efficient LED lighting over the past year.
The modern slavery and human trafficking in our business and supply evolution of lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning chains.
We disclose how we comply with the Modern Slavery Act and building controls are closely monitored to ensure promising 2015 and California Transparency in Supply Chains Act 2010 on technologies are identified and brought to trial in-store.
Planet We understand that using resources sustainably minimises our impact on the natural environment as well as providing a clear opportunity to reduce costs.
We remain committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and waste and to achieve this, our environmental function is integrated into our core business operations.
We have clear environmental, energy and waste policies to meet these goals.
co. uk 33 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Sustainability.
We have measured our operational carbon footprint, which has GHG emission methodology Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions tonnes provided insight into where the largest climate impacts are and We have reported on all of the emission sources required under of CO2 equivalent enabled us to better prioritise resources.
Emissions are stated in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports 1 May 2016 1 May 2015 tonnes of CO2 equivalent and data has been verified to AA1000 Regulations 2013.
We report our emissions data using a financial to 30 April to 30 April 2017 2016 Assurance Standard.
Emissions per million of revenue declined control approach meaning we include emissions from all parts of the by 22% over the past 12 months reflecting the increase in energy business where we have the ability to direct financial and operating Emissions: efficiency in our stores.
In addition, the guidance on the reporting policies this includes our owned and operated Retail stores Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and of Scope 2 emissions allows us to demonstrate the reduced and office space.
Data has been prepared in accordance with the operation of facilities 369 500 environmental impact of purchasing renewable energy.
This market WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting based method shows the emissions created using the precise mix Standard revised edition, WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol Scope 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and of generating technologies used to supply our estate rather than Guidance 2015 and emission factors from the DECC DEFRA GHG cooling purchased for own use simply taking a grid average of all generating technologies as is the Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016. location based method 9,598 9,575 case under the location based method.
Although we strive to ensure that our emission figures are accurate, Emissions per m of revenue 13.28 17.09 For the first time this year we have published Scope 3 emissions access to the relevant data is not always possible and, therefore, from our distribution centres and logistics operations.
14% of our emissions this year are 1 May 2016 based on estimated data.
to 30 April 2017 Scope 3: Indirect emissions Energy used in operation of distribution centres 2,242 Third party logistics: Factory to distribute centre 52,998 Distribution centre to store customer 18,055 Total Scope 3 73,295 1 May 201630 April 2017 Location Market based based method method Emission comparison Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 9,598 3,112 www.
co. uk 34 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements www.
