SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Customers.
Our Governance Our target customers are characterised by attitude not age.
Financial Statements Our ongoing qualitative and quantitative customer research provides us Our online objective remains to make it inspiring and easy for people Customer led innovation with a deep and contemporary understanding of, and insight into, our across the planet to buy Superdry products, and deliver an amazing to deliver amazing product customer demographics, their perception of Superdry and their buying end-to-end experience.
Our customers should be able to order We continue to embed research into our design process and range behaviour.
This investment is key to understanding our customers anywhere, from any device, with any payment method and have it planning, as well as into our customer communication.
Last year we perception of the brand and awareness, enabling us to better meet their delivered anywhere.
introduced Sports and Premium categories which our customers had needs through our product and a multi-channel shopping experience, as indicated as being complementary to their existing Superdry wardrobe.
We have also extended our social media activity to increase awareness we become a global lifestyle brand.
The initial launch of the Sport offering into Womenswear was a reflection and increase customer engagement with the Superdry brand, of the strength of customer research towards this development: our From this research we know our customers are characterised by attitude, including: a Jackets campaign that communicated the breadth and customer response has been positive with strong sales performances not age, attracted to Superdry because it is seen as accessible and technical benefits of the range and the launch of This is my Superdry, since the respective launches.
democratic and: #mysuperdry, which provides our customers with the opportunity to share their wearing Superdry experience on www.
Recognising that each of the ranges has only been launched for a year, comes from a broad spectrum: the further development and enhancement of the Sport and Premium is aspirational: categories remains our priority.
We are confident that further range extensions will flow through from the ongoing customer research and is appreciative of style, quality and attention to detail: and innovations delivered by the SuperDesign Lab.
is focused on value for money.
Building a strong customer proposition Customer insight We continue to build a broad cross-channel relationship with our The qualitative insights we have gleaned show what customers customers to make their experience compelling and easier to think of Superdry.
This evidences that Superdry is a strong brand facilitate.
During the year we launched our Next Generation store with considerable democratic appeal.
We are known for high-quality re-fit programme which has a number of benefits, including the ability products and iconic styles often associated with big logos, but have also to showcase both the breadth of the range and our core category developed to produce clothing with more subtle branding.
These insights strength, such as jackets or graphic t-shirts and improve the customer have highlighted that the brand is still perceived as being rather masculine shopping experience through flexible fixtures that offer more choice and that Womenswear has a narrower appeal to younger customers.
The progress we have made in developing our Womenswear offer, through a more feminine approach to both design and customer engagement, accesses this significant opportunity and will be a key focus over the coming year.
