The Chairman and Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Neil Carson has acted as the boards Senior Independent The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
There is a clear and well-defined division of Director since the conclusion of 2015 AGM, following the retirement of Simon Thompson.
Neil was selected for the accountability and responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and these are set out in writing role on account of his significant knowledge of Amec Foster Wheeler and its operations and his experience as a director and have been agreed by the board.
The consequence of this clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company is of international companies.
Both the nominations committee and the board considered that Neil Carson best met the criteria such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring required for the role.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for: the development and maintenance of an effective and trusting relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding and support.
board for the Chairman on board-related matters The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and X acting as an additional channel of communication between effectiveness of the board.
He is accountable for promoting the Chairman and the other directors where necessary effective board relationships and the participation of all X board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness being available to shareholders for concerns they may have and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its that have not been resolved through the normal channels role.
The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other executive directors, discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company or which are not appropriate to raise through these channels for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and Wheelers business and conduct in accordance with the concerns of Amec Foster Wheelers shareholders through highest ethical standards.
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to companys major shareholders and financial analysts summarise the boards activities in executing its duties during X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive the year.
The plan highlights the priorities the board has directors as to the performance of the Chairman identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive, and can be modified to take account of any unscheduled developments.
X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, In chairing and setting the agenda for board meetings, the providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for discussion and X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, performance, value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved to the board, the Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheelers businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder value.
Consistent with this objective, overall operational management is delegated to the Chief Executive who, together with the Group Leadership Team, is responsible for the proposal, development and implementation of the Groups overall strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers and developing our people.
The building and maintenance of an effective executive management team, and the allocation of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential to the performance of the Chief Executives role.
The Chief Executive also takes the lead role in the promotion of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the realisation of the Companys vision and values and encouraging the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental and ethical performance.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 47 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report
