Chief Executives statement Ian McHoul Dividend per share for the year Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO 29.0p Adjusted diluted EPS for 2015 67.7p Following a board meeting on 17 January, the Company Order book announced the departure of Samir Brikho on 18 January 2016, since when I have fulfilled the dual roles of Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO.
My finance report can be found on 6.6bn page 28 and I would, for the record, like to wish Samir all the best for the future.
2015 was a year of contrasting forces.
We successfully launched our new operating model on 1 January, so creating the platform from which to develop and grow our business.
However, market conditions and commodity prices continue to dictate the flow of multiple projects on which we have been working.
Despite the market downturn and the industry-wide mantra about the conditions being tougher for even longer, we have achieved notable successes in helping our customers achieve greater efficiencies and we have continued to win projects and contracts across all of our four business units.
In November, in recognition of the harsh environment and future outlook, we announced our intention to reduce our future dividend payments thereby bringing them back in line with our existing policy of around two times earnings cover.
Tough times call for tough actions and we continue to reduce costs raising our synergy targets, streamlining our business, focusing our offering, creating greater efficiencies through innovation and partnership and being more flexible to even better support the needs of our customers.
A year of The Group Leadership Team and I are working on creating contrasting the most efficient platform for growth in both the current and forces.
hopefully more positive market conditions in the midto near term future.
2015 results The challenging backdrop of economic uncertainty continued into 2015 and was exacerbated by the continuing price decline in many of our core commodities.
We have delivered a 1 trading profit of 374m, on reduced revenues of 5,455m and proposed a final dividend of 14.2p per share in line with our November 2015 guidance.
1 Our cash conversion rate was 104% and adjusted earnings 1 per share of 67.7p.
As I am also Chief Financial Officer, I will give more depth and insight into our financial performance in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 37.
We have continued to win interesting and exciting projects in each of our four key markets and across our four business units, resulting from increased collaboration, skills transfer and knowledge sharing.
Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 07 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Chief Executives statement continued Delivering on promises The industry is We operate throughout the oil & gas value chain, from now saying: tougher production and transportation, through processes that go beyond simple separation and dehydration, to refining or for even longer.
processing crude oil into finished fuel products.
This remains the major part of our business, accounting for 54% of our revenues and so the low price of crude oil has had a dramatic impact on our business.
In 2015 we have concentrated on developing innovative ways of working and providing more cost-efficient solutions for our customers, who are also feeling the pain.
Our More4Less initiative, which established more momentum during the year, is just one example of how our lean and scalable engineering processes and integrated delivery approach has been proven to deliver notable savings.
During 2015, we won more than 1,000 new projects with a mix of new and existing customers: however, the start dates Tough environments provide of a number of these contracts have been delayed by market opportunities for diverse conditions.
Our order book, at 6.6bn, is up on 2014, but does thought leaders.
not take into account work won with no confirmed start date.
Our employees continue to work on many of the more interesting and ground-breaking work in our chosen markets, as befits the talent and skills we have.
More detail can be found on pages 24 to 25.
In oil & gas we have strengthened our relationship with BP, winning North Sea contracts, have won work in Texas, US with DArcinoff, and been awarded projects with SKS, Orpic and the Government of Timor-Leste in Malaysia, Oman and Challenges create a Timor-Leste respectively.
platform from which to showcase our best work.
Our clean energy business has seen us win a range of contracts from steam generating and air pollution control to nuclear assessment and solar generation.
We have been recognised as a key supplier and strategic player for Mexicos growing heat recovery steam generator market, with four project wins during 2015: and have won nuclear projects in Canada, France, Japan, UK and USA.
We have seen notable innovation in our environment & infrastructure markets, winning further work for the US Air Force with the Contract Augmentation Program IV in the US and for the design and construction of special facilities in Guam.
Our mining business has been impacted by commodity prices, but notable wins included providing front-end engineering services for the expansion of the pler Gold Mine in Turkey and an engineering procurement and construction contract with Petra Diamonds for its Cullinan Mill Extension Project in South Africa.
Amec Foster Wheeler 08 Annual report and accounts 2015 Developing full potential Safety is at the heart of all that we do and we successfully We have blended the skills within our organisation to benefit the launched our Beyond Zero initiative meaning zero harm every needs of our customers and created a platform for long-term minute of every day, whatever we do at work or at home.
growth which, while the slings and arrows of commodity prices It includes the tools to enable all our employees to help may temporarily hurt us, is the right approach for our business us achieve a world-class Health, Safety, Security and in the long term.
Environmental performance and includes preparing the ground Our company has been delivering ground-breaking, for a new programme for 2016. energy-related projects and improving the lives of billions Designed to enable our safety leaders to effectively identify of people since 1848. hazard and intervene when they consider safety is being Operating in over 55 countries, our approach is to forge strong compromised, we call it HEART for Harm Elimination and working partnerships with our customers which include Recognition Training.
governments, multi-national businesses and communities HEART will equip our safety leaders at supervisory and to create some of the worlds leading industrial projects.
management levels of our organisation with the confidence Our 40,000-strong, skilled workforce ranges from and skills to use the technique.
archaeologists to zoologists and almost every profession Outlook in between.
Current thinking indicates that low commodity prices will And we are good at what we do designing, delivering and continue to be the largest disruptive factor in our markets for maintaining strategic and complex assets to time and budget.
the immediate future especially in our oil & gas and mining For example, despite the challenging conditions, our Danjing operating units so we see another tough year ahead in 4 biomass power plant project in South Korea reached some markets.
commercial operation two weeks ahead of schedule.
However, I have taken great heart from the way our people We have embedded the concept of using our specifically have buckled down to the challenges set across our business, resourced offices in India as further support for the businesses as the tougher for even longer mantra continues to have a and we have added greater risk management protocols through major impact on customer decision-making, capital expenditure our Identify, Acquire, Deliver process.
We deliberately maintain our strong and established positions In particular, I believe the benefits of our diverse model are in mining, clean energy, power generation, environment & already differentiating us, with good opportunities in down infrastructure alongside the oil & gas market to develop stream oil & gas, renewables, government work and UK T&D.
complementary skills and services as well as to provide revenue We have almost sixty years experience in decommissioning diversification and a form of hedging against market trends.
highly complex nuclear assets and the expertise we have can Diversity is also evident in our approach to life, in the be used to benefit other areas such as retiring UK North Sea methodology we apply to solving our customers problems oil and gas platforms.
and in our business strategy.
We will continue to partner with our customers to deliver the We have to empower our employees and maintain their career most innovative, efficient and effective results possible and are paths and excitement about our future and, as a part of the looking to put our global resources, people and thinking to work integration process, we have introduced new systems to further even harder to achieve this.
harness our combined potential in living our values and creating Our business platform is in place, our operating model is a culture of safety, honesty and collaboration with customer embedded, we are reviewing underperforming assets, we plan needs at the heart of everything we do.
to halve our debt by mid 2017 and we are looking to build our The Academy, which provides our people with development business by doing the right thing, delivering on promises and opportunities towards reaching their full potential, also shifted delivering full potential.
towards delivering more free and accessible solutions globally, supporting the business need for improved efficiency.
Doing the right thing Without ethical or safe behaviour we would be just another company, so we aspire to be the best at both.
Ian McHoul During the year we introduced our new Code of Business Chief Financial Officer and interim CEO Conduct by which we operate and accompanying online 10 March 2016 programmes for Code of Business Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption training.
Both are mandatory for all staff to ensure that all our employees, and those working on our behalf, are aware of the laws applicable to us and act in accordance with those laws.
1 Non-IFRS measure see Performance measures on pages 172 to 174 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 09 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview Connected excellence through deep customer knowledge Long-term client relationships help to safeguard the future of our business.
Our work with EDF Energy, under a lifetime enterprise agreement, provides technical support and expertise for EDF Energy Generations current UK nuclear reactor fleet.
EDF Energy operates 15 reactors at eight nuclear power plants across the UK.
Amec Foster Wheeler was chosen to provide services because of our unique range of skills and capabilities in nuclear engineering, combined with a long-standing relationship between the two organisations.
The services we provide will enable EDF Energy to continue delivering the secure, reliable, low-carbon electricity the UK needs now and into the future.
10 Jo Skelton, Section Lead Remote Operations, fits a cowl in the gap between fuel guide tubes on Amec Foster Wheelers Hot Box Dome rig at Birchwood, Warrington, UK.
The Hot Box Dome project is one of the projects within EDFs fleetcritical programme.
11 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
