STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CREATING THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Mark Cutifani In my previous annual statement I reiterated that creating a platform of operational excellence is fundamental to delivering the full potential from our asset base, independent of the markets external influences.
In fact, weaker markets emphasised a greater need for operating discipline, to ensure that we are operating to deliver optimal cash flows while preserving the assets longer term integrity.
In 2015, we have continued to focus our attention on those assets The global economic environment and its effects that contribute the majority of earnings to Anglo American on prices presented the industry with significant and that offer us the greatest upside potential.
Of particular note, our two world class copper assets in challenges during 2015.
Chile have both recovered well from their respective challenges.
The mitigation plans put in place at Los Bronces Against the strong headwinds of a 24% decrease in the in response to the water shortages in the first half of 2015 basket price of our products, our ongoing intense focus proved effective and, once those water constraints were on operational costs and productivity delivered a lifted following much-needed snowfall, the operations 1 $1.3 billion underlying EBIT benefit in the year, providing strong performance in the second half of the year delivered some mitigation.
Weaker prices accounted for a $4.2 billion total annual production of 401,700 tonnes, just 1% below negative impact to underlying EBIT, while weaker the prior year.
Similarly at Collahuasi, where certain plant currencies in our producer countries served to provide stability issues were identified early in the year, the operation $1.8 billion of mitigating benefit.
The net negative effect delivered an exceptional performance in the last quarter, of $2.4 billion was the major driver of the 55% decrease resulting in production of 200,300 tonnes attributable for in underlying EBIT to $2.2 billion for the year.
Overall, our the year, only a 3% decrease, despite the major challenges 2 copper equivalent unit costs reduced by a further 16% that were confronted.
in US dollar terms, representing a 27% total reduction In our Platinum business, the flagship Mogalakwena mine, since 2012.
Despite our internal improvements, underlying 3 with more than 25 years of Reserve Life and a highly EBITDA decreased by 38% to $4.9 billion and underlying competitive cost position, achieved a further 6% increase earnings reduced by 63% to $0.8 billion.
in production to 392,000 ounces for the year.
The strong We have, however, been able to maintain our level of mining performance resulted from a number of operational net debt and liquidity at $12.9 billion and $14.8 billion enhancements, including improved equipment efficiencies, respectively, through improvements we have made to better drill penetration rates, increased shovel loading the business, significant capex reductions, making the hours and truck loads, while higher grade and increased tough decisions on some of our more marginal assets concentrator recovery performance combined to deliver and the delivery of our asset disposal commitments.
Recalibrated commodity price assumptions and losses In Australia, at our underground longwall metallurgical on the disposal of certain assets have caused us to record coal operations, we have seen significantly improved pre-tax impairments and related charges in the second performance underpinned by improved cutting rates.
This has been achieved by embedding automation to Safety and environmental performance is a leading enable bi-directional cutting at Grasstree, resulting in indicator of how businesses are run.
The greater the record production at that mine through a 40% increase in 1 Excludes $0.8 billion degree of planned work and stable operations, the safer run-of-mine tonnes.
Bi-directional cutting is also planned volume downside at our people will be.
In 2015, we achieved the Groups best to be rolled out at Moranbah in 2016, building on the 7% fide Beers in response safety performance in a full production year, reflecting increase in run-of-mine tonnes achieved in 2015.
At both to market conditions.
2 the intense focus on high risk activities, standards and operations, the implementation of the Operating Model See page 180 for the definition and controls.
I am particularly pleased with the 80% reduction has resulted in the stabilisation of processes through calculation of copper in environmental incidents since 2013.
However, I am detailed planning while driving accountabilities to the equivalent unit costs.
deeply saddened to report that we lost six of our colleagues operating teams.
3 The Life of Mine plan during the year, reminding us in the most acute way how for Mogalakwena At the Sishen iron ore mine in South Africa, the sharply mine extends until much work we still have to do to ensure our people go deteriorating iron ore price during 2015 caused us to take a 2105, beyond the home safely from work every day.
I am encouraged, current Mining Right fresh look at the already revised mine plan, with a focus on though, by the significant improvement in the second half expiry in 2040. reducing operating costs further.
This work is in progress of the year, with a fatality-free final quarter.
The achievement Applications for and requires a significant scaling back of the mines extensions to the of this milestone reminds us all that our goal of zero harm considerable waste stripping activities, achieved by Mining Right will be is achievable.
submitted at the redesigning the pit to a smaller and lower cost configuration, appropriate times.
to preserve the economic sustainability of the mine through There is reasonable expectation that such extensions will not be withheld.
12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Strategic report a potentially prolonged iron ore price environment.
As a We have a detailed series of measures, including result, Kumba is targeting a cash break-even position at an the delivery of $1.9 billion of cost and productivity iron ore price of less than $40 per tonne.
improvements, to deliver positive free cash flow in 2016 and beyond, and an additional $3-4 billion in asset disposal In Brazil, our Nickel business has benefited from the tough proceeds.
As a result, we are targeting a net debt reduction decision, in 2014, to intervene to rebuild the two furnaces.
of $3 billion to less than $10 billion in 2016, assuming current The 12-month rebuild process was delivered ahead of plan commodity prices and exchange rates, and are targeting net and below budget and without a single lost time injury debt of $6 billion in the medium term, supporting a return to a remarkable achievement for the entire team.
First a solid investment grade credit rating.
production was achieved in September 2015, and we have seen a 10% improvement in C1 unit costs compared We of course recognise the current challenging with 2014, largely as a result of having two furnaces environment in which to deliver disposals.
We are already operating at their full design capacity.
engaged with parties interested in several of our assets, but we will only complete those transactions which deliver appropriate value for our investors.
So, while we have DELIVERING PORTFOLIO COMMITMENTS accelerated our disposal processes, and given our targeted Our portfolio transformation is well on track, from c. 65 positive free cash flow and our robust liquidity position, we assets in 2013 to 45 today.
We completed or announced will take appropriate time to secure value outcomes from the $2.1 billion of disposal transactions in 2015, largely from disposal programme.
the $1.6 billion completed sale of our 50% interest in The materially streamlined core portfolio of 16 assets Lafarge Tarmac to Lafarge SA, as agreed in 2014.
This will also enable a step change 50% reduction in central transaction brought the aggregate proceeds received and global support costs and a c. 60% reduction in indirect by AngloAmerican for the sale of its Tarmac assets to headcount as assets are sold and central support approximately $2.5 billion since the decision to sell Tarmac requirements are downsized and recalibrated.
We have subsequently also announced the sale of our interests in the Tarmac Middle East businesses to Colas, Our core portfolio creates a highly attractive, competitive part of the Bouygues Group.
and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, technical expertise and mineral endowment options, which In Copper, we completed the sale of our Norte assets offer considerable upside potential over the long term.
Mantoverde and Mantos Blancos in Chile to an Audley By taking such action, we are creating a Group that will Capital-led consortium for $300 million, with potential also be significantly stronger in the short term it will be upside.
We have since agreed a number of other streamlined, focused, with lower overhead and indirect transactions, including the sale of the Rustenburg platinum costs and positioned to deliver robust profitability and operations to Sibanye Gold for at least ZAR4.5billion in cash flows through the cycle.
nominal terms approximately $275million and the sale of the Dartbrook thermal coal mine in Australia to Australian Pacific Coal for up to A$50 million approximately PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE $36million.
During the year we maintained our work on developing Post the year end, we agreed the sale of the Callide strong relationships with host communities and continued thermal coal mine in Australia to Batchfire Resources for the roll-out of our stringent Social Way standards across an undisclosed sum: this transaction remains subject to a our businesses.
Performance against Social Way number of conditions.
requirements improved significantly in 2015, although a continuing focus will be required to achieve full compliance We have made significant progress, albeit in an environment by the end of 2016. that has been deteriorating at a faster pace.
Just as 2015 was a difficult year for the mining industry, itwas a challenging one for host communities, with the CREATING THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN implementation of operational efficiency measures, the We are taking decisive action to sustainably improve our placing of mines onto care and maintenance and mine cash flows and materially reduce net debt, while focusing on closures negatively affecting host communities, as our most competitive assets.
We will focus the portfolio on evidenced by protests in mining communities across our global leadership positions in diamonds and PGMs and South Africa.
In response, we have continued to roll out our world class position in copper.
This unique combination our new approach to socio-economic development which of assets, enhanced by our commercial marketing expertise, leverages our value chains and skills, focusing in particular will have the advantage of benefiting from the ongoing shift on local procurement, enterprise development, and local away from infrastructure investment towards consumergovernment capacity development.
We have also driven demand, positioning Anglo American for these developed a unique diagnostic tool to measure progress expanding markets.
We will manage our other assets, in bulk and effectiveness in this critical area and this is being commodities and other minerals, for cash generation or deployed at certain of our operations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 13 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We have continued to engage in broader dialogues about economies, mainly reflecting some improvement in societys expectations of the mining industry, not least to Europe.
But emerging economies, particularly the large ensure that we are listening to what our host communities commodity producers, suffered from the effects of need.
The engagement between mining companies and Chinas marked slowdown.
faith groups continues to yield productive discussions, with Over the next few years, most forecasters expect a events held in Rome and Cape Town and a number of site strengthening of global economic growth, albeit gradually, visits organised to help contextualise the nature of the principally in response to firmer recoveries in the US and challenge while also highlighting proven successes.
Consumer spending is picking up and business have also continued to integrate the Development Partner investment should strengthen.
Indias economy should Framework, whose development was hosted by the continue to grow more strongly, in contrast to more subdued Kellogg Innovation Network at Northwestern University, activity in Brazil, Russia and South Africa.
into our own approach to managing community relations.
Chinas economy is adjusting to its new normal.
Its aggregate growth rate is falling owing to several longer term OUTLOOK trends: the end of its infrastructure investment boom, less The world economy continued to struggle in 2015, with potential for catch-up growth, an ageing population, and a output growth falling short of expectations yet again.
debt overhang in the corporate sector.
Its demand for some There were signs of encouragement in the advanced commodities notably those most related to infrastructure OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION OUR MISSION DRIVING DEFINING AND VISION CHANGE OUR FUTURE FOCUS THE A number of OUR MISSION: $2.1bn PORTFOLIO operations across Together, we create the Group have $2.1 billion disposal Prioritising time and sustainable value ceased or are transactions capital on the assets that makes a real ceasing production completed or that offer the most announced in 2015 difference attractive long term value creation potential OUR VISION: A CHANGING To be partners FOCUS ON WORLD in the future $1.3bn $2.0bn DELIVERY The ongoing 1 $1.3 billion of cost $2.0 billion Maintaining a highly economic slowdown and productivity capex reduction competitive mindset in developing countries improvements to $4.0 billion, with innovation and and the precipitous delivered in 2015 including a 30% outstanding delivery at fall in commodity decrease in SIB the forefront of how we prices requires capex in 2015 drive change Anglo American to strengthen its balance sheet, while focusing DEVELOP CORE its strategy, acting $400m $100m BUSINESS decisively to achieve PROCESSES $400 million Avoided energy our ambition underlying EBIT costs in 2015 driven Becoming industry To create a resilient improvement by ECO MAN leaders in critical areas, 2 business that delivers from marketing and business extracting maximum robust profitability and activities since improvement value from our assets sustainable, positive 2013 projects and products cash flows through the price cycle.
CREATE A HIGH 1,500 PERFORMANCE CULTURE Indirect support roles reduced by Ensuring our 1,500 in 2015 organisation and people have the critical core skills to improve returns 1 Excludes $0.8 billion volume downside at fide Beers in response to market conditions.
14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report investment such as iron ore and coal is likely to remain I also thank the members of the Board and our chairman, weak for several years.
But there are some encouraging SirJohn Parker, for their wise counsel and unwavering signs of agradual rebalancing of the economy.
Consumer support for the changes we are making to create the new spending has been robust and many analysts expect this Anglo American.
trend to continue, which implies a more positive and sustainable demand outlook for diamonds, PGMs and copper, amongst others.
THANK YOU On behalf of my colleagues on the Group Management Mark Cutifani Committee, I would like to thank all our people across the Chief Executive business and our widespread and diverse stakeholders for their hard work and support.
This is a period of considerable change in Anglo Americans long history of evolution and I appreciate the support of our stakeholders in helping to deliver the sustainable value that we all demand and expect.
THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN A streamlined, competitive business REMUNERATION with a clear and differentiated Anglo Americans remuneration policy for executive investment proposition.
directors is designed to encourage delivery of the Groups strategy in a responsible and sustainable manner.
The main Strategically advantaged world class assets: elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, World class ore bodies with competitive industry annual bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP.
cost positions and long reserve lives.
Materially streamlined business: ANNUAL BONUS Moving from 45 to 16 core assets across diamonds, PGMs and copper.
Well-balanced portfolio: Annual bonus performance measures include: DECISIVE No over-reliance from any one product group 50% on underlying earnings per share EPS.
EPS is one or geography and retaining the critical mass to ACTION of the Groups key financial measures of performance and compete effectively for, and deliver, the attractive is set on an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding In order to achieve our future growth opportunities across the portfolio.
yet realistic ambition, delivery of the Sustainable profitability: The remaining measures are non-financial and include measures set out on page With competitive cash cost profiles and long project delivery, capital allocation, business improvement, 11 will now form the focus lives, the portfolio will be positioned to produce stakeholder engagement and employee development sustainable profitability through the cycle.
of our strategic imperatives: A deduction is applied if safety targets are notmet.
Differentiated, premium positioning for To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% Focus on DeBeers, PGMs expanding consumer-driven markets: ofany annual bonus is deferred into shares for aminimum and Copper Enhanced by our marketing expertise, the Group of three years and is subject to clawback.
will be positioned to benefit from changing demand Portfolio transformation patterns as the global economy evolves and as LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN under way emerging market economies mature.
Cash flow enhancements to further strengthen the The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic balance sheet objectives over a three-year performance period.
Vested LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for an additional two years, to encourage alignment ofexecutive We measure our Safety and Health and shareholder interests.
performance The LTIP performance measures and weightings are: Environment through our 25% Group total shareholder return TSR relative to the pillars of value Socio-political Euromoney Global Mining Index which underpin 25% Group TSR relative to the FTSE 100 index everything we do People 50% attributable ROCE to reflect the strategic Production focus ondisciplined capital allocation.
Cost Financial For more information go to Key Performance Indicators page 34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 15
