Things I think about in the shower John Roberts, Chief Executive Officer AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 14 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Chief Executives statement Germany Our achievement in Germany is one of our proudest to date.
At the time of our IPO last March, launching in a new territory was very much a theory: we had nothing signed, no premises, no staff, no infrastructure and no orders.
By October we had built everything and were ready for business.
Our key differential in the UK is that we care more: its not just a functional order and delivery process but the all-round customer journey the AO experience.
It starts with a huge choice, great quality content and an easy to use website all with fantastic customer service.
In our view, this was not on offer in Germany and so we were intent on establishing, from day one, a revolutionary service of next-day delivery using our own fleet of vehicles with our own drivers delivering the same level of passion and service that we do in the UK.
Leveraging our culture and our in-house systems was not for the faint hearted or for those thinking short term.
John Roberts To replicate the culture that we have in the UK whilst allowing for local Founder and Chief Executive Officer nuance and integrating over 200 new members in our team in only six months was truly a humbling achievement.
The team in Germany sees that AO is not a job, its a way of life, just as our people do in the UK.
Last year was our first Annual Report as a public company and so it was an opportunity to explain to many what AO.
com is We have been delighted by what we achieved in Germany and about and what it is that makes us who we are.
opposite are some examples of what customers think of the service.
Our Net Promoter Score NPS since launch has been over This year is a more traditional update on the events of the last financial 90 which would be exceptional for a fully established business, year and our thoughts for the year.
let alone one with a new concept in a new territory.
Despite missing our expectations in our last quarter, the headline Our biggest challenge in Germany so far has been winning the hearts message is that we are still an exceptional business.
The strategic plan and minds of the brands.
This is something we continue to invest huge we have set out is very much on track: we are investing in the future amounts of time and energy into and Im pleased to say progress has of our business and making the right choices, not just the easy or been swift.
15 years of progress in the UK has been compressed into short-term ones.
12months in Germany with significant strides being made and positions materially advanced from a year ago.
We still have the audacity and courage to believe we can change the way Europe buys its electricals and we believe we can do this simply We always believed that our IT systems could be easily replicated by caring more and executing brilliantly.
internationally, and our experience in Germany has proven this to be true.
Our continued investment in our IT platforms gives us a Last year was an enormous year for us with the IPO, but this year has significant long-term strategic advantage.
been even bigger and another year of firsts: The first time consumers in Germany could taste AO service.
Were now focusing on what is possible by when.
There is much to The first time Black Friday mattered.
do but nothing we have seen in Germany concerns us when we sense The first time we sold televisions.
check against our macro plan and so we are excited to be accelerating our thinking of what is possible on the timings of further European roll out, safely.
We could tell you how much we care about our customers.
Or we could let them do it for us!
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Quotable quotes: Youre putting old fashioned great service into a new world online.
Germany Its everything online shopping should be.
UK AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17 Chief Executives statement continued Despite missing market expectations we have taken market share Black Friday Our IT systems proved more than capable to cope with unprecedented in the UK MDA and our UK sales growth and UK Adjusted EBITDA growth is impressive.
There will be bumps in the road but our key levels of demand on Black Friday.
Our customers could all buy without website crashes and we didnt have to introduce the quite offering has remained strong our unbeatable prices, huge range and amazing service mean our customer satisfaction levels remained bizarre concept of queuing to enter a website.
Crucially our delivery performance was unaffected by the increased demand levels, which exceptional and will continue to be so.
We are forever enhancing our content and looking for new ways to drive engagement and make meant that our customers got what they ordered when they were expecting it.
The extent of the hysteria took most of retail by surprise todays web experience look old fashioned.
One of our key objectives for the year ahead will be to build our brand awareness: the AO brand and its a phenomenon that we have learned a lot from.
is effectively two years old and will continue to be a primary focus over the next few years.
We have been working to simplify our message and Big spikes are not efficient for retail, but this feels like a concept that is here to stay.
how we best define the AO brand.
We have amazing assets to leverage such as our 1.6 million plus Facebook community and our existing We did what we always do we put the customer first and reacted customers who know how great our service is and are our best form of advertising.
Were hugely excited by what we have ahead.
Our brand quickly to demand and responded in real time to the pricing strategies of our competitors.
awareness or lack of it remains our biggest weakness and thus our biggest opportunity.
TV None of what we achieved last year or the progress being made in the Moving into a new category was another part of our strategy at the time of IPO.
We knew we could replicate our model and sell TVs by current year would be possible without our people and Id like to thank all our staff and drivers, both here in the UK and abroad, for their sheer partnering with many of our existing brands and leveraging our existing infrastructure: many TVs are now big enough that they hard work, passion and dedication to our cause.
People ask me how do we get people to care the way that we do?
Ive always said that you require two people to deliver them and our model is perfectly placed to do this.
cant pay people to care and the truth is were picky and obsessive about it: we select the right people to begin with, people who live and As with our launch in Germany the biggest challenge has been breathe our values and we create an environment for those with the brightest minds and the biggest hearts to thrive.
Its not just the convincing the incumbent dominant brands of the value that our route to market offers them.
We are very encouraged by the progress we business that benefits: we continue to have a positive impact in the communities in which we operate.
This enables our people to be have made.
proud of the AO badge they wear.
We had another sensational evening supporting Comic Relief and our affiliation with AO Smile Foundation Again using our cookie-cutter approach, fulfilment, customer service and proposition for the new category have been easy to deliver and the enables us to help them change peoples lives.
Our team have made a great social impact through a number of other initiatives that are worth category has fitted neatly into our existing offering.
Customers have welcomed our simple and straight-forward approach to complex dwelling on for a minute or two on page 32 after all its not all about the money.
technologies and the percentage of orders generated from our existing MDA Major Domestic Appliances customers gives real confidence on In summary, it has been another positive year with its challenges and the future benefits of cross pollinating new categories.
learnings and many more standout achievements that are covered in the report.
We have stayed true to our long-term commitments and So that was the firsts... vision while embracing the lessons learned.
However, we are not forgetting what got us here in the first place and remain focused on our core UK MDA business.
Our passion for our customers, our people and all stakeholders has never been bigger and our determination to make our plan a reality is unwavering.
John Roberts Founder and Chief Executive Officer The good news is that none of our customers got injured trying to buy our products!
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Firsts from our first full year as a public company The first time consumers in Germany could taste AO service.
The first time Black Friday mattered.
The first time we took on apprentices.
The first time we sold televisions.
The first time we experienced a national driver shortage.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19
