Statement from the CEO Diego Hernndez We are in the sixth year of the downturn We have introduced a new safety inthe copper market.
While I entered 2015 management system based on with a degree of optimism that the year risk prevention that has shown real We have made several would see the low of the cycle, continued improvements in safety awareness by structural changes during deterioration in the macro-environment has employees and contractors.
In 2015, there the year including starting instead created further downward pressure was a significant increase in the reporting on prices.
However, we have used 2015 of high-potential near misses, which is a up our new Antucoya mine, to reset our costs back to levels that we fundamental preventative measure and is selling our water division, have not seen for some time.
We have improving our understanding of the key made significant progress in this respect risk areas.
purchasing a 50% interest and I believe we will be able to reduce our in the Zaldvar copper mine Our executive team visit each of the Groups costs further in the coming year.
We are mining operations periodically as part of and closing Michilla.
extending our cost reduction programmes a special safety leadership programme, which, together with the smooth start-up demonstrating the importance of safety and integration of Antucoya and Zaldvar, will and empowering everyone to ensure safety bean important focus of 2016 and beyond.
comes first in everything we do.
With our healthy balance sheet and low 2015 business performance cost operations we are in a good position to weather the current market conditions.
The focus of the year has been on While we cut costs and free-up cash flow optimising our operations to ensure we are also in a position to consider taking we remain competitive in a low-price advantage of any acquisition opportunities environment.
We have also made several that arise, although we would only do so if structural changes during the year as we we felt confident in our continued financial strengthen our position as a focused copper condition.
We know that copper is a cyclical miner.
Major highlights include the start of industry and as a result of the actions that production at our new Antucoya mine, the we have taken over the past year we will sale of our water division and the purchase be better positioned to benefit from the of a 50% interest in the Zaldvar copper recovery when it comes.
At the same time we also took the decision to close the Safety and health Michilla mine, which after a long history We sadly had a fatality in 2015 as a result as part of the Group has come to the end of a rockfall in our underground mine at of its economic life.
This is a great tragedy, especially meant that we have tightened the mining as the mine was in its last few months of focus of the Group and increased our operation.
I offer my sincerest condolences, production capacity.
together with all those of the senior Against the backdrop of a weak macromanagement team, to Sergio Brunas environment, prices fell for all our products.
It is not acceptable that we still have Our average realised copper price was fatalities and we are determined to achieve 24% lower than in 2014 and gold and our target of zero fatalities.
molybdenum were down 8% and 49%respectively.
08 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Copper production was down by 74,500 Areas of focus tonnes to 630,300 tonnes, with lower throughput at Los Pelambres as we mined harder ore, and a significant fall in grade at Centinela.
This, together with delays to the start of the commissioning of Antucoya and the expansion of Centinela Concentrates, The Groups position in a the closure of the Michilla mine, heavy rains challenging environment at Centinela and protests at Los Pelambres, all had an impact in lowering production Strong balance sheet 1 compared to 2014.
The lower prices and lower production led to Group revenues Competitive operating cost position Position falling by 34% to $3.4 billion compared with Re-setting community engagement 2014 and EBITDA decreasing by 58% to $891 million, some $1.25 billion lower than Preserving growth projects last year.
Despite the significant fall in production, cash costs before by-product credits for the year fell by 1.1% to $1.81 lb.
A weaker Chilean peso against the US dollar net of inflation reduced costs by 6c lb, and falls in the oil price, together with lower power costs at Los Pelambres and other lower consumables prices, reduced costs by a Optimise our portfolio further 9c lb.
Net cash costs were further impacted by weak by-product prices and Sale of water division lower gold production, and increased by 2 Bring Antucoya to full production 4.9% to $1.50 lb compared with 2014.
Offsetting the savings was an increase Optimise Purchase of TMM and stake of18c lb arising from the lower production in Zaldvar during the year.
Closure of Michilla The sale of the water division for $963 million in June generated a profit of$616 million, which has been recorded as a profit from discontinued operations.
Excluding this amount, net earnings from continuing operations for the year were $5.5 million or 0.6 cents per share, a 98.7% decrease from 2014.
Net earnings including discontinued operations increased by 32.2% to $608.2 million.
Maintain our discipline The total dividend for the year is 3.1 cents and flexibility per share, or $30.6 million, which was paid as the interim dividend, and as a result 3 Cost control without increasing risk exceeds the minimum payout ratio set Reduce development capital Discipline in the Groups dividend policy.
No final dividend has been recommended by expenditure without compromising the Board.
future growth Total operating costs in the mining division were reduced by some $245 million, or 8%, during the year.
Our Cost and Competitiveness Programme achieved $150 million of mine site savings, or 11c lb, and approximately another $95 million was saved through reductions in exploration and evaluation, and corporate costs.
The cost reductions we achieved followed an intense review of our cost structures and productivity.
Antofagasta plc 09 Statement from the CEO This involved overhauling how we We currently have two development In 2014, the El Arrayn wind farm was structured our service contracts, increasing projects underway, Encuentro Oxides and commissioned, followed by the Javiera operational efficiencies, extracting further the new molybdenum plant at Centinela.
solar plant last year and then the Conejo synergies from the Centinela merger, and Both of these projects were started in solar plant this year, which in total will reducing employee numbers.
Looking early 2015 and were scheduled to be provide Los Pelambres with 90MW forward to 2016, we expect to make further completed by the end of 2016 and early of power.
mine site cost reductions of$160 million.
Although stopping During 2015, at Los Pelambres we made these projects would be disproportionately considerable progress in informing our Zaldvar acquisition expensive considering their state of local communities about our use of water advancement, their development is now Towards the end of the year, we acquired and the impact of the Mauro tailings dam.
being slowed with no impact on their a 50% interest in the Zaldvar copper mine We have engaged in a consultation process net present value and will now not be and took over as operators.
The opportunity with all of the affected communities in completed until the second half of 2017. to purchase an interest in a mine of this avariety of different forums.
This will help preserve cash in 2016 and, quality rarely occurs and it is a reflection once these projects are commissioned, we Through these forums we are working of the state of the market that it was will not need to commit to any new projects together to identify future water supply offered for sale.
The acquisition was until the market outlook improves.
solutions and to agree compensation keenlycontested as copper remains for the impact of the Mauro dam on widely regarded as one of the metals Future growth those who live nearest to it in Caimanes.
with the best outlook in the medium and Considerable progress has been made and long term.
The acquisition was carefully The next stage of growth will come from we expect that 2016 will see agreement considered and represented a unique our Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion onlasting solutions for those affected.
opportunity to advance the Groups longproject and building a second concentrator term objectives, building on its existing at Centinela, which will add up to 200,000 This is part of our ongoing commitment portfolioof operations.
tonnes of annual copper production.
to ensure that the impact we have on the Both of these projects completed their precommunities and environments in which We have taken over as operators of the feasibility studies in 2015 and are currently we work is limited as much as possible.
mine, which is expected to achieve savings at the feasibility study stage.
These studies of some $1520 million from synergies are being undertaken at minimum cost Outlook with our existing corporate functions and and can be accelerated if conditions aprogramme of cost reductions during the In 2016, we expect to produce 710740,000 improve, but are currently not planned year.
We expect our attributable production tonnes of copper, 245275,000 ounces of tobecompleted before late 2017. in 2016 to be 5055,000 tonnes of copper gold and 89,000 tonnes of molybdenum, and then to rise as mining moves into The development of the Los Pelambres as Antucoya ramps up to full production higher grade areas of the pit.
The Group Incremental Expansion will be split into two and Zaldvar contributes its first full year of is also investigating increasing leach phases.
The first will maximise throughput production.
If we achieve the top end of our recoveries at the operation.
under the mines existing environmental copper target we will have had our highest and water permits.
The second will year of production ever and we expect Managing our position through increase throughput to 205,000 tonnes per this, together with savings and productivity thedownturn day.
This phasing will simplify the permit programmes, will see our cash costs before application process and spread the costs by-products fall to 2012 levels of $1.65 lb Over the course of 2015, we have prepared ofthe expansion over a longer period.
and our net cash costs to $1.35 lb.
for a period of prolonged weak markets and have contingency plans should prices At Centinela the Environmental Impact World markets at the beginning of 2016 deteriorate further.
Beyond the actions Assessment for the second concentrator have been dominated by uncertainty I have mentioned regarding reducing was submitted in May and is expected to and negative sentiment even though the operating costs, we are also taking steps be approved in 2016.
The feasibility study is fundamentals are little changed.
This has to improve our free cash flow through a underway and will focus on the first phase not been good for the mining industry and tighter control of inventory and a reduction of expansion to add some 140,000 tonnes the copper price dropped below $2.00 lb in both development and sustaining capital of copper, 150,000 ounces of gold and in January.
However, if the fundamentals expenditure.
No expenditure is made 3,000 tonnes of molybdenum annually.
prevail as we expect, the price should without careful consideration.
stabilise during a period of small supply Sustainability surpluses before recovering in late 2017, Total capital expenditure in 2015 was early 2018.
These years are going to be approximately $1.05 billion and in 2016 In 2014, we announced that we had difficult for both Antofagasta and the wider is expected to drop slightly to some secured several new Power Purchase industry and will require perseverance and $1.0 billion including mine development, Agreements at Los Pelambres which will discipline.
We will continue to work hard to which increases by some $200 million.
mean that by 2019 some 80% of energy protect our margins and manage our cash used at the mine will come from renewable sources.
This is a major step forward that flow, while remaining open to opportunities will limit our impact on the environment in the market.
The actions that we are andalso help us to manage our costs.
taking now will allow us to emerge from this downturn in a stronger position than we entered it.
10 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015
