16 ARM Strategic Report 2015 CEOs strategic perspective Investing for long-term growth Simon Segars In 2015 ARM celebrated its 25th year.
From the start, we knew that embedding intelligence into Chief Executive Officer chips to create smart devices was the future of ARM is becoming computing.
We didnt know which markets would increasingly take off first, or how the technology was going Mobile to be used, though we always knew that ARM computers diversied beyond 85% was going to change how and where computing mobile phones.
happens, and that this was going to lead to a revolution in the digital products that we all use every day.
Storage Our first real success was in early digital mobile 90% phones.
We were in the right place, at the right time, with the right technology.
In the early 1990s no one knew that mobile phones were going to become the consumer electronic product that everyone would want to own, or that many semiconductor 32% vendors would want an energy-efficient smart Wearables 95% microprocessor to power their mobile phone chips.
ARMs total market share The companies that used our technology in these in 2015 early chips then started to use ARM processors in chips for other end markets.
That led us to Networking invest both in new technology that could be used infrastructure in powerful applications, and to also invest in 15% applications which needed much smaller processors such as the tiny microcontrollers that will enable the Internet of Things.
The result is that ARM technology is now broadly adopted across many devices from sensors to smartphones and, in the future, into Embedded servers too.
intelligence 25% ARM is enabling the companies that will build the chips for this enormous and growing market and we are investing in our business today to take advantage of that opportunity.
Based on ARM and market data.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overv view Strategy Performanc ce e Com mmitment Financials 17 We always knew that ARM was going to change how and where computing happens.
18 ARM Strategic Report 2015 CEOs strategic perspective Continued Strategy for long-term growth Investing in new technology is business as usual Creating sustainable growth ARM is continuing to invest for long-term sustainable ARMs business has been created around developing growth.
We are investing in our current product new and innovative technology to meet the demands portfolio, developing new processors that hit the of future consumer products and enterprise right performance at the right power and with the systems.
Most of our engineering team is focused right features for both existing and new markets.
on developing the roadmaps for the product-lines ARMs strategy Adding value Entering into that we have today, and we are working closely with to increase enables the creation new and adjacent royalty revenue of sustainable We are investing in new products that will generate market-leading customers to identify their future markets per processor revenue growth new revenue streams: some will be created through needs.
About 17% of our engineers, led by our CTO, organic investments in our engineering teams, and Mike Muller, are looking out even longer term, at some through acquisitions to accelerate time to what technologies we may be using in market.
In 2015 we acquired WiCentric Inc. Sunrise 1020 years time.
Increasing the Making it easy Micro Devices Inc. and Discretix, Inc. trading as number of for customers to Sansa Security, Inc., which have expanded our We have complemented our own R&D with ARM processors continue to use per chip our products portfolio of products for the Internet of Things.
acquisitions that can accelerate our existing business We also acquired the business of Carbon Design or become the seed for new technologies and Helping our Attracting new Systems, Inc. which provides tools that our products, servicing new markets and customers.
customers to partners to license increase their semiconductor Partners use to more efficiently our technology market share design highly complex chips.
These are often bolt-on acquisitions that we can then scale up to become globally competitive.
We also look at more established businesses that may come For ARM and our Partners to be successful, we need with existing revenue streams and ecosystems that a broad ecosystem of companies that are building we can combine with our own.
their businesses utilising ARM technology and supporting the ARM architecture.
We are investing Although a lot of this investment is in our engineering in this ecosystem to accelerate the adoption of new teams, we also invest in the supporting people, ARM technology for the markets that we are already This has systems and infrastructure that enable our in, and also for the markets that we are and will be Gaining or Increasing enabled us to engineering teams to develop, deliver and support growing into.
maintaining share the value of create a sustainable the next generation of products.
in long-term ARM technology business, t for growth markets in smart devices the long term Creating new Attracting new revenue streams Partners to license from adjacent our technology markets ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 19 In the past the vast majority of our people have been ARMs strategy to increase royalty revenue per smart device Leadership in mobile computing devoted to developing technology for the mobile ARMv8-A ARMv8-A is the eighth version of the ARM architecture.
It is more The mobile market remains ARMs most important market, and that investment has continued to grow.
advanced than the previous generation, introducing 64-bit computing market, responsible for nearly half of all ARM-based The mobile market remains important for us in part and improved security features.
ARM typically receives a higher royalty chip shipments.
Although we expect smartphone because many of the products we build for mobile percentage from chips based on ARMv8-A technology.
ARM started unit growth to be slower in the future, it remains devices end up being used in other markets.
to license this technology in 2009, and by the end of 2015 had signed a major growth driver for ARM over the next 89licences with 48 companies.
We are also growing our headcount, with new engineering teams building products specically ARMv8-A is gaining share in smartphones and tablets.
In 2015 about ARM expanding opportunity in mobile formarkets beyond mobile.
We have grown this 50% of all smartphones sold were based on ARMv8-A, up from about The number of chips going into mobile devices, headcount by a factor of three since 2012.
10% for the whole of 2014. and the sophistication of those chips, is increasing.
ARM processor engineering headcount For ARM, this creates an opportunity to achieve higher royalty revenues from each smart 12 900 mobile device.
550 More cores per chip ARM can receive a slightly higher royalty per chip with higher core counts.
In 2015 nearly all Android smartphones had an ARM-based 13 1100 Competition amongst smartphone handset vendors application processor that was either quad-core or octa-core.
Smartphone vendors now nearly all of the chips used in Android phones had an ARM-based 14 1300 want to introduce a new premium model every application processor that was dual-core or quad-core.
Therefore, semiconductor companies have to we saw a significant increase in the number of cores per application 2015 1600 develop more sophisticated chips every year, and processor in smartphones, and we benefited from the higher royalty 1250 are demanding a new platform of ARM technology revenue that generated.
16 forecast 1800 to develop those chips.
ARM is therefore creating a 1625 roadmap of products that will provide a complete system of technology on an annual basis to enable Mobile computing Non-mobile each new generation of chips for mobile devices.
Resource allocation based on an estimate of In 2015, this strategy delivered increased royalty most likely initial use.
Most ARM technology can revenue per smart device.
Mali graphics ARMs Mali graphics processor enables an immersive experience for be used in both mobile and non mobile devices games and brings user interfaces to life.
Initially graphics processors ARM has been investing in its mobile technology were primarily found in high-end PCs and games consoles.
Today, Strategy for the future roadmap for nearly 25 years, and we will continue every smartphone has an embedded graphics processor and they are In 2015 we announced our strategy to capture to develop advanced technologies for smart mobile increasingly being designed into vehicle dashboards, cameras and even greater revenues in the future by increasing our devices.
This will enable us to retain a high market supercomputers.
Mali is also royalty-bearing and has been gaining share.
In the next few sections, I will share, whilst benefiting from higher royalty revenue ARM has signed 132 Mali licences with 65 semiconductor companies.
outline our strategy in each of our target markets.
per chip as companies choose to deploy more advanced ARM technology.
In 2015 Mali became the highest shipping graphics processor in the smartphone market with a 40% market share.
20 ARM Strategic Report 2015 CEOs strategic perspective Continued During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing During 2015, ARM announced that it was increasing Accelerating share gains in Accelerating gains in servers its investment to accelerate its market share its investment to accelerate its market share in The server market is another new high-value network infrastructure in networking infrastructure.
These additional investments will be in market for ARM technology where we currently investments will be in three areas: three areas: The networking infrastructure equipment market is have a very low share.
Changes within the market an exciting high-value market where we expect to are creating new opportunities for ARMs Partners.
ARMs strategy to gain ARMs strategy to gain market share see an increasing deployment of ARM-based chips.
Our customers are creating application-specic chips market share in servers in networking infrastructure that are optimised for a specic set of workloads and ARM is investing in the analysis of new ARM is investing in the analysis of the Today ARM has a relatively low share of chips Building better Building better thus provide the right amount of performance for workloads that networking chips will need workloads that server chips will need to shipping into networking infrastructure.
However, chip technology chip technology lower power than traditional server equipment.
to undertake, which will help our Partners undertake.
This will help our Partners ARM has been developing technology that can to build more optimised chips and ARM to build more optimised chips and ARM deliver the performance required for the next to design more advanced processors to design more advanced processors for In 2015, ARM had less than a 1% share of the server and other key technologies for future future servers.
generation of networking infrastructure equipment, market.
We have seen progress during the year networking workloads.
and all of the major semiconductor companies with six companies manufacturing ARM-based ARM is investing in additional software Optimising that make chips for this market have licensed an Foundational software that operators and engineering resources to help accelerate Creation of server chips, and we expect another four to start software ARM processor.
enterprises will be using to implement the porting and optimising of software to new software manufacturing in 2016.
We have also seen progress their networks is being developed through support ARM-based server systems.
in the software ecosystem, with Canonicals industry-wide collaborations.
ARM is With many semiconductor companies building ARM is increasing its engagement with increasing its investment in some of these Ubuntu OS software now commercially available, Faster highly differentiated chips, all based on the ARM companies which deploy server technology collaborations to accelerate the availability and there are a large number of companies deployments of to help them design ARM-based server architecture, network operators will be able to run of critical components.
which have ARM-based server software available new technology systems more quickly.
the same software across their system regardless of for developers to start working on.
In addition, ARM is increasing its engagement with Faster whether it utilises a chip optimised for base-station operators and OEMs to help them design major server users are evaluating ARM-based deployments of equipment, a router or a switch.
This will make it these new technologies into future Expected result of additional investments technology in cloud deployments, in data new technology networks, enterprises and data centres.
more efficient for operators to deploy new services centres, in high-performance computing and By increasing investment now we believe that we across their network, and these services will enable inenterprise applications.
can accelerate our market share gains in servers.
them to generate new sources of revenues.
Previously we had indicated that we were targeting Expected result of additional investments For some specic applications, companies are already our market share in 2020 to be around 20%: we are Increasing investment now will create an opportunity seeing the benets of using an ARM-based server now increasing this target to be around 25%.
to accelerate our future market share in networking system: see PayPal example in the box below.
Previously we had indicated that we were targeting our market share in 2020 to be in the range 3035%.
We are now increasing this target to be around 45%.
Initial server deployment Half the price to buy Seventh the cost to run Tenth the size PayPal have created a fraud detection system using ARM-based server systems.
Compared to traditional data centre equipment there were significant savings in cost, power andoorspace.
Traditional data centre infrastructure Data centre infrastructure based on ARMv8-A technology ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 21 ARMs strategy to create new revenue Although we are confident that the Internet of Creating new revenue streams streams from the Internet of Things Things is a significant opportunity for ARM, there from the Internet of Things IoT are uncertainties too.
We do not know how fast ARM is investing in technology that will Securing the chip the Internet of Things will grow, how big it will enhance security even for chips costing The Internet of Things is a potentially huge market less than $1.
From early 2016, ARM is eventually become, or who will be the market consisting of billions of sensors and devices all introducing new processors designed leaders.
However, we would rather be investing in it connected together: embedding intelligence into for microcontrollers and smart sensors now: creating technology that we believe will form industrial automation, transport systems, national that will help secure data inside tiny lowa key component for many connected devices, and cost chips.
energy grids, as well as our homes, and potentially creating the new ecosystem of companies that will enabling a revolution in manufacturing, agriculture, In 2015, ARM announced the acquisitions Securing the provide the products and systems from which these the provision of medical services, and the running of of three companies that have provided the communications networks will be formed.
We want ARM to be a seed for our Cordio radio and mbed OS the entire infrastructure of a city.
Together these technologies market leader in the Internet of Things, and the only create a communications channel between way to achieve that is to be fully involved.
The chips that are being deployed into IoT devices IoT devices and the network, and also are mainly microcontrollers and wireless connectivity improve the security of that channel.
These are large and established chip markets Investing to shape ARM is investing in its mbed Device Server Securing the where ARM has a growing share.
In 2015, our share software that will manage a network of connection to the connected world of the microcontroller market was about 25% and IoT devices throughout their lifetime, from theserver deployment to providing remote updates our share of the wireless connectivity chip market Over the past 25 years ARMs strategy has been to retirement.
ARM processors are therefore being to invest in the energy-efficient technologies that Connected embedded devices are becoming critical widely adopted as the architecture for many of the components in business networks, providing new revenue have changed how and where computing happens.
opportunities for many companies, such as street-side electric chips being deployed to create IoT.
Together with our semiconductor Partners, we have In addition ARM is investing to create an ecosystem vehicle charging points.
This is also creating new opportunities helped to shape this connected world.
At ARM, we of Partners that are developing complementary for cyber criminals to disrupt markets to steal information or The Internet of Things can bring huge benets across continue to evolve our strategy, and are further siphon away money.
ARMs mbed Device Server will help to products that utilise ARMs technology.
the world, but recent history has demonstrated that improve the security in an IoT network.
investing in new technologies that are taking us computer networks can be targeted by hackers who into some of the fastest growing and most rapidly Expected result of additional want to disrupt the legitimate users of that network.
We believe that the connected investmentsin IoT The Internet of Things has to be built from the world in which we live will lead to increasing market By investing in new technology to help secure beginning with security as a key requirement.
share, increasing revenues and a sustainable business the Internet of Things, we have the opportunity t for long-term success.
to generate additional revenue streams.
We are ARM is therefore investing in new technology that licensing mbed Device Server software as well as will provide the building blocks for a secure network Simon Segars getting additional royalty revenue from embedded of embedded devices, and this will help to increase Chief Executive Officer chips that contain more ARM technology such as our revenue opportunity from this new market.
processors, physical IP and our new Cordio radio IP.
22 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Making journeys safer and smoother Technology can make journeys by car even safer.
Cameras inside the car can warn the driver if they are showing signs of tiredness, or becoming distracted.
Cameras outside the car look to understand what may be happening and provide additional information to the driver: identifying road signs, or whether a lane is accidentally being crossed, or another vehicle might be in the drivers blind spot.
Eventually this may lead to a car that is capable of driving itself.
By 2020, we estimate that the market for smart automotive chips will be more than $15 billion, including infotainment, assisted driving technology and improved safety features.
Find out more about innovation in the automotive industry, visit: www.
com markets ARM Strategic Report 2015 Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov Ov O Ov O Ov O O Ov five five five e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e erv rv rv r rv rv rv rv rv rv rv rv rv r rv rv r r r rv r rv vi v viiiiiiiiiiiiew ew ew ew ew ew ew ew ew ew ew e e e e e ew e ew w w w w Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str Str St St S St Str Str Str S S S Str Str Str S S Str Str St S Str tr t tr r r r rate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate at ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate ate at a ate ate at ate a ate a at t t te e egy gy gy gy gy gy gy gy gy gy gy gy g g gy gy g g gy gy gy gy gy gy g gy g gy gy gy g gy gy gy y y y y y y y y Performance Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com Com C Com Com Com Com Co Com Com Com C Com Com Com Co Com Com C Co Com C Co Com C Co C C C Com C Com om om o om om m m m m mmit mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi mit mit mit mit mit mit mit mi m m mit mit mit mit mit m mi m mit m m mi m m mit it iit it t t t t t tmen men men men men men men men men men men men men men men me men m m men men me men men men me men me m men me men e e e e e en e en en n n n n nt t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t t Fin Fi Fin F Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin F F F F Fin Fin Fin Fin Fin iin in iin n n n n n nanc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc anc a an anc an anc anc anc anc anc a a a an anc n nc nc n n n nc n nc nc c c cial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial ial iial ial ial iial al al al a a a al al al a al allllllls s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s s 23 By communicating with each other, cars can give immediate information about speed and location, and alerts when braking or changing lane.
Cars will be more self aware, improving blind spot detection, lane following and collision avoidance.
Roadside signs will provide additional information about traffic conditions ahead.
