Strategic report | Chief Executives statement | 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE I am pleased with the WE DELIVERED A STRONG trading performance and the progress made by each OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE of our businesses this year.
THIS YEAR Grocery, Agriculture, Ingredients and Retail all increased their profits.
Sugar profit was, as expected, substantially lower than last year as a result of much weaker euro-denominated EU sugar prices, but the business made great strides in reducing operating costs.
Group revenue declined by 1% to 12.8bn but was 2% higher at constant currency.
Adjusted operating profit was 6% lower at 1,092m, and 4% lower at constant currency.
The international diversity of the group means that our businesses operate and transact in many currencies and are therefore subject to both translational and transactional currency exposures.
During the financial year, against a basket of currencies, the euro and emerging market currencies weakened significantly and the US dollar and sterling both strengthened.
The full year impact of these movements in exchange rates on the translation of overseas results into sterling was 31m.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Chief Executives statement | 7 In order to understand the underlying The development of our Grocery operating performance of each of our businesses this year was reflected in businesses, in the operating review we the improvement in the overall operating have referred to year-on-year changes margin to 9%.
The acquisition of Dorset at constant currency.
Cereals has brought us a strong consumer brand with exciting growth potential Food commodity price deflation was the that complements Jordans and Ryvita.
primary reason for the decline in revenues Twinings Ovaltine had yet another year of in each of our food businesses this year excellent profit growth with much activity and was also the major driver of the big promoting the premium qualities of the decline in profit at AB Sugar.
After a difficult first half This is the third year of significant profit of the year which was affected by higher A DIVERSIFIED decline for AB Sugar as a consequence cost and poor quality raw materials, I am BUSINESS of falling EU and world sugar prices.
It is very encouraged by the progress made by encouraging that EU prices have now our Australian meat business, Don KRC, With operations in 48 countries and stabilised and the steps we have taken, both in volume gains and improved factory a diverse portfolio of businesses of and continue to take, to reduce our cost efficiency.
Pricing became tougher for our varying scale, operational decisions are base, are aimed at creating a profitable bread businesses in the UK and Australia.
made locally by the people with the business at these price levels and in a Volumes for the UK business increased best knowledge of their markets.
post-quota environment in the EU.
steadily during the year leading to high utilisation of our well-invested bakeries.
We took the opportunity to increase AB Agri delivered another great result and our ownership of Vivergo Fuels this year.
Profit in Ingredients recovered even more deserves credit for its consistently strong This is a well-invested, cost-competitive strongly this year as the new management performance over the last five years asset, with a promising longer-term team at AB Mauri, our yeast and bakery driven by innovation, diversification and outlook.
As the existing supplier of ingredients business, made further geographic expansion.
grain to the business through Frontier progress in reducing its cost base and Agriculture and as the seller of its distillers restructuring its operations in China and The exciting expansion of Primark is grains through AB Connect, we are well Europe.
A major contribution was also very much on track with the addition of placed to maximise the returns from made by our enzymes business which nearly one million square feet of selling this business.
had a highly successful year with growth space, the opening of our first store in in a number of its markets.
the US at the end of the year, and the announcement that we will be opening in Italy next year.
Trading in France was very strong and built on the highly successful OPEN FOR BUSINESS IN BOSTON!
Like-for-like sales growth was good at 1%, albeit held back by the effects of a strong store opening programme in the Netherlands and Germany.
Following Primarks exceptional trading last year, we saw a return to a more normal level of markdowns this year and margin was lower as a result.
George Weston Chief Executive On 10 September 2015 Primark planted its first flag on US soil with the opening of a 77,000 sq ft store at Downtown Crossing in Boston.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
