Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review 2015 was an exceptional year for AstraZeneca as we importantly, offer patients a new treatment option in a disease where very few made significant progress in meeting both our nearsolutions exist.
Building on the solid Another significant development in foundations of the previous two years, our success during Oncology came with our agreement in 2015 was based on a strong commitment to our values.
December to invest in a majority equity stake in Acerta Pharma, a company It was this focus that made the year a great one for focused on haematology which represents science and patients.
a natural fit with our existing Oncology pipeline.
The acquisition provides us with access to acalabrutinib ACP-196, a potential best-in-class small molecule The first stage of our strategic journey oral BTK inhibitor, which is expected to involved strengthening our product pipeline transform the treatment landscape for and building our Growth Platforms.
We are B-cell malignancies, the most common now well into the second stage of that forms of blood cancers, and has potential in journey, as we manage a transitional period solid tumours and autoimmune diseases.
It was this focus of patent expiries, and are on track to continue driving our Growth Platforms The acquisition of Acerta Pharma that made the year a and launch our new products.
will also reinforce our growing position in great one for science haematology building on our agreement The increased momentum we built in with Celgene, in April, to develop durvalumab and patients.
2015 was exemplified by a number of across a range of blood cancers.
developments towards the end of the year in each of our main therapy areas Innovation in Cardiovascular and that will help deliver our strategy.
Metabolic diseases Also in December, we completed our Leadership in Oncology acquisition of ZS Pharma.
This transaction The first of those events was the approval provides access to the potassium-binding in November of Tagrisso in the US.
This compound ZS-9, a potential best-in-class approval marks a significant milestone in treatment for hyperkalaemia high potassium AstraZenecas journey, and in our leadership levels in the bloodstream.
Tagrisso is the first treatment represents a good fit with our pipeline and approved for patients with a very specific portfolio in Cardiovascular and Metabolic form of non-small cell lung cancer who diseases CVMD, which focuses on present with a genetic mutation in the reducing morbidity, mortality and organ epidermal growth factor receptor but also damage by addressing multiple risk factors have a secondary mutation, T790M.
Its across cardiovascular disease, diabetes story is remarkable and, as shown over, and chronic kidney disease.
it demonstrates our ability to successfully deliver our pipeline and, even more 4 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report AstraZeneca: Values in action Tagrisso osimertinib highlights how living our values can ensure we achieve our goals.
It started with inspiration and effort of our scientists to design a compound precisely targeting the biological dysfunction associated with a specific form of non-small cell lung cancer.
And, by putting patients first, working collaboratively and following the science, we delivered the fastest development journey in our history: less than three years from first patient dosed to approval.
It was then shipped to patients in less than six hours.
Artistic impression of osimertinib binding to mutant EGFR.
Transforming Respiratory treatment 2015 Strategic priorities overview Another development in December, was our agreement to acquire Takedas core Achieve scientific leadership Return to growth respiratory business.
When completed, this 6 approvals of NMEs or major LCM 1% increase in Total Revenue agreement will expand our ownership of projects in major markets to $24,708 million at CER: comprising rights to roflumilast Daliresp Daxas, the Oncology: Iressa US : Tagrisso Product Sales of $23,641 million down 1% only approved oral PDE4 inhibitor for the AZD9291 osimertinib US : and Externalisation Revenue of treatment of COPD.
The agreement builds Faslodex 500mg China $1,067 million up 140% on our acquisition from Actavis, in March, CVMD: Bydureon Dual Pen Japan : Based on actual exchange rates, Total of the rights to market Daliresp in the US.
Brilinta US for treatment of history Revenue declined by 7%, reflecting the This important agreement will also provide of heart attack particular weakness of key trading us with access to other marketed medicines RIA: Zurampic US currencies against the US dollar that complement our growing portfolio.
2 Phase III NME starts: 11% increase in Growth Platforms revenue Importantly, it will support our return to anifrolumab for lupus contributing 57% of Total Revenue growth after 2017 and our goal to transform PT010 for COPD Respiratory: up 7%, before completion the way respiratory disease is treated.
12 NME or major LCM regulatory of the acquisition of Takedas respiratory submissions in major markets business Achieve scientific leadership Accelerated reviews included Brilinta Brilique: up 44% underpinned by In addition to these developments, in the Brilinta FDA granted Priority Review a recently-extended US label and positive week before Christmas, we received our for PEGASUS CHMP opinion sixth approval for the year from the FDA.
Tagrisso FDA and PMDA granted Diabetes: up 26%, including 76% in Subsequently, in February 2016, we Priority Review.
EMA accelerated Emerging Markets: global Farxiga Forxiga received approval from the EU for Tagrisso assessment growth of 137% for lung cancer.
FDA granted Fast Track status for Emerging Markets: up 12%, including anifrolumab for systemic lupus China and Latin America each growing However, in what was a very busy and erythematosus: durvalumab for head by 15% successful year, my Review can only and neck cancer: and tremelimumab Japan revenue: up 4% give a flavour of what we achieved.
The for mesothelioma New Oncology: contributed $119 million, 2015 Strategic priorities overview, shown 20 projects discontinued comprising Lynparza, Iressa US and on the right, lists some of our other Tagrisso achievements, as well as the challenges US revenue was down 6% to $9,474 million: we faced.
All these are explored in more Europe down 6% to $5,323 million: and detail throughout our Strategic Report.
Established ROW was stable at $3,022 million at CER So far as achieving scientific leadership is concerned, one measure of the distance Great place to work we have come is in the recognition we have Our quarterly employee survey pulse showed belief in our strategy stood at 89% received through high-impact publications compared with 86% in our 2014 all-employee survey in major relevant scientific journals.
Exceeded our targets for senior leaders: women 42% versus 41% and country of origin AstraZeneca people had 58 such articles from an Emerging Market or Japan 15.6% versus 13% published in 2015 compared with seven Exceeded our target by screening more than one million people in Kenya for hypertension in 2010 a more than eightfold increase.
as part of our Healthy Heart Africa programme AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 5 Strategic Report Chief Executive Officers Review continued A pipeline ahead of plan acquired compounds.
This exceeds the Strategic Report Our pipeline is also a measure of our target set in 2013 of nine to 10 NMEs in In this Strategic Report, we outline our progress and 2015 was a year of Phase III pivotal Phase II studies or under business model, the marketplace in which considerable success.
Of our six approvals regulatory review by 2016. we operate and the strategic priorities we for the year, the approval, in September, decided upon in response to those of Brilinta in the US for the treatment of Collaboration as a way of life conditions.
We define our measures of patients with a history of heart attack 2015 was also a good year for success our key performance indicators beyond the first year was particularly collaborations which are an integral part and the risks we have identified to impressive: it took just nine months to move of our business model and culture.
from the presentation of top-line PEGASUS improve the productivity of our R&D and TIMI-54 data to launch.
help maximise the value of our pipeline.
Subsequent sections explore our therapy With 10 deals we considerably exceeded areas as well as our business units and During the year we also made 12 major our target.
Some of these, such as our the resources we are able to deploy in regulatory submissions.
After our partner agreement with Celgene, are examples of their support.
Amgen decided to terminate our strategic collaborations to broaden and collaboration on brodalumab in May, our accelerate the development of key pipeline We also highlight how commitment to our subsequent collaboration with Valeant, assets.
This is explained in more detail in values contributes to our success.
with their specific expertise in dermatology, the Business model on page 8. enabled submissions to be made in the US and EU by the end of the year.
In July, As well as externalising some of our early results of a Phase III study for selumetinib development projects outside our main did not meet its primary endpoint for uveal therapy areas, we also divest medicines that melanoma.
As for saxagliptin dapagliflozin, can be better deployed by a partner with a its submission in the EU and elsewhere primary focus in that area.
Examples in 2015 remains on track despite a Complete included the divestment of Entocort, our Response Letter being received from gastrointestinal medicine.
Both routes allow the FDA in October.
us to leverage the capabilities and expertise of others, focus our own resources and External recognition of the strength of our deliver the greatest benefit to patients pipeline was provided by the number of and shareholders.
accelerated reviews received by our Great people are central to our candidate drugs during the year, including Scientific collaborations also help us those for cancer, respiratory diseases and push the boundaries of science.
For success and being a great place lupus.
Internally, six Phase III investment example, during the year we announced to work is at the heart of our decisions and 11 Phase II starts stand four collaborations aimed at harnessing efforts to release the talents testament to the quality of the projects the power of CRISPR clustered regularlyof our employees.
in development which will help deliver interspaced short palindromic repeats, sustainable growth.
including one with The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in Cambridge, UK Even after the approvals we received during see over.
the year, and the 18 approvals of the last two years, we ended 2015 with 15 projects in late-stage development, including recently 6 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 Strategic Report Values in action: We follow the science Genetic engineering is not new.
The Human Genome Project produced a complete genetic blueprint for building a human in 2003 but, until now, scientists have been unable to manipulate genes simply and effectively.
A new technology called CRISPR is changing that by allowing the genome of several different species to be edited precisely.
We are using CRISPR to identify new targets for medicines and develop new models to test compounds which align more closely with human disease.
Return to growth events to help our staff take ownership As we face the transitional period of patent We delivered a strong pipeline and financial of their personal development.
A talented expiry for Crestor in the US, were confident performance in 2015 as we began the next workforce is also diverse and I am pleased that our strong execution on strategy, phase in our strategic journey.
As the 2015 that we managed to exceed our targets for combined with the benefits of focused Strategic priorities overview shows, Total women and country of origin among our investments and new launches, keeps us on Revenue in 2015 was up 1% at CER.
I take pride in the fact that track to return to sustainable growth in line The overview also shows the success our efforts are being increasingly recognised with our targets.
The weakness of key we have had with our Growth Platforms in external awards for the work environment trading currencies against the US dollar has where Product Sales grew by 11% and we have instilled.
Based on average exchange represented 57% of Total Revenue.
rates in January 2016 and our published That environment is nurtured by our currency sensitivities, an adverse impact Our top-line and gross-margin growth investment in strategic R&D centres, such of around 3% from currency movements on underpinned continued investment in as Cambridge, UK where we now have Total Revenue and Core EPS in 2016 would R&D.
Core R&D costs were up by 21% more than 1,600 employees and where the be anticipated.
in the year which reflected the investment construction of our R&D centre and global in the pipeline.
These Appreciation investments help create an environment I am confident that in AstraZeneca we Investing in China for the long term of innovation and a focus on science and have the people who can overcome our The extent of our ambition was patients.
They also attract a lot of talent short-term challenges and deliver longer-term demonstrated by our strategic investments, from academia and other companies.
In that regard I would announced in December, to accelerate the particularly like to welcome Pam Cheng and delivery of innovative medicines to patients A great place to work also has to be one Sean Bohen who joined us during the year.
in China, the worlds second largest where we do the right thing for the In doing so, I would like to thank David Smith economy and our second largest market, patients who take our medicines, as well as and Briggs Morrison whom Pam and Sean and to support the delivery of our strategy.
the planet and society as a whole.
If we are replaced, for the contributions they made to to deliver business success over the longer our strategic journey.
These initiatives will see AstraZeneca term, then sustainability has to be in our become the first multinational DNA.
As the Chairman outlines in more In closing, I would like to pay tribute to pharmaceutical company operating in detail in his Statement, the steps we are everyone in AstraZeneca for making 2015 China to commit to local development of taking in this regard reflect a determination a tremendous year.
I have every confidence its innovative global portfolio from research to do our fair share.
in their ability to continue that success in the to commercialisation.
Just as importantly, years ahead.
these initiatives will allow us to better Looking ahead integrate Chinese requirements into our The investments we made in 2015 were global portfolio decisions.
designed to ensure we achieved a balance between meeting our short-term goal of Great place to work returning to growth and then delivering Great people are central to our success and sustainable growth over the longer term as being a great place to work is at the heart we build a sustainable, durable and more Pascal Soriot of our efforts to release the talents of our profitable business.
So, for example, during 2015, we held over 70 People Development Week AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2015 7
