STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Building on our strengths Helping our customers to create a Digital EXTEND DIGITAL DIVERSIFICATION Asset that improves project predictability and operational reliability is core to our ASSETFOOTPRINT OFENDMARKETS vision and mission, and central to our key business objectives: to build on our technology strengths and effectively align priorities that drive decisions and guide our planning.
As we grow our business, our strategic goals are to expand our geographic presence in strong markets, target new customer profiles, expand the role we play with existing customers, and diversify our end market exposure.
These ambitious objectives touch on virtually every aspect of our business and are a Opportunity Opportunity priority for all our employees around the The launch of AVEVA E3D hashelped We have an opportunity to continue to world.
To ensure the greatest possible AVEVA grow to a market-leading grow our presence in complimentary success, these objectives are clearly position in 3D design solutions.
adjacent verticals such as Steel understood throughout our organisation This position, combined with our Fabrication and AEC infrastructure and they underpin all of our business investment in our world-class markets, who share a similar need to planning processes.
information management, schematics the energy markets for solutions that and structural solutions, means address the challenges of executing that AVEVA has an unrivalled complex capital intensive projects.
product portfolio for the creation and management of the digital asset.
Extend our successful Digital Asset Looking ahead we seek to strengthen solutions into the wider AEC market our position here by: Continue to grow our footprint in adjacent capital intensive industries Extending our 3D dominance with using our Contract Risk Management AVEVA E3D and our Digital Asset solutions Build upon our lean positioning to Develop our visual thinking position expand our design install base with for asset visualisation and project Integrated Engineering & Design collaboration into the BIM Building Reach new users with our Information Management market collaborative design vision combining Target steel fabrication market our core engineering and information with steel detailing and fabrication management technologies, known management as Design in Context Building on our strength to manage Continually appraise acquisition laser data and automate the opportunities to build out our install production of intelligent 3D into all base within AVEVA core verticals capital intensive industries Continue to appraise acquisition opportunities to increase our exposure to wider capital intensive industries Strengthen our partner ecosystem to reach new markets 15 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Chief Executives strategic review This has had the effect of increasing Summary of We have solution sales to customers and positions us well for the future.
We also continued Performance demonstrated our strategy of reinvesting cash in Resilience in difficult markets strategically important acquisitions, with The financial year 2014 15 proved the our ability to the addition of 8over8 Limited in January resilience of AVEVAs business model, capitalise on 2015, an industry-leading provider of given the mixed trading environment we contract risk management solutions.
Our revenue mix, broad our strengths.
international reach and strong competitive Over the course of the year, we have seen positioning proved to be key strengths.
substantially more challenging conditions Our emphasis was on execution in the in our Oil & Gas end market, which second half of the year and I am pleased represents around 45% of Group revenue, to say that we were able to deliver the with the material weakening in the oil price 10.0 million of cost efficiencies we had leading to sharp reductions in exploration targeted.
Full year constant currency and production capital expenditure.
In revenue of 220.4 million 2014 addition to this, our business in Latin 237.3 million reflected a second half Richard Longdon America was further impacted by Brazils performance in line with the previous Chief Executive ongoing political difficulties.
In the Marine year, with an increase in annual fees and 19 May 2015 market, global shipbuilding activity rental licences broadly flat despite the remained subdued, driven by ongoing difficult market backdrop.
Rental deals that over-capacity, reduction in new orders for had shifted into the second half closed specialist off-shore vessels and relatively successfully in line with expectations.
Total revenue low global GDP growth.
In the Power We were also able to demonstrate that market, we continued to see steady single Recurring the significant investment we have made digit growth.
in Research & Development in recent 76% years has been well-timed, enabling us Initial license fees We have an international business with to expand our penetration within Global 15% over 50 offices operating in more than Accounts despite the difficult economic 30 countries worldwide.
Sterling has backdrop facing many of our customers.
Services strengthened materially during the course 9% of our financial year, in particular against Overall, I am pleased with the strategic the Euro but also against many other and operational progress we have made currencies in which we do business, and during the period.
We have continued to we saw a 6% negative translation impact expand our sales to OOs through a more on our reported revenue.
This is covered in coordinated approach, founded upon the more detail in the Finance Review.
One AVEVA sales strategy, implemented at the start of the year.
16 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our vision of the Digital Asset is enabling our customers to manage continued change as they deliver and operate some of the worlds most complex assets.
220.4m 76% Constant currency revenue Recurring revenue Why customers in our end markets buy Engineering & Design Systems EDS Enterprise Solutions ES review our software review and drivers anddrivers Our software is used by our customers As a result of the difficult end markets our The market backdrop for our information as they design, build and operate large EDS business was subdued.
Revenue for management products has been capital-intensive assets, in the Process, this line of business declined by 14% to challenging, with lengthy sales cycles Power and Marine industries.
We sell our 182.7 million, reflecting in particular the and pressures on discretionary spend solutions principally to the EPC companies, downturn in Brazil and South Korea where amongst our customers.
This was shipyards and OO customers worldwide.
rental licence renewals were depressed in reflected in the financial performance Our vision of the Digital Asset is enabling the first half of the year.
Our initial licence for this line of business which did not our customers to manage continual business was influenced principally by deliver the level of growth that we change as they deliver and operate some the reduced levels of activity among our expected, with revenue of 24.8 million of the worlds most complex assets.
Asian shipyard customers compared to 2014 25.9 million, excluding the the previous year.
Nevertheless, sales of impact of the acquired 8over8 business.
Increasingly, our customers are AVEVA E3D continued to gain momentum However, the innovations delivered to our demanding a combination of our products throughout the year and we have achieved customers this year are driving increased and this, backed by our One AVEVA sales significant strategic progress with our demand for our solutions to create and strategy, is driving wider adoption of the Global Accounts.
In general, rental manage our customers Digital Assets.
entire AVEVA product portfolio delivering renewals remained robust among our key Despite the tough market backdrop, there strong upsell opportunities.
This has been accounts, and we concluded significant were a number of notable projects during particularly evident in the success we deals with Aker Solutions, Jacobs the period including Husky, Davie, BASF have achieved in expanding our footprint Engineering, Technip, WorleyParsons and and BAE.
We also successfully completed within our Global Accounts.
Other notable AMEC Foster Wheeler, among others.
important milestones at Chevrons customers opting for a broader portfolio of Wheatstone project and at ConocoPhillips.
our products include Southern California Gas Company, a good example of an OO combining a range of AVEVA applications in order to improve capital efficiency, reliability and compliance.
17 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Chief Executives strategic review continued Our business remains strongly positioned in its target markets, where the fundamentals support long-term growth.
Innovation leadership driving Regional performance Divisional revenue split newopportunities Across our three main regions, we saw a Our commitment to being the leading mixed performance.
Asia Pacific was down Engineering & Design innovator in our industry remains 20% in the year on a constant currency Systems undiminished and customer feedback on basis, which reflected a reduction in initial the products showcased at our AVEVA licence fees compared to a very strong 88% World Summit in October 2014 was performance a year ago, as well as a Enterprise hugely positive.
With AVEVA E3D gaining particular weakness in South Korea where Solutions momentum in the market, the next step our shipyard customers have experienced 12% will be the Cloud-enabled version.
We lower activity levels due to a reduction in demonstrated a full function version of offshore Oil & Gas projects.
AVEVA E3D on a Cloud platform proving no difference in performance to a locally Revenue in EMEA and the Americas installed solution.
The addition of a Cloudon a constant currency basis was based solution will offer customers rapid broadly flat compared to the prior deployment as well as the flexibility to mix year, reflecting weakness in Brazil both cloud and on premise users in the and parts of EMEA offset by growth same project.
The Cloud technology is from our Global Accounts.
already being tested by several customers as part of our early adopter programme.
Further details on our regional performance Building on our position as the industry are contained in the Finance Review.
leader in visualisation technology, we demonstrated our new ability to walk Our Focus through laser scans in an environment Long-term opportunity in global indistinguishable from the actual facility.
growthmarkets We also demonstrated combined AVEVA Our business remains strongly E3D and AVEVA NET technology on a positioned in its target markets, where large touchscreen that is now with early the fundamentals support long-term adopter clients, including Lundin and Shell, growth.
Despite the near-term effects to demonstrate the next generation in of a weaker oil price, over the long term, navigating project and asset information with increased energy usage and a in context.
growing global population, significant infrastructure investment will be We also announced major enhancements required in order to meet demand: the to AVEVA NET with improved 3D interaction International Energy Authority IEA and faster, more powerful search, estimates that global energy demand visualisation and navigation capabilities.
will increase by 37% by 2040, with the majority of this increase occurring in Elsewhere, the launch of our new China and India.
Oil & Gas is increasingly Information Standards Manager has been difficult to extract, necessitating more well received by customers.
AVEVA ISM hours to be spent in detailed design.
bridges the gap between OOs and EPCs, This is set against a backdrop where the enabling greater control over critical IEA forecast that liquids demand alone engineering information standards across is set to rise from 87 million to 98 million their projects and enterprises.
barrels per day within just five years.
Our software is critical to solving the biggest We have an exciting product pipeline engineering challenges in the harshest over the medium term, particularly as our environments.
With similar fundamental design tools and information management drivers, Power offers attractive growth solutions continue to converge.
opportunities over the long term as the worlds emerging economies invest in their power generation requirements and the ageing infrastructure of the developed world is maintained and replaced.
Our global presence and international reach positions us well to capitalise on these opportunities.
Meanwhile, in times of 18 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS uncertainty we are focused on supporting Management of our cost base Development of the partner channel our customers as they seek to become Recognising the more difficult trading We continue to strengthen our more efficient and adapt to the fast conditions in the first half of the financial partnerships with leading consulting, changing environment.
year, we took early action to achieve costtechnology and outsourcing companies as efficiencies.
This, combined with lower we build our presence in the operational Our strong position in engineering design sales commissions and bonuses during lifecycle of the asset.
During the period also offers us a unique opportunity to the period, has enabled us to limit the we announced a global alliance with support the lifecycle of the assets our impact on profitability caused by lower Capgemini to cover asset-intensive software tools are used to create.
In addition, we have industries.
Capgeminis Digital Asset information management solutions, taken further action to address the cost Lifecycle Management DiALM solution with the support of our growing partner base by rationalising some of our regional is based on AVEVAs information network, are increasingly relevant to a offices and reducing headcount in some management technology and enables wide range of asset-intensive industries areas of the business.
This will deliver OOs to control and manage project and beyond the core markets we have annualised savings of approximately operational performance of their assets.
3.0 million which will help offset the cost We are already supporting Capgemini on increases we face in 2015 16 as a result of the Nuclear New Build programme in the Solution sales, our organisation and the inflation, increased bonus and commission UK and we expect this agreement to help convergence of technologies costs and the annualised effect of new extend our presence within our existing We have been pursuing a strategy of hires made in 2014 15. markets and into the other asset-intensive increasing the number of solution sales industries served by Capgemini, for we make, whereby customers opt for a example transport.
We also announced a Our Achievements number of our products and we increase new collaboration with EMC to deliver an Strategic progress with Global Accounts our footprint within our customer base.
integrated software solution for capital Our Global Accounts EPC program With this in mind, we reported at the projects and asset operations.
Under continued to bear fruit over the past interim stage that we had realigned the terms of this agreement, AVEVA year.
The challenges seen in our end our sales organisation behind a One and EMC have combined the two bestuser markets are prompting our Global AVEVA approach in order to better in-class product suites, AVEVA NET and Accounts to take the opportunity to promote the entire AVEVA product EMC Documentum Engineering, Plant invest in the latest AVEVA technologies in range to all customers, supporting both and Facilities Management EPFM, into a order to maximise their competitiveness design and operations.
Elsewhere, we formalised and business advantage.
The integrated indicated, we have also unified our our partnership agreement with ETAP Bubbleview laser capability within AVEVA technology organisation, following the for seamless data exchange on the most E3D is now making this solution the fide convergence of our two key product complex electrical installations in all types facto standard for all future brownfield areas, detailed engineering design and of process and power plants, ships and projects, eliminating or reducing reinformation management.
Beyond Digital Asset is now firmly reinforced AVEVA E3D, there is also increased uptake as the vision that lies at the heart of Strong growth from AVEVA E3D and deployment of AVEVA NET across our our service organisation, to better As mentioned above, AVEVA E3D has Global Accounts, as they continue their focus on service delivery and grow our proven to be a catalyst for more solution journey towards true data-centric working specialist service capabilities over time.
sales particularly within our Global built around a trusted digital asset.
Accounts business, but we are also making We expect that this streamlined solutions progress across the rest of our customer I am especially pleased to be able to and product strategy will deliver major base.
Notable deals in the period included report a new significant contract with Aker benefits to our business in coming years as WS Atkins, who have chosen AVEVA E3D Solutions of Norway which builds on the our technologies are used increasingly in and Laser Modeller to support lean fantastic relationship we have enjoyed combination.
Our future financial reporting construction processes.
KBR selected with them over the last 20 years.
Aker will, from 2015 16, also be re-aligned AVEVA E3D for global projects as part of has invested in PDMS throughout this behind this convergence and this year a complete integrated engineering and period and is now using this platform to is the last in which we will disclose EDS design environment.
Tianchen, one of develop and deploy AVEVA E3D across and ES as our primary segments.
From Chinas largest engineering contractors their business.
This is a good example of 2015 16, we are monitoring the business in the chemical processing industry, how we are deepening the relationships on a regional basis and, therefore, this will standardised on AVEVA E3D.
D3SCOM with our customers whilst increasing the become our primary method of segmental Engineering Sdn.
intelligent modelling engineering services, also adopted AVEVA E3D and Laser Modeller for brownfield projects with Owner Operators in Malaysia.
19 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015
