Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 10 Chief Executives review Overview and key business attributes We have delivered another year of solid performance.
Anot her year of BAE Systems has continued to demonstrate resilience inmarkets constrained by wider economic pressures.
Over the past several years, the Group has navigated through a period of constrained defence budgets.
Ian King Chief Executive Wheresales volumes have been challenged, we have taken actions to protect earnings and deliver attractive shareholder returns.
The overall business environment isnow improving and the Group is well p pos osit itione ioned d a as s weenterthis phase.
Our business benets from a number of dis dist tin inc ct t attributeswhich underpin performance and pro nd pros sp pe ec ct ts s..
Geographic diversity BAE Systems has a broader geographic pre res se en nc ce t e th han an manyofits defence industry peers, with it its larg s largest est marketsin the US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Aus Aust tralia.
Growing our international business furthe er r re remains mains akeystrategic objective.
Customer focus Our businesses continue to focus on oper rat atiio ona nall excellenceto deliver on customer commit tm me ent nts s..
I In n addition to the design and production of p f plla at tf fo orm rms s andequipment, we have established exte en nsi siv five e sup supp po or rt t services delivering long-term capability to cus o cust tom omer ers s beyond the manufacturing phase of prod duc uct ts s. I.
In n 2 20 01 15 5, support and service activities generated a app ppro rox ximate imately ly 42% of sales.
Ethical business As a leading defence company operating in inte g in intern rnat atio iona nall markets, we take pride in our culture of re res sp po on nsib siblle e behaviour and recognise that ethical behav aviio ou ur r in all a in all as sp pe ec ct ct ts s s of our business is essential for our ongoing su ng suc cc ce es ss s.. Technology and innovation BAE Systems has developed some of the e wo worl rld ds s m mo ost st innovative technologies and we continue e to in to inv five es st t in in research and development to generate fu future pr ture prod oduc ucts ts and capabilities.
This company-funded re ese sea arch a rch and nd development often leads to customer-fund unded ed development activity as requirements mature ature.. Company-funded research and developm men ent t investment is more relevant in some area as s of t of the he Groups activities and is, therefore, dispro opo port rtiion onate ately ly focused in areas such as defence and com mm me er rc cial ial aerospace electronics, military aircraft an nd d cybersecurity.
Approximately 7% of sales is invested in n n n customer and company-funded research h h h anddevelopment activities.
