Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 04 Group Chief Executives review Transforming the business B uild to Last is putting in place thefoundations to deliver value for clients, colleagues, shareholders and wider society.
Read more on pages 14-17 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 05 This was a year of fundamental change at Balfour Build to Last is designed to address the Groups Beatty as the Build to Last transformation programme performance as it affects all stakeholders customers was implemented.
and supply chain, employees and subcontractors, investors and communities by driving continuous Coming into 2015, the business performance had measurable improvement.
The steps that are deteriorated as a decade of forced growth culminated being taken are often, in themselves, simple and in an overly complex business, poor contract discipline straightforward.
However, taken together they are and unaffordable overhead costs.
Whilst the sale of transforming Balfour Beatty against four goals: Lean, Parsons Brinckerhoff in late 2014 provided liquidity to the Expert, Trusted and Safe.
balance sheet, the cash situation for the Group remained a challenge.
In 2016, Balfour Beatty will continue to work through the legacy contracts, increasingly able to look to a future as Decisive action was taken to arrest the decline.
The Build an organisation with lean ways of working, differentiated to Last transformation programme was launched in early by its experts, trusted by clients and leading on safe 2015, beginning with a 24-month self-help phase.
Build to Last is putting in place the Senior leadership was upgraded and immediate steps foundations to deliver value for clients, colleagues, taken to strengthen governance, controls and processes.
Cost reduction plans were agreed, the proposed share buy-back was cancelled, the dividend suspended and agreement reached to re-phase a deficit contribution to the pension fund.
The initial self-help phase of Build to Last targeted 200m cash in and 100m of cost out within 24 months.
Half way through this period the Group is on course to deliver on these specific targets and the progress Leo Quinn made in improving the cash performance in 2015 gives Group Chief Executive confidence that colleagues, at every level, are fully engaged in delivering change.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 balfourbeatty.
