Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8 Chief Executives review 2015 has been another good year for Babcock.
The financial results have again shown strong progress.
This is, in part, a result of the acquisition of the Avincis business now renamed Mission Critical Services or MCS early in the year, but I am particularly pleased by the strong and steady rate of organic growth our other businesses have continued to deliver.
This has come not only from ongoing success in major contract wins but also from using the depth and breadth of our knowledge and understanding of our customers operational requirements to provide them with additional support and services.
Peter Rogers CBE Chief Executive Since 2006, we have consistently delivered organic growth at constant exchange rates, achieving an average of c 9% organic revenue growth and c 13% organic operating profit growth, growth that, over time, all our business units have contributed to.
This clearly demonstrates our ability to grow our Strengthening our business by developing and leveraging leading positions in markets with long-term growth prospects and to use acquisitions or major contract wins position, sustaining to add skills and capabilities, further creating opportunities for growth.
In May 2014, we were delighted to our growth welcome the c 3,250 employees from the Mission Critical Services business into Babcock.
Over the summer, I was able to visit the majority of the operations in Europe and spend time not only with our employees but also with their customers.
These visits underlined for me how clearly aligned the two businesses strategies and business models are.
The services our customers trust us to deliver are absolutely critical, saving lives, protecting communities and the environment and transporting people over long distances, often in hostile weather conditions.
We provide a fully integrated support solution, state-of-the-art aircraft with bespoke configurations to meet our customers requirements with specialised mission equipment, a certified in-house maintenance capability as well as 24 7 emergency co-ordination centres.
This service is delivered by dedicated pilots, engineers, doctors, paramedics, rescuers Strategic report 9 and divers and we have been working business success, which is why we share in the risk and rewards of with some customers for over 20 years.
continue to see positive market contract outputs.
The Mission Critical Services business is conditions for the technical, complex Health and safety is a core part of our being fully integrated into Babcock and and engineering based outsourcing strategy and is the first priority across I am excited by the growth prospects solutions we provide.
Our commitment to within this business, despite the recent ensuring the health, safety and welfare Strategy and business model weakness in the oil price and the impact of all employees and those who work Our strategy and business model this has had on a small part of its with us or alongside us on our sites pages 6, 7 and 11 have remained operations.
I believe the business will is unchanged.
broadly unchanged since we first set provide us with excellent opportunities about transforming the business in the to develop relationships with new We believe our strategy remains vital to early 2000s.
They are central to the customers across Europe and I believe our future success.
Only by consistently way we have managed and developed this will create a longer-term platform for measuring future bidding or acquisition the Group and consistently delivered growth for the wider Babcock Group.
opportunities against our strategy will we financial growth and enhanced earnings safeguard the underlying strength of our Throughout the year we have also and dividends for our shareholders.
business and the sustainability of growth welcomed other businesses into the We believe they also set us apart from in the short, medium and longer-term.
Babcock Group through contract wins as many others in our sector.
well as acquisitions, all adding to the skills Order book and bid pipeline The elements of our strategy which and capabilities of the Group.
We believe Over the past financial year we have focus on our customers and the way we this has further enhanced our established seen the order book increase from operate section of our business model market positions and will underpin the c 11.5 billion at the end of March are particularly important when so many sustainability of our business which is 2014 to c 20 billion at the end of of our customers are local or central well positioned for future growth.
Throughout this year it governments or regulated bodies reliant steadily increased as we reached final A trusted partner on public spending decisions.
By aiming signature on a number of major contract Throughout this year we have seen little to work as a strategic partner alongside wins, including contracts for Magnox civil change to the economic environment our customers we can ensure they benefit nuclear decommissioning, London Fire in our major markets.
Our customers from working with us, so together we Brigade vehicle support, Defence Support continue to experience reducing budgets can enhance the expected outcome of Group military vehicle support and the and financial constraints, encouraging a contract.
We will continue to focus Maritime Support Delivery Framework.
them to look at alternative ways of on delivering value-for-money solutions, During the first half, after completion delivering their services at a reduced meeting or exceeding our customers of the acquisition, we incorporated the cost or delivering a broader range of expectations and designing contract order book for the Mission Critical services within existing budgets.
For many structures which allow each of us to Services business, which today accounts of our customers, whilst cost is absolutely a vital part of their decision to outsource critical services, there are often many Order book history bn Bid pipeline history bn other considerations that mean they need to be confident they are working with 20.0bn 10.5bn a partner who can be trusted to deliver.
These considerations include improving 25 20 services, availability of assets or managing life extensions when in-service dates for 20 new assets have been delayed.
15 Ensuring we fully understand and are focused on delivering our customers 15 requirements is a central part of our 10 business model and corporate culture.
I believe our track record of achieving 10 operational efficiencies for our customers and sharing the financial benefits with 5 5 them provides an excellent reference point for new customers.
At times of economic and political uncertainty 0 11 12 13 14 15 0 11 12 13 14 15 we think this is critical to our ongoing 12.0 13.0 12.0 11.5 20.0 7.0 9.5 15.5 17.5 10.5 % % e e p z % i y % s t t t n n c c o o a a i i s r r s i t t i v v n n i i d o o d c c y y Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10 Chief Executives review continued for c 2 billion of the total.
The order and Commodity Services Transformation pipeline from tracking.
These include book provides us with excellent visibility LCST contract and the New South opportunities in both our defence of future revenues and we started the Wales Air Ambulance contract.
2015 16 financial year with over 80% opportunities in total represented around The bid pipeline continues to represent of anticipated revenues for the year 5 billion in the pipeline.
the significant opportunities for growth already contracted.
We also have During the year, the Group achieved within the Group, including bids at visibility of 50% of revenue for the a win rate on new contracts of c 40% preferred bidder stage sole source, 2016 17 financial year.
and on rebids of over 90% excluding c 70% of the opportunities are new With the significant number of high value the NGEC.
The Group performance is business, with the remaining 30% rebids.
bid decisions announced during the year matched by the Mission Critical Services The bid pipeline continues to include the bid pipeline has reduced to c 10.5 business which has achieved a win rate a number of significant opportunities billion 2014: 17.5 billion.
As well as of c 55% on new contracts and of over with 55% 2014: 75% comprising bids the successful contract awards totalling 90% on rebids.
with a total contract value of over c 12 billion which have moved into the 100 million.
The bid pipeline now includes c 1 billion order book, bids where we have been of opportunities from Mission Critical The bid pipeline continues to be unsuccessful have been removed from Services and throughout the year we supported by a healthy tracking pipeline the bid pipeline.
The unsuccessful bids have continued to see a number of of over 16 billion.
The tracking pipeline include Tranche 2 of the Next Generation major opportunities move into the bid comprises prospects that have yet to Estates Contracts NGEC, the Logistics come to market and includes a number of opportunities where we are in active dialogue with our customer to help formulate appropriate long-term 4 4 support solutions.
We expect these 1 opportunities to deliver growth in the 1 medium to long-term.
Outlook 3 3 We continue to benefit from positive market conditions in both the UK and 2 overseas, where demand for our 2 technical expertise and our ability to deliver complex and critical programmes and projects remains high.
Marine and Technology 23% our move into new markets and geographies, our order book which 2.
Defence and Security 29% continues to provide visibility and 3.
Support Services 38% certainty of future revenues and our 4. International 10% 4. International 10% bid pipeline each offer significant further opportunities for growth.
The Board therefore remains confident in the long-term prospects for the Group and expects it to make further good progress in the 2015 16 financial year.
4 2 3 1 1 Peter Rogers CBE 2 Chief Executive 1.
50-25m 10% 20% of pipeline is preferred bidder sole source 4.
