% % % y y r h % o t p i g l a p e e r s t u g a n e o c t e e v a y Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2 At a glance our divisions Group Marine and Technology Description Marine and Technology is the UKs leading maritime support business and the largest provider of engineering support services to the Royal Navy.
With its broad range of engineering and technical skills, the division delivers a wide array of through-life engineering services to defence, commercial marine and energy markets in the UK and internationally.
Principal Naval Marine activities Submarine through-life support, refit and refuelling, warship maintenance 6 5 and refit, Queen Elizabeth class 4 4 3 aircraft carrier assembly and naval 1 base management.
2 Energy and Marine Services Engineering support to the oil and gas, offshore renewables, specialised 3 manufacturing and commercial 1 marine markets.
2 Technology Providing specialised systems and 1.
UK 76% technical services to improve capability in the UK and international defence 2.
Australasia 2% Through-life support of Victoria 6.
Rest of the World 4% class submarines in Canada and ANZAC class frigates in Australia.
Surface ship maintenance, repair and overhaul alongside dockyard management in New Zealand.
4 3 3 2 Key Royal Navy, Australian government, customers New Zealand government, Canadian 1 include government, fide&S, BAE Systems, Rolls Royce, Navantia, Daewoo Shipbuilding and Marine Engineering, 1 2 Hyundai Heavy Industries, BP and Shell 1.
UK Defence 44% Divisional Archie Bethel CBE 2.
Private 19% 3. International Civil 19% Executive 4. International Defence 4% Employees 10,841 See p12 for the Operating review g v e b i r r y r p l b e a r c t m i o e l o T b m t s u o P u t C s u C Strategic report 3 Defence and Security Support Services International Defence and Security is a major support Support Services has leading positions The Mission Critical Services business provider to the UKs armed forces, across several civil markets.
The division is a leading provider of helicopter and delivering leading-edge integrated has three core capabilities: it manages fixed-wing emergency services and crew technical training and complex asset critical assets, delivers complex change services for oil and gas operators management.
The division trains programmes and teaches vital skills in Europe and Australia.
c50,000 service personnel annually for civil governments and blue-chip In South Africa, Babcock is a leading and provides management and support commercial organisations.
The division supplier of engineering support to c35,000 military vehicles including is the UKs largest employer of nuclear services to the energy, mining and armoured fleets, white fleet and qualified engineers and leading supplier construction industries.
Air Managing critical assets Europe and Australia Operational airbase support, military Support to assets, including vehicle Emergency medical services air flying training and engineering support fleets for the emergency services and ambulances, search and rescue SAR, for elementary, basic and fast jet training the mining and construction industries, firefighting, civil protection to mostly aircraft.
In-barracks equipment support baggage handling systems, broadcast national and regional governments, for frontline aircraft including Sea King, support and estate management.
surveillance, oil and gas crew change, Lynx and Apache.
SAR, maintenance, repair and overhaul Delivering complex programmes and design and completion.
Land Nuclear site licence operations and Secure access to assured onshore decommissioning, major rail track Africa capacity and capability for through-life renewal and the upgrade of high-voltage Sole distributor of Volvo and DAF maintenance, repair, overhaul and overhead power lines and equipment for infrastructure, mining upgrade support services for defence communications infrastructure.
Asset management for Teaching vital skills Construction, erection and maintenance the MoDs armoured fleet, white fleet Management and delivery of apprentice of high voltage electrical infrastructure.
Army technical training for Network Rail and training and mechanical trade training.
Engineering support for power stations delivery for Volkswagen Group and the and steam generation plants.
Sea London Fire Brigade LFB.
Broad range of training activities for Crane hire to the infrastructure the Royal Navy and other international and construction industries.
navies including engineering and Middle East firefighting training.
Support to Royal Omani Air force.
Infrastructure Business development activities for Integrated estate management and wider Babcock Group and for other infrastructure support to the MoD in Babcock services in the region.
Ministry of Defence and the British UK Government, commercial Spanish government, Portuguese armed forces, international armed forces, organisations including BMW and government, Salvamento Maritime, BAE Systems, Agusta Westland and EDF, emergency services including Xunta fide Galicia, Protezione Civille, Rolls Royce the LFB and Metropolitan Police, Ambulance Victoria, NHS and Police regulatory bodies such as the Nuclear Scotland, East Anglian and Great Decommissioning Authority and Western Air Ambulances, FinnHEMS, Network Rail Repsol, Maersk, BP, EnQuest, Eni, HeliDax, Volvo, DAF, Eskom and the Royal Omani Air Force John Davies Kevin Thomas Bill Tame Employees Employees Employees 7,942 10,993 5,110 See p18 for the Operating review See p24 for the Operating review See p30 for the Operating review
