Strategic Report Strategic Report How We Measure Success How We Measure Success How We Measure Success Each year we set a series of short-term specific and measurable goals, aligned with our mission statements.
Progress against our goals is measured using financial and non-financial performance indicators.
Our Goals Financial KPIs Non-Financial KPIs These specific, measurable, BBA Aviations Executive achievable, realistic and Management Committee Performance Growth Cash Generation Performance Performance Value Creative Investment time-bound SMART goals sets a series of short-term Organic Revenue Growth: Adjusted Earnings per Share: Recordable Incident Rate RIR : Number of locations Cash Conversion: BBA Return on Invested Capital are aligned with our mission goals related to our areas Monitoring organic revenue Adjusted earnings per RIR is our primary health and achieving zero RIR: BBA Aviations cash conversion ROIC : Measuring ROIC statements: offocus which are then growth provides a measure sharemeasures the profit safety performance metric.
Aviations health and safety rate measures how ensures BBA Aviation is cascaded throughout the of the underlying growth of attributable to shareholders RIR is measured as the total strategy seeks to deliver a effectively we convert focused on the efficient use Consistently exceeding Group.
Each business has the business.
It excludes the after the impact of interest number of injuries and zero preventable incident operating profit into cash.
of assets, with the target of customer expectations: actions aligned to the impact of foreign currency and tax.
It excludes the illnesses multiplied by environment in which every Focusing on this measure operating returns generated Valuing and empowering achievement of each and fuel price fluctuations impact of exceptional items 200,000, divided by the individual is responsible.
In encourages strong discipline across the cycle exceeding our people in a ofthese specific and and any contribution from and is divided by the number of actual hours 2015, this approach was in the management of the cost of holding the zeroincident, safe measurable goals that acquisitions and disposals.
weighted average number worked by all employees.
supported by the launch of working capital and assets.
ROIC is defined for environment: support the delivery of of shares in issue.
a new Safety Management decisions on capital the Group as underlying Encouraging innovation: 2015 Performance: Organic ourlonger-term objectives.
2015 Performance: Following System framework and the expenditure.
Good cash operating profit expressed 2015 Performance: Working together for revenue growth was driven Adjusting The execution of these a rise in our group-wide relaunch of our ZIPP global generation enables ongoing as a percentage of average greater gain: by a strong Flight Support for the impact of the rights actions is actively monitored RIRin 2014, we recorded a safety brand along with a investment in growth invested capital at constant Always behaving with performance offsetting issue, the historic earnings as part of the Groups decrease in 2015 reflecting Global Safety Day.
currency, including goodwill integrity and respect.
softness in Aftermarket per share grew by 1% to 30.9 management process.
our continued focus on and intangible assets Services.
On a reported developing a safety culture 2015 Performance: 160 out of 2015 Performance: The amortised or written off In 2015, we made good basis adjusted earnings per that will help to deliver our 269 reporting locations Groups ability to generate toreserves.
further progress against our share decreased by 8% to goal of zero preventable achieved an RIR of zero strong cash flows remains goals through the continued 20.1 2014: 21.9. incidents.
during 2015, reflecting 60% unchanged with cash 2015 Performance: ROIC effective execution of our of our reporting locations.
reduced to 9.1% reflecting strategy, underpinned the substantial investments byfurther underlying In addition to these health made during the year which operational improvements and safety performance are expected to generate across the Group.
indicators, we also have a superior returns over the series of other non-financial longer term.
KPIs to monitor our progress against our goals that we do not disclose for competitive reasons.
17 Strategic Report Strategic Report How we manage risk across BBA Aviation Our Risks Our Risks Our Risks The Board has established a framework for assessing risk in the context of likelihood and impact in financial and reputational terms.
Each Group-level risk is assessed against this We are committed to effective risk management framework and the Board re-assesses its risk appetite on a bi-annual basis when Risk Maps arepresented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
which supports the achievement of our strategic objectives.
See more on Group policies, standards and internal controls, together with our values and our focus on our Vision, Mission safety, underpin our approach to risk management.
We are committed to being a responsible and Values page 11 values-led business and our leaders are responsible for embedding this into BBA Aviations Our risk management process is designed to improve the likelihood of delivering our culture, our decision-making and how we work.
business objectives, protect the interests of our shareholders and key stakeholders and enhance the quality of our decision making.
It also assists in the safeguarding of our assets, Our employees are accountable for working to established standards and for identifying including people, finances, property and reputation.
We are committed to conducting andescalating encountered risks so that they can be appropriately managed.
The Group See more on business in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and in a manner that is our Audit and hascomprehensive training programmes to ensure that employees are appropriately trained RiskCommittee consistent with our values.
pages 7478 in BBA Aviations ethics policies.
BBA Aviations risk mitigation strategy and risk appetite are matters that are overseen by Risk Management Process theBoard, with the support of the Audit and Risk Committee, which manages the processes The key features of our risk management process are set out below: that underpin risk assessment and our systems of internal control.
Risk Governance Structure Board, Executive, Committee Review Accountability Business Objectives Progress is monitored for monitoring Our business objectives at global, divisional BUSINESS are established on a and business levels and Audit and Risk Committee OBJECTIVES The Board 5-year basis and drive risks assessed on an Responsible for reviewing and approving our annual objectives.
ongoing basis as part Responsible for our system of corporate the adequacy and effectiveness of our risk of the business and risk governance, strategy, policy, risk management management process.
Executive Committee Annual Key & Emerging Bi-Annual Risk Delegated with Board authority to Risks Identification Assessment Process review risks and take appropriate action.
BOARD, EXECUTIVE, STRATEGIC PLAN COMMITTEE REVIEW DEVELOPMENT & UPDATE Audit function Chief Risk Officer Business Divisions Reviews and reports Reports on key risks Responsible for identifying, assessing and on the system of and risk mitigation.
managing risks within their businesses.
Ongoing Key Risk Strategic Risk Monitoring Mitigation Company Risk Map Risk Register & Divisional Risk Maps Management teams in business units review risks through self-assessment methodology and develop Portfolio and Strategic Plan risk registers which together with risk maps that Investment Decisions Development & Update are developed from the risk registers, are submitted Portfolio and investment Our strategy informs the PORTFOLIO AND decisions are made to the Executive Committee and the Audit and setting of shorter-term INVESTMENT DECISIONS based on risk appetite objectives across the Risk Committee on a bi-annual basis.
to obtaining our business and is widely business objectives.
