Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chief Executive Officers introduction 01 Our world of opportunity Berendsen develops and provides value-added textile, hygiene and safety solutions.
We operate across growth markets where we are a leading player but where we also have exciting opportunities to maximise our growth potential.
We will unlock these opportunities through great customer partnerships and innovation becoming respected for being the best, setting new standards and developing services that benefit all our stakeholders.
James Drummond Chief Executive Officer Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 02 Chief Executive Officers introduction continued James Drummond became Berendsen Chief Executive Officer on 1 August 2015.
Below we set out his background and his aspirations for the companys future.
Background Prior to joining Berendsen, James was solutions, introduced new technologies CEO of Avincis Group, which was owned and helped the businesses expand into by KKR & InvestIndustrial before being untapped international markets.
The opportunities for Berendsen: Before working at Avincis, James was a Placing customers at the centre of CEO at Invensys Rail, a major division of all we do Invensys plc.
a Creating superior operating models With these companies, James was that deliver the best value to the responsible for transformation customer in the market programmes that focused on customer a Building LEAN operations that align to customer needs We are delighted to appoint James to succeed Peter.
James has a Growing both organically and via the right skills and experience to help unlock further value creation well executed acquisitions for the group.
I would like to thank Peter Ventress for his excellent leadership rship of Berendsen over the past six years.
During this time, the t tea eam m at Berendsen has delivered significant shareholder value a and nd h has as created a business with continuing momentum towards achieving its strategic objectives.
Iain Ferguson Chairman Berendsens track record Berendsen is recognised in the investor These attributes include: Strong track record of value creation markets for delivering on its promises.
a An impressive track record of Share price graph The company communicates strategic total shareholder return value creation progress transparently and has an TSR vs. FTSE 250 index a A motivated senior management excellent track record for creating 350 financial and shareholder value.
At a team leading engaged employees 300 business line level, Berendsen prides a Existing business in growth markets 250 itself on the quality of its people and with great potential 200 their commitment to the business.
a A strong regional presence and 150 People at Berendsen have a tremendous market leadership in core areas customer service ethos and a genuine 100 passion for the business.
50 a Customer-driven culture with excellent local and global customers 0 Berendsen is a successful company Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec with core attributes underpinned 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 by acommitment to continuous improvement.
Berendsen plc FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 03 Working in growth markets to unlock opportunity The macro trends driving the growth of outsourcing are: Dynamic markets with excellent opportunities Financial pressure Lack of consumer confidence and uneven economic recovery continue to put Driven by external factors including continued financial pressures, the downward cost pressure on public and private sector industries and services.
There is a clear long-term focus on efficiency gains in non-core operations.
outsourcing market continues to grow and to demonstrate its resilience to Globalisation economic cycles.
The expanding global economy crosses national boundaries, with producers focusing on international competition.
The emerging economies are important We provide specialist textile service solutions that keep the businesses tothe growth of the GDP.
of our customers running effectively.
More regulation Typically, these services are non-core There is growing public concern about safety, accountability and reliability.
to our customers activities, and Stricter regulations require improved information systems and solutions.
outsourced to specialist providers, Sustainability including Berendsen, who can provide cost-effective and efficient services.
The public is increasingly aware of the scarcity of resources and this is driving demand for more sustainable practices.
Local leadership, global potential We have established ourselves as an excellent regional European service provider.
We see an enormous opportunity to leverage growth from our existing position within our current Strong regional geographical markets and, over Finland presence Sweden the longer term, beyond them by Norway Holland moving into new service areas and Estonia expanding into new geographies with existing and new customers, within our Latvia 1-2% Denmark Russia core competencies.
We have the opportunity Lithuania UK to gain shares in a growth market.
Germany Poland Ireland Conservatively, our markets will grow 12% Slovakia ahead of predicted Austria GDP, based on further outsourcing opportunities.
Czech Republic Motivated senior management Applying innovative technology A customer-driven culture team leading engaged employees to enhance value delivering excellent service to local and global customers A selection of customers from our diverse client base: 83% 30% of our employees use of hygiene products understand their role with the Berendsen and responsibilities LightGuide system, and feel comfortable which uses light to about sharing their guide washroom opinions with senior guests through the management.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 04 Chief Executive Officers introduction continued Cementing our purpose Vision, Mission and Values Our values: On joining Berendsen, James first task was to get to know the senior management team and to visit as many of the operational sites as possible.
Based on these observations, Weve since examined the Berendsen vision, values and strategy and worked with the teams to introduce a new mission statement, which cements ouroverall purpose.
We are here to develop and provide value-added textile, hygiene and safety solutions.
Weve also revised our vision to become more aspirational and one which will resonate with our customers.
Weve adopted two new values safety and integrity.
These represent areas th t e best.
which we could see were evident in Empowerment.
the business but which had not been formally articulated.
The themes behind all the work on the mission and values have been to build on existing best practice and to focus on being more aspirational.
Our vision: Through great customer partnerships and innovation we will be respected for the best.
being the best, setting new Safety.
standards and developing serv vic ices t es th ha at b t be en ne e t t a al ll l our stak stakeholders eholders.. Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 05 Structured to move closer to our customers Estimated revenue shares In order to maximise the benets, we Strategic restructuring needed to restructure the business.
Regarding the strategy, our changes As announced at our Capital Markets have been more far-reaching.
We believe Facility Hospitality Day on 19 November 2015, our passionately in the benets of being business is now structured around focused solely around our customer 19% 18% fourkey sectors: needs.
By deepening our understanding of our customers markets, regulations a Hospitality and trends on a sector-by-sector basis a Healthcare we can differentiate our offer and can serve our customers better.
a Workwear Healthcare In turn, this will unlock opportunities a Facility Workwear 30% forthe business to deliver greater 33% economies of scale and make us morecost-effective.
More about our four new business lines Pages 1623 Evolving our strategic aims Strategic refocusing While the restructuring will focus our 4 operations, it is not enough to deliver Effective use of 1 available capital Customer our growth aspirations.
On the following focus We need to build on current selfpages we show how our help initiatives already in evidence new strategy will help us Berendsen across our operations.
We will do this unlock the potential within Excellence more effectively using our Berendsen our world of opportunity BE Excellence System BES to develop our core competencies, processes and people in these critical areas.
3 2 People Operational effectiveness excellence Looking ahead This phase of our strategy features During the course of 2016, we will be Monitoring strategic progress clear financial objectives and we are focused on completing the Business Line Execution remains the key to good committed to reporting progress against structure and on implementing a series strategy and many of the levers for these in an open and consistent way.
of new initiatives designed to capture this are already in place.
The Executive these growth opportunities.
The board Board has agreed an implementation expects to achieve a further year of Outlook plan with the board, including a number good underlying progress in 2016. of workstreams.
During 2016 the board We are pleased to report good James Drummond will meet with each Business Line operational progress for the year, in line Chief Executive Officer management team to monitor these with our expectations.
Last November, developing workstreams and to ensure we presented our Strategy Update progress is made.
We are already making reconrming significant market good progress in building the capabilities opportunities and announcing the move needed to implement the strategy.
to a revised four Business Line structure to accelerate the pace of delivery.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 06 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Unlocking our world of opportunity: Customer focus 1 Getting closer.
Were continuing to develop a deeper understanding of our customers worldsenabling us to predict andmeetthe changing needs of ourcoremarkets Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Driving customer focus How we will achieve this How we will measure this By aligning our operations, innovations By carrying out customer service and investments with our customers feedback programmes and requirements.
We achieve this benchmarking our customer services through customer-centric business KPIs, including our ability to meet line organisation, customer feedback expectations and develop additional programmes and specialised business with existing clients.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 07 allowing our customers to concentrate on the unpredictable world they serve every day.
For hospital healthcare teams, it is vital that garments meet the strictest hygiene standards and are in the right place at the right time.
Our SmartGarment chip technology ensures that this happens.
Where we are on our journey Our enhanced business line and This will group together key competencies business unit structure will be and skills, generate customer and established throughout 2016. industry insight and further drive the development of customer differentiated services.
We will support this by providing our people with specialised training.
08 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Unlocking our world of opportunity: Operational excellence 2 Working smarter.
Were establishing an operational model that truly meets customer requirements making first class deliverysecond nature Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Embedding operational excellence How we will achieve this How we will measure this Over the coming years, we will further Our Berendsen Excellence programme implement our superior LEAN based incorporates group-wide operational CL blueprint to Workwear laundries and excellence KPIs and best practice also introduce this operational model to reporting.
These will guide our way Hospitality and Healthcare laundries.
and be the platform for evaluating our success.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 09 improving efficiencies, enhancing environmental credentials and ensuring fail-safe reliability to our customers.
We aim for operational excellence in every link of the value chain.
In 2016, we will roll-out our superior CL blueprint to five additional laundries, including our Hospitality laundry inReading, UK.
Where we are on our journey In 2016, we will apply the CL blueprint In addition, we will continue to to an additional five laundries incorporate elements of best practice within Workwear, Hospitality and from all business areas into the Healthcare and we will extend this operating models of each business line.
to more laundries as a top priority going forward.
10 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Unlocking our world of opportunity: People effectiveness 3 Strengthening skills.
We continue to motivate our people and give them the skills and tools to dotheir jobs effectively Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Maximising people effectiveness How we will achieve this How we will measure this We provide extensive training for Staff working in highly technical areas our employees on industry specic receive continuous training, technical standards, on our processes and development and industry and product solutions and on customer service.
In addition, we provide internal training that focuses on In 2016 weve introduced a products, sales and operations.
We use comprehensive Berendsen Academy competence maps to monitor and assess e-learning platform to give this training both types of training.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 11 to ensure they grow with us, asweunlockour potential and deliver outstanding customer service andsatisfaction.
Comprehensive employee training underpins the deep insight and industry expertise that lies at the heart of our strong customer partnerships in technical areas such as high-visibility workwear.
Where we are on our journey In 2016, we will continue to roll-out our In addition, we are intensifying our e-learning programmes to support both training on industry specic standards, customer-facing staff and operations such as high-visibility workwear based employees.
This programme specications, contamination control will give us greater understanding of and hygiene-specic issues.
12 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Unlocking our world of opportunity: Effective use of available capital 4 Accelerating investment.
Our strategy for growth is underpinned by our focus on generating sustainable returns Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Generating sustainable returns How we will achieve this How we will measure this Through clear prioritisation and focus Return on investment is our key measure.
of capital investment and robust We target double digit after tax returns.
Scale and complexity of the investment In addition, we will have a will determine the time period over dedicated Business Development which we can increase returns on this function to enhance business level.
We will monitor these returns in the development capability.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 13 which ensures that we invest wisely forthebenet of our customers, whether we grow organically orthroughfast-track acquisition.
Our investments are targeted at delivering market differentiation, value-added services, increased operational efficiency and enhanced capacity, as well as supporting our business contingency plans.
Our new Cleanroom facility in Beelitz, Germany, achieves all of these objectives at once.
Where we are on our journey We have prioritised investments in our propositions which can compete Workwear and Cleanroom operations forcapital allocation.
where our superior operating models On appointment, our new Business are most clearly established and the Development Director will work with returns available are currently highest.
our business line teams to identify, Each business line is tasked with engage and execute on acquisition developing strong investment investment opportunities.
