Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Since November 2005 Booker Group has been seeking to Focus, Drive and Broaden the business Since November 2005 Booker Group Customer satisfaction improved again We are very proud that our ownhas been seeking to Focus, Drive and this year.
Customer satisfaction is a label products offer our customers Broaden the business.
We continue to key measure within the business and award winning quality.
This includes make good progress.
we have made significant progress our Prosecco, which has won a since 2006.
Silver International Wine Challenge award, and also 60% of own-label Focus wine entered at the International commenced November 2005 Choice Up Wine Challenge was award winning.
Booker seeks to become the most Booker seeks to grow brands and Ten products from our spirits efficient operator in our sector.
range have also won medals at continue to improve business efficiency.
In 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
We stop, simplify and standardise work Sales in the year to 27 March More recently our exclusive Chefs and invest most of the resulting savings 2015 were 65m.
This is despite Larder Sirloin steak has been in customer service.
considerable deflation in the fresh awarded a Gold Medal by Eblex.
The quality and freshness Drive of the produce is second to none and Prices Down commenced March 2006 can be delivered to our customers We operate in a very price competitive Booker Wholesale, our cash and carry within 48 hours of being harvested.
Every week we monitor business, served 523,000 customers prices versus competitors and during We launched CleanPro last year.
this year up from 503,000 last year.
We the year our price index remained This range of professional cleaning continue to Drive choice, price and competitive.
We are continuing to products has been well received service for our customers.
Each year keep our core line prices at market by customers.
We have 50,000 we survey 40,000 customers to identify leading levels to provide the best customers buying CleanPro each where improvements can be made.
possible margin for our customers.
week with sales of 39m per annum.
During the year we saw significant Booker Wholesale Customer Satisfaction % recommend 85.6% 78.2% FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Source: ESA Marketing customer survey on behalf of the Company 04 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report price deflation, particularly in Premier still remains unique by Catering the catering sector.
Booker has operating a no cost model for Catering like-for-like sales grew by consistently offered low prices on members, and has the advantage 2.0%, as our choice, prices and these core products and maintains for retailers of having deliveries and service continued to improve.
Our its promise of helping the customer also the ability to top-up at their local catering development sales force during challenging times.
We install the fascia continues to serve our existing and imagery free of charge and also customers and to introduce new Better Service provide a market leading promotion customers to Booker.
All goods are Our people are doing an excellent job.
Our customers rate Booker delivered at cash and carry prices.
Business Centre Premier, Bookers symbol group, We are committed to Premier teams across the Group have been grew to 3,082 stores 2,902 and continue to see attractive trained in PRIDE to help improve stores last year.
Sales to these opportunities for independent the Parking, Reception, Internal, customers grew by 14%.
The retail retailers to prosper in the UKs Delivery and Exit experience.
development team has put a lot convenience market.
of work into both compliance and We have continued to expand and building the sales and profits of improve our delivery service.
Customer Delivery existing Premier stores.
We have more specialist butchers Booker offers a seven days a For the first time we advertised and greengrocers within the business week multi-temperature delivery Premier on the television this year.
We also have skilled service to both retail and catering This was well received by Premier fish mongers operating in our Makro customers 70% of the fleet has retailers and consumers.
All of our delivery customers pay the same price for goods as our collect customers.
Our delivery business continues to grow from 600m in 2008 9 to 1.4bn in 2014 15.
Bookers Pricing vs Cash & Carry Market Catering Retail Source: IRI Research 4.0% 3.5% 3.0% 3.0% 2.0% 1.0% 1.0% 0.5% 0.0% -1.0% -1.4% -1.4% -1.5% -1.6% -1.7% -1.8% -2.0% -1.9% -1.9% -2.1% -2.1% -2.2% -2.3% -2.3% -2.4% -2.4% -2.4% -2.5% -2.6% -3.0% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 05 Prices relevant to the market Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Sheffield Hull Park Royal Leeds Charlton Poole Washington Belfast Shawfield Enfield Preston Classic Drinks doubled the number of stock keeping Booker India units available to a typical customer We are now operating Classic, In September 2009 we opened our on the website through our special our specialist on trade wholesale first business centre in Mumbai.
This has generated business, via the Booker and Makro We now have 19,000 customers sales of 5m.
and have also launched 190 Happy Shopper symbol retailers which Booker Direct Ritter-Courivaud Broaden harness the lessons learned from and Chef Direct Premier in the UK for the Kirana commenced April 2007 Booker Direct serves national stores of Mumbai.
We now have four In the UK, Booker seeks to offer the best accounts from our distribution branches in Mumbai, one in Surat and choice, price and service to caterers, centres, including the prison service one joint venture branch in Pune.
We retailers and small business.
We also in England and Wales, Marks & continue to review growth options in seek to become the suppliers preferred Spencer and most of the cinema India and look forward to developing route to market.
In addition, we want chains in the UK.
the Booker offer to become the best to sell new products and services and choice, price and service supplier to reach new customers.
In India we seek In 2010 we acquired Ritter-Courivaud, Kirana stores and caterers.
to become the best supplier to Kirana a leading speciality food supplier to stores.
To achieve these objectives, restaurants.
Through combining the Sustainability we are Broadening the business.
logistics expertise we have in Booker Booker was the first UK wholesaler to Broaden includes: Direct, with the catering knowledge achieve a third consecutive Carbon from Ritter-Courivaud and the Trust Standard and the first in the Makro Groups buying scale, we launched UK to achieve the new Carbon Trust Chef Direct in 2012.
Chef Direct is Makro has had a good year.
Booker are also based in Didcot and has won some locations we have combined Makro The Grocer Gold Green Wholesaler important clients such as Aramark and Booker.
This has been tailored to of the Year 2014. and Wagamama.
Aramark serves the local market.
Critically, Makro is 250,000 meals a day and, through helping increase our capacity to grow Over 20,000 customers are now working with Booker Direct, their recycling with Booker through our delivered sales.
This should help the road miles have been halved and Group grow to an estimated 6bn of packaging and used cooking oil service has been improved.
This helps our sales in the next few years.
customers save money, increase Family Shopper Digital recycling levels and support more We continue to develop Family sustainable communities throughout Sales at booker.
co. uk were 874m, Shopper, a local discount format.
up from 777m last year and 15m This is doing well.
All these sales are delivered We installed our first sales floor LED have thirty stores and, although it to our customers premises.
is early days, the response to this 408,000 customers registered on We donated surplus food equivalent format has been encouraging.
the website compared to 334,000 to over 288,000 meals to local last year.
Customers can view their charities in the last year.
account details, use an iPhone app and order products.
We have also 06 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report We are committed to helping our Further training has been retail and catering customers serve developed this year.
From communities throughout the United 2015 we are running a driver Kingdom.
apprenticeship scheme, open to internal and external drivers who Structure wish to develop their career with Rather than having the business Booker.
We are also launching two new annual training days structured as Booker Wholesale, Makro, Booker Direct, Chef Direct for managers, to support them by improving their day to day and Ritter-Courivaud, we have restructured to reflect our customers.
operation to increase customer satisfaction and continue helping Steve Fox will be responsible for all our retailers whether they are Premiers, us to drive cash profit.
Family Shoppers, independents, For the tenth year running, the chains or multiple accounts.
Stuart performance of the business means Hyslop has become responsible for our people have shared in our all our caterers and small business success through our bonus system.
Andrew Muldoon runs With this great team of people, Booker all the business centres, whether will continue to make progress in the they are Booker or Makro.
Thompson with the Directors of During the year Richard Rose, our Trading will be responsible for Group Chairman, and Mark Aylwin, who Buying.
This team reports through to ran Booker Direct Chef Direct and Guy Farrant and myself.
This allows Ritter-Courivaud, announced they us to best deploy the strengths of would step down in April.
They joined Booker Group to all our customers.
the Group in 2007 when Booker merged with Blueheath.
Both have People made a real contribution to the Group Again our team have done a great and we wish both of them the very job this year.
We are committed to best for the future.
continuing to make Booker better and safer for colleagues.
We are Our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden also developing talent.
For example, the business remains on track.
Customer there is a shortage of butchers in the satisfaction continued to improve.
We trade, so we have partnered with the grew the Group to 4.8bn of sales.
We University of West London to develop strive to provide our customers with a formal butchery apprenticeship.
improved choice, prices and service via 28 new butchers graduated this year.
the internet, delivery and cash and carry.
We developed a similar scheme for We have a great team and together we greengrocers with 50 colleagues will help our customers prosper in the graduating this year.
We intend to run year ahead.
Investment in our people has continued to make progress Charles Wilson All of our drivers and managers have had an annual refresher Chief Executive course of Safe, Secure and Legal training and our vocational drivers have now completed five years for the Certificate of Professional Competence CPC, which is run by our team of in house trainers and delivery support managers.
