Chief Executives review Overview The Group delivered a resilient The Group benefits from serving a broad spread of industrial performance in 2015.
The speed sectors and geographies.
In 2015 the macro-economics were favourable for our aerospace and automotive sectors, but the and effectiveness of managements rapid decline in oil prices weighed heavily on our customers in the energy sector.
The weakness in the energy sector bled over into actions, in addition to the continued the general industrial markets and was further compounded by the slowing growth in China, weakening global demand for many focus on improved mix, enabled commodities and the embargo on global trade with Russia.
headline operating margins to be The net result for Bodycote was a 7% decline in revenue to sustained.
However, headline operating profit only reduced by 8% to 102.1m 2014: 111.1m, including negative foreign currency translation of 2.3m.
S. C. Harris l Group Chief Executive The potential impact the weakening global demand conditions would have on the Group started to become clear early in the year.
As a consequence, management decided to undertake a series of actions to mitigate the situation, some giving immediate benefit, while others are aimed at accelerating future growth.
A restructuring programme was announced at the half year, with an associated charge of 20m of which 9m related to non-cash impairments and which focused on our facilities serving the oil services and general industrial sectors.
By year end we had successfully exited the businesses in Brazil and India.
Elsewhere we have closed five facilities and consolidated poorly performing activities within a further six facilities.
Closure of an additional five facilities will be completed in the first half of 2016.
Equipment is being relocated within the Group, and in many cases business is being transferred to neighbouring facilities.
The speed and effectiveness of managements actions, in conjunction with the ongoing drive for mix and efficiency 1 improvements, have been such that the headline margin has been sustained at 18%.
04 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Improving the flexibility of the Groups cost base has been a high The pursuit of operational excellence in the Group is a major priority for several years.
A noteworthy element of this has been priority.
Part of this effort is a goal to improve the margins in the AGI greater use of temporary labour which can be flexed at little or no Classical Heat Treatment business to the level we have been able to cost to suit the prevailing workload.
Temporary employees were achieve in ADE Classical Heat Treatment.
This is particularly the case reduced by 11% during the year, however at year end, temporary in AGI in Europe where margins have been lower for some years.
and contract labour still represented 12.7% of total employees.
One of the tools used for this is the Bodycote Margin Model which employs a job costing methodology and strategic pricing process Basic headline earnings per share was 39.5p, a decline of 9.8% to help facilities drive the mix of work towards higher added value.
which reflects the absence of the one-off tax credit the Group Lean techniques are also being deployed at an increasing rate, enjoyed in 2014.
Bodycote is reporting another year of strong cash which help to improve production flows and efficiencies.
This 2 generation, with 80% of headline operating profit turned into cash work, in conjunction with the restructuring actions taken, drove 2014: 90%.
As a result, the Group continues to be in a strong the margins in the AGI business up by 90 bps, notwithstanding the financial position and had net cash of 12.3m at 31 December 2015. decline in revenues.
Return on capital employed remained excellent at 19.0% for the year 2014: 20.7%.
During 2015 we continued to pursue potential acquisitions, although none were completed during the year.
The acquisition priorities Strategic progress are divided into two broad areas.
The first is to acquire bolt-on To enhance our future growth we have accelerated investment in activities in Classical Heat Treatment that will enhance our network high growth potential areas, mindful of the Groups 20% hurdle rate of operations.
These will typically be small businesses in Western for return on capital employed.
The increase in capital expenditure Europe and North America as there are few, if any, suitable targets was driven by the number of greenfield facilities under construction outside of these territories and very few of any scale.
The second along with specific capacity expansion in Specialist Technologies area we look to acquire in is Specialist Technologies.
There are few and civil aerospace.
Nine greenfield sites were under construction potential targets given the rarity of competitors, but some of the in 2015, of which four are for Specialist Technologies and three are targets are of a larger scale.
We also actively pursue ideas in areas in the targeted expanding markets of Eastern Europe, Mexico and adjacent to our existing technologies.
Additionally, capacity has been expanded at specific existing looks more conducive to making acquisitions and the Group is well Specialist Technologies and civil aerospace facilities.
placed should sufficiently attractive targets become available.
Overall capital investment increased by 14% to 61m, Summary and outlook corresponding to 1.2 times depreciation.
The Group delivered a resilient performance in 2015.
Automotive and aerospace revenues moved ahead.
However, the decline in oil The strategy of preferential investment in Specialist Technologies price combined with downward pressures on our general industrial continues to benefit the Group.
While two of these technologies, business led to Group revenues falling by 4% at constant exchange Surface Technology and HIP Product Fabrication, were hard hit rates.
The speed and effectiveness of managements actions, in by the decline in activity in the oil sector, the remaining four addition to the continued focus on improved mix, enabled headline showed good growth.
Average margins continue to exceed 30% operating margins to be sustained.
Recognising the Groups in Specialist Technologies.
net cash position, the Board is recommending a further special During the year we launched a new specialist technology in dividend.
the field of ion implantation.
We believe it to be the only form The Group will continue to follow its strategy of investing in areas of ion implantation that is capable of processing bulk material.
of robust revenue opportunity, notably in Specialist Technologies Applications include hardening of materials without temperature and in higher growth territories, as well as further enriching the distortion and the reduction of surface friction in polymers, mix towards higher added value services.
The Board is confident eliminating the need for lubrication.
Sales are currently at the that managements continued focus on business improvements will pilot stage.
generate good returns throughout the cycle.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive 25 February 2016 1.
Return on sales is defined as headline operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
Cash conversion is defined as headline operating cash as a percentage of headline operating profit.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
