Group chief executives letter By focusing on our distinctive areas of strength, BP has become an increasingly agile business, able to respond quickly to changing conditions.
Bob Dudley Dear fellow shareholder, In 2015 we continued to adapt to the tough environment created by the dramatic drop in oil prices.
We have seen prices crash before, but this fall has been particularly steep, from over $100 a barrel in mid-2014 to below $30 by January 2016.
The work we have done to reshape and strengthen BP after 2010 stood us in good stead to withstand these conditions and last year we took further action to make the business more resilient in the short term.
We also continue to invest for long-term growth.
Our safety record improved, along with operating reliability, while costs came down and capital discipline was maintained.
The current environment has however impacted our financial results, as well as those of our competitors.
So, while the oil price is beyond our control, we have performed strongly on the factors that we can control.
A safer, more reliable, more resilient BP In terms of safety, our top priority, we achieved improvements year-on-year in all of our key safety measures process safety events, leaks, spills and other releases, and recordable injuries.
This performance is at a much better level than five years ago and in line with the best among our peers.
Safety is also good business.
When we operate safely, our operations are more reliable.
When the assets run reliably, they operate more continuously.
When our operations run efficiently, we have better financial results.
In the current business environment, competitiveness depends on minimizing our costs and being disciplined in our use of limited capital as demonstrated by our organic capital expenditure in 2015 of $18.7 billion, down from nearly $23 billion in 2014.
And we continue to focus our portfolio on the highest quality projects and operations, divesting $10 billion worth of assets in 2014 and 2015, in line with our target.
2015 was a challenging year for our Upstream business, with weaker oil and gas realizations leading to a significantly lower underlying pre-tax replacement cost profit of $1.2 billion.
However, efficiency and reliability improved across the business in 2015.
Upstream unit production costs were down 20% on 2013, and BP-operated plant reliability increased to 95% from 86% in 2011.
We have made our base production more resilient by improving our reservoir management and increasing efficiencies in our drilling and operations lowering the decline rate and reducing non-productive time in drilling to its lowest level since 2011.
And the decision to manage our US Lower 48 business separately is starting to deliver improvements in performance and competitiveness.
Our Downstream business had a record year, delivering $7.5 billion of underlying pre-tax replacement cost profit, demonstrating the benefit of being an integrated business.
Our % refining business is ranked among the top performers based on net cash margin in the 94.7 most recent industry benchmark.
We made improvements in safety, efficiency and 2015 refining availability operational performance, and continued to develop a portfolio of highly competitive assets and products.
These include the launch in Spain of a new range of fuels with enginecleaning and fuel-economy benefits, the unveiling of Nexcel from Castrol a technology with the potential to revolutionize the oil changing process in vehicles, and the start-up of Zhuhai 3 in China one of the most efficient purified terephthalic acid production units in % the world.
95 Upstream BP-operated plant reliability 8 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 Strategic report Our executive vice president for corporate business activities, Katrina Landis, decided to Strategy For more information on our strategic step down after a very successful 24 years in BP.
We have taken this opportunity to priorities and longer-term objectives simplify and better align responsibilities within the team, appointing Lamar McKay as see pages 12-17. deputy chief executive, leading on key accountabilities such as strategy and safety, with Bernard Looney succeeding Lamar as Upstream chief executive.
Industry context See how we are responding to Building a platform for growth the lower price environment on The agreements we reached in July with US federal, state and the vast majority of local pages 18-19. government bodies will, subject to court approval, settle our largest remaining legal exposures relating to the Deepwater Horizon accident and oil spill in 2010.
This is a realistic outcome that gives BP clarity to plan for the future.
To build that future, we are continuing to invest in a disciplined way in a portfolio that is well balanced in several respects geographically across regions, across our upstream and downstream businesses and across resource types conventional and unconventional oil and gas, as well as the renewable energies of biofuels and wind.
This gives us resilience and flexibility now and in the future.
In the Upstream, in addition to a well-managed base of existing operations, we had three major project start-ups in 2015 and we made final investment decisions on four projects, including the West Nile Delta project in Egypt, where we are seeing some best-in-class drilling performance.
Looking ahead, we expect significant new production from projects starting up between 2015 and 2020, including our mega projects at Shah Deniz 2 in Azerbaijan and Khazzan in Oman, which will create value for decades.
These projects are on time and on budget.
In the Downstream, we continue to focus on resilient and improving performance and growth from a quality portfolio of high-performing refineries, a competitive petrochemicals business and growing fuels marketing and lubricants businesses.
In 2015 we furthered our relationship with Rosneft to that of a strategic partner, with involvement in exploration, appraisal and production in some of the worlds most prolific oil and gas provinces.
In China, we have signed new agreements to supply liquefied natural gas and to explore for shale gas.
And we continue to build relationships in BPs historic heartlands of the Middle East, with growing opportunities in Oman, Kuwait, Egypt and Iraq.
Acting on climate change Top: Bob Dudley meets Russian deputy prime We continue to support action to address the risk of climate change.
Through the Oil and minister for social affairs, Olga Golodets, at the Gas Climate Initiative a business coalition that accounts for over a fifth of global oil and London Science Museum Cosmonauts exhibition.
gas production we are sharing best practices and developing common approaches, such Bottom: Bob Dudley speaks with Pemex CEO, as on the role of natural gas, the lowest-carbon fossil fuel and on energy efficiency.
We Emilio Lozoya Austin and Total CEO Patrick also joined with BG Group, Eni, Reliance, Repsol, Royal Dutch Shell, Statoil and Total to call Pouyann at the OGCI event in Paris.
on the UN and governments to put a price on carbon so that businesses and consumers of energy can better work within frameworks that are clear.
We welcome the direction provided by the historic agreement reached at the UN climate conference in Paris.
Governments, companies and consumers all have to make an appropriate contribution and we will continue to play our part through means including energy efficiency, renewable energy and increasing the share of natural gas in our portfolio.
Adapting for now and the future Over the years BP has responded to changing circumstances many times.
Each time we have learned, adapted and evolved.
This experience, gained over more than 100 years, is one of our greatest assets.
Today, we are well placed to weather the storm and navigate through a testing environment to emerge in good shape for taking advantage of new opportunities.
I am confident that BP will be delivering energy for our customers and value for our shareholders long into the future.
Bob Dudley Group chief executive 4 March 2016 Defined on page 256.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 9
