BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Chief Executive Officers review 06 Strategic Report Through organic growth and acquisitions, BTG is delivering on its strategy to become aworldleader in Interventional Medicine.
A leader in Interventional Medicine Following recent acquisitions, the commercial launch of Varithena and the growth of our Interventional Oncology products, BTG is aleading company in the fast growing world ofInterventional Medicine.
During the year we added to our portfolio with the acquisition of PneumRx and its RePneu Coilsystem, a leading interventional product in the treatment of advanced emphysema.
This acquisition gave us a third area to our Interventional Medicine business: Interventional Pulmonology, a growing medical discipline.
We now have the platform to deliver our goal of organic growth in the Interventional Medicine business from revenue of approximately $200m today to over $1.25bn by 2021.
This will be achieved through continued geographic expansion, product innovation and indication expansion.
See pages 8 to We have built our company to 13for more details.
have the characteristics for success Delivering this growth target requires a commitment to in todays healthcare environment, investment in product innovation and development, in creating a scalable platform that expanding our commercial footprint and in our people.
Aswehave grown we have created a company culture that will will enable us to continue to grow enable us to capitalise on the opportunities offered by todays over the long term.
Alongside our financial resources, this gives us a scalable platform for sustainable value creation.
Louise Makin Underpinning our financial investments are the highly cash Chief Executive Officer generative Specialty Pharmaceutical and Licensing segments.
In the former we guide to mid single-digit revenue growth and the latter, which is no longer an active strategy, continues to provide a solid financial underpin to the business.
Creating value through acquisitions BTG has a strong track record of expansion through acquisitions.
We have clear criteria when considering ouropportunities.
In addition to being able to generate Key events and achievements in 2014 15 anappropriate return on investment for our shareholders, 1.
EkoSonic receives FDA clearance to treat welook for opportunities that bring us new capabilities andexpertise, and that provide a platform for further growth.
pulmonary embolism, May 2014 In January 2015 we completed the acquisition of PneumRx 2.
F irst commercial patient treated with foran initial cash consideration of $231m.
PneumRx owns, Varithena, August 2014 manufactures and distributes the RePneu Coil System.
D C Bead approved in China for the Thiscomplements our Interventional Medicine business by treatment of hypervascularised tumours, expanding into an exciting and fast-growing area of medicine that uses a minimally invasive product, backed by clinical August 2014 data, and which provides access to a specialty physician base.
Acquisition of PneumRx, January 2015 See pages 14 and 15 for more details.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07 Strategic Report opened an office in Hong Kong to provide support in Patient-centric treatment options commercial, medical and regulatory affairs for the region.
During the year we initiated our controlled US launch For Varithena, we are exploring options to gain approval of Varithena, the first and only FDA approved microfoam inother geographic markets and our file has been accepted for the treatment of great saphenous vein GSV system for review by Health Canada.
We are also making investments incompetence.
The first commercial patients were treated to take EkoSonic into more EU territories.
in August 2014 and feedback from both patients and Investing in clinical studies and expanding the approved physicians has been very encouraging.
More than 420 usesof our products should also drive future growth.
A fully physicians are progressing through qualification, with over recruited trial in the US for the RePneu Coil could lead to US 215having treated patients or in the process of scheduling approval in late 2016 and would provide access toasignificant patients for treatment.
We are increasing our sales force as market opportunity.
We are investing in a study to expand the weexpand physician outreach.
label for EkoSonic into the treatment of chronic deep vein As a new product and procedure operating with interim thrombosis and post-thrombotic syndrome.
We are reimbursement codes, with permanent codes not anticipated accelerating three Phase III trials of TheraSphere that are until approximately two years post-launch, we are providing intended to gain pre-market approval PMA in the US for support to help ensure the appropriate level of reimbursement treating patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma for each procedure.
To date, payers who insure approximately HCC and to support PMA approval as a second-line 50 million Americans of 320 million people with insurance treatment for patients with metastatic tumours in the coverage have established favourable insurance coverage liverfrom colorectal cancer mCRC.
policies and have paid claims at the appropriate rates for both Our innovation team continues to work in collaboration the product and the procedure.
withphysicians and key opinion leaders KOLs to identify Our controlled launch strategy is designed to build the newproduct development opportunities.
A new generation systemto demonstrate the products clinical profile ofthe EkoSonic control unit will allow bilateral treatment andpatient acceptability, and to establish a smooth ofpulmonary embolism for the first time.
This lays the foundations for us to oncology we are working on ways to innovate our Bead products.
target a $500m global Varithena franchise, which will result from expanding access to additional clinics, gaining dedicated The following pages describe how we are reimbursement codes, developing the self-pay market and deliveringour growth strategy through: progressing indication and geographic expansion plans.
In May 2015, BTG purchased the residual financial interest of Pages 08 and 09 Geographic expansion the originator of the Varithena foam sclerotherapy technology Pages 10 and 11 Indication expansion for a one-off cash payment of 23m, ensuring that BTG retains 100% of the future value of Varithena.
Pages 12 and 13 Product innovation Sales of our EkoSonic blood clot treatment device continue Pages 14 and 15 Acquisitions togrow strongly, driven largely by a greater awareness of thepotential benefits of interventional treatment over the standard anticoagulation therapy.
The 510 k clearance received in May 2014 to treat patients with pulmonary Values and people embolism makes this the only device on the market with BTG is a rapidly growing company and key to our success sucha label, giving us a competitive advantage.
isthequality of our people and the way we conduct our Since combining the Beads and TheraSphere sales forces in business.
Everything we do is guided by our values and the US, we now have an established Interventional Oncology behaviours, which are designed to underpin and foster franchise that is uniquely positioned to offer the two main aculture of always doing the right thing for the business intravascular locoregional treatment modalities for primary anditsstakeholders.
See page 30 for more details.
Subsequently, we have expanded our direct sales force in the EU for TheraSphere which, from April 2015, has Outlook also sold our Bead products and again gives us the distinctive We are making good progress against our growth plans and opportunity to adopt a patient-centric approach.
this is underlined by the consistent delivery of our financial goals.
With our portfolio of technologically leading products, Future growth we are confident that our strategy will enable us to succeed in Expanding the global reach of our products is fundamental todays healthcare environment and that we can continue to toour organic growth plans.
In addition to our European build significant value in the business for all our stakeholders.
expansion, we are building our commercial offering in Asia.
Wegained approval for DC Bead in China, where our partner Louise Makin SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is now preparing for market Chief Executive Officer launch.
In Taiwan we established a direct sales force and
