strategic reportr Chief Generate profitable growth in our core markets Executive Market conditions remained challenging across all our core markets.
The retail landscape continued to evolve, with channels such as convenience, discounters, leisure and online benefiting at the Officers expense of traditional, large supermarkets, where people are shopping less often.
In addition, any increase in disposable income has not yet been reflected in their grocery spend on soft drinks.
review Consumers in all our markets are also more focused than ever on what they consume, with health and wellbeing increasingly important to purchasing decisions.
With our broad portfolio, strong In May 2013 I laid out a new strategy track record on innovation and a clear health strategy, Britvic for the group, with a focus on driving remains well placed to respond to these trends.
The weather this summer was particularly poor in both GB and Ireland, adversely growth in the kids, family and adult impacting the soft drinks category, whilst in France the category, and categories, where we have marketsyrups in particular, benefited from a very warm summer.
In 2015 we continued In GB we have taken market volume and value share overall.
Whilst to make good progress against this our GB stills performance was disappointing, with a marginal loss of share, J O and Fruit Shoot continued to grow and take market share.
2 strategy, and delivered another year of We launched a number of new products over the course of the year excellent earnings growth.
to capitalise on consumer trends and stimulate category growth.
We introduced our leading French brand Teisseire to GB, with a range of premium syrups as well as formats for mixing with hot drinks and alcohol.
We also staged a major relaunch of the Robinsons brand this year.
As well as introducing a significantly better tasting formula and new flavours, we took the decision to remove the added sugar variant from the range as part of our health strategy.
The relaunched Robinsons range now offers affordable, great tasting drinks containing on average just five calories per glass.
Although the squash category has been in decline, and Robinsons has not been immune to this, I am confident that the work we have done to date, and will continue to do, will see the brand return to growth in the near future.
Robinsons Squashd, the leading brand in the water enhancer category, was launched in 2014 and continues to capitalise on the growth of plain water, providing a great tasting way to hydrate on the go.
In carbonates we introduced Pepsi Max Cherry, which has been very successful.
Max contains no sugar yet retains the full taste of Pepsi.
It has led growth in the cola category and contributed significantly to the Pepsi brand growing its volume and value market share.
7UP and Tango have also undergone a refresh this year with new pack designs and marketing campaigns.
Through the strength of these brands, supported by our innovations, we gained volume and value market share in the total carbonates category.
14 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 strategic report governance financial statements other information strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued In France, we have continued to outperform the total soft drinks We are making good progress with single-serve Fruit Shoot, achieving market by a significant margin.
Our syrup and juice brands, as well a 17% market share in the convenience and gas channel.
as Teisseire Fruit Shoot, have all taken market share.
Five years on In the summer we announced the acquisition of Ebba, the leading from the acquisition of the business, we have doubled profitability in manufacturer of liquid dilutes in Brazil.
This provides Britvic with France, despite difficult macro conditions.
Innovation has been key access to the sixth largest soft drinks market and the second largest to the growth this year with the Teisseire pump pack and a new liquid dilutes category in the world.
Its two brands, Maguary and large bottle Fruit Shoot sharing pack proving very popular with Dafruta, have a similar relevance to consumers as Robinsons, consumers.
MiWadi and Teisseire in their home markets.
The business has many In Ireland, we saw the business return to revenue growth, although similarities to the one we bought in France and it offers an excellent the particularly poor summer weather impacted our performance in opportunity to create shareholder value in the medium-term.
We the final quarter, after three successive quarters of growth.
The recognise that economic conditions in Brazil are challenging, but our market remained subdued and deflationary: however, we gained assessment is that we can deliver sustainable growth in the coming market share, a testament to the strength of our brands in Ireland.
We have a clear plan to create value through reinvigorating MiWadi, Ballygowan, Fruit Shoot and Club all gained share, and the the core concentrates category, accelerating growth in ready to drink business is now well positioned to deliver growth in the coming nectars and introducing Britvic brands and innovation to the market.
We have also agreed a ten-year extension with PepsiCo for the distribution rights for 7UP, Pepsi and Mountain Dew in the Continue to step-change our business Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland from 1 January 2016. capability People are at the heart of this business and our employees Exploit global opportunities in kids, family commitment has been unwavering over the last year.
We have seen and adult categories some changes to the executive team in the past year and we have The international business unit has embraced significant change this recruited significant new talent to complement the team.
John year to create the right operating model to deliver our future Gibney, our CFO, will retire in the spring of 2016 and I want to take ambitions.
In the Netherlands, we ended a long-term third party this opportunity to personally thank him for the support he has given distribution agreement and established our own commercial team to me since becoming CEO and also for his dedication to Britvic over manage the relationship with retailers.
In the short-term, this resulted the last 16 years.
Replacing John is Mathew Dunn, who joined us in some one-off costs, including the repurchase of stock from the from SABMiller, where he was CFO in South Africa.
Mat has enjoyed distributor, but we are already seeing the benefit of the change, with a successful career in beverages across a number of continents, new customer listings.
In the USA, we changed the compound formula and also has extensive partnership and bottling experience.
Also we send to our bottling partners, to enable a significant reduction in joining Mat on the executive team is Hessel fide Jong, our new order lead times.
This resulted in a reduction in stocks held by the International MD.
Hessel also has excellent beverage and general bottlers: however, it creates a more flexible and responsive model for management experience in a number of markets, with companies the future.
In May we announced that we were continuing to evaluate such as Heineken and Coca Cola.
Hessel replaces Simon Stewart, the merits of the route to market options for Fruit Shoot multi-pack to who has chosen to return to Australia with his young family.
I am pleased to confirm that this review has been Simon the very best for the future and thank him for his valuable concluded and we have appointed Advantage Sales & Marketing service.
Finally Joo Caetano fide Mello Netto, who joined our ASM as our partner.
They will facilitate the relationship with key business as a result of the acquisition of Ebba, joins the executive retailers as well as provide market insight and manage the order to team, as Managing Director of Ebba.
Good progress has already been made in our We have also recruited at all levels of the organisation, bringing in discussion with retailers, with a number of initial listings already new talent and new ideas to complement the existing hugely talented confirmed for launch in the first half of 2016.
I am confident that we have the right people in place and the remains important to us and they will continue to distribute Fruit organisational capacity to deliver our future growth ambitions.
Shoot in all other channels, as well as manufacturing in-market.
Consumers in all our markets are also more focused than ever on what they consume, with health and wellbeing increasingly important to purchasing decision.
With our broad portfolio, strong track record on innovation and a clear health strategy, Britvic remains well placed to respond to these trends.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2015 15 strategic report Chief Executive Officers review continued We have also announced a business capability programme to unlock revenue, margin and profitable growth opportunities.
In 2016 we will be investing an additional 70m to 80m capital in our GB supply chain to start to create a best-in-class supply chain, generating a minimum annual cash return of 15% on an ongoing basis.
This programme will provide us with additional capacity in growth packs, deliver cost savings, as well as enable us to participate more effectively in the evolving retail environment.
Build trust and respect in our communities We have continued to make progress on our broad sustainability agenda, acknowledging the responsibility we have to be an active member of the communities in which we operate.
Public health and obesity have never been higher on the agendas of government, NGOs and the media.
I am proud of how we have positioned Britvic to be part of the solution in playing an active role in encouraging healthier lifestyles.
Over the past few years, we have significantly evolved our portfolio and in 2014, we launched our 2020 health strategy.
Last year, we took further bold steps to reduce the calorie content of our portfolio, including the removal of our added sugar variant of Robinsons.
We also launched a number of innovations such as J O Spritz and Club Zero, which are lower in 2 calories.
Read more about our health strategy and approach to sustainability on pages 22 to 27 of the annual report.
Overall, I am delighted with the progress we have made this year and am equally excited by the opportunities we have to continue to build our business capability, grow our brands and deliver strong shareholder returns.
Simon Litherland Chief Executive Officer 16 Britvic plc Annual Report 2015
