Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic management Chief Executives review A strategy that consistently delivers We delivered outstanding results in 2015, against a very challenging external environment Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 06 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2015 was further proof that Continuing progress in Our strategy continues to deliver our strategy remains the right NextGeneration Products Since we updated the Group Strategy in 2011, we have seen the business continue one to consistently deliver We are confident that Next Generation to perform strongly.
We have increased our Products can deliver a substantial and for shareholders.
share of the global cigarette market and sustainable commercial return to shareholders We delivered outstanding results in significantly grown share in key market over the long term.
2015, against a very challenging external segments.
Our Global Drive Brands have In 2015, we continued to grow market share environment and with significant grown year on year, accounting now for 45% of Vype, our e-cigarette brand, in the UK adverse transactional foreign exchange of all Group cigarettes sold up from 34% in where we launched three new products and rate movements.
2011 and they continue to be a key pillar for a range of new e-liquid flavours.
Driven by a very strong second half of the expanded the geographical footprint of our year, with cigarette volume higher by 1.7%, In 2016 we expect the trading environment Next Generation Product business beyond total Group cigarette volume for the full year to remain challenging but our resilient the UK, with launches of Vype in France, was down only 0.5%, to 663 billion.
This was business model has shown the Group is well Germany, Italy, Poland and Colombia.
significantly better than the overall estimated placed to face future challenges.
As such, I Additionally, our first Tobacco Heating industry decline of 2.3%.
After excluding am confident that we have the right brands, Product, the glo iFuse, was launched in the impact of the TDR acquisition, organic people and focus on efficiency to enable the Romania, with excellent initial levels of cigarette volume decline was still ahead of continued delivery of value to shareholders.
We also continued our R&D focus on building Nicandro Durante Market share in our Key Markets increased by a high quality pipeline of products across Chief Executive over 40 bps.
This was driven by an excellent three distinct Next Generation Product performance from our Global Drive Brands, categories Vapour Products e-cigarettes, which grew volume by an exceptional 8.5% Tobacco Heating Products and Licensed and increased market share by 120 bps.
At constant rates of exchange, we grew Progress is encouraging and our ambition revenue by 5.4%, adjusted profit from istolead the category worldwide.
operations by 4.0% and adjusted diluted earnings per share by 10.1%.
Excluding the Our approach to significant transactional effect of foreign better regulation exchange on the cost of raw materials and We have always been clear that we support leaf, adjusted profit from operations would regulation that is based on robust evidence have grown by approximately 10%.
and thorough research, that respects legal Price mix of 5.9% was up from 4.2% in rights and livelihoods and delivers on the 2014.
Underlying operating margin grew by intended policy aims while recognising around 160 bps, although on a reported basis unintended consequences.
This was That is why, on issues such as the regulation largely due to the adverse transactional of Next Generation Products, we have been impact of unfavourable foreign exchange working with governments and regulators to described above.
ensure appropriate frameworks are in place These excellent results in 2015 are once to protect consumers whilst ensuring proper again proof of the strength of our strategy.
This will help grow They were achieved despite unprecedented the category and meet the demand for less adverse exchange rate movements and risky alternatives to smoking.
An example of continuing pressure on consumers this work is our collaborative approach with disposable income.
the national standards bodies in France and in the UK to establish voluntary standards for Vapour Products e-cigarettes.
With respect to plain packaging, we have always believed that the policy is not proportionate, will not deliver the intended results and will significantly erode our Intellectual Property Rights.
Consequently, wehave reluctantly taken legal action to protect shareholders interests.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 07
