Strategic report | Chief Executives review Chief Executives review A combination of record acquisition spend during the year, the impact of prior year acquisitions and some organic growth has allowed us to develop both in existing and new geographies.
The percentage growth in operating profit was greater than that of revenue due to the impact of higher margin acquisitions, resulting in an improvement in the Group operating margin by 10 basis points to 7.0% unchanged at actual exchange rates.
In North America revenue rose 5% 11% at actual exchange rates principally due to the impact of acquisitions completed in both 2014 and 2015, while operating profit increased 9% 16% at actual exchange rates as the operating margin improved 30 basis points to 6.5% 20 basis points at actual exchange rates.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose 7% down 2% at actual exchange rates as a result of organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions, with operating profit up 10% 1% at actual exchange rates and the operating margin up 20 basis points to 9.3% 30 basis points at actual exchange rates.
In UK & Ireland revenue was up 3% 2% at Operating performance actual exchange rates due to the impact of The overall translation effect of currency both organic revenue growth and Highlights acquisitions, and operating profit rose 6% at movements has once again affected the reported Group growth rates with the both constant and actual exchange rates as Record acquisition spend of the operating margin improved by a further average US dollar stronger against sterling 327 million on 22 businesses than in 2014 but the average Canadian dollar, 30 basis points during the year to 7.7%.
with entry into two new countries.
In Rest of the World revenue increased 6% euro, Brazilian real and Australian dollar all weaker than the prior year.
As in previous down 8% at actual exchange rates but North America operating profit was down 11% 24% at years, the operations, including the relevant Revenue increase from recent growth rates and changes in operating actual exchange rates.
Margins came acquisitions and underlying volume under pressure due to the challenging margins, are therefore reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the macroeconomic conditions and some growth, partially offset by price negative foreign exchange transaction distorting impact of these currency declines in plastic products movements.
Changes in the level of revenue impact of weaker local currencies in the and some lost business.
relevant markets in both Latin America and and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the results Australasia, with the business area operating Continental Europe margin down 160 basis points 170 basis for 2014 at the average rates used for 2015.
Strong revenue and profit growth with Unless otherwise stated, all references in points at actual exchange rates to 8.2%.
this review to operating profit are to adjusted operating profit being operating profit Basic earnings per share were 10% higher UK & Ireland at both constant and actual exchange rates before intangible amortisation and Operating margin up 30bp to 7.7% due acquisition related costs.
Adjusted earnings per share, to focus on reducing operating costs after eliminating the effect of intangible and managing margins.
Revenue increased 5% 5% at actual amortisation and acquisition related costs, were 91.0p, an increase of 7% 6% at actual exchange rates to 6,489.7 million Rest of the World principally due to the positive impact of exchange rates.
The return on average Adjusted operating profit down 11% operating capital decreased from 57.7% to acquisitions together with some organic due to challenging macroeconomic growth, which continues to be affected by 55.5% principally due to reduced returns in the underlying business and the mix impact price declines on plastic resin-based conditions and negative exchange products, particularly in North America.
of recent, lower return acquisitions.
return on invested capital was 17.1%, down Operating profit was 455.0 million, an increase of 7% 6% at actual exchange rates.
16 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review The operating cash flow continued to be Three acquisitions were completed in strong with the ratio of operating cash flow March.
Janssen Packaging is engaged in the before acquisition related costs to operating distribution of specialist packaging materials profit at 97%.
The ratio of net debt to EBITDA for the e-commerce, fashion and fulfilment calculated at average exchange rates sectors in the Netherlands.
It complements increased to 2.1 times, which is at the lower and expands our retail supplies business end of our target range, compared to 1.8 thereby providing access to an extended times as at the end of 2014.
The increase is range of innovative packaging solutions to principally due to the significant acquisition both new and existing customers in this spend during the year.
In Canada we purchased two separate Corporate responsibility remains intrinsic businesses at the end of the month.
to the effective running of our business.
We Emballages Maska is engaged in the sale of 22 are continually seeking ways to ensure the cleaning and hygiene supplies to distributors sustainability of our business by developing throughout Quebec and eastern Ontario.
acquisitions our processes in this area.
During the year Revenue in 2015 was 16 million.
Prescott we have focused further on our supply chain distributes cleaning and hygiene products Read more about our acquisition and its impact on our business.
As a result, to a variety of end users in the construction, strategy on pages 10 and 11 we are disclosing for the first time property management and healthcare information on our Scope 3 carbon emissions sectors, as well as to some distributors, comprising emissions from third party throughout the Montreal area of Quebec.
carriers, business flights, waste disposal Revenue in 2015 was 9 million.
In addition, we are completing a further Ligne T, a distributor of personal protection risk assessment of our supply chain with equipment, principally workwear, based in Increasing employee regard to social issues and we are also Montauban, France, was purchased at the undertaking a pilot project for closed loop end of May.
The business supplies a variety awareness and improving recycling in conjunction with one of our of end user customers throughout the our processes to reduce existing suppliers.
south-west region of France and had our environmental impact.
Also at the end of May we completed the acquisition Acquisitions of Istanbul Ticaret, a business engaged Acquisitions are a key component of the in the sale of a variety of personal protection Groups growth strategy.
Our committed equipment to both end users and other spend in 2015 was a record 327 million distributors throughout Turkey.
Revenue as we completed 22 transactions in total, in 2015 was 24 million.
This is an exciting excluding Tillman which we agreed to development for us as it represents our first acquire in December 2014 and completed acquisition in Turkey which is an important at the beginning of January 2015.
G20 economy that has grown steadily over 2 recent years.
The business has a broad In addition to Tillman, we completed the range of both branded and own brand new countries acquisition of two further businesses in products and an excellent reputation for January.
Quirumed, which had revenue Read more about our new geographies quality and service.
It will provide a good of 15 million in 2015, represents our first on pages 20 and 21 platform from which to develop a significant move into the healthcare sector in Spain, business in Turkey.
while Jan-Mar, based in Toronto with revenue of 6 million in 2015, has further extended our cleaning & hygiene supplies business in Canada.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 17 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Chief Executives review continued GF, a distributor of industrial packaging, ICB Cleaning Supplies in New Zealand, with warehouse supplies and equipment which revenue of 2 million in 2015, and Cemelin Meeting customers needs is based in Calgary, Canada, was acquired in Spain, with revenue of 3 million in 2015, through a broad and effective at the beginning of June.
The business has are both distributors of cleaning and hygiene service offering.
a large and diverse base of end user supplies and were acquired at the end of customers in western Canada and had October and early November respectively.
Casa do Epi, an important acquisition for our safety business in Brazil, was also Prospects At the end of June we added two further purchased in November.
The business is Against the background of variable economic businesses to the Groups portfolio.
Solmaq, principally engaged in the sale of a wide conditions, Bunzls strong competitive based in Bogota, supplies a complete range of personal protection equipment to position, the impact of the significant range of head-to-toe personal protection end user customers in the mining, acquisition spend in 2015 and the equipment and other welding and industrial construction and manufacturing sectors.
opportunities to consolidate our fragmented consumables to distributors, retailers and Revenue in 2015 was 16 million.
At the end markets further are together expected to end users throughout Colombia.
Revenue of November we acquired DPS, a distributor lead to continued growth in 2016. was 14 million in 2015.
It further extends of catering disposables and a variety of our safety business in Colombia, being a cleaning, safety and packaging products In North America, the combination of recent market that we entered with the purchase based in Santiago with a number of other acquisitions and underlying volume growth of Vicsa at the end of 2012.
Cordova Safety locations throughout Chile.
Revenue in 2015 should result in a good performance despite Products, based in Memphis, Tennessee, is was 25 million.
The Companys business in the impact of price declines in plastic engaged in the sale of a variety of personal Spain was expanded at the end of November resin-based products.
In Continental protection equipment, principally gloves, with the purchase of Faru.
Based in Zaragoza, Europe, we expect to see a further strong to distributors throughout the US.
Most the business is engaged in the sale of personal performance due to both organic growth and products supplied are own label.
Revenue protection equipment, including fall arrest the effect of recent acquisitions.
and head protection products and safety Ireland, progress in 2016 will be held back shoes, to distributors throughout Spain.
principally due to pressure in the business We acquired three businesses in July.
serving the grocery and retail sectors.
Rest Steiner, which had revenue of 12 million of the World will see a strong benefit from in 2015, has further expanded our safety At the beginning of December we purchased recent acquisitions, although the outlook business in the US while Bidvest Hospitality Comatec, which is engaged in the distribution for both economic growth in the relevant Supplies and Delta Hospitality Supplies, of high-end, innovative single-use tableware markets and for exchange rates, particularly each with revenue of 5 million in 2015, to restaurants and hotels throughout France in Brazil, remains uncertain.
have added additional scale to our catering but also exports products to a large number consumables and equipment business of distributors in a number of countries The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains in Australia.
Discussions are continuing with We also acquired Dental Sorria in December.
a number of potential targets and we expect The acquisition of Meier Verpackungen, Based in Belo Horizonte in the State of Minas to complete further transactions as the which distributes customer specific Gerais and with revenue of 6 million in 2015, year progresses.
packaging products to food processors and the business has expanded our operations had revenue of 29 million in 2015, was in Brazil into the dental supplies sector.
The Board believes that the prospects of the completed in September and represents our Group are positive due to its strong market first step into Austria, complementing our Since the year end we have agreed to acquire position and our ability to grow the business existing business in Switzerland.
At the beginning both organically and through acquisition.
Clean, which is based in Vancouver and of February 2016 we purchased Earthwise is principally engaged in the sale and Bag Company, a distributor of reusable bags Michael Roney distribution of cleaning and hygiene supplies to supermarkets and other retailers in the Chief Executive and equipment to a variety of customer US, which has expanded our offering of 29 February 2016 markets throughout western Canada, was environmentally friendly products to the also acquired in September and had revenue grocery and retail sectors.
It is the seventh was 12 million.
We also entered into an acquisition we have made in Canada since agreement in February relating to the November 2013, as a result of which we have proposed acquisition of Bursa Pazari, developed a national business there with which had revenue of 31 million in 2015. annual revenue in excess of 340 million.
It represents our second step in Turkey and extends our operations there into the foodservice and healthcare sectors.
Completion of the acquisition is subject to clearance of the transaction by the Turkish competition authority.
18 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Our management teams thrive on the fast pace of our business and our decentralised organisation structure keeps responsibilities and decision making local and close to our customers.
The hard work, dedication and commitment of everyone employed in the business are key to our ongoing success.
Michael Roney Chief Executive Management Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
Brian May Patrick Larmon Celia Baxter Finance Director President and CEO Director of Group North America Human Resources Paul Budge Paul Hussey Frank van Zanten Managing Director General Counsel & Managing Director UK & Ireland Company Secretary Continental Europe Rodrigo Mascarenhas Andrew Mooney Kim Hetherington Managing Director Director of Corporate Managing Director Latin America Development Australasia Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report | Chief Executives review extending our global reach Our global presence Through the relentless pursuit of our acquisition strategy, the continuing operations of the Bunzl Group have developed from a business based in two countries in 1992 to one with a global presence operating across 29 countries today.
In 2015 we entered two new countries making a total of 29 countries across 4 continents 20 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Our ability to find the right targets in the Experience in making and right markets at the right time has enabled integrating acquisitions us to build a substantial international successfully.
business and establish a strong base for continued further growth.
Since 2004 the Group has made more than 120 acquisitions, at a total cost of more than 2.2 billion, all of which have been selffunded.
In doing so, over this period we have increased the number of countries in which we operate from 14 to 29 and added annualised revenue in excess of 3.2 billion.
As part of the pre-acquisition process the Company adopts a disciplined approach with rigorous analysis and due diligence being carried out on the target businesses to ensure that they meet Bunzls criteria for acceptable financial returns.
R ead about our acquisition strategy on pages 10 and 11 Turkey The acquisition of Istanbul Ticaret in May 2015 was an important development for the Group as it represented Bunzls first acquisition in Turkey which is an important G20 economy that has grown steadily over recent years.
The business has a broad range of both branded and own brand safety products, which it sells to end users and other distributors, and an excellent reputation for quality and service.
It has provided a good platform from which to develop a significant business in Turkey.
Austria The purchase of Meier Verpackungen in September 2015 was the Companys second entry into a new country during the year.
The business has a good position in the local market due to its ability to provide customer specific packaging products and complex packaging solutions in compliance with stringent food regulations at competitive prices, combined with high levels of customer service.
The acquisition has improved the Groups technical know-how in a specialist market sector.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic report | Chief Executives review North America Highlights Our objective is to give our customers a competitive Growth at 2015 2014 constant edge and to improve the m m exchange efficiency of their operations Revenue 3,751.8 3,372.1 5% by offering them greater Adjusted operating profit 244.0 211.1 9% choice and excellent service Operating margin 6.5% 6.3% throughout the supply chain Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
from the initial order to the final delivery.
Revenue increase principally from recent acquisitions with operating margin up 30bp at constant exchange rates to 6.5%.
Patrick Larmon President and CEO North America Grocery and redistribution businesses impacted by price declines in plastic products and some lost business.
Three safety acquisitions Tillman, Cordova and Steiner significantly In North America, revenue increased by enhance growing portfolio of own brand products.
5% to 3,751.8 million principally due to the impact of the three acquisitions made in 2014 Recent acquisition activity in Canada creates national distribution and the seven further businesses acquired platform in cleaning & hygiene.
These acquisitions have enabled Strong revenue and profit growth in businesses serving food us to extend our product and service offerings and further consolidate the processor and agriculture sectors.
Although sales volumes increased, organic revenue growth was held back primarily due to deflationary pressures North America is Bunzls largest caused by price declines of plastic resinand longest-established business based products and the net impact of some area, having started in 1981 with the lost business.
As a result of recent acquisition of Jersey Paper Company acquisitions having higher operating margins in the US.
The revenue of the business than the underlying businesses, operating area that year was 20 million.
Over profit increased 9% to 244.0 million with the business area operating margin at 6.5%, the last 35 years the operations have an increase of 30 basis points at constant grown substantially throughout the exchange rates.
US while at the same time have expanded into Canada, Mexico and Our largest business serving the grocery Puerto Rico to become the marketsector was adversely affected by deflationary leading business that it is today with pressures and some lost business but we revenue of 3.8 billion.
gained some new accounts and renewed some large contracts with existing customers.
We have taken steps to reduce operating costs further and improve Market efficiencies by continuing to invest in new high-tech distribution facilities.
We continued sectors to use our Think Big marketing campaign to promote our ability to help food retailers improve their profitability in the fresh food areas of their stores using our category 5,097 168 management techniques.
By employing our flexible store delivery programmes, retailers Employees Locations are able to provide exceptional customer service with new, innovative packaging while reducing their expenses, improving their asset utilisation and ensuring that they have an optimal supply of the products they require.
22 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review In the retail sector, we gained several major and supply janitorial and sanitation products We have seen strong sales and profit growth new accounts and expanded our business more efficiently to our local branches and in our business that supplies the agriculture with existing customers.
This enhances our ability to sector and we have expanded our presence to seek opportunities to grow our materials provide our redistribution customers with and capabilities in Mexico in order to meet consolidation and custom fulfilment access to a wider range of products, which demand in the region.
To improve both business in this sector and to expand this in turn allows them to use us as their virtual collaboration and efficiency, all of our concept into the grocery and convenience warehouse to improve their sales and businesses serving in this sector are store sectors.
These services, combined profitability without having to invest in operating on a new IT system.
We continue with our expertise in store supplies, dcor additional space and inventory.
to develop innovative products to meet the and branded packaging, further enhance demands of our customers.
For example, the capabilities we are able to offer to In our business serving the safety sector, Destiny Packaging has introduced the grab & retailers.
We also continue to target the in addition to Tillman, which we agreed to steam product, a retail version of a zippered growing online retailing market with our acquire in December 2014 and completed at microwavable cooking bag featuring steam efficient and cost-effective packaging the beginning of January 2015, we purchased valve technology.
We believe that the depth and two further companies during the year, being breadth of our operational and merchandising Cordova Safety Products and Steiner.
All In other product developments, FoodHandler offering for our customers enables us to three businesses are based in the US and has expanded its marketing of the oneSAFE provide an end-to-end solution that is supply industrial distributors with a range single-use glove dispensing system for the unmatched in the retail sector.
The recent of personal protection equipment, including foodservice and healthcare sectors that purchase of Earthwise Bag Company has safety gloves and workwear, with Tillman significantly reduces cross-contamination further extended our product offering to and Steiner specialising in products for the and thereby improves food safety standards.
Their combined expertise A dedicated oneSAFE website has been in imports and product development will developed featuring educational materials Although we have also experienced the help us to enhance our growing portfolio designed to position the system as a leading impact of deflationary pressures and some of own brand safety products.
product in food and health safety.
lost accounts in our redistribution business, we have continued to expand our category Customer consolidation in the food Despite the challenges presented as a management programme with our processor sector continues to present result of continued customer consolidation foodservice distributor customers who challenges as well as potential opportunities in the convenience store sector, we have increasingly see the value of partnering for business growth.
We have experienced achieved steady profit growth as we have with us to fulfil their janitorial, sanitation and both revenue and profit growth in the sector worked with our key wholesale partners food packaging requirements.
The ongoing as a result of our national account strategy to execute a pull-through strategy with investment in digital capabilities benefits and investment in additional resources which key convenience store retailers.
With our our businesses serving all sectors but together have enabled us to improve our supplier managed inventory services, our particularly in redistribution where account penetration.
Additionally we have wholesale partners are able to reduce their customers use our digital tools to sell to expanded our own label product offering working capital and warehouse space needs their own customers.
Our central warehouse including our new line of Clarity vacuum while benefiting from excellent fill rates and network enables us to purchase inventory pouches, shrink bags and bin liners.
Finally, we have acquired five businesses in Canada during the year, four of which operate in the cleaning & hygiene sector, that have enabled us to establish a truly national distribution platform in this important market.
Our most recent acquisition, Planet Clean in September, specialises in offering environmentally friendly and sustainable cleaning and hygiene products.
With our purchase of GF in June, we have entered into the industrial packaging sector and further expanded our offering of products and services for our customers.
Additionally, we have combined several of our businesses in Winnipeg into one large facility to drive greater efficiencies and productivity.
We will continue to use this method of consolidation throughout the North America business area where we have multiple business units operating stand-alone facilities in the same market area.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Continental Europe Highlights We have a broad product range and a wide geographic Growth at 2015 2014 constant spread across a variety m m exchange of market sectors which Revenue 1,121.0 1,146.3 7% continue to position us well Adjusted operating profit 104.5 103.2 10% to meet our customers Operating margin 9.3% 9.0% demands in the future.
Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
Frank van Zanten Managing Director Continental Europe Strong constant exchange revenue and profit growth with operating margin up 20bp at constant exchange rates to 9.3%.
Continental Europe developed strongly with Entry into two new countries, Turkey and Austria.
revenue rising by 7% to 1,121.0 million Impact of lower sales in France offset by continued cost and operating profit up 10% to 104.5 million reduction measures.
despite the slow macroeconomic recovery in many of the countries in which we operate.
Good growth in the Netherlands driven by acquisitions and progress Gross margins came under pressure from in the safety, healthcare, retail and food processor sectors.
the strength of the US dollar against the Significant profit growth in Denmark.
euro, thereby increasing the cost of our imports, but careful management of the cost Further improvement in Spain and central Europe.
base enabled the underlying business to maintain its profitability.
This has been supplemented by the full year impact of the Bunzl acquired its first business in four 2014 acquisitions and the part year Continental Europe with the purchase contribution of the eight acquisitions of Hopa Disposables in the Netherlands completed in 2015, with the operating margin in 1994.
This was followed by acquisitions rising by 20 basis points at constant in Germany, Denmark and France in exchange rates to 9.3%.
In a significant development, we entered two new countries 1997, 2000 and 2004 respectively.
By during the year with the acquisition of 2010 the business had expanded through Istanbul Ticaret, a personal protection acquisition into a further eight countries equipment distribution business, in Turkey at and today operates in 14 countries the end of May and Meier Verpackungen, across the continent.
which distributes packaging products for food processors, in Austria at the beginning of September.
Both businesses are integrating well into the Group.
Today we Market have announced our second step into the sectors Turkish market with the proposed acquisition of Bursa Pazari which will extend our operations there into the foodservice and healthcare sectors.
3,762 113 In France, sales at our cleaning & hygiene business declined slightly due to continuing Employees Locations pressure in the contract cleaning sector in particular.
However cost reduction measures mitigated this decline with profits improving in the year.
Our personal protection equipment business also recorded lower sales, the impact of which could only partly be offset by lower costs.
Ligne T, the specialist safety business acquired in May 2015, has traded in line with expectations and is integrating well.
At the beginning of December we acquired Comatec which 24 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review specialises in the distribution of high-end, In Denmark, revenue increased strongly In Israel, sales increased in the bakery innovative single-use tableware to hotel, with a particularly good performance sector and were flat in the horeca sector.
restaurant and catering horeca in sales to the public sector and to Margin pressure due to the weakening customers.
This is a significant addition to redistributors.
Growth in sales to the retail shekel was offset by tight cost control our operations in France and expands our sector remained low but significant gains with profits ahead of last year.
business there in the foodservice sector.
were made in selling personal protection equipment.
Together with careful margin In central Europe, revenue rose strongly in In the Netherlands, sales grew well in the and cost management, this led to a Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic healthcare, food processor and retail significant rise in profit.
with increased sales in both the retail and sectors, more than offsetting lower sales industrial sectors.
Margins were lower in the horeca, grocery, cleaning & hygiene In Spain, sales grew well, especially of given the high levels of growth with larger and government sectors.
Although gross personal protection equipment, as the customers but overall profits in the region margins are under pressure, costs remain local economy has continued to improve.
Allshoes and fide Ridder Although margins remained under have both integrated successfully into the pressure, in particular due to the strength Group and performed ahead of our initial of the US dollar, profits increased strongly.
Janssen Packaging, the Quirumed, the healthcare products business distributor of specialist packaging for the acquired in January 2015, was particularly e-commerce, fashion and fulfilment sectors affected by the weak euro, which increased which was acquired in March 2015, had a the costs of imports, but the business is very successful year due in particular to its integrating well.
The integration process is exposure to the e-commerce sector.
It has also under way at Cemelim and Faru, both now been fully integrated into our existing acquired in the last quarter of the year.
The Majestic personal protection equipment business generated good sales growth overall and margins improved despite the strength of the US dollar as sales of own brand products continued to grow.
In Belgium, strong sales growth in the cleaning & hygiene sector came both from significant volume increases with a number of larger customers as well as from winning new customers, which more than offset slightly lower sales in the grocery and food processor sectors.
Margins were down due to the impact of new, lower margin business while costs remained carefully controlled.
In Germany, sales grew well with regional accounts and also in the hotel sector although margins were lower than the prior year.
The main business has successfully implemented our Microsoft Dynamics AX ERP system.
Our safety business reported good sales growth and the cleaning & hygiene business grew significantly, having won a large new customer during the year.
In Switzerland, revenue was up in the industrial sector which offset a decline in the retail sector.
Sales were broadly flat in the medical and horeca sectors.
The local economy continues to suffer from the strength of the Swiss franc which has adversely affected both tourism and exports.
Profits were also at a similar level to last year.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 25 Strategic report | Chief Executives review UK & Ireland Highlights We have continued to improve our operational Growth at 2015 2014 constant efficiency through good m m exchange margin management and Revenue 1,102.4 1,078.5 3% careful control of costs while Adjusted operating profit 84.9 80.1 6% continuing to invest in new Operating margin 7.7% 7.4% facilities and technology.
Paul Budge Managing Director UK & Ireland Good profit growth with operating margin up 30bp to 7.7%.
Significant profit increase in safety led by acquisitions and In UK & Ireland revenue increased 3% to expanded own label product ranges.
1,102.4 million and operating profit rose Grocery and retail sectors remain challenging.
Our constant focus on reducing operating costs and managing Hospitality continues to grow well and further development margins led to our operating margin of own label product ranges.
improving to 7.7%, up 30 basis points on Healthcare performed well despite increased customer focus the previous year.
This is a very creditable on cost reductions.
performance in a market with noticeably increased competition and also an Significant improvement in Ireland driven by increased retail unprecedented level of tender activity activity and tourism.
from many of our customers.
Our safety business has performed well, The acquisition of Automatic Catering with revenue and profits both up, having Supplies in 1993 marked the beginning successfully integrated the two acquisitions of the Groups expansion into Europe.
from 2014 and continued to build the own Bunzl subsequently entered the label programme with new products and ranges being introduced in footwear, gloves cleaning & hygiene sector in 1996, and clothing.
To optimise the cost base, the the retail and grocery sectors in 1999 branch network has been consolidated and the healthcare and safety sectors further, resulting in the closure and in 2000.
Since then the UK & Ireland integration of three locations.
Our cleaning business area has continued to develop & hygiene supplies business continues to significantly with annual revenue now provide a very good service to the major in excess of 1 billion.
facilities management companies in the UK and profits increased as we continued to help our customers mobilise new projects both rapidly and effectively.
Market In retail supplies, a recent account loss has sectors given rise to a reorganisation of the business which we believe is now well positioned for the future and this has been supported by the successful retention of our largest customer 3,636 88 just before the year end.
Although the government-imposed tax on single-use Employees Locations plastic carrier bags introduced in early October has reduced sales of those products, we anticipated this change and have continued to develop our offering of Bags for 26 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Life which has offset some of this lost revenue.
While also in a very competitive trading environment, Keenpac, our branded retail packaging business, has had a very successful year with some good account wins and has achieved good growth.
Our marketing services business has proven to be a valuable addition to the Group.
In 2015 we had good success in renewing customer contracts and winning new business.
This, together with the synergy benefits of merging our three businesses into one, has made us the clear market leader in this area.
Our hospitality businesses have performed well and benefited from a year of increased consumer activity and investment by many of our customers.
The catering disposables business increased both revenue and profits as a consequence of the continued focus on account management, service, tailored The healthcare business has had a During the year we continued to invest solutions, product category management successful year, especially in an environment in our digital capabilities.
Converting more and a comprehensive own label programme.
where there have been customer spending customers onto electronic ordering All of this is supported by an operational constraints and an exchange rate impact on platforms has been a priority which has platform which continues to improve its imports.
Sales growth has come from acute delivered positive results.
We have three efficiency and quality of service.
Our hospitals looking to save money on the cost new websites in cleaning and safety with catering equipment business has also of goods and services who see the advantage a new one being launched in catering had a very successful year.
Investment by in utilising our efficient, high-service equipment shortly.
One of our coffee shop customers has resulted in growth in activity platform.
As there is ongoing pressure chain customers now utilises our bespoke of kitchen design services and the increased on prices, we are concentrating our efforts smartphone app to place orders.
This offers supply of heavy catering equipment.
on the overseas sourcing of items and significant benefits to the customer and will Concentrated efforts to build a direct looking to consolidate supply from fewer provide a strong platform for other high marketing offering has successfully targeted suppliers in the Far East.
street customers to transition to the app and grown new and smaller customers.
Electronic proof of delivery The own brand programme has had ongoing In Ireland, the domestic economy has improved systems are now in place in a number investment and the development during and the renewed consumer confidence has had of our businesses and will be rolled out the year included new ranges of crystal an impact on retail activity and tourism, both of further.
We also hold significant volumes glassware, plastic glassware, cutlery and which are drivers of activity in our businesses of transaction data in our businesses porcelain.
At the end of the year we opened there.
Despite the adverse impact of the which record the ordering behaviour of our an innovation centre in London to showcase weakening euro, a number of initiatives customers and our service delivery.
Our our ranges of branded and own brand undertaken with both suppliers and ability to analyse this data and share it with products and the project to relaunch our customers have helped to produce a very our customers and suppliers is of great website will be completed in the first half good result in this progressively improving benefit to them and is serving to enhance our of 2016.
We continue to invest in the area of our business.
reputation and the value of what we can offer.
growth of this business and will shortly be commissioning a new warehouse facility to consolidate our imported own label products.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 27 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Rest of the World In Rest of the World revenue increased 6%to 514.5 million but operating profit Highlights fell 11% to 42.1 million as margins came under pressure due to the challenging macroeconomic conditions and the impact Growth at 2015 2014 constant of significant currency weakness in both m m exchange Latin America and Australasia which have particularly affected those businesses Revenue 514.5 559.6 6% that import large volumes of products.
Adjusted operating profit 42.1 55.5 11 % The economies in Latin America have Operating margin 8.2% 9.9% suffered a number of strong headwinds during the year.
In particular a very Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
depressed commodity market, combined with significant exchange rate depreciation Margins under pressure due to challenging macroeconomic conditions and intense economic pressure and political volatility in Brazil, have created challenging and currency weakness affecting product purchase prices.
market conditions across the region.
Latin America Weaker performance at Brazil safety with significant fall In Brazil, our largest market in Latin America, the political uncertainty regarding in profitability.
the current government administration, Other businesses trading broadly in line with expectations.
combined with steep interest rate increases Australasia to curb inflationary pressures, created a deep recession with a consequential adverse Market position further consolidated in consumables.
Our safety Industrial and safety adversely impacted by slowdown business was particularly affected by this in resources sector.
decline in output and increased levels of unemployment leading to a significant fall in profitability.
The acquisition in November of Casa do EPI, which is based in the State of The current operations of the Group Minas Gerais and has a good reputation and in Rest of the World started in 1983 an excellent customer portfolio, will help with the acquisition of United strengthen our position in a region where we Suppliers based in Sydney, followed were previously under-represented.
We have by the purchase of a number of other been able to pass on some of the exchange businesses throughout Australia and rate impact through price increases and New Zealand over the next 30 changes in the product mix and will continue to focus on this going forward in order to years.
The Groups first move into mitigate the impact of these market Latin America was in 2008 with the pressures.
However, due to the continued acquisition of profit Cap in So Paulo weakness in the Brazilian real, combined since when the business has expanded with a long lead time for imported products, both within Brazil and into five other it will take some time before we begin to countries in the region.
see a recovery in operating margins.
Nonetheless, this disruption in the supply chain is providing some opportunities in the marketplace as a result of our wellMarket established infrastructure and extensive sectors product portfolio.
Our cleaning & hygiene business in Brazil has expanded following the successful integration of JPLUS, acquired in 2014, and 2,549 101 we have been able to increase revenue in our healthcare business although margins in Employees Locations both businesses also came under pressure.
We acquired Dental Sorria, a market leader in the supply of dental products in the State of Minas Gerais, in December 2015 which has further enhanced our product offering in the healthcare sector in Brazil.
28 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Chief Executives review In the rest of Latin America, the picture is mixed with softer demand and pressure on margins in almost all of our markets.
Despite this, our businesses are trading broadly in line with our expectations.
We have also been able to acquire some excellent businesses across different sectors and geographies which will further strengthen our market position in Latin America and provide a solid platform for future growth as trading conditions improve.
In Chile, we acquired DPS at the end of November.
The business provides catering disposables and a variety of cleaning, safety and packaging products to wholesalers and distributors as well as to restaurants, supermarkets and other end users.
This is our third acquisition in Chile and has this, the weakening of the Australian dollar bolstered our position in the market there.
has increased the cost of imports thereby Vicsa and Tecno Boga faced challenging increasing margin pressures at a time when As a service oriented conditions, caused primarily by the reduction businesses were looking for cost reductions company we have in mining investment as a result of the to offset the softer market conditions.
weak Chilean economy and the continuing continued to focus on pressure on commodity prices, but despite Although adversely impacted by the market providing training and this both businesses held up well.
downturn and margin pressures, our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which development for our In Colombia, our business has been supplies the healthcare, cleaning, catering employees who are key enhanced significantly by the acquisition and retail sectors, nevertheless delivered a of Solmaq at the end of June which has solid performance.
The business strategy to to the ongoing success further consolidated our product and develop a strong and sustainable position in of our business.
The business the more resilient market sectors places the supplies a complete range of personal business well for future growth and should Kim Hetherington protection equipment and welding and result in an improved performance as the Managing Director Australasia other consumables to customers market recovers.
To support this strategy the throughout the country.
business made three acquisitions during the year, Bidvest Hospitality Supplies in Our industrial and safety supplies In Mexico, our safety business, which Adelaide, Delta Hospitality Supplies in business has been the most affected by incorporates both Espomega and Vicsa Brisbane and ICB Cleaning Supplies in the slowdown in the resources sector.
Mexico, had a good year with revenue and Auckland, New Zealand.
The purchase of the We have endeavoured to offset the impact profits both improving strongly despite the two catering businesses creates additional of the downturn by consolidating facilities pressures caused by currency fluctuations.
scale and capability as we continue to build and making structural changes to reorganise our national footprint in this sector and ICB the business to fit the current market In Australasia, the business environment Cleaning Supplies brings further knowledge environment.
In order to reposition the continued to be challenging with ongoing and expertise into our New Zealand business business for future growth, we have invested contraction and slowdown in the resources as we continue to develop our position in in technology, processes and operational sector and declining commodity prices this market.
initiatives to enhance our competitive impacting market conditions.
Compounding position and create efficiencies.
We are Our food processor business continued to also focused on developing new product build momentum with another improved innovations and redesigning our current performance.
The business is developing its product range to create a point of difference position as a leading supplier to the with improved safety, comfort and Our customers rely on our Australian and New Zealand food industries.
A number Our strategy to diversify into non-meat food sourcing expertise and of these initiatives will be launched in the processors, supported by specialist and first half of 2016 which should create the deep knowledge of our technical resources, also continues to additional business opportunities going develop well.
This is creating a solid product offering to ensure forward.
Although trading conditions have foundation which should deliver strong been challenging, the business has been that they get the items growth prospects for the future.
Our successful in winning a number of new investment, continued focus and development that they need, where and customers which has strengthened of our specialist resources has helped to our market position and enabled us when they are required.
build creditability and scale in this market.
to diversify into more resilient market This strategy will continue as we look for sectors and regions.
Rodrigo Mascarenhas additional opportunities to develop and Managing Director Latin America enhance our position further in this sector.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 29 Strategic report | Chief Executives review Encouraging health and wellbeing Maintaining excellent health is crucial for our employees wellbeing both at work and at home and we actively encourage this by sponsoring activities such as stepping challenges, health checks and exercise programmes.
valuing our people Giving clear roles and objectives Our flat organisation structure and Our teams across the Group are clear lines of responsibility mean that our people understand what experienced and incentivised to they need to do and when they need provide high quality service and to do it and, as a result, are able to provide excellent customer service.
We believe that the autonomy given to our people to take decisions locally ensures that, despite our size, we retain the feel of a marketfocused, local business for both our employees and customers.
30 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Retaining former owners Our business model is capital light and relies heavily on our people and their local market knowledge and expertise.
The acquisition of businesses is a crucial part of our strategy to grow and develop and post-acquisition it is important that we retain the former owners and other key staff to ensure that successful ongoing customer relationships are maintained.
Matching employee fundraising for One of the key reasons charitable causes we sold our business to By matching the charitable Bunzl was to benefit from fundraising of our employees, we are able to support the the skills and experience communities in which we operate that they could provide to as well as the charities that are valued by our employees.
help us grow our business faster.
We were initially a little nervous about joining a big company and whether we would lose all control and identity.
However after four years with the Group I am very pleased with the growth of our business, the freedom we valuing our people have been given to operate and the personal career development which has Providing development and training opportunities opened up to us.
It is We endeavour to ensure that everyone takes personal responsibility for themselves to grow within their roles.
Where appropriate to do so, great being part of the we foster internal appointments and promotions and support personal Bunzl family!
development through formal training programmes, as well as help to provide learning on the job.
Steven Sudre General Manager, Safety Brazil Encouraging feedback and communication A combination of regular employee engagement surveys, company social media sites and intranet and video technologies allow us to receive feedback from our workforce and to collaborate effectively across the world.
