Strategic Report Introduction Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officers Letter 2014 15 was another successful year for Burberry, as we moved forward into our next chapter and evolved our strategies for a new era.
As a young, old company, we have always looked to the past as we have embraced the future.
And so this year, perhaps more than any other in recent memory, has also been about going back to our roots, about remembering what made Burberry the company it is today, and celebrating anew the timeless and authentic products that embody our 159-year-old brand.
As we have been writing our next chapter, the world has been changing around us, with macroeconomic uncertainty and rapidly evolving consumer behaviour demanding evergreater agility and a more dynamic mindset to stay ahead.
Through all this, certain fundamentals have remained constant.
Our open and Christopher Bailey united culture.
Our passionate and committed teams.
Chief Creative andChief Executive Officer These have been and remain critical to our success.
And we are proud of our achievements this past year.
With revenues of 2.5bn, up 11% underlying, and adjusted profit before tax of 456m, up 7% underlying, Burberry delivered a strong financial performance despite some challenging conditions for the luxury sector globally, most notably in Hong Kong.
While exchange rate movements negatively impacted reported numbers for the year, the underlying health of the business remained robust and brand momentum continued, underpinned by our ongoing investment in long-term growth initiatives.
Highlights included a 9% increase in comparable store sales, reflecting our strategic focus on the retail channel: the sustained outperformance of our digital business: and double-digit growth in the Americas and EMEIA regions.
Four themes have shaped this performance, guiding our strategic focus and becoming the touchstones for everything we do.
Our commitment to the principles of Brand First and Famous for Product was vividly expressed during the year in a global celebration of our heritage that emphatically reasserted our identity and our brand.
At its core were the iconic, British-made trench coats and cashmere scarves that represent the heart of our product offer.
We took the heritage trench back to its roots with a 10 Strategic Report Introduction radical simplification of styles that reconnected customers progress in 2014 15 points the way for the future with an to its meaning and purpose, while also bringing the scarf intense focus on retail productivity, greater scrutiny of centre stage to launch our first monogramming service operating costs and streamlined governance arrangements online.
Every major brand event and initiative over the year all bringing benefits during the year.
We know we have more restated our pride in the craftsmanship of these products to do in this area and are developing plans to realise more and in our British roots, alongside the passion for music improvements over the coming years.
Our collective will and digital innovation that have become every bit as to make progress is clear.
relevant to our contemporary brand identity.
From the introduction of the runway poncho and the launch of Alongside this push for greater productivity, we also placed My Burberry, to our Festive partnership with Printemps in ever-greater emphasis on our drive towards social and Paris and a major brand event that brought the streets of environmental responsibility over the year.
Highlights London to life in Shanghai, we aimed to make this unique included the launch of a sustainable cotton farming brand signature unmistakable and unmissable.
initiative in Peru: becoming the first luxury retailer and manufacturer to gain full UK Living Wage accreditation: The energy with which we pursued our brand and product and the creation of opportunities for the next generation goals during the year was mirrored by a relentless focus of talent through external partnerships and the work of the on being Customer-centric the third of our four guiding Burberry Foundation, which remained the main beneficiary themes.
The merging of our online and offline worlds of the 1% of annual profits we donate to charitable causes.
remained a hallmark of our efforts here, as we sought And, because we believe that greater shared responsibility to provide outstanding experiences to a luxury customer towards the communities and environment in which we who is ever more global, and ever more digital.
Initiatives operate must go hand in hand with a strong sense of including the relaunch of our mobile site and the roll-out individual responsibility to each other, we continued to of our Collect-in-Store programme resonated strongly, foster greater connectivity and a one team mentality as did the expansion of third-party digital partnerships across Burberry, including moving to a fully open-plan giving customers on leading platforms globally a more working environment in our London headquarters.
Named authentic experience of our brand.
And we continued by LinkedIn as the 36th most in-demand employer globally to invest in enhancing our data and insight capabilities, in 2014, we know how important our unique culture is to knowing that the key to serving our customers better is attracting and retaining the best talent, and to delivering understanding them better.
Our creation of a new cultural strategy reflects this importance, and it will remain Stores remain a critical part of how customers experience a priority.
our brand in an omnichannel world, and we continued to refine our physical presence in both retail and wholesale We end the year proud of our global teams achievements during the year.
New openings included a magnificent in an external environment that presented challenges for flagship relocation in Los Angeles on Rodeo Drive, while the luxury sector as a whole, and aware that experts predict further investment in Travel Retail reinforced the exciting continued volatility into 2015 16 and beyond.
In this context future potential of this channel for the brand.
Meanwhile, we will maintain our focus on the things we can control, in Japan, the outstanding customer response to the staying agile and responsive to change as we target sector global collection in our own retail stores underscored outperformance through opportunities across channels, our confidence in the prospects for this market under product categories and markets.
We have never been direct operation, the transition to which we will complete clearer as a team about where we need to focus, nor in the coming year.
more united in pursuit of our goals.
The final theme shaping our activity has been our To conclude, I would like to extend my thanks to the near commitment to becoming more Productive and 11,000-strong Burberry community for their exceptional Responsible in everything we do.
achievements over the year, and to the external network of partners, customers and shareholders who play such As we look to build on the investments of recent years an important part in our success.
It is my privilege to to drive enhanced profitability, we are embedding a more be working alongside you at this Company that I love, productive and efficient mindset throughout the business.
and of which we are all intensely proud.
While we anticipate gains will build over time, some early 11
