Chief Executive Officers strategic review In a year of transformation we are forming a new Company, with a new leadership and a new culture, putting our customers at the heart of our business.
2014 was a year of transformation and We expect the operating synergies to be Phil Bentley, growth and marked the beginning of a new significant: together, the new Company Chief Executive Officer chapter for Cable & Wireless Communications creates the opportunity to invest more, CWC.
We began the year operating out grow faster and provide an improved of our new operational hub in Miami, and customer experience and most importantly, A Year of Transformation ended it with the acquisition of Columbus a development opportunity for our people International Inc. that neither Company could have achieved and Growth on its own.
We continue to build on our new vision and strategy for the business backed by our The transaction will accelerate both our US$1 billion Project Marlin investment mobile leadership and our fixed mobile programme.
We began to execute a convergence strategies, enabling customers, performance improvement plan to seize for example, to have seamless access to the opportunities we have identified in high-quality video content as they move our industry and the markets we serve.
The downloading of video content onto mobile We completed the sale of our Monaco phones will continue apace.
In fixed line, the Telecom business for US$445 million on significant improvements in our networks 20 May 2014, and through the purchase along with Columbuss broadband capabilities of Sonitel in Panama for US$41 million, added will deliver outstanding online experience, our first acquisition in support of our new faster speeds and wider coverage.
In video, Business Solutions division.
Most importantly, the transaction brings richer content and at the midway point of our fiscal year, we better set-top box capabilities.
announced our intention to acquire Columbus for US$3 billion.
In terms of Business-to-Business B2B, and  B2G, the Im pleased to report that the required legal acquisition complements CWCs larger and regulatory approvals were met and the footprint bringing additional national and transaction closed on 31 March 2015.
This international connectivity capabilities to is a transaction that transforms CWC and better serve multinational customers, as well is one that will accelerate the delivery of Inside the strategic review as opening up Latin America growth markets.
our strategy across the region.
Columbus These capabilities are well aligned with our is an outstanding business.
With our Our strategy new Business Solutions division focus.
complementary fixed line and mobile 9 Our strategy for growth networks: our focus on providing the best To ensure competition remains as robust 13 Our market opportunities customer service: and bringing together as ever, we agreed to dispose of our 49% 18 Principal risks and uncertainties the skills and capabilities of our team shareholding in Telecommunications Services members, we will be well-placed to better of Trinidad and Tobago TSTT, as well as serve our customers and improve the certain overlapping fibre-to-the-home assets Our performance Information and Communications Technology in Barbados.
ICT infrastructure of the communities in 16 Group KPIs which we operate.
22 Group financial performance review 28 Regional performance reviews 08 Cable & Wireless Communications Our Vision Our Objective To grow customer We seek to deliver longrelationships and term and sustainable lifetime value by growth for shareholders delivering unparalleled through growing the customer experience, lifetime value of our where customers define customer relationships excellence.
with the acquisition of Columbus we have refined our strategy to reflect our enhanced market positions and capabilities.
Aside from the corporate activity we have The acquisition of Columbus With the acquisition of Columbus, we have undertaken, it was pleasing to see revenue Since its inception in 2004, Columbus has taken a major step towards accelerating growth for the first time since demerger with built upon its roots as a cable TV operator to a growth in our Company by adding a rapidly further improvements in EBITDA profit, world-class telecommunications company growing retail triple play service provider, the underpinned by successful delivery of our that employs more than 3,200 team leading sub-sea wholesale network provider cost reduction programme.
members, serving more than 725,000 in the region and a complementary B2B service subscribers in over 42 on-net and B2G IT solutions company.
With its In short, we have made good progress in countries throughout the Caribbean and Latin geographically diverse operations and its next executing our strategy and we are beginning America region.
Marketed through its Flow generation network platform built upon the to realise the full potential of our business.
brand, Columbus is a leading provider of cable latest technology by a highly experienced and CWC is becoming a stronger Company and broadband enabled services focused on entrepreneurial management team, Columbus a genuine quad play operator, with strong servicing retail customers in eight countries in propels CWC into the retail quad play business market shares in the  the Caribbean.
As a leading provider of triple advanced video, broadband Internet, IP and attractive Caribbean and Latin America play services in each of its markets, Flow telephony and data rich mobile and adds markets, backed up with significant sub-sea focuses on providing its customers with meaningful scale and reach to our B2B and and terrestrial fibre optic networks.
innovative video and broadband enabled B2G businesses.
We welcome the Columbus I remain confident about our prospects and services that are on par or better than those team members to the CWC family we are our capabilities to capture these opportunities offered in most major metropolitan centres better together.
to the benefit of customers, team members throughout the world.
Vision and Strategy Through its Columbus Business Solutions While our vision remains the same we seek CBS brand, Columbus offers a to deliver long-term and sustainable growth comprehensive range of information and About Columbus International Inc. for shareholders through growing the lifetime communications technology solutions value of our customer relationships with the including a full suite of cloud-based services acquisition of Columbus we have refined our for Small and Medium Sized Businesses strategy to reflect our enhanced market SMB, large enterprise and government positions and capabilities.
CBS also offers a full suite of introduced four strategic objectives, which commercial grade triple play services and we have now renamed as our operational value-added telecommunications and IT goals and have added a fifth Make the services to SMBs.
Operating under the Company a Great Place to Work.
We set out Columbus Networks CN brand, Columbus in the following pages how we will measure owns and or operates the most advanced progress against each strategy as well as the multi-ring configured, sub-sea fibre optic risks to achievement.
This is a transaction that transforms CWC, and is cable network connecting every major one that will accelerate the delivery of our strategy country and territory in the Caribbean, across the region.
Central America and northern South America.
Annual Report 2014 15 09 Chief Executive Officers strategic review continued Our Business Model Our Operational Goals Our business model 1.
Make the is based on providing line revenue efficiency and Company customers with EBITDA growth A Great Place communications, To Work information and entertainment services, at a price which delivers 4.
Deliver unparalleled customer experience value to them, while enabling our Company 5.
Increase returns on capital to make a fair return for our shareholders.
Investment Phil Bentley, Consistent with our vision and strategy, The acquisition Chief Executive 2014 15 saw an uplift in our capital of Columbus accelerates expenditure from US$251 million to Officer US$442 million, as we delivered the first our strategy.
continued year of Project Marlin.
The main areas of investment focused on: Our strategic plan continues to include the four strategic imperatives from 2013 14, and Mobile networks We launched LTE in four markets and HSPA in all markets.
Our total we have augmented them with an additional two, following the acquisition of Columbus: number of HSPA sites grew by 110%.
Our mobile networks showed improvement Drive to mobile leadership across all parameters with eight networks judged as best-in-class based on Fixed-mobile convergence international benchmarks.
We have more Video and content leadership work to do in terms of mobile network Grow our B2B and B2G business performance in our larger scale markets.
Fixed networks We rolled out over one Build a leading wholesale network thousand kilometres of terrestrial fibre Make the integration a success optic cables across all our markets and passed c. 114,000 homes.
Traffic on our We set out in the following pages how we will fixed networks grew 31% as we drove our measure progress against each strategy as fixed-mobile convergence strategy to most measured by five operations goals, as well as efficiently deliver data to customers.
We the risks to achievement.
saw our production cost of data fall 38% measured by cost per gigabit carried as Investment we improved our delivery efficiency.
We anticipate that our capital expenditure, as a proportion of revenue, will be higher than the historical average in the coming financial year 10 Cable & Wireless Communications
