Strategic report CEOS REVIEW Simon Thomson A STRONG POSITION TO DELIVER Our business model is to create, add and realise shareholder value from a balanced portfolio we aim to offer material growth potential from exploration and appraisal activity, supported by established development and production assets with a strong balance sheet behind them.
Cairn is in a strong position: we have a robust financial base, our North Sea development projects are on track, but perhaps most importantly, we are in the midst of an extremely promising appraisal and further exploration programme in Senegal, which we believe can create significant value for all our stakeholders by proving additional resource on the acreage.
Following the two world class discoveries in SIMON THOMSON Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on evaluating Chief Executive the discoveries and drawing up work plans to take 14 March 2016 advantage of this exceptionally attractive opportunity.
We are proud to have opened up a new oil province in Senegal and to have done so with two consecutive exploration well successes within such a large acreage position.
08 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information The ongoing drilling programme in Senegal aims Following the first appraisal well SNE-2, Cairns In reviewing new investment opportunities 2C resource estimate for the SNE field has now we maintain strict economic assessment parameters to optimise our understanding of the resource base by gathering further data: and to do so as safely, increased by 20 percent to 385 million barrels.
The to ensure that we continue to optimise our capital positive results of the recent SNE-3 appraisal well allocation in a lower oil price environment.
more efficiently and at a lower cost than the initial exploration phase.
We are building on the knowledge are being evaluated and, in combination with ongoing activity, provide the potential for further revisions to Finally, international arbitration proceedings have we have gained since 2014 which has enabled us to improve our logistics, approvals and clearances and resource estimates for the SNE field.
The third well commenced with the Government of India to seek BEL-1 commenced operations in March.
resolution of the ongoing retrospective tax dispute.
We have also built on our excellent onshore HSE record and extended Our claim also seeks to recoup in full the value of The current programme will increase our which we have been deprived, approximately US$1 that into the offshore environment, working closely with the drilling contractor and service companies.
understanding of existing discoveries, as well as billion.
The total assets of the Cairn subsidiary against evaluate prospects and help to plan the longer-term which the Indian Tax Authorities are seeking to pursue Drilling time on the campaign to date is ahead of expectations.
a tax claim are US$477m, including primarily the groups 10% shareholding in CIL and any recovery Whilst the low oil price environment clearly presents Alongside our activities in Senegal, Cairn has built by the authorities would be limited to these assets.
an attractive mature basin position in the North Sea challenges to our industry, it also creates a time of opportunity for Cairn with the oil field services where our two key UK development projects are supported by a strong balance sheet to take them market having been reshaped following the dramatic fall in the oil price.
This has allowed us not only to through to first oil and deliver the cashflows that will sustain our balanced portfolio over the longer term.
secure markedly better pricing but also improved and more dependable levels of service as the supply Catcher remains on schedule and under budget to date and Kraken is also on schedule and under constraints on oilfield service firms human resources and equipment have been sharply reduced.
budget with forward capex costs reduced by more than ten percent.
We continue to build our North Cairn is a focused operator: we move quickly and Sea portfolio and we were pleased to be awarded five new Norwegian licences in Q1 2016, including will continue to bring pace to the Senegal investment where we have been operational for three years.
In 2014, we drilled two successful exploration wells and farmed down to improve our risk and equity We are taking full advantage of the lower industry cost environment as we shape the business for the profile.
In 2015, we submitted an ambitious plan to the government, secured a Presidential Decree extending future.
We continue to actively assess new ventures within the context of our balanced offering whether the Petroleum Sharing Contract by the requested three years from Q1 2016, completed a 3D seismic they be potential additions to our portfolio of future programme and commenced a firm three-well exploration opportunities or cash flow generating appraisal programme.
In Q1 2016, we announced assets where we believe the current oil price results from two of those follow up appraisal wells environment gives us the potential to add which completed operations in January and March.
Following the two world class discoveries in Senegal in 2014, our focus in 2015 was on evaluating the discoveries and drawing up work plans to take advantage of this exceptionally attractive opportunity.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 09
