Chief Executive Officers Review Our strong value proposition, underpinned by our unique vertically integrated model, remains highly differentiated Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer OVERVIEW Card Factory has had another record year, generating a number of factors in the second half of the year, strong growth in both revenues and profits, as well as including higher than normal levels of promotional successfully completing the initial public offering of activity from established competitors, our own the Company.
investment in localised pricing strategies, and the continuing decline of the relatively small, lower margin As set out in the IPO prospectus, the Group intends to Christmas box card segment.
continue with its successful and proven strategy to further enhance its status as the UKs market-leading 2.
Continue to roll out profitable new stores specialist retailer of greeting cards, dressings and gifts.
In addition to growth in like-for-like sales from existing stores, the Groups established new store roll out Our strategy is to maintain the Groups clearly programme remains an important driver of sales growth differentiated value proposition, focusing on four for the business.
Good progress has been made with each of these: In the year under review, 51 net new stores were opened, bringing the total estate to 764 stores as at 31 January 1.
Continue to grow like-for-like sales in existing stores 2015.
Nine stores were relocated during the period.
The Group has a strong track record of consistently delivering like-for-like sales growth whilst maintaining We are pleased with the quality of our new store our core value proposition.
This is highlighted by the openings and their performance to date and we remain performance in the past five financial years with annual disciplined in considering the terms of new leases and like-for-like sales growth ranging from 1.4% to 3.2%, renewals, regularly rejecting new opportunities if forecast and averaging 2.5%.
The Board continues to target returns are not considered satisfactory.
medium term like-for-like sales in line with this five year historic average.
We are confident that our proposition, which is focused on value, can continue to be successful in a wide range A number of factors have contributed to this consistent of locations nationwide.
This true versatility of our model like-for-like performance, including the introduction of is reflected in the performance of our existing estate various new merchandising initiatives: continuous with less than 1% of our stores loss making, delivering an improvements to the overall product quality and ranges aggregate loss of less than 0.1m at store contribution for both card and non-card products: and further market level.
In addition, we continue to perform well against share gains as stores mature.
Our best-in-class Design established and newer competitors, with the majority Studio, established almost a decade ago and now of our openings in the year being in locations where comprising a team of some fifty strong, is an important established competitors already trade.
contributor to a number of these factors and to the continued success of the Group as a whole.
The Board remains confident of the potential to expand the store portfolio to up to 1,200 stores in total.
As we In FY15, Card Factorys like-for-like store sales grew by continue our successful roll-out, in a market which 1.8% despite a strong prior year comparative of 3.1%.
remains highly fragmented, we expect to continue to This growth remained within the recent historic range but grow our share of the market with gains from a wide was slightly below the five year historic average reflecting range of competitors, both large and small.
12 12 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S 3.
Continue to focus on delivering business efficiencies Paul McCrudden, EMEA Head of Content Marketing at The Group is focused on achieving efficiencies, Twitter, joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director particularly through its vertically integrated business in December 2014 and brings a wealth of digital model, and has consistently delivered some of the best marketing experience which will be particularly helpful operating profit margins in the retail sector over a number as we continue to develop our online activities over the of years.
These high margins have been slightly improved medium term.
in FY15 notwithstanding the incremental recurring operating costs associated with being a listed company.
Having only entered the online market in FY12, the Group is making good progress in this relatively new area of our The Board continues to focus on maintaining and, where business with EBITDA of this division more than trebling possible, improving these margins through an ongoing over the past two years and EBITDA margin improving focus on cost control, leveraging investments in both significantly.
We have a number of further growth people and infrastructure, further improving the supply initiatives underway and in planning and are optimistic chain and general economies of scale whilst at the same about the future growth prospects of this division over the time balancing these with ongoing investment in the medium term.
We continue to target double digit revenue business to drive future growth.
growth but with such tough comparatives we would not necessarily expect the revenue and profit growth seen in During the year, Card Factory has continued to roll out its FY15 to continue at the same rate in the coming financial new electronic point of sale EPOS system which was year, particularly in the second half.
deployed in over 50% of the estate as at 31 January 2015.
Each new store is now fitted with the new EPOS system BOARD, MANAGEMENT TEAM AND EMPLOYEES from the date of opening and the Board anticipates that During the year we expanded and strengthened our Board the balance of the existing estate will be converted to the with the appointment of Geoff Cooper as Non-Executive new EPOS system within the next two years.
Chairman, Octavia Morley as Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and David Stead and Paul McCrudden The Group is already utilising this new system for data as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
mining and for both strategic and operational planning and expects a wide range of benefits to be delivered over We have also strengthened and expanded the capabilities the medium term.
of our operational management team with the appointments of Tim Lloyd Property Director, Having invested significantly in the Groups IT John Nother Chief Information Officer and Shiv Sibal infrastructure over the past five years, we created a new General Counsel and Company Secretary.
role of Chief Information Officer in 2014 and expanded our wider IT team.
We will continue to make incremental Shortly after the year end, we announced the resignation additions to this team in order to maximise returns on of Graeme Coulthard as a Non-Executive Director of the these infrastructure investments.
Following the reduction in their shareholding to below 20%, the Charterhouse funds were obliged A more detailed cost breakdown is given in the to procure Graemes resignation as a Director of the Chief Financial Officers review below.
Company and the relationship agreement entered into prior to IPO was automatically terminated.
Increase penetration of the complementary like to thank Graeme, as well as other members of the online market Charterhouse team, for the constructive support and The Group is a relatively new entrant in the challenge provided throughout the time from their complementary online market segments for personalised investment in 2010.
We wish them well for the future.
online card and non-card products.
Getting Personal, acquired in FY12, currently represents the majority of the Finally, and most importantly, we would also like to thank Groups online revenues with a focus on personalised gifts all our employees for their support and commitment and other non-card products.
throughout this period which saw the Group continue to expand and grow, delivering another record year of Getting Personal has made excellent progress in the year revenue and profit generation and maintaining our with revenues growing by over 23% to 15.5m and EBITDA position as the clear market leader.
increasing by two thirds to 2.8m.
This extremely strong profit growth is particularly pleasing given that EBITDA more than doubled in FY14.
This performance has been driven by a combination of new product development, improved marketing and the recent relaunch of the website www.
co. uk to more effectively cater for the growing use of smartphones and tablet devices.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 13 13 Chief Executive Officers Review continued SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK The continued strong performance of the Group and the additional profile from our successful flotation has clearly led to increased focus on the greeting cards sector.
We saw a slight increase in competition in the second half of the year, particularly in the final Christmas quarter.
Whilst clearly no company is immune to such competition, the impact on our overall performance was limited and the Group has continued to take market share and strengthen its competitive position.
Our strong value proposition, underpinned by our unique vertically integrated model, remains highly differentiated.
In addition, each year we continue to innovate and develop new products and ranges to further strengthen our retail proposition.
We have made good progress in FY15 and we expect this momentum to continue in the year ahead.
The Group continues to have a strong pipeline of additional new store opportunities and remains confident of opening a total of approximately 50 net new stores in the new financial year, in line with the average historic opening rate over the last decade.
In the period since 31 January 2015 the Group has continued to trade in line with the Boards expectations.
We remain highly confident in the Groups future prospects, and in its ability to continue to grow sales profitably and to increase market share consistently over the medium term.
Richard Hayes Chief Executive Officer 24 March 2015 14 14 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S If its the thought that counts why do others charge so much?
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 15 15
