Chief Executives review Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive DRIVING VALUE CREATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Capco continues to investigate new areas for investment OVERVIEW opportunities where our core skills of placemaking and A year of performance and progress masterplanning can be utilised effectively.
In 2015, we acquired 2015 was another year of performance and progress across Capco.
a 50 per cent interest in the Solum Developments joint venture Underpinned by a clear and focused strategy to drive value from with Network Rail, which will allow us to explore potential our estates, the business has delivered a total return of 17 per cent.
opportunities for future redevelopments at significant railway With its focus on London, Capcos two prime assets are well-placed station sites across London.
London is a global and growing city with The balance sheet is robust and disciplined with a conservative positive economic prospects and continues to attract businesses and loan-to-value of 16 per cent and strong liquidity with 452 million people who wish to live, work and enjoy this great city.
The of cash and available facilities, strengthened by the recent population continues to increase and the Greater London Authority renancing at Covent Garden.
GLA estimates that the Capitals population will grow by two million by 2031.
Valuations The Group has benefited from solid valuation performance At Covent Garden, our distinct approach to placemaking and following positive momentum across the business.
The property creative asset management will continue to ensure its success portfolio is valued at 3.7 billion as at 31 December 2015, having as a vibrant destination for retailers, visitors and residents.
Our grown by 14 per cent on a like-for-like basis over the year.
consented strategic land holding at Earls Court forms the only central London development opportunity of scale within existing The Group has a 63 per cent controlling interest in Earls Court strong transport infrastructure.
As a designated GLA Opportunity Partnership Limited ECPL, the investment vehicle with Area, the Earls Court Masterplan is a strategic scheme for the Transport for London TfL which owns the land formerly Capital and a unique opportunity to create the next great estate occupied by the Earls Court Exhibition Centres.
As a result, it is of London, providing thousands of much-needed new homes fully consolidated in the consolidated financial statements and and opportunities.
TfLs interest is represented as a non-controlling interest.
See page 41 of the Financial Review for further information.
8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Covent Garden East Piazza Market Value Market Value Valuation Covent Garden a leading global destination 2015 2014 Change for brands and visitors 1 m m Like-for-Like Covent Garden is continuing its success as a leading global Covent Garden 2,005 1,636 15.9% destination.
Underpinned by our vision to position the estate at the forefront of global destinations for brands and visitors, 2015 was a Earls Court Properties strong year of performance and we are delighted to have signed our th Earls Court Partnership Limited 100 brand to the estate.
2 2 ECPL 803 657 14.3% Our asset management strategy, where every street has a plan, 3 3 Lillie Square 222 182 4.0% continues to attract global and premium brands while our creative approach to placemaking has continued to drive high quality footfall.
Empress State 286 278 1.5% The estate is valued at 2.0 billion as at 31 December 2015, Other 46 35 2.8% a like-for-like increase of 16 per cent.
2015 has been our most Group share of Earls Court active year of leasing with 74 new lettings and renewals agreed Properties 1,357 1,152 9.2% at 11 per cent above December 2014 ERV.
The ERV of the estate is 86 million, up 12 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Against this Venues 295 233 24.7% positive performance, we remain on course to deliver our ERV Other 5 4 target of 100 million by December 2017.
Group share of total property 3,662 3,025 James Street established a new benchmark rental level reecting the competition and the depth of demand for space on the street.
A new Non-controlling interest in Zone A rental level of 1,400 per square foot was achieved following Earls Court Properties 471 lettings to Charlotte Tilbury and kikki.
K who have both opened 4 Total property 4,133 3,025 13.9% their first London stores.
Since the year-end, a new letting to cosmetics store, 3INA Cosmetics has set a new Zone A rental level of 1 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital 1,475 per square foot.
expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus.
The dining offer at Covent Garden has further strengthened and we 2 Market value at 31 December 2015 represents the Groups 63 per cent interest in ECPL.
are delighted to welcome SushiSamba, the iconic global restaurant, Market value at 31 December 2014 represents the Groups interest in the properties who will be moving into the Opera Terrace of the Market Building, that were transferred into ECPL on 2 April 2015. one of the most prominent dining locations in London.
3 Represents the Groups 50 per cent share on a proportionate basis.
4 A reconciliation of carrying value of investment, development and trading property to the market value is shown in note16 Property Portfolio withinthe consolidated financial statements.
com 9 Chief Executives review continued The redevelopment of Kings Court is on track for completion in Detailed planning consent for West Brompton Village, a 1.2 acre site 2017 and will transform pedestrian ows on the north side of the adjacent to the former Exhibition Centres, was granted by the Royal estate.
There has been positive interest from brands for this new Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, bringing the total area for development in line with the strategy to create an innovative retail which detailed consent has been achieved to over 17 acres.
and dining experience at Kings Court.
Following the successful launch of Phase 1 of Lillie Square in 2014, We have continued to expand our presence on the estate through construction is underway with first completions on track for the strategic acquisitions, investing 50 million on properties located second half of 2016.
The first phase is predominantly sold, at key access points to the estate.
This takes the total invested in the crystallising over 250 million of sales and the average price per estate since demerger in 2010 to over 500 million establishing one square foot for Phase 1 is approximately 1,500. of the largest managed retail estates in London.
The first release of Phase 2 of Lillie Square which comprises 70 units, was launched in September 2015: 40 per cent of this first Earls Court over 70 acres of consented strategic land in release has been reserved or exchanged.
The residential sales Chelsea and Fulham market in London experienced challenging conditions towards the It has been a year of progress and momentum for our land interests end of 2015 as a result of increasing supply, particularly in emerging at Earls Court.
locations, and regulatory intervention which has impacted The valuation of Capcos interests at Earls Court, represented by demand.
Whilst we remain confident in Lillie Square, the rate of Earls Court Properties, has grown in the year to 1.4 billion.
This sales has reduced compared to 2014, which reects these challenges represents an increase of 9 per cent over the year on a like-for-like in the residential market.
Nevertheless, sales prices achieved for basis benefiting from Capcos strategy of driving value through Phase 2 are 5 per centhigher than comparable units in Phase 1, planning, land assembly and land enablement as well as which reects the strong location and transport connectivity selective development.
Our investment vehicle with TfL, ECPL, which is led by Capco, completed in April 2015 resulting in new 999 year leases over the former Exhibition Centres land.
The significant and complex demolition of the former Exhibition Centres, EC1 & EC2, is successfully underway, as we continue to fide-risk our land holdings in this part of the scheme.
Demolition to ground level of the EC2 building is now complete and demolition to ground level for the entire site is on track for completion this year.
Artists impression of West Brompton Square 10 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create the next great estate of London.
The Masterplan is in one of the GLAs designated Opportunity Areas, making it a strategic scheme for London.
Against a backdrop of Londons rapidly growing population and its housing needs, options are being considered to intensify the Masterplan to optimise the development potential of this strategic project.
Venues operational excellence The Venues business performed very well in 2015 with EBITDA for the year of 15 million, up 33 per cent.
Its valuation was up 25 per cent to 295 million on a like-for-like basis, reecting its bright future prospects.
Following the success of the transition of shows from the Earls Court Exhibition Centres, 2015 was Olympia Londons busiest year with over 200 events held and over 1.5 million visitors.
It is now the venue of choice for premium shows in central London and continues to attract new events.
As announced in November 2015, Capco is conducting a strategic review of its Venues business.
A number of proposals are being explored as part of this review, including a sale or continued ownership.
OUTLOOK Since our demerger in 2010, we have positioned Capco with two significant prime estates in central London.
Covent Garden now comprises over one million square feet of retail-led space in the West End.
In line with our ambitious vision to establish the estate as the leading world-class destination for retailers and visitors, we will continue to reposition the estate whilst maintaining our creative approach.
We remain on track to Pure London fashion event at Olympia London achieve our ERV target of 100 million by December 2017.
We will invest selectively in acquisitions and developments which enhance the estate and meet our return expectations.
Earls Court comprises over 70 acres of consented strategic land in Chelsea and Fulham.
As a GLA Opportunity Area, the Earls Court Masterplan is a key strategic site and the only consented scheme capable of scale in central London.
Our focus will be on continued fide-risking of our land holdings, through the complex demolition Ian Hawksworth of the former Exhibition Centres, as well as exploring options to Chief Executive evolve and intensify the Masterplan in order to optimise the potential of this strategic scheme.
24 February 2016 Londons status as a world class city continues.
Its economic prospects are positive and the population is growing signicantly.
With its focus on London, Capcos two prime assets are well-placed for long-term success.
We expect increasing global and political uncertainty, while the challenging conditions seen in the residential market at the end of the year are expected to continue in 2016.
Our strategy at Capco remains clear and focused and we are confident in the outlook for our prime estates which are backed by a robust capital structure.
We enter a new year with confidence to drive long-term value creation for our shareholders from our two exceptional London estates.
