Chief Executives strategic overview Our strategy Our consistent and successful Our strategy is to achieve sustainable profitable growth by: investing in our people and capabilities strategy, underpinned by our building long-term, trusted partnerships transferring knowledge and skills to new and existing markets so we integrated business model and can expand our support services and infrastructure activities and providing aselective, high-quality construction capability.
centralised operating platform, Our strategy supports and develops the key inputs to our integrated business model, which is amajor, market-leading strength for all has enabled us to return to our businesses.
Our integrated business model Our business model, which is described in detail on pages 16and 17, enables us to take an integrated approach to everything we do by using all the resources and skills we haveacross the Group to: select the contracts for which we bid develop contract bids that offer innovative, value-for-money and sustainable solutions for our customers monitor and manage the performance of the contracts we win throughout their life and deliver contracts safely and successfully to create value for all our stakeholders as well as value we can reinvest in our business.
Our centralised operating platform, sector-leading capability to deliver sustainable solutions safely and strong risk management are especially important elements of our business model, which not only gives us acompetitive advantage in winning new work, but also provides the information and visibility needed to manage our business successfully.
On pages 22 to 25 you will find anumber of case studies that illustrate the strengths of our business model in action.
Our Values Having aculture throughout our business in which behaving in accordance with our Values is natural and instinctive is essential to the success of our business model.
This is why we have consistently invested in the development of our people to encourage and reward behaviours that reflect our Values in everything we do, whether we are working with colleagues, customers, suppliers or partners.
We respect each other and we do things safely and sustainably.
Itisgood for our people, our business and our local communities.
We value the contribution of each individual and we work together tobuild strong, open and trusting partnerships.
We listen, learn and adapt our ideas and experience into better solutions and services for our customers.
We set ourselves stretching goals, taking pride in doing agreat job andhelping our customers and partners to succeed.
2015 key performance indicators KPIs To support our strategy for growth, the Board set the following KPIs for 2015.
To develop and attract excellent people to create avibrant, diverse and flexible workforce: 2.
To be arecognised leader in Health & Safety and Sustainability: 3.
To reduce costs and improve efficiency to support margins: and 5.
How we performed against each of these KPIs is reported on pages 9 and 10.
Richard Howson Group Chief Executive Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8 Strategic report Key performance indicator Key performance indicator 1.
To develop and attract excellent 2.
To be arecognised leader in Health people to create avibrant, diverse & Safety and in Sustainability.
Health & Safety 22% 68% Reduction in Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate to 0.188 Employee engagement score Our objective of reducing accidents to zero remains central to our Health & Investing in our people and capabilities remains our top priority, Safety agenda.
If an accident does occur, we ensure that we learn from it and because, among all the things we do as abusiness, developing and apply what we learn to reduce the risk of reoccurrence as part of our journey attracting excellent people to create avibrant, diverse and flexible towards zero accidents.
At the same time, we continue to invest in awide workforce has the greatest impact on our success.
range of programmes to engage, educate and train our people, backed by strong leadership, which comes from our Board.
We believe leadership also In 2015, we continued our drive towards greater diversity in our needs to be visible, which is why we have Directors safety tours of our work business and at 31 December 2015 the Group had atotal of 45,992 sites, as well as Safety Action Groups and safety audits.
Our hazard reporting employees 31 December 2014: 42,367 of whom some 16,991 programme, Dont Walk By, which empowers everyone in Carillion to 31 December 2014: 16,947 were female and 28,931 were male identify and report for immediate action anything they believe to be unsafe, 31 December 2014: 25,420.
At 31 December 2015, the Group had continues to be highly effective.
In 2015, some 2.1 million Dont Walk By 1,779 senior managers 31 December 2014: 1,675 of which 316 were reports were raised by our employees and our sub-contractors.
Of the 98 most senior managers in the Group, which Our main Key Performance Indicator is the Lost Time Incident Frequency comprises the Chief Executives Leadership Team and their direct Rate LTIFR, which is an internationally recognised measure of safety reports, 16 were female 31 December 2014: 18.
The Carillion plc Board performance.
In 2015, our LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked was 0.188, comprises five male and two female Directors.
In 2015, Carillion was which represented a22 per cent reduction on 2014, when our LTIFR was also ranked among the Times list of Top 50 Employers for Women.
0.241 per 200,000 hours worked, itself a17 per cent reduction on our LTIFR in 2013 of 0.293.
There were no fatal accidents on our worksites in 2015 We also continue to believe that engaging with our employees to give and no prosecutions by the relevant UK enforcement authorities in 2015. them the opportunity to contribute to our performance is fundamental to the success of our business.
To do this we use awide range of During 2015, we launched anew road safety charter and programme engagement tools, some of which have remained the same in 2015 and called 'One Road to Safety'.
Through this programme we have committed some we have developed and refreshed.
Direct employee engagement to reducing instances of road traffic offences and road traffic accidents by remains akey form of engagement, which I lead, through personal visits providing information to our employees on safe driving behaviours.
The to our contracts, monthly newsletters to all employees, and regular programme has three pillars based on people, vehicles and behaviour conference calls with up to 2,500 employees in leadership roles to and when fully implemented it will: review the performance of our business.
We also continue to engage through structured People Forums across our businesses, through provide driver training to all commercial, company car and trade-out regular monthly team talks and through our employee survey, which those who choose to take acar allowance instead of acompany car was refreshed and re-branded as 'Your Say' in 2015.
Our 2015 Your Say drivers survey had the highest participation of any employee survey we have educate drivers on our standards carried out since we started such surveys in 2002, with 26,145 people ensure all our drivers who drive on company business have aCarillion 66 per cent 2014: 36 per cent of our people responding.
Importantly, Permit to Drive the 2015 survey revealed that the employee engagement score, namely ensure our drivers are fit to drive the degree to which our people feel engaged, increased to 68 per cent ensure drivers do not exceed the legal limits placed on drivers hours 2014: 63 per cent.
Following the 2015 survey, we will continue to focus have defined standards on journey times, speeding, seat belt use, on the visibility of our business leaders, employee recognition and mobile phone use, drug and alcohol use clearer communication of business direction to everyone.
educate drivers on the use and regular monitoring of telematics in commercial vehicles The increased emphasis we placed on the development of our report our progress through asuite of driving KPIs leadership capabilities in 2014, through delivering arange of development ensure all vehicles used by Carillion have ahigh safety specification opportunities and programmes across the Group, continued in 2015 and ensure our vehicles are fit for the trade they are being used for and this will also continue into 2016.
These include our successful Leadership ensure all vehicles supplied by Carillion are maintained in and Futures Programmes, backed by our job-family career framework, aroadworthy condition.
which encourages people to improve their skills and competencies and develop their careers within Carillion.
We also promote an environment During 2015, we also continued to develop our health strategy called in which people feel welcome, included and able to contribute to 'Health Like Safety', which recognises that health issues are just as what we do and how we do it, whoever they are.
Our flexible working important as safety issues and must be managed with the same rigour arrangements, underpinned by family-friendly policies, are akey as safety issues, using the same tried and tested techniques.
In addition differentiator for us, helping us to be an employer of choice.
This is to ensuring that health risks are controlled on site, we also made a attractive to our people, particularly to women as evidenced by the fact commitment in our strategy to provide defibrillators at as many workplaces that the numbers of women returning to work following maternity leave as possible.
This decision almost certainly resulted in two lives being saved have increased substantially over the past three years.
In addition, we on our Battersea Power Station project where, in separate incidents, believe that giving our people the opportunity to engage in voluntary workers had serious heart attacks and the defibrillators were used by work within the communities in which we operate, to support charities our own first-aiders to revive them before paramedics took over.
and other good causes, helps to make Carillion an attractive employer as well as enabling us to deliver more sustainable solutions for our Once again we took part in the Global Corporate Challenge, an initiative to customers.
All our people have the opportunity to do voluntary work for encourage teams of our employees to increase physical activity by competing up to six days ayear on full pay and we continue to promote and facilitate against other teams around the world to see who can walk the most steps.
take up of this across the Group.
In Carillion, 307 teams comprising 2,149 people took part, with each person averaging 13,509 steps every day.
Participants reported major health benefits, with an average weight loss of 4.1kg per person and substantial improvements in health and lifestyle scores.
59 per cent of participants also reported an increase in either productivity or concentration as aresult.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9
