STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 05 Chief Executives Statement OVERVIEW We have a clear strategy for delivering growth 2015 provided a very challenging and returns built around the customer and I am environment for Centrica.
Commodity prices continued to fall during the year, encouraged by the progress we have made.
creating major challenges for our E&P and nuclear power businesses.
However, Centrica delivered a resilient financial performance against this backdrop, with increased adjusted operating cash flow and a 9% reduction in net debt in the year.
In addition, the actions we have taken since the start of 2015 on the dividend, capital expenditure and costs mean the Group is robust in this much lower oil and gas price environment, and our current projections indicate we can more than balance sources and uses of cash flow out to 2018 at flat real commodity prices of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP gas and 35 MWh UK power.
In July, we announced the conclusions of our fundamental and wide-ranging strategic review.
We concluded that Centricas strength lies in being a customer-facing energy and services business.
This is where we have distinctive positions and capabilities and where we can make the biggest difference and contribution going forward, for our customers, our employees and our shareholders.
Our purpose to provide energy and services to satisfy the changing needs of our customers provides a clear future direction for the Group.
Everything we do will be in support of this purpose, as we position Centrica to deliver returns and growth.
Iain Conn, Chief Executive Key events January February in 2015... British Gas and Bord Gis Strategic review Energy announce price cuts announced British Gas announced a 5% Centrica announced a reduction in Standard and fundamental strategic review Fix & Fall household gas tariffs of the Group, largely driven benefiting 6.8million customers.
by changing external factors Bord Gis Energy announced and the Boards decision it would cut the unit rate of gas to question whether we had by 3.5% and the unit rate of the right strategy and mix of electricity by 2.5%.
businesses to take advantage of future opportunities.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 06 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chief Executives Statement continued production and nuclear generation volumes We remain confident we can deliver at least CASH FLOW RESILIENCE were strong.
However, as previously 35% per annum operating cash flow We made good progress during the reported we did face issues following the growth at flat real commodity prices and year in our actions to improve cash flows migration of customer accounts and are committed to delivering a progressive and strengthen the Groups financial associated data onto a new billing and dividend in line with the sustainable position.
Adjusted operating cash flow customer relationship management system operating cash flow growth of the Group.
of 2,253million was up 2% compared from multiple legacy systems in British Gas I am encouraged with the progress we to 2014, with increased cash flow from our Business.
This resulted in temporary have made since July, as we develop our customer-facing businesses offsetting the increases in operating costs to help resolve customer-facing platforms for growth and impact of lower wholesale prices on E&P.
the issues and an increase in debt we deliver on our major cost efficiency We took action to reduce capital expenditure balances, while the number of customer programme, which is now underpinned in to just over 1billion, including two small accounts reduced over the year.
Combined with our decision to these factors, our UK business energy strategy is on track, I remain excited about re-base the dividend in February 2015, the supply and services division reported this next phase and continue to believe that introduction of a scrip dividend alternative, an operating loss in 2015.
Centrica has all the components necessary and some divestment proceeds, net debt to deliver a powerful investor proposition fell by 9% or 449million to 4.7billion.
Given the above, and the low commodity one of returns and growth.
Reflecting our focus on costs and capital price environment, Group adjusted discipline, our E&P business was free cash operating profit fell by 12% compared to 2015 PERFORMANCE flow positive in 2015.
2014, to 1,459million, although profit from Safety and compliance remain our top our customer-facing energy and services The steep falls in wholesale commodity priority.
In safety, we experienced a slight businesses was up 19%.
The Group tax prices will continue to have a material degradation in personal safety performance.
rate of 26% was lower than in 2014, impact on the operating cash flows from We also experienced one Tier 1 process reflecting a reduced proportion of profit our E&P and central power generation safety incident during the year and we are from the heavily-taxed E&P business.
As a businesses in 2016 and beyond, if focused on improving our performance in result, Group adjusted earnings only fell by current levels persist.
In regulatory compliance, we 4% compared to last year, to 863million, customer-facing businesses are delivering have had constructive interactions with our and adjusted earnings per share of 17.2p.
resilient cash flows and benefits from our principal regulators and have continued These figures now include fair value cost efficiency programme are starting to contribute to the CMA investigation into depreciation related to our investments in to be realised.
If current low wholesale the functioning of the UK energy market.
Venture and Nuclear, a change in definition prices continue beyond 2016, we have Overall operational performance was solid we announced in our December 2015 the flexibility to reduce our E&P capital during the year.
Customer service levels Trading Update.
The 2015 final proposed expenditure further to the bottom end improved in the UK, with residential dividend per share of 8.43p is in line with of our 400 million 600million range.
complaints down 18% and a higher NPS.
last year, taking the 2015 full year dividend As a result, we currently project that our In UK residential energy supply, the number to 12.0p.
sources and uses of cash flow will remain of accounts was down by less than 1% in more than balanced over the period We also incurred pre-tax impairments and a highly competitive market, while we were 20162018, even if flat real wholesale oil, onerous provisions on E&P and power the only major UK energy supplier to reduce gas and power prices remain at low levels generation assets of 2,358million, residential gas tariffs twice in 2015, by a of $35 bbl Brent oil, 35p th UK NBP resulting in total post-tax exceptional items total of 10%.
In North America, extreme gas and 35 MWh UK power.
These impairments reset cold weather in the first half of the year was the Groups balance sheet to reflect the handled well, while we delivered increased current commodity price environment.
margins and growth in margin under contract in Direct Energy Business.
E&P March April May Direct Energy in Dedicated to serving Centrica extends gas ground breaking customers supply contracts loyalty programme Direct Energy became a British Gas dedicated an Centrica extended contracts with participating member of Plenti, additional 50 million investment Statoil and Gazprom Marketing the first of its kind US-based over three years, demonstrating and Trading.
The separate deals coalition loyalty programme.
The its commitment to customer will meet the gas needs of nine programme offers customers the service excellence.
million British homes every year.
opportunity to earn promotional points for signing up for qualifying energy plans enhancing Direct Energys customer proposition.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 07 We launched our new simpler Homecare We remain confident in delivering at least We completed the acquisition of services product range in the UK and 3-5% per annum operating cash flow Panoramic Power, a leading provider have plans to launch propositions which growth at flat real prices from a 2015 of device-level energy management appeal to new customer segments, baseline adjusted for current prices.
solutions, providing our fide&P business including on-demand and landlords, with leading capabilities in energy Combined with more than balanced in 2016. management technology and data sources and uses of cash flow in this science expertise, and enabling us to environment, our focus remains to deliver We have now installed more than two enhance our offerings to Commercial & a progressive dividend in line with operating million residential smart meters in the Industrial C&I customers.
UK and expect to install over one million in 2016, allowing us to provide more In Energy Marketing & Trading: PROVIDING ENERGY AND SERVICES TO customers with accurate bills and We continue to build our capability and SATISFY THE CHANGING NEEDS OF improving customer engagement.
completed a number of free on board OUR CUSTOMERS FOB liquefied natural gas LNG cargoes In Connected Home: Our customer-facing businesses are a in 2015 and have secured further cargoes We have established a new international source of competitive advantage given our which are scheduled for delivery in 2016. business unit, bringing together existing distinctive positions and capabilities, and expertise in the UK and North America, We expect to take delivery of the first these businesses will be our focus areas for including capabilities gained through the cargo under our US export contract growth.
As we set out in July, we expect to AlertMe acquisition in March 2015. with Cheniere in late 2018 or early 2019, invest an additional 1.5billion of operating following a positive final investment We have now sold over 300,000 smart and capital resources into these growth decision on the fifth train of their Sabine thermostats in the UK, having launched areas Energy Supply & Services, Pass LNG facility in Louisiana in June.
the next generation of our Hive Active Connected Home, fide&P and EM&T over TM Heating product in the second half of the next five years.
Implementation of our REFOCUSING OUR E&P AND POWER the year, and have sold nearly 200,000 strategy is on track and we have made some BUSINESSES smart thermostats in North America.
We material early progress in all of these areas.
As part of our strategic review, we also continue to develop plans to launch Hive In Energy Supply & Services: clarified the role of E&P in the portfolio products outside of the UK and Republic We are focused on competitive pricing for to provide diversity of cash flows and the of Ireland in 2016. all our customers and have made three UK balance sheet strength that goes with this.
In early 2016 we launched a range of residential gas price reductions since the We are targeting a stable business that new connected home products in the start of 2015, saving British Gas customers produces between 4050mmboe of gas UK, including the Hive Active Plug, almost 100 per year on average.
and oil per annum and requires between Hive Window or Door Sensor and Hive We continue to develop our bundled 400million 600million of capital to Motion Sensor.
energy and services propositions for fulfil this role.
This compares to gas and In Distributed Energy & Power: residential customers in North America, oil production and capital expenditure We have established a new international with 46% of energy customer acquisitions levels respectively of 79mmboe and business unit and are looking to increase in 2015 also taking a services protection 728million in 2015 and 80mmboe the number of customer relationships plan or smart thermostat, up from 11% and 1,086million in 2014. we have for distributed energy activity in 2014.
As a result of capital discipline and cost in the UK and North America from over We increased our number of energy efficiency programmes, E&P was free cash 1,000 currently.
accounts in the Republic of Ireland, the flow positive in 2015 despite the current low first growth in accounts for a number of wholesale price environment.
In the near years, as we focus on increasing our term, at current depressed wholesale prices market share.
July British Gas cuts prices Conclusion of the again strategic review British Gas announced its second The review identifies a clear gas price reduction in six months direction for the business.
bringing the average total savings Growth ambitions will focus in 2015 to 72 for British Gas on customer-facing activities.
The price cut benefits Sources of competitive advantage 6.9 million British Gas customers include strong market shares, on Standard and Fix & Fall tariffs.
good brands and deep energy services capability.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 08 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chief Executives Statement continued expected to be approximately 115million.
from our third party cost base, with a we will only invest in new E&P developments This disposal forms part of our divestment number of initiatives ongoing.
As a result, if the Groups cash flows can support the programme, under which we expect to we expect to deliver 200million of investment and the projects indicate good realise 0.5billion 1billion of proceeds annualised savings in 2016 and we are on returns over a range of price environments.
from the sale of E&P and wind assets by track to achieve two-thirds, or 500million, We currently expect to invest around the end of 2017. of the savings by 2018.
500million in 2016, reflecting expenditure on existing in-flight projects such as Cygnus COST EFFICIENCY ORGANISING AROUND OUR and Maria.
However, in the absence of a CUSTOMERS We announced as part of the strategic recovery in oil and gas prices, we could In January 2016, we announced review conclusions that we are targeting potentially make further reductions to the fundamental changes to the way that 750million per annum of like-for-like cost levels of E&P capital expenditure.
Centrica will be organised, to support efficiencies from operating costs and We will also be pursuing further cost delivery of our strategy.
Centrica has controllable cost of goods, to be delivered reductions.
We now expect cash production historically operated as a holding company over the next five years.
We expect to costs to be 15%, or 150million, lower in for a number of different and largely achieve this from a 2015 controllable cost 2016 when compared to 2014.
This is self-contained businesses, each of which base of around 5billion, before inflation, 50million lower than the levels previously had its own organisation and way of doing one-off investment to achieve the savings, announced.
We will explore all options to things.
This model made it harder for us the costs of installing smart meters and strengthen our E&P business.
to work together across businesses, share additional investment in growth areas.
After ideas and best practice, and meant we inflation, we still expect like-for-like operating Our E&P focus is on the UK, Netherlands have not been taking advantage of costs to reduce by around 300million by and Norway, and as such we continue to Centricas scale as an international energy 2020, and after additional operating costs review options to release capital from our and services company.
Trinidad and Tobago assets, while we now to deliver incremental gross margin in the consider our positions in Canada to be growth areas of services, Connected Home, We have therefore moved to establish a non-core.
We continue to work with our fide&P and EM&T, we would expect total single group of international businesses and Canadian partners, Qatar Petroleum, as nominal operating costs in 2020 to be have created eleven business units.
we seek ways to maximise value from our no higher than their 2015 level.
We also We have combined our energy and services existing position.
announced that the programme would activities around our residential and result in a reduction in like-for-like business customer segments and a In central power generation, we are in the headcount of around 6,000 roles by 2020, common operating model, with the creation process of rationalising our thermal power with around half expected to come from of UK Home, UK Business, North America generation portfolio with a view to redundancy and half from natural attrition.
Home, North America Business and Ireland simplification and cost reduction, while business units.
This will allow us to more retaining low-cost optionality.
Our focus for The 750million programme is now effectively deliver products and services growth is on peaking units and distributed underpinned in our business plans.
We which respond to changing customer needs generation.
We continue to view our remain on track to achieve the savings at a competitive price.
The Home and participation in nuclear power as a financial and have already made a number of Business units in both the UK and North investment, while in wind power generation restructuring announcements across the America will be supported by common we announced in July that we intend to Group, which will result in the reduction of operating functions of Field Operations dispose of our interests in assets, while around 2,000 roles.
We expect to achieve and Customer Operations, while our new continuing to participate to a limited degree a reduction in direct headcount of around Connected Home and fide&P business through power purchase agreements PPA.
3,000 by the end of 2016, excluding the units will also leverage Home and Business In February 2016, we announced we were impact of increased headcount in smart respectively to sell their products.
disposing of our 50% interest in the Glens metering and in growth areas such as our of Foudland, Lynn and Inner Dowsing wind Connected Home business.
We have also EM&T will continue to provide services to farms, with our net share of proceeds made good progress in delivering savings the other businesses, while E&P, Nuclear August September October Smart meter landmark Bord Gis Energy cuts New well at York field prices again British Gas announced that Bord Gis Energy announced its Drilling began for a new well at second price cut in 2015.
Bord the York field that will tap into an 1.5 million smart meters have been installed in UK homes.
Gis Energy customers unit rate additional 20 billion cubic feet of of gas was cut by a further 2.5% gas, enough to heat half a million Smart meters put an end to estimated bills, giving customers and the unit rate of electricity by UK homes for a year.
the field is processed at greater understanding and control of their energy consumption.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 09 In summary, Centrica has produced and Centrica Storage will all be run as COMPETITION AND MARKETS a resilient performance in 2015 and separate business units.
All business units AUTHORITY INVESTIGATION the actions we have taken leave us will be supported by nine Group functions, The CMA investigation into the UK energy well positioned to handle the current specifically Finance, Human Resources, market is ongoing and the Provisional environment, with sources and uses Corporate Affairs, HSES Health, Safety, Decision on Remedies is now expected of cash flow more than balanced at Environment & Security, Information in March 2016, with the final report due current wholesale commodity prices.
Services, Technology & Engineering, in June 2016.
This follows the publication With a strategy developed around the Group Marketing, Procurement and Legal, of the CMAs provisional findings and notice customer, we have a clear purpose and Regulatory & Compliance.
These changes of possible remedies in July 2015.
Implementation of the strategy will allow Centrica to leverage its scale contributed constructively to the process is on track and I am pleased with the and operate in a more efficient, effective and improved customer trust in the progress we have made to date.
I am and joined-up way, allowing us to serve functioning of the energy market is confident in our ability to deliver our target our customers more effectively and something we would welcome.
of at least 35% growth in operating cash efficiently while contributing to underlying We have expressed concerns over some flow per annum at flat real commodity cash flow growth.
of the CMAs provisional findings and prices, underpinning a progressive proposals including the potential KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS dividend policy and delivering shareholder introduction of a transitional safeguard AND NEW SEGMENTS value through returns and growth.
We also expressed The execution of our strategy is now Iain Conn concerns regarding their analysis of underpinned by comprehensive Chief Executive profitability and returns.
As part of our implementation plans across all businesses 18 February 2016 response to the CMA we suggested an and functions.
We have also now defined alternative to the safeguard regulated tariff, the key performance indicators KPIs the ending of evergreen tariffs.
As long against which we will measure success in as this is implemented appropriately, we delivering our strategy, both at a Group and believe it will improve engagement by business unit level.
The KPIs for our energy providing customers with a regular prompt and services businesses are consistent to review their energy tariff, addressing the across geographies, in line with the concerns the CMA may have around establishment of a common operating customer engagement without the need for model, while the KPIs for all business units a regulated tariff.
We will continue to engage are intended to provide an appropriate with the CMA as their process comes to balance of growth and efficiency metrics.
a conclusion over the coming months.
Details of these KPIs can be found at centrica.
We intend to 2016 OUTLOOK AND SUMMARY report these KPIs in each half year and full The lower commodity price environment year results announcement, starting at our will inevitably continue to have an impact Interim Results in July 2016. on the earnings and operating cash flow from our E&P and central power generation In addition, new reporting segments are businesses.
However, with our focus on in place, effective from 1 January 2016, cash flow growth and delivery of our aligned to the new strategy and the way 750million cost efficiency programme, we now run the business.
These will also we currently expect to deliver adjusted be reported against for the first time at our operating cash flow in excess of 2billion Interim Results in July 2016.
Details of the in 2016. new segments can be found on page 13.
November December Major investment at Growth in Connected gas-fired South Humber Home Bank power station Centrica confirmed a 63million Connected Home confirmed investment at South Humber sales of over 250,000 smart Bank gas-fired power station, thermostats in the UK to the end securing the future of the site of 2015.
Three million customers up to 2027.
The power station in the UK, North America and is capable of producing enough the Republic of Ireland also now electricity to meet the needs have access to our analytics of over one million UK homes.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
