14 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CHIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICERS REPORT Centamin is entering a sustainable period of cash generation, which it will use to reward shareholders through dividends and ongoing growth.
andrew pardey Chief executive officer I am pleased to report that, during Safety is a critical area of Centamins Centamin remains committed 2015, Centamin has continued performance and our aim is to ensure to further improving health and to prosper under adverse market that every person returns safe at safety during 2016 towards our conditions.
The Company continues the end of each shift.
to achieve positive results through development of the onsite health and Sukaris performance during 2015 its core strategic focus on creating safety culture at Sukari has resulted in a continues to bode well for the value for all stakeholders.
Value in the low lTIFR for 2015 of 0.12 per 200,000 potential of the operation to generate mining industry is achieved through manhours.
Against this positive result, significant free cash flow over a continual drive for productivity and however, a very unfortunate incident the coming years.
Fourth quarter efficiency at operating mines, whilst occurred within the open pit operation production of 117,644 ounces was undertaking a growth strategy that is during the fourth quarter, when a within the operations target annualised focused on enhancing returns over the contractors employee was involved in rate of 450,000 to 500,000 ounces, long term.
a rock collapse while relocating a grade driven by the continued rampup of control drill rig.
The operator, and sole In this context, Sukari delivered the expanded process plant to its occupant of the drill rig, was fatally production in line with guidance and throughput rate of 11 million tonnes injured in the incident.
The loss was with AISC significantly below initial per annum.
The plant is now operating deeply saddening and overshadowed forecasts.
At the same time, Centamin at 10% above nameplate capacity, the strong operational performance continues to invest in longterm which represents the achievement of during the quarter.
growth, with continued resource and our base case forecast rate.
reserve increases at Sukari and positive Earlier in 2015, and as previously The average metallurgical recovery indications of multiple highgrade reported, an unfortunate incident was 88.8%, a 1.7% increase on 2014. prospects from within its West African occurred in Burkina Faso on a public Work is continuing to optimise the exploration projects.
This stands road near the Konkera village which operational controls and improve against an industry forced towards resulted in one of our local employees circuit stability to ensure recoveries shortterm initiatives to preserve being fatally wounded and another are maintained above 88% at the cash in response to the various sustaining injuries.
A thorough increased rate of throughput.
investigation into this bandit attack on two of our vehicles has been carried out.
Further additional security measures have been implemented following the incident.
There was no impact on operational activity as a result of the incident.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 15 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report New processing plant completed following Stage 4 expansion 2015 was another successive record for There was a material yearonyear Reserves were based on a both open pit and underground mining decrease in operating costs per tonne US$1,300 per ounce gold price, rates and productivity in both of these in both the mining and processing consistent with previous estimates and areas remains strong.
The open pit areas, principally driven by the allowing for comparisons exclusive of delivered total material movement decrease in the international fuel price.
shortterm volatility in the gold market of 57.8Mt, an increase of 28% on the The trend towards lower unit costs is over the expected 19yearplus life of prior year.
This was related to improved expected to continue in the coming the operation.
fleet utilisation and productivity, quarters, as the expanded operation Continued growth of the underground together with incremental blasting continues to be optimised and further resource and reserve demonstrates the rates following the increased daily efficiency gains are realised.
potential for further material increases usage of ammonium nitrate AN In September 2015, an updated over the coming years.
The open pit resource and reserve estimate for drilling programme continues to return remains on a secure footing to deliver Sukari provided further support for high grade assay results and we expect the scheduled material movements as our production forecasts and our this to continue as the development required for the expanded operation.
expectation of a long life and low and drilling extends along the strike Open pit mined grades are expected cost operation that will continue to and at depth.
to increase towards the reserve generate significant cash flow even average from 2016, in line with the Our exploration programmes in West under the current weak gold price mine plan and our production forecasts Africa continue to build momentum.
Open pit reserves of as detailed in May 2015.
In Burkina Faso, at the Wadaradoo, 8.3 million ounces increased from the Napelapera and Torkera prospects, The underground mine produced a previous estimate by approximately drilling has indicated the presence record 1.16Mt of ore, a 20% increase 0.5 million ounces, net of mining of structurally controlled highgrade on 2014.
The average mined head depletion.
This increase was due to mineralised zones in addition to grade was 6.5g t, in line with our lower mining and processing costs extensive lowergrade mineralisation.
forecast, and represents a successful associated with the recent reduction in In Cte dIvoire, firstpass drilling reduction in grade volatility when international fuel prices and continued over targets defined by geochemical compared with 2014, a period when underground resource expansion from and geophysical surveys has outlined the operation underwent a significant drilling.
The estimate was based on mineralised zones over a number rampup in productivity.
The focus for assumptions conservatively above of prospects.
We continue to test the operation remains to consistently current operating costs.
the potential for lateral and depth deliver ore at an average grade of at extensions at these more advanced least 6g t. prospects, whilst also progressing the numerous other prospects within our significant land packages.
16 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CHIEF ExECuTIvE OFFICERS REPORT continued We take every action to ensure Sukari has the minimum impact on the social environment, as well as to deliver positive benefits to Egypt and the community as a result of our investment.
The greenhouse gas emissions Our work force is remunerated well The productivity levels achieved during reporting required by Schedule 7 above the average for Egypt and our 2013 in the preexpansion process of the large and MediumSized career development programmes plant, together with the various design Companies and Groups Accounts are highly valued.
In general we improvements implemented during and Reports Regulations 2008 as enjoy a very positive and constructive the Stage 4 project, provide us with amended by the Companies Act 2006 relationship with our employees.
confidence that the expanded plant Strategic Report and Directors Report will achieve, in time, production levels outlook Regulations 2013 only applies to UK materially above current levels.
At the Our longerterm production and cost incorporated quoted companies.
underground mine, we see potential forecasts remain unchanged and there Centamin has, however, provided for further incremental productivity remains scope for significant additional information relating to this legislation increases whilst the priority remains production increases as productivity in the CSR report as part of its stable grade delivery.
The additional in the various areas of the expanded commitment to environmental issues.
shareholder value that can be gained Sukari operation is further optimised.
from this continued drive for efficiency Maintaining good community relations has the potential to be significant Safety remains a priority and our is a core part of our operational and requires no material capital target is a lost time injury rate of zero strategy and corporate governance expenditure.
As the first mining company in Egypt in modern times, we strive to The objective, as always, is to generate Guidance for 2016 is for 470,000 set an example of a socially responsible substantial free cash flow even under ounces at US$680 ounce cash industry through adopting a good challenging gold price assumptions.
operating cost and US$900 ounce neighbour policy.
We take every action We intend to return 1530% of this allin sustaining cost.
Whilst this to ensure Sukari has the minimum cash flow to our shareholders, in guidance implies further material impact on the social environment, as line with our dividend policy, and to production growth at Sukari, the well as to deliver positive benefits to allocate the remainder towards our key focus for the operation during Egypt and the community as a result of medium and longterm objective the year is on realising the potential our investment, and further details of of organic growth aimed at realising for additional productivity and cost our various initiatives can be found in incremental shareholder value efficiencies.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 17 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report exploration drill rig in cte divoire No capital expenditure for expansion We will continue to evaluate potential or project development is planned opportunities to grow the business for 2016. through the acquisition of projects offering the potential for the Company Exploration at Sukari continues to to deliver on its strategic objectives.
prioritise extensions of the highgrade underground resource and reserve Finally, I would like to thank all my and we expect to continue to deliver colleagues for their hard work over positive news in line with our strong the years including the employees results to date.
A resource and reserve onsite at Sukari, those on the update is planned during 2016. exploration sites in Burkina Faso, Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia as well In West Africa, we expect a total as those in the corporate and exploration expenditure of circa administration offices in Jersey and US$25 million in 2016, with the Australia.
I would also like to thank largest proportion on the advanced your board of directors for their exploration programme in Burkina continued support and I am very much Faso.
In line with our overall looking forward to another prosperous exploration strategy, the actual year for Centamin and its stakeholders expenditure on these projects is results in 2016. driven and the current estimated expenditures are therefore subject to ongoing revisions.
andrew pardey Chief executive officer 21 March 2016
