STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers Statement Overall we have made significant progress in delivering ourstrategy during 2015, with the key developments summarised below.
Customer Experience We provide the films our customers want to see in the most appropriate venues and locations, using the best technology, with the right retail offerings and great customer service.
Ourcinemas now have up to six different offerings of how to watch movies: regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen and VIP theatres.
During 2015, with the VIP experience in Israel, Poland, Romania and Hungary having proved a success, our first VIP experience was launched in the UK in Sheffield in December.
Our VIP experience provides a premium offering to our customers from the moment they walk through the door, including access to a private lounge ahead of their movie screening where, as part of the ticket price they can enjoy unlimited buffet food and soft drinks before watching the movie in our dedicated auditoriums with luxurious reclining seats.
The VIP experience As a Group, we are committed will be rolled out to further cinemas across the Group where there is opportunity in the market.
to ensuring our customers have The Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee the best possible experience outlets in the UK, taking the total number to 17 at 31 December when visiting our cinemas.
2015 with further outlets planned for 2016.
The Cineworld Unlimited programme provides our customers Moshe Mooky Greidinger with a range of benefits, while at the same time being one of Chief Executive Officer the pillars that underpins our strategy for growing revenues and admissions.
With regular subscription income it reduces the level of fluctuations in our revenues for the Group.
It also Our Strategy brings operational benefits by encouraging repeat visits, As a Group, we are committed to ensuring our customers often at off-peak times.
We commenced the expansion of havethe best possible experience when visiting our cinemas.
ourUnlimited programme, with its launch in Poland at the The Cineworld Group continues to be The Best Place to endof 2015.
Cinema Expansion Our strategy is to: During 2015 we opened a record number of 18 cinemas, Deliver a great cinema experience for all cinemagoers, 10in the UK and 8 in CEE & Israel and we have a further every time to achieve this we invest in our existing 45development sites contractually scheduled to open in the estate, as well as identify new sites for expansion.
The full next four years, 13 which are scheduled for opening in 2016 experience of our cinemas starts with the best planning, the and nine of which are already under construction.
As half of best technology, the best marketing and the best service: the new sites were opened in the second half of 2015 the full Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities to benefit to the Group will not be realised until 2016. grow we have the financial capability to expand through the cash generative nature of our business and our debt The rate of new cinema openings is dependent upon local facility, and have opened a record number of new sites market conditions.
Mature markets such as the UK and Israel during 2015: tend to be characterised by higher admissions per capita, With the integration of Cineworld and Cinema City higher average ticket prices and a much lower population successfully completed, we are committed to enhancing per screen ratio.
In the more mature markets, the rate of new our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we deliver a cinema openings has been slower in recent years, partly due consistent high quality offering across the Group: to the limited number and associated lead time of new retail Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the and leisure developments.
Despite this the Group successfully latest audio and visual technology technical innovation opened 11 sites in the more mature markets during 2015. has also allowed the Group to enhance the customer experience through premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, Growth markets have the opposite characteristics including 4DX, Superscreen and VIP.
This gives our customers the lower admissions per capita and lower average ticket prices opportunity at our larger sites, not only to choose which but do provide greater investment potential for the Group.
movie to see but also how to see it: and There is clear potential upside as the habit of going to the Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth plans cinema becomes more established and ticket prices increase in an efficient and effective way.
with the standard of living.
There are a great number of development opportunities, such as in Romania where we have invested significantly during 2015 and will continue todoso in 2016.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 8 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT Enhancement of the Existing Estate Value for Shareholders The estate in the UK is generally older than that of Cinema City Through our focus on driving revenues, increasing profits in the CEE and Yes Planet in Israel.
A number of key sites were andprudently managing our cash position we have been identified for refurbishment to ensure our high standards are able to continue rewarding our shareholders with growth consistently maintained across our estate.
This programme inboth the dividend and adjusted diluted earnings per commenced during the second half of 2014, with the share, 29.6%and 28.7% respectively.
redevelopment of our Milton Keynes cinema, and continued throughout 2015.
Milton Keynes was successfully re-launched Future in January 2015 and included the UKs first 4DX screen, the We devote a considerable amount of time to assessing new new additional sensory cinema concept which had proved site opportunities and this, along with further acquisitions popular with customers in our other territories.
The Milton isakey part of our future growth strategy.
Keynes site became a blue-print for future developments inthe UK, with a Superscreen, the first 4DX experience I am happy to say that when we look forward, we can do so andaStarbucks.
We have great cinemas being run by a great team.
Hollywood looks more committed than ever to quality During the period we also completed the refurbishment of productions, which include many sequels as well as many the Shaftesbury Avenue site and this was re-launched as original movies.
Our upcoming UK cinemas will continue Picturehouse Central, our flagship Picturehouse cinema in to bein the new generation style, with a large number the West End.
Other refurbishments completed during 2015 ofscreens and a wide range of features to enable us to give included Sheffield UK, Letnany Czech Republic, Slovansky our customers a great experience.
This is accompanied by Dum Czech Republic and Yes Planet Haifa Israel.
The agreat line-up of new cinemas in our other territories.
refurbishment programme will continue across the Group during 2016.
Overall, the film slate for 2016 looks solid, and includes a strong family film slate.
Notable releases include Fantastic Digital Film and Technological Innovation Beasts And Where To Find Them, The BFG, Star During 2015 we opened seven 4DX screens, three in the UK, Wars: Rogue One, Captain America: Civil War, X-Men: Milton Keynes, Crawley and Sheffield and four in the CEE & Apocalypse, Batman v Superman Finding Dory, The Israel Yes Planet Haifa Israel, Yes Planet Jerusalem Israel, Secret Life of Pets, Ice Age 5, Angry Birds, Warcraft Bucharest Mega Mall Romania and Constanta City Park andAlice Through The Looking Glass.
We now have a total of 14 4DX screens across the Group.
We are delighted to have provided this new technology Last but for sure not least, I would like to thank the whole to cinemagoers and look forward to continuing the expansion Cineworld team across all nine territories for their great work of the service with a pipeline of a further 10 4DX screens in2015 and wish them all many more successful years to scheduled to open in 2016. come.
Teamwork is the secret of our success and the key toour future.
In addition to the introduction of 4DX, we have expanded theIMAX format across a selection of our sites which remains Mooky Greidinger popular, especially for films such as Star Wars: The Force Chief Executive Officer Awakens, Spectre and Jurassic World.
We opened three 10 March 2016 IMAX screens during the year in Broughton and Solihull Birmingham NEC UK and at Yes Planet Jerusalem Israel.
Bythe end of 2015, the Group was operating 28 IMAX screens in total, with a further two scheduled to open in 2016 in Israel and Romania, and more in the pipeline.
When the Group moved to digital projection, an agreement was entered into with the main Hollywood studios via an agent in the UK to recoup our investment in digital projection equipment by the Virtual Print Fee Mechanism VPF.
The small amount of remaining VPF income from the UK contract is expected to be earned during 2016 and therefore there will be no VPF income in the UK from the 2017 onwards.
From May 2015 we started to roll out the updates to our Cineworld UK website by location and will continue this during 2016.
As the trend of booking online continues, in 2016 we will develop our mobile app to provide our customers with greater visibility of our offerings and allow bookings to be made more quickly and easily on the move.
During the year we have also centralised our customer call centres in Poland and enhanced our customer relationship management database to provide aconsistent service across the Group.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 9
