Chief Executives review Delivering our lead allergy product Throughout this period of transition, we have maintained the focus on our allergy portfolio, and our cat allergy programme remains on track to report pivotal phase III results in the next quarter.
Our preparations to submit the data to the regulators in North America and Europe, dependent on the outcome, are also on schedule, with filings planned before the end of the year.
In preparation for launch, we have entered a commercial manufacturing supply agreement with Bachem, completed market research in the US and key European markets and finalised our brand and proposed scientific names.
We have also established Regional Medical Affairs expertise in our key territories to establish links throughout the allergy community, and complemented the commercial team with market access and reimbursement expertise.
Advancing our business During 2015, we made advances across our business, both before and following our acquisitions.
Our four late-stage allergy treatments all moved forward, and we moved our birch allergy therapy into clinical development.
In addition, we progressed our new asthma and COPD products, with the lead treatment receiving regulatory approval Circassia is in a period of exciting transformation as we following a filing to the UK authorities in 2014, and our earlier-stage accelerate our strategy to become a self-sustaining specialty fixed dose triple combination product entered the clinic.
Our innovative allergy treatments achieved a number of successes in our new NIOX franchise, launching continue to make good progress, and we remain on track to the next-generation VERO product in China and growing worldwide deliver our phase III results in the coming months.
During the revenues by 32% during the six months of our ownership, compared year, we successfully completed two strategic acquisitions, with the same period the year before.
As a result, we have transformed which give us established specialty commercial infrastructure our Company into a business that now has a broad pipeline of allergy targeting the key customers for our next-generation allergy and respiratory products in development, six clinical trials underway, immunotherapies, while also significantly broadening our further studies planned for the coming months, the potential for eight pipeline.
Importantly, these acquisitions have been validated product launches over the next six years and market-leading products by the significant sales growth of our acquired NIOX products sold around the world.
and the approval of our lead asthma treatment.
Strong financial position In the coming year, we intend to build on this progress, The last year has been a period of significant investment across our expanding our commercial presence in preparation for the entire business, and in June we completed a successful 275 million launch of our first allergy treatment, while further increasing Placing and Open Offer to fund our strategic acquisitions.
During the sales of our approved products.
We also plan to deliver on our year, we increased investment in our clinical programmes, commercial wider pipeline, including moving our grass allergy treatment infrastructure and broader pipeline.
With a significant number of clinical into a registration study.
As a result, 2016 will be an important trials underway, and preparations ongoing for further large-scale field year for Circassia as we move towards our goal of building a studies to begin in 2016, our R&D investment increased to 46.8 million leading specialty biopharmaceutical business.
in 2015, up from 38.6 million the previous year.
To support the increased workload, we expanded our R&D organisation by 75%, in Building a successful specialty biopharmaceutical company particular growing our clinical, regulatory, quality and CMC teams.
In Our franchise of novel allergy immunotherapies offers the potential parallel, we increased our commercial investment to prepare for our first of significant improvements over currently available treatments, and allergy product launch and to continue the sales growth of our marketed in 2015 we made good progress in advancing our products towards products, and we have increased the size of our US field force by 65%.
As part of our commercialisation strategy, we acquired Following these significant investments we remain well financed, with Aerocrine with its established commercial infrastructure in the US and 203.8 million of cash at the end of 2015, and consequently we are Germany that is already targeting the allergy asthma specialists we funded to deliver our allergy products and wider pipeline.
need to educate on our novel allergy technology in order to generate faster and greater product uptake following launch.
We are now well Encouraging outlook positioned in the worlds two most important allergy markets to identify Building on the achievements of 2015, the coming year promises to key accounts, train our sales force and prepare the marketplace be an exciting period for Circassia.
We look forward to the results from well in advance of product approval.
The acquisition also brought our lead allergy products pivotal trial, the initiation of our grass allergy market-leading NIOX asthma management products, providing us treatments registration study and ongoing progress in our house dust with a rapidly growing revenue stream and the opportunity to expand mite, ragweed, birch and Japanese cedar allergy programmes.
Our our direct presence into additional countries currently served by allergy products have the potential to revolutionise treatment, and with distributors.
Concurrent with this acquisition, we purchased Prosonix, our launch preparations well underway and market research indicating which broadened the asthma portfolio and brought novel formulations the potential for robust pricing it is clear we have a major commercial for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
This significant potential is also mirrored across our Consequently, we have made good progress in building a world-class asthma management and respiratory businesses.
We anticipate specialty business that is centred on our pipeline of innovative allergy ongoing growth in the sales of our NIOX products, with revenues therapeutics, and complemented by a wider portfolio of products supporting the continued expansion of our commercial infrastructure.
we can promote directly to specialists in North America and key During the coming year, we also plan to move our Seretide pMDI European markets, or substitute directly.
substitute towards filing, and report clinical results from our fixed dose triple combination study.
As a result, the outlook for 2016 is extremely encouraging, with good progress anticipated in each area of our newlyenlarged business.
Steven Harris Chief Executive Officer Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 18
