Strategic report Chief executives review Challenge and opportunity have been our watchwords As we highlighted over the course of the year, activity in 2015.
The global shipping and offshore markets have levels in the maritime capital markets have been negatively faced severe challenges throughout the course of the year impacted.
These markets became increasingly difficult in the as the shift in oil and other commodity prices, coupled second half of 2015 and volumes across Clarksons Platou with the macro-economic environment, gave rise to a Securities were substantially down on 2014.
However, our consequential change in the demand supply balance in teams have worked hard to maintain their leading positions many market sub-sectors.
Whilst these dynamics have for capital raising in the energy and maritime industries and regularly made global news headlines in 2015 and their completed a significant proportion of the corporate activity impact has undoubtedly been felt by all connected to the which took place in the sector.
It is encouraging to see that sector, we must remember that ours is an industry which even in these very difficult markets we have still been able to has experienced unparalleled market volatility over the leverage our product portfolio and work closely with clients years.
At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus on from our broking and support businesses, supporting them developing best in class client service, coupled with our on the execution of their overall strategies.
unique product breadth and global reach, has allowed Our strong client relationships have been built through us to face these headwinds again and continue to invest many years of being the market-leading provider.
In tighter, in our business, ensuring we are positioned for future more difficult markets there is often a move to work with the opportunity in whichever marine market it shows.
teams who have the expertise, market understanding and Despite the turbulent market environment, we have placing power to execute in the most difficult of markets and remained focused on our strategy for long-term growth can fully support clients across all their service requirements.
and at the start of 2015 we were delighted to announce Research and analysis continue to play a crucial role the completion of the transformational acquisition of in underpinning our full service client offer.
We are the RS Platou ASA Platou which has taken our capability and industrys leading provider of data and market intelligence client offer to a new level.
Both businesses are incredibly on the shipping and offshore industries and our trusted complementary with very little overlap in terms of service research team is by far the largest commercially-led unit offer and geographic reach.
The pace of integration has in the maritime world.
Despite the challenging markets, been good and over the course of the year we have the increasing strength of our research business reflects successfully integrated our two businesses.
Where each the importance we and our clients place on this valuable company had operations in the same city: Oslo, New York, market insight.
Singapore and Dubai, we have brought together our teams Our long-standing focus and investment in technology into one office.
We now have international reach across has also ensured that the wealth of information across 20 countries through 46 offices, underpinning our ability our business can be shared globally, further strengthening to provide clients with invaluable global reach and insight the quality of the offer and services that we can provide at a local level.
to our clients on a local basis.
This is evident throughout As our business stands today our truly integrated service all of our offices where open plan design and technology spans broking, financial, support and research in all the infrastructure is designed to facilitate the sharing of key global shipping and offshore sectors and across all knowledge and expertise across both our different business areas of financing: public equity, private equity, debt capital divisions and global network to ensure a totally integrated markets, M&A, restructuring project finance and bank debt and consistent global offer.
During the year we completed the rebranding of We are a people business.
The quality of the people in our broking and financial services operations as Clarksons our business is exceptional and the integration of the Platou to reflect the strength of both brands in their Platou team has strengthened that further.
The Can Do respective marketplaces.
This has further enhanced our attitude of our combined team, their professionalism, best in class position as we are now a market leader dedication, commitment and sheer determination has been in each of our operations.
remarkable and allowed us to seize opportunities even in In the multi-cyclical shipping markets, this breadth of difficult markets and I would like to thank each and every product offer is vital as our performance in 2015 has shown.
one of them for their hard work over the course of the year.
The dry cargo markets have remained severely depressed, As we look forward to 2016, the market outlook remains reflecting the slowdown in Chinese economic output, and suppressed and the challenges in the dry cargo and the low oil price continues to put offshore operators under offshore markets continue to dominate overall sentiment.
However, in contrast, the tankers, However, our business model has proven to be robust specialised products and gas markets have all performed and the strategic advances and investments we have well and the Clarksons teams have been at the forefront of continued to make ensure that we are fit for the future.
market activity, once again taking increased market share.
As we continue to see building blocks for the creation of healthier shipping markets, we feel best placed to capitalise on new opportunities.
10 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus on developing best in class client service, coupled with our unique product breadth and global reach, has allowed us to face these headwinds again and continue to invest in our business, ensuring we are positioned for future opportunity.
com Breadth Depth We offer a truly integrated service spanning broking, financial, support and research in all the key global shipping and offshore sectors and across all areas of financing: public equity, private equity, debt capital markets, project finance and bank debt advisory.
We are the best in class intermediary across every sector of maritime trade and no single company is our lead competitor in more than one market.
Darin Wong Sale and purchase broker Singapore
