Chief Executive Officers Statement We have continued to invest in the business: in particular intechnology, skills andcapabilities, and inour infrastructure.
Understanding customer needs and developing customer relationships THERE IS NOW MORE BALANCE We continue to focus on opportunities to improve customer satisfaction and to anticipate future requirements.
We have undertaken a comprehensive IN THE PORTFOLIO AND WE survey of our largest customers, which identified opportunities to deepen key relationships and to underpin our position as a preferred supplier of high ARE FOCUSED ON MARKETS quality products and services.
Increasing emphasis on customer engagement has led to regular contact with key customers on market developments, WHICH ARE UNDERPINNED new business opportunities and ideas for next generation products and technologies.
As a result, we are identifying targeted PV investment to further BY FAVOURABLE LONG growour market share.
Improving operational performance TERM TRENDS We have continued to make good progress withourcontinuous improvement activities.
Thisprogressis reflected in improvements over thepastfive years to key operational metrics such ason time delivery, supplier defective parts per PV investment Strategy and progress overview million and supplier on time delivery.
The positive We have continued to progress our strategy of trend has continued during the year, culminating creating value for our shareholders by building in operational performance levels not previously 8.2% andmaintaining leading positions in our chosen achieved by the Group.
These continuous 2014: 6.7% markets through leveraging our innovative improvement activities are also vital to delivering technology and know-how with a deep insight lower inventory and working capital levels in the intoour customersneeds.
future and, despite the increase in 2015, we are seeing encouraging progress in a number of areas.
We now have more balance in the portfolio Aeroflex efficiencies betweenour defence security revenue, with the We have successfully completed the initial achieved portfolio focused in areas of customer priority in our implementation of our new Enterprise Resource chosen segments, and commercial revenue, where Planning ERP IT system at the pilot manufacturing we are focused on markets that are underpinned by location, with the system fully operational at the US$37m favourable, long term macroeconomic trends.
The ERP system will be progressively rolled out 2014: US$5m includes an ever increasing demand for enhanced across our other operating locations over the next communication, which is a positive market trend three years.
We favour businesses with an ability to leverage differentiated technology into commercial and defence security markets and all our Sectors now have a presence in both of these broad markets.
We have five strategic actions and are measuring progress against them, as set out below.
com Cobham plc 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 3.
Investing in and applying discriminating We anticipate that this progress will continue, Strategic overview technology resulting in the Aeroflex integration programme 1.
Focus on customers We have continued to invest in technology to drive being complete by the end of 2017, with the growth.
Company funded PV investment increased total costs and benefits in line with our original 2.
Improve operational performance significantly to 138m 2014: 97m, primarily expectations.
Our expected completion of the reflecting the full year impact of Aeroflex.
This integration programme ahead of schedule will 3.
Invest in technology investment represents some 8.2% 2014: 6.7% of beamajor achievement.
Allocate capital for growth revenue.
We have continued to align this spending with developing differentiated products and services As set out on page 8 in more detail, Cobham is 5.
Enhance skills and capabilities in growing markets, including for avionics, SATCOM, focused around four main areas of capability wireless and microelectronics applications.
which comprise connectivity, pneumatics and See pages 16 to 17 for more information.
actuation, aerial refuelling systems, and military and Specific examples of our technology investments commercial specialist outsourced aviation services.
in2015 include: During the year we have exited certain markets and Cobham SATCOM achieved the first voice technologies, enabling us to further focus on these callover Inmarsats SwiftBroadband aviation core capabilities.
These divestments comprise: communication service using its new Weinschel and Inmet in June 2015, for US$80m: AVIATOR200S compact unit.
This unit is the The Groups composites businesses in November firstof severalsolutions that will be available 2015, for US$200m:  of the new generation Metelics in December 2015, for US$38m.
SwiftBroadband Safety service in 2016: End markets % of revenue Cobham Wireless launched a new TeraVM In January 2016 we also divested the Surveillance Commercial cybersecurity threat analysis solution that business for US$10m.
assesses infrastructure defences by replicating 27 2011 real-life incidents, including denial of service Although resulting in earnings dilution, these 31 2012 anddatabase related injection attacks: divestments have reduced portfolio complexity, Initial orders were received for the Mission helping us to concentrate our investment in markets 35 2013 Systems Sectors new lightweight polymer with the most attractive long term potential.
39 lined, high pressure gas storage vessels.
This 2014 technology, developed utilising experience 5.
Enhancing the skills and capabilities 38 2015 gained in military and space applications, is ofemployees beingtargeted at commercial industrial markets, We have increased our focus on key functional US defence security including compressed natural gas vehicles.
It capabilities in the year, following the completion of 48 offers customers superior fuel preservation the previously reported organisation design project.
2011 andimproved safety: This includes continued activity to enhance our 42 2012 The Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector project and programme management capabilities, continues to align its investments to US which will help ensure that our investments are being 37 2013 defence security priorities specifically in made effectively and efficiently.
There has been a 34 2014 radiofrequency technology differentiation.
rigorous approach to assessing the competencies Additionally, it continues to invest in of individuals, complemented by a comprehensive 36 2015 high-reliability electronics for commercial training and development programme, which space, medical and industrial applications.
has led to a significant increase in the number Non-US defence security of professional qualifications being achieved.
25 2011 In addition to company funded PV, customer This approach is now being extended to all other funded research and development R&D was criticalfunctions including engineering, operations 27 2012 120m 2014: 101m, primarily relating to aerial and supply chain, finance, compliance, contracts, 28 2013 refuelling development programmes.
continued to make encouraging progress, with the 27 2014 Airbus A400M entering low rate initial production Conclusion 26 2015 at the end of the year.
Also, the KC-46 entered This has been another year of significant progress its flight test phase at the end of the third quarter against the delivery of our strategic objectives.
2015, with free air stability testing and receiver The excellent progress with the integration of the contact trials undertaken.
This was followed by the former Aeroflex business is a key highlight and we successfultransfer of fuel to a US Navy F A-18 in have continued to invest in our technology, our February 2016.
It is expected thatthe rate of R&D capabilities, our businesses and our infrastructure investment in these programmes will moderate in tounderpin the drive for growth.
2016, as we move from development into low rate initial production.
Allocating capital to be aligned with growing markets Bob Murphy Following on from our September 2014 Aeroflex Chief Executive Officer acquisition, we have made excellent progress 2 March 2016 integrating this business, achieving some 25m US$37m of year-on-year efficiencies in 2015.
The efficiencies have been achieved through a For further information visit us combination of site integration activity, reduced online at www.
com Aeroflex head office costs, and direct and indirect supply chain benefits for the combined Group.
Business restructuring costs incurred in the year, primarily relating to the Aeroflex integration, were 67m.
com Cobham plc 12 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
