Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH DISCIPLINED GROWTH MAP.
We have maintained our focus on MAP 3 cost of food with initiatives such as menu planning and supplier rationalisation, as well as continually optimising MAP 4 labour and in unit costs and MAP 5 above unit costs.
These efficiencies are helping us to invest to support the exciting growth opportunities we see around the world and deliver further margin improvement.
After restructuring costs, underlying operating profit increased by 4.6% on a constant currency basis, with the underlying operating margin remaining flat.
DID YOU RETURN SURPLUS CASH Q TO SHAREHOLDERS IN 2015?
Returns to shareholders continue to be an revenue growth of 2.5%, reflecting modest integral part of our business model.
The Group Compass has had another price increases and improving volumes in bought back 328 million worth of shares in strong year.
Performance North America and Europe & Japan.
In Fast the year and going forward we will continue Growing & Emerging, we have seen like for to maintain strong investment grade credit in North America continues like weakness in some emerging markets ratings, returning any surplus cash to to be excellent, growth in and in our Offshore & Remote business.
shareholders to target net debt EBITDA of around 1.5x.
Europe & Japan is accelerating WHAT ACTIONS ARE YOU TAKING and, despite some challenges, Q WHAT IS THE GROUPS TO ADDRESS THE WEAKNESS IN Q our Fast Growing & STRATEGY?
EMERGING MARKETS AND IN THE Emerging region continues OFFSHORE & REMOTE BUSINESS?
Food is our focus and our core competence.
The food service market is estimated to be to perform well.
On 29 July 2015, we announced that more than 200 billion: with only around in addition to our ongoing restructuring 50% of the market currently outsourced, activities which partly help us deliver yearly WHAT WAS REVENUE GROWTH it represents a significant opportunity.
We Q efficiencies we are proactively reducing the IN THE YEAR?
believe the benefits of outsourcing become cost base in our Offshore & Remote business increasingly apparent as economic conditions globally and in some emerging markets.
This Revenue for the Group increased by 5.8% and regulatory changes put increasing on an organic basis.
Underlying revenue at incremental restructuring cost of around pressure on organisations budgets.
As one of 50 million will be included in operating reported rates increased by 4.6%, reflecting the largest providers in all of our sectors, we the strengthening of sterling against many of profit.
In 2015, we incurred a 26 million are well placed to benefit from these trends.
charge, most of which was for labour cost the Groups key currencies, which was partly offset by the benefit of the strengthening of reductions, with 9 million non-cash.
We Our approach to support and multi services expect the remaining 20-25 million of the US dollar.
is low risk and incremental, with strategies restructuring costs to be incurred in 2016. developed on a country by country basis.
New business wins were 8.8%, driven by a Our largest sector in this market is Defence, strong performance in MAP 1 client sales Offshore & Remote, where the model is almost WHAT HAPPENED TO OPERATING and marketing in North America and Fast Q universally multi service.
In addition, we have Growing & Emerging and accelerating growth PROFIT AND OPERATING MARGIN an excellent support services business in in Europe & Japan.
North America and some operations in other improved and is now 94.5%, reflecting our parts of the world.
This is a complex segment Excluding the impact of the restructuring, ongoing focus and investment.
and there are significant differences in client organic operating profit increased by 6.5% buying behaviour across countries, sectors and We aim to increase consumer participation and the underlying operating margin improved and spend through MAP 2 consumer sales sub-sectors.
by 10 basis points as we continue to drive and marketing initiatives.
This, combined with efficiencies across the business using our a more benign macroeconomic environment management and performance framework, in many of our markets, resulted in like for like 8 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2015
