CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW A LONG-TERM VIEW As a public company listed on the main market of the London Stock Computacenter has delivered a further year of Exchange, we strive at all times to deliver value for our stakeholders progress in 2015, increasing its adjusteddiluted across a range of time-horizons.
However, as a Senior Management 1 earnings per share by 21.1 per cent to 53.4 pence.
This team, we continue to consider the long term in all aspects of our decision-making and, as part of this approach, spend significant level of performance has been achieved despite an time reviewing the progress made by the business, both financially increased level of in-year strategic investment by the and otherwise, over a rolling three-year period.
Group to maintain and grow its competitive advantage, We have been pleased by the financial progress made by the Group substantial currency headwinds due to the strength of over the past three years.
Since the end of 2012, our adjusted profit 1 1 the Pound Sterling against the Euro, and challenging before tax and adjusted diluted earnings per share have increased by 5 per cent and 11 per cent respectively on an annually compounded wider economic conditions.
The Groups ability to generate cash remains consistently strong.
This, together with the disposal of RDC, has allowed us to return approximately 171 million to shareholders in the last three years, in addition to our standard dividend of 70.9 million declared in respect of that period.
The financial performance has been particularly pleasing when one considers the increased investment made through the P&L in the Groups Services capability, in order to provide a foundation for continued organic growth and a more sustainable business.
It has also been three years since the Board undertook a comprehensive review of the Groups strategy, and as is set out on page 21, consistent progress has been made against its revised strategic objectives.
In keeping with our approach of building for the long term, we will increase investment further in 2016, focusing on the development of our Next Generation Service Desk NGSD capability, and our Mobility, Cloud and Security offerings.
We will also increase the level of our investment in our internal systems to improve the productivity of our Services resource, in particular through the use of Field Force technology.
As we continue to deliver and further refine our strategy, the Group will look for ways in which it can grow its Services business, whilst balancing this with the importance of maintaining capital discipline and balance sheet efficiency.
In 2012, Computacenter took the decision to implement its Group-wide operating model, and this process has been completed across all of its main operating subsidiaries.
In both Germany and France, the use of industrialised best-practice processes, together with the involvement of Group Management, has also played a role in the improving incountry financial performance in 2015.
The implementation of the model has been about an aspiration to raise the Groups standards and quality of service, and I have been particularly pleased with the progress made in this area.
04 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Computacenter is well-placed for another year of progress in 2016.
We will continue to invest appropriately in our systems, technology, people and processes to support the long-term prospects of the Group.
These prospects are enhanced by the talent and dedication of people right across Computacenter, which I have witnessed at close proximity over a long period of time.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank our shareholders, who continue to provide us with consistent support and valuable feedback.
I hope to see you at our Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2016.
Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer 11 March 2016 As a Senior Management team, we continue to consider the long term in all aspects of our decision-making and, as part of this approach, spend significant time reviewing the progress made by the business, both financially and otherwise, over a rolling three-year period.
