Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Chief executives review Foundations in place for future resilience and growth IN SUMMARY Fragile consumer confidence in the housing market Focus on execution, regaining and growing market share and accelerating proposition improvements, including multichannel Growth in core lettings business, building on improvements in service Driving value from early progress in financial services, valuations and commercial uncertain general election in a generation Our Lettings business in London also grew Market 2015 failed to materialise as consumer confidence whilst our decision to invest further for the It has been an uncertain year for the UK remained fragile.
This manifested most acutely future in core systems, people and service property market and all the stakeholders it in a lack of stock as the number of properties slowed, for now, the rate of growth in our impacts.
Our sector has seen another year coming to the market ran significantly below Retail Lettings business across the rest of ofrecord low interest rates, a housing market last year.
That pressure on market volumes theUK.
very short of supply and a step up in tax continued throughout 2015. changes impacting both the higher priced Encouragingly, we delivered exceptionally home and second home markets negatively.
While the aspiration towards home strong performance in both Financial Services ownership remains a core part of the UK and Surveying as they outperformed the Market data available for 2015 highlights consumer landscape, the property market markets.
Another strong year in our Commercial theimpact of changing dynamics in the continues to evolve to reflect changing business saw profits grow in both the core residential property market, with transaction consumer priorities.
This is particularly and acquired businesses.
The balance of levels across the country running lower than evident in the growth of the private rented recurring revenues in that business reached the previous year.
Market volumes for 2015 housing market, where demand remains 70%, a pleasing achievement as we seek are expected to be 34% below 2014 strong.
Although throughout 2015, tenants tolimit volatility in both our residential and andin the region of 970,000980,000 also showed a lower propensity to move with commercial revenue streams.
transactions at year end, which is still far short average tenures extending to 17.1 months of a normalised run rate by historic standards.
2015 was a transformative year for the Group up from 15.5 months in 2012. and set us on the right path to achieve our ambitious goals for 2020.
Through our people, Our markets page 16 Our performance we set our Building our Future strategy The challenging market in sales impacted andcontinued our successful acquisition The negative trend in mortgage approvals at our performance and this, coupled with programme, while providing resilience for the end of 2014 impacted transaction levels thesignificant change agenda weve the Groups future through investment in in the first half of 2015 which, together with driven, resulted in a tough year for our transformation, people capability and risk the potential uncertainty over the outcome RetailSalesdivision.
We also focused on creating ofthe general election in May, created industry-leading capabilities in research and Our London sales business showed sluggishness in market trends during the analytics to capitalise on the value of our tremendous resilience though and, despite firsthalf of 2015, as both buyers and unique data and insight into the market operating in the market which saw the most sellersdelayed decisions to move.
Further, through our unparalleled national footprint.
acute impact from changes to stamp duty, the anticipated bounce in the second half of grew its market share and revenues.
theyear following the outcome of the most Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 05 Strategic report Chief executives review continued Diversified business continues to provide resilience.
Alison Platt Chief executive officer We believe we are superbly placed to We are confident that our relentless focus on Our performance continued capitalise on a mortgage market that is shifting delivering our purpose of putting people and 2015 also saw us complete the most further toward an intermediary model, with property together will yield strong progress significant customer research programme expectations that more than 70% of the total in 2016 and there is no change to our current Countrywide has ever undertaken, involving mortgages written in 2016 will be brokered.
The markets volatility more than 3,000 customers across sales Our 600 field force of mortgage consultants is unlikely to subside in 2016, so navigating andlettings.
The insight from that research are targeted to deliver record performance external challenges while delivering a first coupled with our data has informed our new driven by improved lead management, better class service for our customers will be crucial.
propositions and service offerings, which will data utilisation and a new front-end operating Ourambition to be the most recommended be trialled across three of our brands in the system, which is being rolled out as we company in the property sector is clear and second quarter of 2016.
embraced by all colleagues across the Group.
will reflect our customers desire to use multiple We look forward to building on the early channels online, telephone and branch Our relationships with our main partners momentum evident at the beginning of 2016 network and use enabling technology whilst remain core to our strategy.
The high street as we create a strong and thriving business accessing the experience and expertise that banks view us as the distributors for their delivering enduring returns for our shareholders, our UK-wide network of people bring.
mortgage products but also their partner in customers and colleagues alike.
Equally Core to delivery of our new multichannel key are developers and house builders and propositions will be the development of our the creation of Countrywide Residential digital capabilities, organically and through Development Solutions has given us a investments and partnerships.
platform through which to grow in the new Alison Platt To date in 2016, we have made investments homes space.
We expect to add capability Chief executive officer in innovative proptech firms focused on here through acquisition as we seek to 25 February 2016 improving customer experience.
We are the expand in this critical area.
lead strategic partner with Fixflo, the leading 24 7 property repair reporting system, and Outlook have also taken a significant minority stake We continue to be prudent in our assumptions This strategic report was approved by the inan early stage start-up platform in the for growth in the residential housing market Board of directors on 25 February 2016 self-serve lettings market.
in 2016 and our focus will be driving our and signed on its behalf by: Hand in hand with investing to grow our own growth through regaining share and business organically, our approach to attracting new customers through better acquisitions remains in line with our strategy.
We remain of the view that Our focus has been to strengthen our presence thedrivers of demand for the private rental in strategic locations across the UK and we sector remain strong and will drive further remain committed to delivery of our target growth.
The impact of the increased tax hurdles and returns.
In 2015, we acquired burden for buy-to-let landlords and second 30 lettings businesses, including some key home owners has yet to play out in the market, targets in Liverpool, York and Bristol.
This but in a low interest rate environment, yields focus on key cities will continue in 2016. in the buy-to-let sector, particularly outside London, remain attractive.
Enabling institutional 2016 year of execution investment to create high quality built-to-rent stock remains high on our agenda, and our 2016 is all about execution as we begin residential investment fund, in partnership torealise the benefits of our strategy.
withHermes Investment Management, goes Diversification of our business model will from strength to strength with schemes in continue as we increase resilience across Manchester and Liverpool now exchanged residential and commercial.
Operating Retail and a second round of fundraising underway.
as a single structure for core sales and lettings is building momentum with encouraging signs as we enter 2016 with a growing pipeline in sales, improving conversion rates and rising landlord retention.
Our focus now is on capitalising on this fast start to 2016, ensuring we take advantage of early strong winds in the market.
06 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Read more on pages 08 to 15 S T E R L P A O L I E P A G R N H U O O T F S O R S R E S E P W N I O A S U U R R O B U D F R R O U P U O O Strategic report Building our Future We embarked on our Building our Future strategy as we recognised that there was a real opportunity for us to become the first choice for customers and, that by being their first choice, we can take this business to a brilliant future and change the face of the sector.
Bringing Bringing people and people and proper property ty together together OUR PURPOSE We have a clear purpose, guided by our Bringing people and vision and supported by our values.
property together 08 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 R N T N D F O U A L T R I I O E O W N E P S L W A B O S I H S S I N S O R O E N M P O A T S S T U E E C R R U O Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements OUR VISION OUR VALUES Responsible Recommended 1 We do the right thing.
We listen, more than any other company take time to understand and inthe property sector.
Personal Recognised 2 We are a people business.
as one of the best places to work Wecare about our customers in the UK.
Straightforward 3 Transforming We keep it simple, dealing with the reputation of our industry.
the complicated things so our customers dont have to.
Passionate 4 Celebrated We love working with property for excellent sustainable and we work hard, knowing financialperformance.
what we do really matters.
HOW WE RUN OUR STRATEGY OURBUSINESS Our intent is to increase our resilience to the sales cycle Four customer-centric business units, combining local brands volatility andbroaden the Groups business to deliver a strong with a national operating model to support customers through future and sustainable long term value for our shareholders.
We are investing in core capabilities, including IT, talent management, risk management and data and analytics toensure we have the foundations tobeable to move at pace.
Our strategy page 10 How we run our business page 14 Annual Report 2015 Countrywide plc 09
