CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW becoming a stronger, predominantly branded businessthat can grow profitably and generate cash.
In December 2014 Dairy Crests shareholders overwhelmingly approved the proposed sale, which remains conditional on the approval of the competition authorities.
The European Commission referred it back to the UK for review by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA which is currently expected to make a phase one decision in June 2015.
Although this deadline may change and the review could move to a second phase we remain confident that a sale will ultimately be approved and proceed.
The conditional sale of our Dairies operations and their subsequent combination with Mllers dairies business will help create a more sustainable UK dairy sector by delivering economies of scale and cost efficiencies that will underpin investment and help the UK to compete more successfully in global Summary quarter and ended the year close to markets.
It is encouraging that we have This has been another year of significant half the peak they reached as recently received support for the sale from the progress for Dairy Crest.
The collapse in independent organisation that represents grown combined Cheese and Spreads these markets and high milk production our farmers, Dairy Crest Direct, and the wider farming community.
sales despite the deflationary market around the world and in the UK have led A successful outcome will benefit environment.
We have also delivered to a significant reduction in the price UK farmers, consumers, customers, an encouraging improvement in the farmers have received for their milk.
Our employees and Dairy Crests shareholders.
combined margins of these businesses.
purchase prices for milk fell by around Cathedral City has again outperformed 25% across the year, reversing the Cathedral City outperforms and accounts for over 50% of retail increases we have paid in recent years.
In total, sales of our four key brands, sales of branded cheddar.
Our focus on The long-awaited abolition of European Cathedral City, Clover, Country Life and product development has underpinned milk production quotas took effect FRijj were unchanged over the year.
As the these results and our investment in a from 1April 2015.
This has been widely table on page 12 shows, both Cathedral new innovation centre will support this.
expected to lead to an increase in milk City and FRijj performed strongly.
However We have again met our target to deliver production across Europe, although not Clover and Country Life sales both fell in a annual cost savings of over 20 million.
in the UK where production has been butter and spreads market that continues These include consolidating our butter and unconstrained by quotas.
It is too early to decline.
Despite this we saw a welcome spreads production onto one site.
to say how the reduction in global dairy increase in margins in our Spreads and We have agreed to sell our Dairies commodity prices and the removal of butters business.
The conditional sale is a quotas will affect milk production and Cathedral City again outperformed positive development for Dairy Crest and imports of dairy products, particularly the market and grew sales by 5%.
Its the wider UK dairy sector.
Shareholders cheddar cheese, into the UK, although annual growth over the last five years have approved the sale and the process cheddar imports into the UK decreased has averaged over 7%.
Cathedral City is to obtain regulatory approval is on track.
9% in the year ended 31 December 2014 now Britains 16th largest grocery brand Completion of the sale will result in Dairy Source: DairyCo.
While we monitor this Source: The Grocer 21 March 2015 up Crest operating from five well-invested situation closely we anticipate that our from 18th last year.
Cathedral City now manufacturing sites.
It will be a much market leading Cathedral City branded accounts for over 50% of total branded simpler, more focused, predominantly cheddar will not be affected significantly retail cheddar sales.
Sales of competing branded business.
It will also have by these changes and will continue to cheddar brands have continued to decline.
exposure to the growing infant formula perform strongly.
Taken together retail sales of the next category and emerging markets.
Against this market background we three largest cheddar brands were down continue to position ourselves to deliver over 20% in the year and were just half Market background sustainable and profitable growth.
This year has been a difficult one for The UK butter and spreads market the major food retailers, our principal Transformational sale of Dairies remains difficult.
Total market sales fell by customers.
They have faced falling sales operations 4%.
Consumption is falling as consumers due to food price deflation and greater In November 2014 we agreed to sell continue to turn away from making competition.
the assets of our Dairies operations to sandwiches in the home.
Butter, where It has also been a very difficult year Mller for a cash consideration of 80 market sales are unchanged compared for dairy farmers.
The conditional sale of our Dairies to last year, continues to gain share prices have fallen steeply since the first operations will result in Dairy Crest Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 11 Strategic report CHIeF exeCUTIveS RevIeW COnTInUeD Brand Market Dairy Crest Market statistics sales growth Brand growth Market growth Cheese unchanged 5% 2% Spreads -8% -8% -8% Butter unchanged -9% -7% Ready to drink unchanged 7% 4% flavoured milk Total unchanged Dairy Crest value sales 12 months to 31 March 2015 v 12 months to 31 March 2014 IRI data 52 weeks to 28 March 2015 from spreads where sales are down differently at the dairy category.
It forms Building from strength 8%.
Against this background Clover and the foundation for future innovation, We have continued to make good Country Life butter, our two key brands in marketing and category merchandising progress with projects that enhance this market, have delivered a satisfactory for our key brands.
We will work with the future prospects of our Cheese performance.
Clover performed in line with our major customers to implement the and Spreads operations, including the spreads market as a whole and was Dairy for Life findings and drive growth consolidating butter and spreads awarded Which magazines Best Buy across the dairy category.
Some ideas production onto one site and investing in the spreads category Source: Which generated by Dairy for Life, such as in demineralised whey and galactoFebruary 2015.
Country Life Spreadable, cross-sector promotions and additional oligosaccharide, a lactose based prebiotic.
which accounts for nearly 60% of total store positionings, have already been We are nearing completion of the Country Life butter and spreads sales implemented.
project to make demineralised whey outperformed the butter market and grew Innovation remains key to the success powder and GOS at our Davidstow sales by 2%.
We expect to use some of our brands.
During the year we have creamery in Cornwall.
These products will of the savings we will achieve from the launched several brand extensions give us access to new sales channels in consolidation of our spreads and packet including Cathedral City Spreadable, growing global markets.
Both products butter production to increase marketing Clover Lighter than Light, and reduced are used in the manufacture of infant expenditure in this high-margin category.
Since the year end we formula for which there is growing demand FRijj performed well.
In a ready to have started to produce and sell Clover across the world.
We expect commercial drink flavoured milk market that is still cooking oil which combines Frylight manufacture of both products to start later growing, but at a much slower pace than spraytechnology and the strength of the this year.
During the year we entered into last year, FRijj sales grew by 7%.
a strategic partnership with Fonterra, the of this growth came from sales to the In the year ended 31 March 2015 worlds leading dairy exporter.
Fonterra will food service and convenience sectors around 7% of our combined Cheese and market and sell our products on our behalf and is therefore not reflected in the IRI whey and Spreads and butter revenue and is also providing valuable technical market data which just covers major came from products introduced in the last and engineering support.
The FRijj brand is included in the 3 years.
This compares to our ongoing conditional sale of our Dairies operations ambitious target of 10% and last years Cost cutting to Mller.
performance of 4% across the business as We have again achieved our target of We have also seen strong growth a whole and 7% for our branded business.
making cost savings in excess of 20 from Frylight one calorie cooking spray, To further increase our focus on million in the year.
This brand innovation we have entered into a new The consolidation of our spreads and has responded well to the increased partnership with Harper Adams University.
packet butter manufacturing into one site investment in marketing that we have Our innovation team has moved to at Kirkby, Merseyside and the closure of made consistently since then and has Harper Adams and we are building Crudgington will give us a lower fixed cost the potential to grow further.
In future a 4 million innovation centre on the base that will benefit future years.
we expect to report it as one of our key university campus.
We expect this to be We continue to work with non-milk brands alongside Cathedral City, Clover fully operational by the end of 2015.
The suppliers to drive efficiencies and lower and Country Life butter and spreads.
partnership will give us access to food our purchase costs.
During the year Dairy is one of the UKs largest food andfarming research that will help us wehave increased our use of lighter weight retail categories and during the year continue to develop new products and polybottles: reduced packaging costs and Dairy Crest carried out a comprehensive ways of working.
made our distribution network more efficient.
Dairy for Life Cost reduction is essential in our is a framework to make people look residential milk delivery business, where 12 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 sales fell by 11% compared to the year However excluding property profits our Future prospects ended 31 March 2014.
We have continued Dairies business which we are selling Completion of the sale of our Dairies with our programme of depot closures.
recorded aproduct group loss of 15.8 operations will result in Dairy Crest In addition we announced that we would million against a profit of 0.6 million in operating from five well-invested further rationalise our Dairies operations the previous year.
Property profits were manufacturing sites and be a much and consult with employees regarding broadly in line with last year at 17.6 million simpler, more focused, predominantly the closure of our glass bottling dairy in 2014: 18.2 million.
It will also have Hanworth, West London and our specialist For the business as a whole, adjusted exposure to the growing infant formula cream potting facility in Chard, Somerset.
group profit before tax decreased by category and emerging markets.
We anticipate that Chard will close later in 7% to 60.6 million 2014: 65.3 million.
Looking ahead, Dairy Crest is well 2015 and Hanworth in 2016.
Adjusted basic earnings per share positioned for sustainable, profitable Completion of the sale of our Dairies alsodecreased by 7% to 38.0 pence growth.
Over the coming year as a operations will significantly reduce the 2014: 40.8 pence.
Pre-tax exceptional whole we expect results to benefit from complexity of the business and will allow charges in the year were 36.3 million the continued growth of Cathedral City, us to streamline our future overhead 2014: 10.4 million.
These mainly related ongoing cost savings and the completion structure and systems.
to the closure and future closure of of our project at Davidstow where we manufacturing sites.
Reported profit before will add value to our whey stream by Financial performance tax, which reflects these exceptional producing ingredients for infant formula.
The financial performance of the business charges, amortisation of acquired This growth will be second half weighted.
as a whole starkly demonstrates the intangibles and pension interest, was We expect that our net debt, which differing financial performances of 22.1 million 2014: 54.2 million.
at the year end remains within our target the operations we are retaining and Group net debt at 31March 2015 range, will fall once we have completed our major investment projects.
Taken together was 199 million up from 142 million at receipt of the proceeds from the sale of our Cheese andwhey and Spreads 31 March 2014, as we invested a high our Dairies operations will accelerate this and butter businesses which we will level of capital expenditure in the whey reduction.
retain delivered marginally higher sales and  project at compared to the year ended 31 March Davidstow and the completion of the Kirkby Mark Allen Chief Executive 2014 and significantly higher product spreads and butter manufacturing facility.
20 May 2015 group profits, up by 19% to 66.9 million.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 13 Strategic report
