What progress have you made inrefocusing promotional activity?
We know our customers love our CHIEF promotions and they will continue to enjoy the events we are famous for, such as New Season Spectaculars and Blue EXECUTIVES Cross promotions.
We have worked to differentiate our activities better and align the events to our customers mindset, taking out 17 promotional days REPORT across the year.
We have invested in price in key categories our first price Delivering on our strategic priorities right price strategy.
As a result full price sales are up 7% over the year.
Looking ahead, the trading calendar is now broadly as we want it and our focus is shifting towards maximising the effect of the events we have and driving full price sales on less stock.
What best demonstrates the improvement in your multi-channel service compared with competitors?
We started behind our competitors in multi-channel, being set up with the ichael Sharp has been Chief theresults we have achieved so far are infrastructure to support a UK department Executive of Debenhams encouraging.
Highlights this year have store business.
The investment we have since September 2011. been the fantastic job our staff did to put behind our operations to serve our Here he discusses the deliver a successful peak trading period: multi-channel customers better has taken M progress we have made the real step forward in multi-channel us from behind the pack to top quartile.
service: and improving market shares Wehave aprofitable online business, which inall our major product categories.
is optimised for mobile shoppers, and Q.
Why did you announce on mobile is our fastest-growing channel.
Do you have the team and have extended the cut-off times for next tostep down in 2016 after five years resources to deliver the strategy?
Having launched our as Chief Executive?
We have strengthened our senior team free next day click & collect service last It is a privilege to lead Debenhams and this year, with the appointment of Matt autumn it now accounts for almost 30% Iam very proud of our achievements Smith as our Chief Financial Officer.
Matt oforders, and as our lowest-cost delivery since September 2011.
I believe brings a wealth of experience from his channel which also brings customers back Debenhams is now capable of time atMothercare and Home Retail into stores we are delighted with progress.
competing in the ever changing and Group before that.
We have an excellent We are enhancing our offer further with the challenging world of multi-channel senior team with agoodblend of external introduction of interest-free credit for larger retailing.
I accepted the job of Chief and internal experience, which makes me purchases in time for peak alongside more Executive with the intention of spending confident in the delivery of our strategy.
Thereisplenty more for five years in the role and although it will As far as resources are concerned, we us to do in thecoming months but we be difficult to leave a fabulous company have a well invested store portfolio, we expect continuing progress in multi-channel.
like Debenhams, now is the right time are part way through a major systems Q.
How will you support your store for the board to begin the process of upgrade to support our international performance as spend shifts online?
I will continue multi-channel ambitions, we have the The differences between channels as Chief Executive throughout the financial resources to invest to deliver areblurring.
Stores are a key part of Christmas trading period and into sustainable growth, and of course, we multi-channel shopping and we have 2016until a suitable successor has have our colleagues who work so hard anumber of initiatives in train to define beenappointed and settled into the across the entire business.
I am delighted their role more clearly and ensure that role.
Wehave a strong and talented that our Your Voice survey of employees they remain relevant to our customers.
management team and I would like to has shown increased scores across a We identified space in our larger stores thank them and our 30,000 colleagues number of categories.
where we could improve performance for their continuing support, hard work by adding new products and services.
How will you ensure that We asked customers what they would about my intentions will stop recent customers continue to be engaged like to buy from us that we were not speculation becoming a distraction, by Debenhams proposition?
already selling and as a result of their allowing me and the Debenhams team We put product at the heart of what we feedback we have been trialling a number to focus on delivering our strategy and do in order to deliver breadth and choice of new offers in sportswear, younger the important Christmas trading period.
We know they want fashion, casual dining and beauty services.
newness so we are continuing to invest in We are pleased with progress and are Q.
How would you describe the design and developing brands.
Designers moving from trial to roll-out of this Groups performance in 2015?
at Debenhams remains absolutely key to programme.
We are fortunate in that I am pleased that having laid out our our proposition and Iam delighted that our stores are in great locations and by strategic priorities last year, we have we are able to inject fresh talents such as giving our customers more choice, delivered a good financial performance Savannah Miller and Giles Deacon this more brands and more in-store services this year, with measurable progress autumn, as well as introducing new we are confident they will continue to against each of our key priorities.
products and services to give customers be central to the customer experience.
Thereis plenty more for us to do but more reasons to visit our stores.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4 Strategic report 2-39 WE HAVE BUILT A STRONG PLATFORM FROM WHICH TO DELIVER LONG TERM SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Profit before tax 113.5m Increase in 2014 15 EPS 7% Mike Goring, Suzanne Harlow, Michael Sharp, Matt Smith, Retail Director Group Trading Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Director Richard Cristofoli, Ross Clemmow, Nikki Zamblera, Marketing Director Peter Swann, E-commerce Director Human Resources Operations Director Director Read more on our Executive Committee on page 45 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT CONTINUED be sold outside of Debenhams, giving market to remain competitive, we are us another leg of growth.
ingood shape to build on last years strong performance over peak trading.
Is the infrastructure ready tocopewith  Q.
How can Debenhams continue and viamultiple channels?
tocompete in a changing retail We are part way through a multimarketplace?
yearinvestment programme that will Rather than just looking to play deliver an infrastructure to support catch-upwith the competition we profitable international multi-channel havethought hard about the skills, growth.
Weare minimising risk by using capabilities and investments needed tried and tested systems and phasing toensure Debenhams remains relevant Our exclusive implementation of the programme.
We and competitive for the foreseeable Hammond & Co. haveexcellent warehousing facilities but future.
The decisions we are making collection from Savile investment infurther automation will about allocating our resources Row tailor Patrick Grant was extended drive cost andservice efficiencies in the effectively arefocused on how we to 98 stores following future andsupport our expansion plans.
cancontinue toadd value for our its successful launch customers, how wemaintain the last year.
What are the key challenges and differentiation of our brand, and opportunities for the Group in 2016?
growprofitably across channels Having made good progress on andgeographies.
What are the key drivers for ourstrategic priorities for 2015 I am growth in international markets?
What are your plans to deliver I see a number of potential drivers for five new stores opening in the UK this longer-term growth in the business?
Our store chain autumn and we are making sure these In the UK our focus is to maximise the inDenmark, Magasin du Nord, is are compelling, exciting and fun places performance of our store portfolio andto consolidating its market leadership and to shop.
Our Bradford store will be the exploit our opportunity within the channel has delivered a year of exceptional only department store in this major shift online.
As a one-stop shop for a growth.
We expect continuing positive city, which is among the top 30 retail broad choice of international and exclusive momentum this year.
The Republic of markets in the UK.
We have exciting brands across fashion, accessories, beauty Ireland remains a challenging market, newand extended brand offers, such and homewares, weare in a tremendous but our teams are working hard to asNine by Savannah Miller, Hammond position todrive multi-channel growth.
& Co. and Principles which all feature Internationally wehave the opportunity We continue to open franchise stores in our A match made in Debenhams todrive growth via a number of different inboth new and existing markets, with advertising campaign which has models, all of which are costand continuing opportunities in the Middle launched this season.
We expect to continue East, balanced by growth in newer optimisation programme ismoving togenerate good cash flow, giving us regions in the Far East and Eastern fromtrial to implementation, and astrong platform todrive long-term Europe.
We are testing new channels to performance ofour new brands and sustainable growth for ourshareholders.
market which have exciting longer-term new concessions over the Christmas prospects: this year we will offer some peak will be a key test of the strategy.
MICHAEL SHARP of our international online customers We will have filled atleast half the CHIEF EXECUTIVE local language and local currency identified space by nextspring.
We 22 OCTOBER 2015 websites: we are entering Australia with nowoffer top quartile service for our a new multi-channel model: and multi-channel customers and there is following some successful trials we see plenty more to go for both in the UK potential for some of our own brands to and overseas.
Whilewe expect the Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 6
