Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement It has been a successful year which clearly demonstrates that we are delivering our global growth strategy.
Michael Redmond Ian Page Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer We are pleased to report that the Group has FAP continues to decline as we have a delivered a strong performance in the year, strong presence in the antibiotics market in with good revenue growth in the majority of our Western Europe where there is continued EU markets and excellent growth within North focus on prudent prescribing due to America.
This performance has been realised concerns over antibiotic resistance.
This through new product launches, the resolution remains an ongoing headwind against our of a number of supply issues, improved overall performance, especially in Germany 3.9% penetration of our core products into our major and also in Denmark, where there has been markets and new territory launches.
However, it is pleasing Our EU business has it has been a successful year which clearly to note that the rate of decline has slowed in delivered solid growth of demonstrates that we are delivering our global the Netherlands, a market in which antibiotic 3.9% at CER 2.2% at AER growth strategy.
use has reduced sharply over the last four years.
Portfolio Focus DVP EU Our therapeutic and life stage pet diets, Our EU business has delivered solid branded Specific, have now fully recovered growth of 3.9% at CER, driven by a strong from the stock-outs created by the performance across our Companion Animal complex transfer of the products to a new Products CAP portfolio offsetting a decline manufacturer.
The supply issues were well in Food producing Animal Products FAP.
managed given the logistical challenges Most markets grew in the year but the most involved in the transfer process.
Overall sales significant double digit sales increases declined slightly compared to the previous were seen in the UK, France, Spain year.
The range has now been repositioned and Belgium.
Our key therapeutic focus and a new marketing campaign is being areas of endocrinology, dermatology and rolled out across Europe focusing on three Read the Financial Review anaesthetics and analgesics all performed key drivers: on pages 40 to 45. strongly.
Additionally, we have strengthened the high inclusion of fish protein and the two of our therapeutic areas: associated benefits of Omega 3: Read Delivering Our Strategy our dermatology portfolio was expanded on pages 14 to 17. the ethos of deriving the nutrients of the with the successful launch of an products from sustainable sources: and in-licensed product, Sporimune in seven View further content on our European markets.
the Specific brand being dedicated to the website: www.
the launch of Osphos in the UK improves our position in the equine market.
Preparations are now being made for the launch of the product across the rest of Europe in the new financial year.
08 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report DVP North America Our agility enables us to respond rapidly to We have seen an excellent performance in market changes or opportunities.
Following North America with sales growth of 59.9% a serious shortage of critical care intravenous at CER.
All our major therapeutic areas grew, fluids in the US market, we obtained FDA in particular endocrinology and dermatology approval for the emergency importation of sales increased by 24.0%.
The sales increase our European critical care intravenous fluid in endocrinology was driven by Vetoryl, our Vetivex 11 Hartmans solution to supply the 59.9% lead product in this category, which continued equine market.
We are currently working with to deliver double digit growth and by the new the FDA to achieve long term approval for a We have seen an excellent product launch of Levocrine Chewable Tablets, US labelled version of this product to add to performance in North America which has outperformed our expectations.
with sales growth at Our performance in North America benefited To support our growth in the US, we have 59.9% at CER 64.6% from the full year trading of Phycox, the continued our investment in the infrastructure at AER re-launch of ophthalmics, the launch of with 16 new appointments, predominantly Osphos and the opening of our Canadian across sales and technical support.
Phycox, which came into the Pipeline Delivery Group through the acquisition of the assets of Team Restructuring PSPC Inc. in May 2014, has performed well Given the varied range of projects in throughout the year and we have increased the development and the increasing demands number of customers purchasing the product of regulatory authorities, the Product by over 50%.
The ophthalmics products, Development and Regulatory Department which were re-launched following long term has been restructured.
Dr Joseph Rosentel supply issues, achieved expected sales targets has been appointed to lead the Product despite strong competition from human Development Project Teams and Dr Susan generic equivalents.
We have successfully Longhofer will now head up Regulatory launched Osphos, our unique product for Affairs and will dedicate more time to equine lameness and, whilst the uptake has business development, a critical function been a little slower than expected, we have to as we assess numerous in-licensing date penetrated approximately one-third of the opportunities.
equine and mixed animal practices.
Adjusting for these items, sales of our existing core products grew by 21.7% at CER.
Glossary Terms used within this section: CAP Companion Animal Products FAP Food producing Animal Products CER Constant Exchange Rate FDA US Food and Drug Administration 09 slugline Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued This restructuring has been implemented to Refilling the Pipeline provide the necessary expertise and focus with We continue to identify new opportunities a view to ensuring we deliver the increasingly internally and externally to improve and complex product portfolio in a timely and expand our product portfolio.
reached a preliminary agreement with Jaguar Animal Health Inc. to secure marketing and Successful Approvals joint development rights for their leading Following the launch of Osphos in the UK companion animal product.
We have also and US in the first half of our financial year, acquired a partially completed dossier for TAF Spray was approved we have subsequently received approval in an additional canine endocrinology product: for launch by all our European 17 additional EU territories and have also further development work will be required to trading subsidiaries received marketing approval in Canada.
gain full approval, which will be conducted at in the year EU approvals were achieved following our manufacturing facility in Skipton, UK.
the completion of mandatory studies demonstrating food safety as the horse is Geographical Expansion classed as a food producing animal in the In the first half of our financial year we majority of EU territories.
opened our Canadian subsidiary and successfully recruited a team of eight, TAF Spray was also approved in 14 the majority of whom focus on sales.
We European countries in the year.
This is a commenced trading in January 2015 differentiated generic antibiotic aerosol and have begun to establish a strong containing thiamphenicol which is used to presence in this territory.
The Canadian treat superficial wound infections in several subsidiary achieved sales targets for species.
Vetoryl, Felimazole and the dermatology range.
However, other products sales were A new low dose 5mg Vetoryl has been impacted by surplus stock in the market approved for the US.
This enhances from our previous distributor which had the range of dosing options available to A new low dose 5mg Vetoryl washed through the system by the end of veterinarians and provides a new marketing has been approved the financial year.
The new team is highly message as we continue to deliver growth for the US focused to deliver results in our new from the Groups leading product.
To support our geographic expansion We have also established a trading goals, minor approvals were received for subsidiary in Poland.
This came about as the Octacillin and Soludox in the Philippines distributor of our range of predominantly FAP and Sedaxylan in South Africa.
products was acquired, thereby allowing us Development Update to take advantage of a change of ownership Complete dossiers have been filed in both clause in the contract.
We have appointed the EU and US for a canine endocrine ten people, including the Country Manager product, to be branded Zycortal.
Initial and an experienced sales team, the questions have been received and it is majority of whom previously worked for our hoped that the first approval will be received distributor, together with three contracted 8 during our new financial year.
Trading commenced ahead of our expectations in May 2015.
We have three FAP project dossiers for We established our Canadian poultry and swine under review in Europe We are currently at an advanced stage of subsidiary and successfully and are preparing a further dossier for a planning the start-up in an additional new recruited a team of eight decentralised application which will be territory, Austria, which we anticipate will be submitted before the end of the 2015 trading prior to the end of the new financial calendar year.
Owing to the nature of the development We also continue to invest in our Regulatory process, some projects in the Feasibility function to gain new licences in other phase have taken longer than projected countries identified as target markets.
before reaching the Development phase.
Whilst there are few locations where we However, we are mitigating the potential have the relevant critical mass for a new impact of delays by increasing the overall start-up at this time, the registration process Read the Strategy in Action: number of projects in development.
is important as we look to expand beyond Geographical Expansion on our core markets.
View further content on our website: www.
com 10 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report The principal benefits of trading through our The mandatory offer is expected to be own subsidiaries are that we can capture the completed by November 2015 and full margin from our own products and we is subject to approval by the Croatian can provide the relevant sales and marketing Financial Services Agency HANFA.
The Throughout the year we have focus which is more difficult to achieve principal reason for the acquisition of this continued to identify and through marketing partners.
shareholding in Genera is that it represents a unique opportunity for Dechra to enter the screen potential businesses Acquisition poultry vaccines market, thereby expanding Throughout the year we have continued to our FAP portfolio.
This broader product and products for acquisition identify and screen potential businesses and offering will support our FAP sales in Western products for acquisition that could increase that could increase Dechras Europe and will enhance our ability to Dechras value and improve returns to increase our presence in emerging markets.
value and improve returns to shareholders.
Additionally, the acquisition will bring three shareholders.
new sales territories in Croatia, Slovenia and We were pleased to announce, post the year Bosnia and Herzegovina and will enhance end, that we have made a conditional offer our manufacturing capabilities through to acquire a 63.3% shareholding equivalent access to a lower cost manufacturing base.
to 69% of voting rights in a Croatian based business, Genera d. d. which triggered Although the veterinary market has a mandatory takeover for the remaining undergone considerable consolidation shares which would value the business at over the past decade, we are still able to the equivalent of 51.4 million on a debt identify potential acquisition candidates due free, cash free basis.
The sale and purchase to our market knowledge and increasing agreement to acquire this stake is conditional international presence.
on total aggregate shareholder acceptances reaching 75% of the voting share capital.
11 slugline Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Strategic Enablers Information Technology Manufacturing The roll out of the Oracle Programme The key objective of Dechra remains one of the primary objectives Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing DPM is for the Group.
Detailed plans are in place to produce Dechras own pharmaceutical for the implementation to be completed by range in the most efficient and effective the end of 2017.
Progress has been made manner.
In addition to manufacturing in the year with the appointment of a new 11.7% the Groups products, we also utilise dedicated Project Manager to coordinate spare capacity to provide a third party this complex project and ensure adherence Within the year, third party manufacturing service.
Additionally, the implementation of manufacturing sales these external sales, reported under our EU the Group Finance Consolidation solution have increased segment, have increased by 11.7%.
went live in June 2015. by 11.7% at CER 9.4% at AER A number of projects were implemented We have continued to refresh our IT across our sites throughout the year to infrastructure and update our digital increase capacity, improve yields and drive technologies with the following initiatives: efficiencies to reduce the cost of goods.
a Group high-speed network has been These include investments in: implemented across all major Dechra the Premix Department in Bladel to locations: increase batch sizes for FAP products: a web-based portal for staff training has a new faster encapsulating machine been designed: in Skipton which increases yield and a new DVP website has been launched doubles capacity: in multiple languages and a new PLC a blister packing line to increase capacity website is at an advanced stage of and flexibility through automation: and development: and We have focused on talent a larger creams and ointments vessel to new hybrid PC tablets are being management and development facilitate a major third party contract and introduced for all sales staff to improve production of in-house creams, liquids mobile working and presentation and ointments in Skipton.
There have been a number of other People developments within Manufacturing, the As reported last year, our focus has been most significant of which is the successful on talent management and development.
pre-approval inspection of the Skipton We have introduced a Talent Mapping facility by the FDA in preparation for the programme to identify staff with high potential Read the Strategic Enablers approval of our new canine endocrine and we are implementing a professional Q&As on pages 26 and 27. product, Zycortal, to be manufactured at development programme to strengthen and the site.
Succession Read more about Corporate planning is also in place for all key managerial Social Responsibility Our US site in Melbourne, Florida, which on pages 50 to 57. and technical roles across the Group and was acquired from PSPC Inc. in May a rolling review programme has been 2014, has been fully integrated into View further content on our established.
Additionally, a Dechra careers website: www.
This year, we have website has been developed to provide focused on increasing quality systems up-to-date information on opportunities for all and production capacity following the employees and to attract new talent to launch of a new product, Levocrine, the Group.
which is manufactured at this site.
A new Manufacturing Manager has been appointed The Senior Executive Team SET has to drive quality systems improvements and been strengthened within the year with the necessary increase in production to the appointment to the team of Dr Joseph meet the demand we have created for both Rosentel, Director of Product Development, Levocrine and Phycox.
and Giles Coley, Marketing Director DVP EU.
Work has commenced on a Leadership Development programme for the team.
12 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Glossary Terms used within this section: IT Information Technology Oracle Programme There has been significant recruitment Outlook Enterprise Resources Planning ERP throughout the year to support the Groups The Board believes that our focus on our software growth.
In total, we have added over 100 key therapy areas, the continued rate employees, in new territories, in sales and of adoption of Osphos and sales in our DVP technical support teams within DVP US and new territories will drive progress in the Dechra Veterinary Products in recruitment to fill vacancies in DVP EU short term.
Current trading is in line with and DPM.
management expectations: however, the business continues to be exposed to As we grow, internal communication to exchange rate volatility.
drive Group-wide alignment is increasingly important.
With this in mind, a Dechra-wide In the long term the delivery of further new newsletter has been introduced to improve products and the integration of potential internal communication across all our acquisitions give the Board confidence in locations and all our employees.
Dividend The Strategic Report has been approved by To support the Groups The Board is proposing a final dividend of the Board and signed on its behalf by: growth, there has been 11.82 pence per share 2014: 10.65 pence per share.
Added to the interim dividend significant recruitment Michael Redmond of 5.12 pence per share, this brings the Non-Executive Chairman total dividend for the financial year ended throughout the year.
7 September 2015 30 June 2015 to 16.94 pence per share, representing 10.0% growth over the Ian Page previous year.
Chief Executive Officer Subject to shareholder approval at the 7 September 2015 Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 October 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 20 November 2015 to shareholders on the Register at 30 October 2015.
The shares will be become ex-dividend on 29 October 2015.
