Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 05 Chief Executives overview Performance in 2015 We remain focused on the value generated by Strong revenue growth.
Core portfolio continues to deliver growth.
36 locations acquired from Laurel Funerals successfully integrated.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Overview they represent a good long-term use of capital.
It is impossible to talk about the Groups As we have seen with the other crematoria % 99.2 opened in recent years, these locations will performance in 2015 without discussing the almost unprecedented percentage increase in probably take at least five to seven years to fully 99.2 per cent of families the number of deaths compared to 2014.
As develop their market share.
said that Dignity met the chart below shows, a change of more than or exceeded their Maintaining investment and development five per cent has not been seen for over 40 expectations.
momentum in our core business years.
Dignitys role is not to speculate on why Whilst a lot of time has been invested in this has happened, but rather to ensure our corporate activity in the year, we remain focused business can respond to the resulting increase on the value generated by our core business.
in need for our services, without impacting the A strong platform to Investment in these locations has continued, quality of service we provide.
I am delighted to drive growth and deliver with a total of 15.6 million invested in the say that we achieved this.
In 2015, 98.0 per long-term value period to ensure our properties and specialised cent of clients stated they would recommend fleet are able to support the excellent service our services, compared to 98.1 per cent in we provide to the families we care for.
Similarly, 99.2 per cent of clients said that we met or exceeded their expectations People and values FOCUS which is unchanged from the previous year.
Our staff have performed tremendously this Continue to focus on leveraging our year, responding positively to the sudden Corporate activity competitive strengths increase in demands required to care for so and consistently The business invested 50 million in many families this year.
We have chosen to share delivering excellent acquisitions in the period, including 38.1 client service.
the resulting financial success of the Group million to acquire 36 locations from Laurel by paying a bonus of 1,800 for each full time Funerals Laurel in July 2015.
These member of staff, a 64 per cent increase on the acquisitions were all funded from the Groups amount paid per full time employee last year.
cash reserves, as a result of the strong financial The total cost of the bonus is approximately performance and cash generation in the year.
Continue to maintain These acquisitions are performing in line with our strong position in Quality and consistency of service delivery our expectations and contributed 2.3 million a stable industry with remains our long-term focus opportunities to acquire of operating profit in the period, with 1.4 market share.
The business has yet again demonstrated its million of this being generated by the Laurel robustness and is well placed for the future.
All these acquisitions represent We hope to achieve our medium-term target excellent investments for the business and of10 per cent per annum increases in earnings shareholders alike.
per share by staying focused on excellent I am pleased that we also now have planning service, operating efficiently, selling pre-arranged DELIVER permission for two crematoria.
Whilst these are funeral plans, acquiring and developing quality Continue to manage both in the early stages of development and businesses where possible and keeping our the business to deliver strong EPS growth, will not open until mid-2017 or early 2018, capital structure appropriately leveraged.
cash flow and return on capital.
