10 10 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT: WE HAVE DELIVERED CHANGES WHICH WILL BUILD STRONG, SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE.
The fundamentals for future growth remain strong: Diageo will benefit from the increasing penetration of spirits in emerging markets, innovation and the growing appetite for luxury spirits around the world.
In the next decade one billion new Driving operational and cultural change Results consumers will be able to afford our brands In the past year we have implemented some Organic net sales were flat.
Volume declined and an additional 800 million consumers will 1% reflecting a destock in South East Asia, important changes to strengthen our reach levels of income where luxury brands business.
These changes are aimed at lower shipments in the United States and are affordable.
Diageo has the leading providing greater visibility and will allow improving price mix led by the growth of position in the United States, an integrated us to react more quickly to changes in reserve brands.
Western Europe business, a strong beer Organic operating margin was up the marketplace, consumer sentiment platform in Africa from which to build spirits, and demand.
24 basis points delivered by cost savings the leading spirits business in India, and a We have completed our shift to a marketand efficiencies, which more than offset strong presence in the growth markets of led model, enabling greater speed in the the impact of cost inflation and negative Latin America and Asia.
Our global efficiency way we execute and local accountability.
programme identified 200 million of cost We have shifted our focus to the This year we improved cash conversion, savings to be delivered by the end of fiscal consumer, allowing us to make better strengthened our route to consumer, 2017.
We delivered 127 million this year, decisions on how we use our marketing delivered industry leading innovation at and as planned reinvested 30 million spend and run our supply chains.
scale, extended our leadership in reserve and of the savings.
We have embedded a productivity accelerated delivery of our programmed cost Free cash flow was up over 700 million discipline, in order to create more savings.
We have further sharpened our this year, to almost 2 billion, as I made cash opportunity to invest behind growth in marketing to better navigate changing a clear priority for improvement.
So, while some markets this, incentive programmes were changed have been challenging, we remain confident We continue to ensure we have the right and we set clear targets for each market.
in the long term global demographics and people with the right capabilities to This focus has led to many examples across our ability to deliver growth through the deliver our plans across our business.
markets where we have improved processes business transformation we are effecting.
and ways of working to reduce our working capital.
The sales of the Bushmills brand and the Gleneagles Hotel also generated cash in the year.
S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t G Go ov ver ernanc finance e F Financial sta inancial stat temen ements ts A Additional inf dditional infor orma mation f tion for shar or shareholders eholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 11 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Productivity Earnings per share before exceptionals Our Water Blueprint and our progress fell 7% to 88.8 pence largely as a result of towards all of our targets are essential parts At the end of July 2015, we announced our adverse exchange movements and lower of our long term plan, not just in enabling intention to deliver productivity gains of a income from associates and joint ventures, sustainable operations but also in creating further 500 million over three years from fiscal 2017 to invest in growth and improve offset by underlying improvements.
As we achieve our productivity gains Sustainability and responsibility Our people we expect to deliver mid-single digit organic In December 2014 we launched our 2020 It is a privilege to work with Diageo teams top line growth on a sustained basis and Sustainability & Responsibility targets.
I feel honoured to lead a operating margin expansion of 100 basis Stretching and industry leading, our 2020 company where purpose and values are points over the same three year period.
targets address our most material issues: deeply ingrained.
The commitment of our leadership in alcohol in society: building people to get behind the decisions taken Outlook thriving communities: and reducing our during the year is encouraging.
This was The fundamentals for future growth remain demonstrated in the results of our annual strong: Diageo will benefit from the environmental impact.
The 2020 targets draw on our achievements to date and are employee Values Survey, with employee increasing penetration of spirits in emerging aligned with the new, emerging United engagement improving through a tough markets, innovation and the growing Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
This evidence of the appetite for luxury spirits around the world.
passion and commitment all of us hold for We have taken some tough decisions With these targets, we are going beyond the establishment of programmes on Diageo is the perfect fuel to drive future over the last couple of years to set Diageo responsible drinking, community growth, and I look forward to working with up to deliver strong, sustained performance.
development and environmental our teams across the business, implementing Today we are closer to the consumer, more the exciting plans we have for the year ahead.
agile, and focused on productivity, with the performance, to focus on measuring their impact, challenging ourselves to strengthen Larry Schwartz, President Diageo North people, skills and capabilities to deliver on their value, impact and scale.
In doing so, we America, will retire at the end of this calendar the opportunity.
We are at an exciting point will work in partnership with governments, year.
Larry has many achievements in a on our journey.
In 2016, we believe stronger 40-year career in the industry, not least his volume growth will deliver an improved top civil society, individuals, NGOs and other companies to put in place programmes commitment to deliver growth for Diageo line performance.
We continue and build our strong North American to support fully the Global Producers platform.
Deirdre Mahlan, currently Chief Financial Officer and the incoming leader of Commitments, a co-ordinated industry response to support the World Health this business, will have this platform to build Organizations WHO Global Strategy to on as she drives the next stage of Diageo Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol.
Ivan Menezes In April this year we announced an Chief Executive ambitious strategy for water stewardship.
With water a pressing business and global issue, our Water Blueprint recognises the responsibilities of operating in water-stressed areas and explains how we will support the sustainability of the water resources on which we and those around us rely.
2015 net sales by category % 7% 8% 24% 5% 4% 7% 18% 12% 3% 6% 1% 5% Scotch Liqueur Wine NAM Whisk e y Tequila Ready to drink Vodka Gin IMFL Rum Beer Other
