Chief Executives Review 12 The Group delivered arobust performance with a good contribution from acquisitions Bruce Thompson, CEO In 2015, the Group has delivered a robust Business model and growth strategy Overall growth is accelerated from the performance with a good contribution The Groups strategy is designed to generate underlying GDP plus levels to the corporate from acquisitions completed during the last strong, double-digit growth in earnings and target of strong, double-digit growth, eighteen months.
The Groups revenues shareholder value over the business cycle, by through carefully selected, value-enhancing increased by 9% with the acquired businesses building larger, broader-based businesses in acquisitions which fit the business model and adding 11% to revenues, but with adverse the three Group Sectors of Life Sciences, Seals offer entry into new strategic markets.
currency movements reducing revenues and Controls.
by 3% on translation to UK sterling.
After Acquisitions are not made just to add revenue adjusting for acquisitions and currency, Our businesses target GDP plus levels of and profit, but rather to bring into the Group underlying revenues increased by 1%.
organic revenue growth over the business successful businesses which have growth Adjusted operating margins decreased cycle.
Stable and resilient revenue growth is potential, capable management and a good by 40bps to 18.1% of revenue, reflecting achieved through our focus on essential track record of profitable growth and cash transactional currency effects in the products and services funded by customers generation.
As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow Healthcare businesses and initial dilution operating rather than capital budgets and strategy, we invest in the businesses post from the acquired businesses.
Free cash flow supplied across a range of specialised industry acquisition to build a firm foundation to allow increased by 7% to 40.3m and return on segments.
By supplying essential solutions, them to move to a new level of growth.
These adjusted trading capital employed ROATCE not just products, we build strong long term acquisitions form a critical part of our Sector remained comfortably above the 20% relationships with our customers and growth strategies and are designed to generate threshold at 23.9%.
suppliers, which support sustainable and a pre-tax return on investment of at least 20% attractive margins.
Finally we encourage an and hence support our Group objective of entrepreneurial culture in our businesses consistently exceeding 20% ROATCE.
through our decentralised management structure and these essential values ensure that decisions are made close to the customer and that the businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the market and the competitive environment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 13 Our year in review Group Life Sciences Seals Controls Acquisitions Strong proven 4% underlying 4% underlying Softer European Acquisition spend business model revenue growth revenue growth as industrial markets doubled over prior delivered robust despite pressure on trading activity in and strong prior year year in positive performance Healthcare budgets North America comparatives: acquisition in Canada and slowed in H2 5% underlying environment Australia revenue reduction PG22 PG26 PG30 Building shareholder value Performance against objectives and KPIs year, challenging markets within the three 40bpsby Sector mix and by tight control of The Groups principal corporate objectives Sectors meant that organic growth has been operating costs across the businesses.
are to achieve double digit growth in adjusted hard won.
In Life Sciences, underlying earnings per share EPS over the business revenues increased by 4% despite the The Group continues to focus strongly on free cycle, to generate total shareholder return pressure on budgets throughout the cash flow, which funds the growth strategy TSR growth in the upper quartile of the Healthcare system driven by the tougher and gives the resources to provide healthy FTSE 250 and to deliver progressive dividend economic environments in Canada and dividends to shareholders.
In 2015, free cash growth with two times dividend cover.
In Seals, underlying revenues flow was 40.3m, compared with a five year increased by 4% as trading activity in North average of 33m p. a. and was equivalent to a The compound growth in adjusted EPS has America slowed in the second half of the year, conversion rate of over 90% of adjusted after been 15% p. a. over the last five years, with impacted indirectly by cutbacks in the Oil & tax earnings.
growth this year at the more modest level of Gas sector and lower demand for natural 6%.
Over the last five years, the compound resources.
Controls revenues decreased by The principal determinant of free cash flow growth in TSR has been 22% p. a.
This year, 5% on an underlying basis, reflecting softer conversion is the effective management of TSR has been broadly flat after a number of European industrial markets and strong prior working capital and the KPI used to measure years of very strong growth.
and monitor this performance is working increased progressively in each of the last capital as a percentage of revenue.
In 2015 16years and this year the dividend has The objective for adjusted operating margins this KPI remained stable at 17.0% comparing increased by 7%.
Over the last five years, is to maintain stable attractive margins which well with the five year average level of 1617% thecompound growth in dividends has reflect the focus on specialised segments, which is also the longer term target.
a. strongly differentiated products and customer focused solutions, combined with efficiently ROATCE is the final indicator of the overall Underpinning the principal corporate run operations.
This year, adjusted operating performance of the Group and very objectives are a set of further objectives, with margins were 18.1% which is at the lower end importantly of its success in creating value related key performance indicators KPIs of the five year average range of 1819%.
ROATCE is measured as which are used to measure performance at As always there were a number of moving the pre-tax return on total Group investment the Group level, but also to drill down through parts, with margins negatively impacted by excluding net cash, but including all goodwill the operating businesses.
the reduced gross margins in the Healthcare and acquired intangible assets.
ROATCE has businesses, initial dilution from acquired comfortably exceeded the 20% target in each The first of these next level objectives is to businesses and one-off facility restructuring of the last five years and this year was 23.9%.
generate stable GDP plus levels of organic costs in the US.
However, the impact on revenue growth over the business cycle.
This Group operating margins was limited to Chief Executives Review continued 14 of Ireland and the UK.
In addition, TPD brings worked alongside me for 17 years at Diploma Carefully selected, important new products and suppliers to and he has been a key driver of the growth and the DHG group in the areas of rapid hygiene development of the Group over this period.
value enhancing testing in Food, Dairy and Pharmaceutical We will all miss his insightful contributions on acquisitions industries as well as Digestive Health.
strategy, keen business judgement and dry humour, but at the same time we all wish him accelerate growth In Seals, the Group acquired Kubo, a leading well in his future endeavours.
supplier of seals, O rings, gaskets and and facilitate entry moulded rubber parts serving a diverse base Over the last few years, we have strengthened of industrial customers in Switzerland and the senior management team by giving to related markets.
This acquisition opens up further increased responsibility to existing managers opportunities for cross-selling of products and through selective external recruitment.
Acquisitions with the Groups other Industrial OEM Seals We are intending to continue this process over Acquisitions are an integral part of the Groups businesses, giving them access to Kubos the coming year with the establishment of a strategy, designed to accelerate growth and to high precision manufactured parts.
In the formal Executive Management Group EMG facilitate entry into related strategic markets.
UK, FPE Seals acquired Swan Seals, a small reporting in to me.
We will be retiring Iains To achieve the Groups objective of strong specialised supplier of machined seals based in COO shirt and his responsibilities will be redouble-digit growth, acquisition spend at the Aberdeen and serving customers operational allocated across this broader leadership team.
the Group continued to benefit from a positive The introduction of the EMG will ensure that acquisition environment and invested 37.8m The Group also acquired a further 10% we have a strong and broad based team in in acquisitions, which was well above the shareholding in Kentek, taking our ownership place to support the next stage of our growth target annual level and was more than double to 90% with the balance held by the Managing strategy.
Since the year end, we have made the level of expenditure in the prior year.
In October 2015, good progress in building bench strength shortly after the year end, the Group in this evolving EMG, with the recruitment The acquisitions which have been completed acquired WCIS, a supplier of gaskets, seals of two experienced senior managers to are natural extensions of the Groups existing and associated products and services, with take leadership roles in North American businesses and have extended the scope of operations in Australia and New Caledonia.
Industrial Distribution and in our International the businesses into new product and market Healthcare business.
Management development Iain Henderson, our Chief Operating Officer In Life Sciences, DHG acquired 80% of COO, decided during the year that he Technopath Distribution TPD, an would like to retire from the Group.
Iain will established supplier to the Biotechnology, stand down from the Board at the January Clinical Laboratory and Medical markets in 2016 AGM but will stay fully involved with the Ireland and the UK.
The acquisition of TPD Group until the end of March 2016 to ensure a represents an important first step in extending smooth handover of responsibilities.
Iain has the scope of DHGs business into the markets Acquisition spend 37.8m Life Sciences TPD 80% Seals Kubo 100% : Swan Seals 100% : Kentek 10% 28.2m 22.3m 16.5m 12.2m 11.0m 2.2m 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 15 Life Sciences Performance in the year initiatives by the Provinces and regions to Reported revenues of the Life Sciences restructure functions and these constrained businesses increased by 13% to 103.1m.
purchasing in the first half of the year: the % The acquisitions of TPD in October 2014 and businesses had a stronger second half as 31 Chemzyme in July 2014 added 15% to Sector delayed capital equipment orders were of Group revenue revenues but this was partly offset by a released.
Somagen continued to grow in reduction of ca.
6% in revenues from the core areas of HbA1c diabetes testing, 2015 2014 currency translation to a strong UK sterling.
electrophoresis, colorectal cancer screening On a constant currency basis, underlying and assisted reproductive technology ART, Revenue 103.1m 91.4m revenues increased by 4%.
while adding new suppliers in quality control Adjusted operating products and automation in microbiology profit 21.0m 19.7m Gross margins in the Healthcare businesses and theranostics.
Revenue growth in AMTs Adjusted operating continued to be impacted significantly by core electrosurgery business was constrained margin 20.4% 21.6% transactional currency effects.
During the by Provincial and buying group tendering financial year, the Canadian and Australian processes, but further progress was made in Free cash flow 15.6m 14.9m businesses experienced further depreciation developing AMTs minimally invasive surgery in their domestic currencies of 20% and 25% business.
Vantage delivered good doublerespectively relative to the US dollar, which digit growth across its principal product lines Sector revenue growth of 13%: is the principal currency in which these including endoscopes, reprocessors, argon underlying growth of 4% after businesses mostly purchase their products.
plasma and GI endoscopy accessories.
adjusting for currency and TPD The TPD business in Ireland and the UK has acquisition not been impacted in the same way by In Australia, the economies have faced transactional currency effects, but joined the similar economic challenges to those Good revenue growth in DHGs Group with slightly lower operating margins.
experienced in Canada and again Healthcare Canadian and Australian Currency hedging contracts and supplier price budgets have come under pressure.
Against businesses despite pressure on concessions have provided some mitigation, this background, the DHG businesses have Healthcare budgets: stronger but Healthcare gross margins have reduced by delivered a creditable double-digit growth in second half of year as delayed 370bps compared with the prior year.
revenues, with particularly strong growth in capital equipment orders Environmental gross margins improved and smoke evacuation.
BGS and DSL operate as released operating costs as a percentage of revenue distinct sales and marketing businesses reduced across the Life Sciences businesses: under a single strong leadership team and Significant pressure on margins Sector adjusted operating margins therefore shared operations and back-office systems.
from 20-25% depreciation of reduced by only 120bps to 20.4%.
On a Chemzyme, acquired in July 2014, was fully Canadian and Australian dollars reported basis, adjusted operating profit integrated into DHGs operations in against US dollar increased in UK sterling terms by 7% to Melbourne during the year.
TPD acquisition extends DHG In early October 2014, DHG acquired 80% into Ireland and the UK: strong Free cash flow increased by 5% to 15.6m of TPD, an established supplier to the double-digit growth in first year reflecting a combination of the increased Biotechnology, Clinical Laboratory and Medical operating profit and reduced cash flows into markets in Ireland and the UK.
TPD is an Environmental businesses working capital, offset by an increase in important first step in extending the scope of maintained underlying revenues capital expenditure.
DHGs business into Europe and adding new and finished the year with solid products and suppliers in the Food, Dairy and order book Strategy development Pharmaceutical industries as well as Digestive The DHG group of Healthcare businesses Health.
TPD has performed very well since account for 85% of Life Sciences revenues.
acquisition, delivering strong double-digit The DHG model is to build strong market revenue growth on a like-for-like basis.
positions in growing niche Healthcare markets.
Products are sourced from high The a1-group of Environmental businesses quality medical device manufacturers under account for ca.
15% of Sector revenues the terms of long term exclusive distribution and supply a range of products used in agreements.
Full service solutions are Environmental testing and Health & Safety provided by highly qualified technical sales applications.
The a1-group businesses have and product application staff, working closely maintained underlying revenues in challenging with surgeons, operating room nurses and European markets and finished the year with laboratory technologists.
A large proportion of a solid order book.
The a1-envirosciences revenues are secured under multi-year business saw strong demand for high-end customer contracts.
elemental and mercury analysers supplied to the Petrochemical industry and Environmental In Canada, the three principal businesses laboratories.
The a1-CBISS business is delivered good revenue growth, despite benefiting from supplying to the new Biomass the softer economic environment putting and Energy from Waste plants which are pressure on budgets throughout the forming an increasingly important part of the Healthcare system.
There have been various UKs energy portfolio.
Chief Executives Review continued 16 Seals Performance in the year trading and two new seal machining centres Reported revenues of the Seals businesses were added during the year.
The Bulldog increased by 17% to 139.6m.
These revenues operations in Reno were relocated to a new % included contributions from Kubo, Kentek, facility in Tampa, close to the core Hercules 42 and four smaller bolt-on acquisitions in the Clearwater site.
HFPG revenues were also of Group revenue UK completed during the last 18 months.
impacted this year by a significant reduction After adjusting for these acquisitions and for in demand for HKXs attachment kits against 2015 2014 currency translation, underlying revenues a very strong prior year comparative.
responded by introducing lower cost, entry Revenue 139.6m 119.8m level kits which are upgradeable as required to Adjusted operating Good progress has been made during the year provide a fuller range of capabilities.
profit 24.8m 21.7m in establishing a more substantial presence Adjusted operating outside North America through a combination In Europe, FPE Seals increased revenues margin 17.8% 18.1% of organic growth and acquisition.
The strongly, benefiting from a full year of AB businesses based in the EMEA region Seals and the transfer from HFPG of sales Free cash flow 17.8m 16.4m contributed 47.3m to Seals revenues in the responsibility for the Bulldog range of year and now account for 34% of Sector products in the EMEA region.
In October 2015, shortly after the small specialised supplier of machined seals Sector revenue growth of 17%: year end, the acquisition was completed based in Aberdeen, was acquired in July underlying growth of 4% after of WCIS, a supplier of gaskets, seals and 2015.
During the year, FPE Seals relocated its adjusting for currency and associated products and services with principal UK operations to a new, purpose acquisitions operations in Australia and New Caledonia.
built facility which will be the core Aftermarket In North America, slower trading Seals hub for further expansion in the EMEA Across the Seals businesses, gross margins region.
Kentek delivered strong revenue activity in second half, impacted continued to be resilient, underpinned by the growth despite the significant economic and indirectly by cutbacks in Oil & business model of superior product availability market challenges in Russia, Finland and the Gas and Mining industries and added value technical services.
Continued investment in operating margins reduced by 30bps to 17.8% as Kubo joined the Group with lower initial The Industrial OEM businesses account for e-commerce and seal machining operating margins and there were several ca.
45% of Seals revenues and supply seals, centres: Bulldog operations one-off costs in the reorganisation of facilities O-rings and custom moulded and machined relocated to Tampa: new branch in the US, including the relocation of the parts used in a range of specialised industrial operation in Houston Bulldog facility.
The businesses work closely with increased by 14% to 24.8m.
their Industrial OEM customers to specify the In Europe, strong underlying most appropriate sealing material and design growth despite challenging Free cash flow increased by 1.4m to 17.8m, for the customers application and to select economic background: new benefiting from the increase in operating profit the most suitable seal manufacturer from purpose built FPE Seals facility and tight control of working capital, partially which to source the parts.
Once the part is established as core Aftermarket offset by an increase in capital expenditure.
designed into the application, the businesses hub in Europe provide the necessary logistical and technical Strategy development support, in most cases for the lifetime of the EMEA Seals now 34% of Sector The Aftermarket Seals businesses account OEMs product.
revenues following acquisitions for ca.
55% of Sector revenues and supply of Kentek, Kubo and Swan Seals own-branded sealing products used in a In North America, the businesses delivered broad range of heavy mobile machinery solid GDP plus growth for the year, though Acquisition of WCIS after year applications.
The products are generally trading activity again slowed in the second end broadens product range and supplied from inventory on a next day delivery half, impacted indirectly by cutbacks in the extends Seals activities into basis and are typically used in the repair Oil& Gas and Mining sectors.
During the Australasia and maintenance of equipment after it has year a new branch operation was opened by completed its initial warranty or lease term.
AllSeals in Houston and JRoyal strengthened Our businesses act as a one-stop source of its operations by integrating its Rhode Island replacement components for all main brands operations into the main facility in North of machinery and compared to the OEM dealer Carolina.
networks, offer higher levels of customer service and more competitive pricing.
In Europe, the Group completed the acquisition of Kubo, a leading supplier of seals, In North America, HFPG delivered a solid O-rings, gaskets and moulded rubber parts performance in most territories, offset to a diverse base of industrial customers in by substantial declines in the resource Switzerland and Austria.
M Seals delivered dependent States in the second half of the solid underlying growth in Denmark, Sweden, year.
Further progress was made in electronic China and the UK.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 17 Controls Performance in the year which continue to show growth potential.
In Reported revenues of the Controls businesses the Energy sector, IS-Sommer has delivered decreased by 4% to 91.1m, after including a strong increase in revenues from products % a full year contribution from SFC, acquired in used in the repair and maintenance of 27 July 2014.
After adjusting for this acquisition the medium-voltage infrastructure of the of Group revenue and for currency translation, underlying Electricity distribution network.
Filcon has also revenues decreased by 5%.
The Controls had success supplying a focused portfolio 2015 2014 businesses faced challenging industrial of specialised connectors to the developing markets in the UK and Continental Europe Space satellite segment.
Revenue 91.1m 94.6m and strong comparatives for the Specialty Adjusted operating Fasteners business in the Civil Aerospace and A key element of the growth strategy within profit 14.5m 15.3m Motorsport sectors.
Interconnect is also to broaden the range of Adjusted operating high performance products and added value margin 15.9% 16.2% Overall gross margins remained resilient in services offered.
As part of this strategy, the the Controls businesses due to their focus on Specialty Fasteners group of businesses has Free cash flow 11.4m 11.4m specialised markets and added value services.
been formed and was strengthened through However, operating costs as a percentage of the acquisition of SFC, which delivered an revenue increased due to reverse operating excellent performance in its first full year with Sector revenue reduced by 4%: leverage and adjusted operating margins the Group.
Clarendon this year strengthened underlying reduction of 5% after reduced by 30bps to 15.9%.
Adjusted its partnership with its major aircraft seating adjusting for currency and operating profits decreased by 5% to 14.5m.
customer, with the installation of an innovative acquisitions VMI vendor managed inventory solution Interconnect businesses faced Free cash flow remained unchanged at that utilises bespoke dispensing racks located 11.4m, with reduced cash flows into within the customers production cells.
challenging industrial markets in working capital and lower capital expenditure Clarendon also consolidated its position with the UK and Continental Europe offsetting the impact of lower operating profit.
the same customer by extending its supply and strong comparatives in Civil contract to an additional manufacturing site.
Aerospace and Motorsport Strategy development While these projects constrained revenue this The Interconnect businesses account for year during the implementation phases, they Continued growth in specialised ca.
75% of Controls revenues and supply will secure longer term growth in revenues.
segments in Germany, including a range of high performance wiring, the Energy and the Space connectors, harness components, fasteners The Fluid Controls businesses account for satellite sectors and control devices.
25% of Controls revenues and supply a used in technically demanding applications, range of fluid control products used broadly In Specialty Fasteners, lineside often in harsh environments in a range of across the Food & Beverage industry.
Products supply projects for aircraft seat industries including Aerospace, Defence, are used in a range of applications including manufacturer constrained Motorsport, Energy and Medical as well as food retailing and transportation, catering business this year but will deliver in other specialised Industrial applications.
equipment, vending machines, coffee longer term revenue growth: The businesses act as a single source for a brewing, pure water and water cooling excellent performance from SFC wide range of products, have strong technical systems.
in first full year knowledge to specify products for customer applications and offer ex-stock availability Hawco has had to respond to significant Fluid Controls businesses and a full range of value-added services.
A structural changes in food retailing, where repositioned towards growing high proportion of the products are used in the traditional UK majors have reduced segments of the Food & refurbishment, upgrade and maintenance substantially their fit-outs of new stores Beverage market in the UK, with programmes for equipment in service.
and Hawcos immediate customers, the smaller more energy efficient commercial refrigeration manufacturers, products The core Industrial markets in the UK have have now begun to win new business from been challenging, with demand from industrial the European discount retailers.
Hawco also end-users muted and with a significant continues to leverage its expertise and access reduction in the sales to other distributors in to smaller, more efficient compressors and the UK and in Eurozone countries which the ancillary components to penetrate the wider IS-Group serves as a Master distributor for Brewing and Catering sectors.
In Germany, again the general industrial sector has suffered in the There are also significant changes taking place wake of Russian sanctions and the slowing in the hot drinks dispensing market where key Chinese manufacturing sector.
In addition, players are re-positioning their businesses a number of IS-Sommers customers have from vending companies to coffee relocated all or part of their manufacturing to specialists.
Abbeychart has responded by lower cost regions outside Germany.
building a portfolio of essential parts to service the broad range of espresso-type machines To offset the declines in the broader Industrial installed in an increasing number of outlets markets, the Interconnect businesses have from garages to high end restaurants.
focused on more specialised market sectors
