STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement Overview SUMMARY 2015 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record number ofopenings.
This excellent performance is the result of a o The Group opened 65 stores and relentless focuson driving our digital offering through investment and innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings and focusing nowoperates 931 stores across our .
threemarkets We had a good year in the Republic of Ireland despite currency headwinds, with growth driven by improved performance from digital channels.
o In the UK in 2015, 60% of total orderswere made by customers Internationally, we have ceased operating directly in the German market, having entered into a strategic joint venture arrangement, which acquired online, up from 53.3% in 2014 the largest pizza delivery chain in the country.
I am also encouraged by our continued progress in Switzerland.
o The UK business achieved system Our strategy remains simple and clear.
We aim to be the number one salesgrowth of 16.8% including pizzacompany in each neighbourhood in which we operate, through 11.7%like-for-like acommitment to offering the best product, service and qualityto ourcustomers.
o We have now seen two years of UK and ROI growthin ROI and the Dublin UK market isdemonstrably stronger The UK business delivered an impressive set of results from the 869 stores than the rest ofthe country that were trading at the year-end 2014: 813.
System sales were 16.8% ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 11.7%.
Like-for-like order volumes were ahead by 9% whilst average order value grew by 2.4%, helped by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering value for money.
We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in our preliminary announcement last year remains fundamental toour success in the UK: o e-commerce: We have continued to increase investment in our digital offering, driving a higher number of customer visits, improved conversion rates and larger order values.
o New store openings: The rate of openings accelerated in the period with a record number of 61 new stores in the UK in 2015: these continue to perform well, providing a foundation for future growth andconfirming our long-term opportunity.
o Franchisee profitability: The Group has maintained its focus on franchisee profitability by continuing to pass on cost savings, therefore increasing the appetite for further investment by franchisees.
DAVID WILD CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dominos Pizza Group plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DURING THE FOURTH QUARTER WE INTRODUCED THE ONE-TOUCH ORDER BUTTON.
MORE ENHANCEMENTS ARE PLANNED FORTHE YEAR AHEAD.
InJuly 2015 we launched our mobile responsive website which adapts e-commerce and responds to the mobile device that the customer is using.
Enhanced The Groups investment in e-commerce software development increased customer usability ultimately drives sales and profitability through significantly in 2015 and it is expected to rise further in 2016, reflecting improved engagement and conversion rates.
During the fourth quarter our continued commitment to providing the business, our customers and we introduced the one-touch order button, which allows for credit card franchisees with a best-in-class digital platform.
In the UK, e-commerce details and favourite baskets to be saved for future use, making the sales now represent 77.7% of all delivered sales, up from 70.8% in 2014, experience even more convenient.
More enhancements are planned with app-based sales accounting for 48.6% of online sales.
digitally enabled allows us to drive further growth in the UK business.
Brand Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer andour franchisees.
From a consumer perspective, promotional offers 2015 saw our 30th anniversary in the UK as we concentrate on building are more easily accessed, ensuring that consumers get the best value.
The success of our app downloads has enabled us to Franchisees benefit through store labour efficiencies and being better switch some advertising spend from digital to conventional, and we able to target local marketing campaigns, particularly through customer commenced sponsorship of the TV show Hollyoaks in January 2015, relationship management.
which reaches 10 million viewers in the 16-34 age group.
This has generated a media value of almost 12.0m, and has helped to drive As a result of this strategy online orders in the UK were 28.6% ahead and spontaneous awareness of Dominos to 73% and improve brand recognition average order value was 1.7% ahead of last year.
App-based orders were among teens and families.
Our sponsorship of the X-Factor app ensures 41.1% ahead and order value was 2.0% ahead.
11.5m customers have brand salience during the key weekend evening slots 2015 downloads: downloaded the app.
We launched our Pizza Legends initiative, where customers can Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital create their own pizza, with great success across all channels, with innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more.
The Channel 4 documentary A Slice of Life demonstrated the truly extraordinary passion that our team members have, with over one million views resulting in a significant increase inrecruitment applications.
Product We continue to innovate, refresh and improve our product range to respond to changing customer demand: in terms of pizza development we saw the introduction of the Tikka Pizza and we reintroduced the hot dog stuffed crust.
In stores we slowed oven speeds to allow for a longer cook time and to increase the quality of our finished product across therange.
The basket composition has continued to evolve in the UK, as the Group has focused on providing value oriented, full meal solutions through bundle offers.
On a like-for-like basis, pizza volumes are 8.1% ahead, side orders are 12.1% ahead, while dessert and drink volumes are 14.8% and 32.7% ahead of 2014 respectively.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive Officers statement continued 2015 SAW RECORD STORE OPENINGS OF 61 IN THE UK.
Franchisees Our franchisees sit at the heart of everything we do.
They have both driven and shared in our success.
The Group is committed to ensuring that they are successful, and in 2015 profitability improved year on year, primarily as a result of the benign food price environment combined with the Groups purchasing power.
In 2015, we passed on savings of11m from lower food costs, primarily from cheese and dough.
Supply chain We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is one of the most sophisticated and efficient across the Dominos global network.
Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, with a secondary plant in the North-west in Penrith, and we opened a satellite base in Livingston, Scotland, during the year.
We have commenced our building project for a new main facility in Warrington which is due UK and ROI continued toopen in early 2018, and are also opening a further satellite base in the South-west.
Although the supply chain handled record volumes in UK continued 2015, it did so whilst improving on already excellent service levels to New stores stores, with delivered-on-time-to stores measures increasing to 99.8%.
2015 saw record store openings of 61 in the UK, bringing the total It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high portfolio to 869 2014: 813.
The performance of these new stores has quality product at low cost.
Our philosophy is based on establishing been excellent with average weekly unit sales AWUS 14.5% ahead of long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the systems buying similar openings in 2014.
These include both virgin territories and those power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers.
existing areas which have been split, increasing density, improving service for customers, and increasing sales and profitability for franchisees.
ROI 26of the 61 stores opened were splits.
We provide incentive packages ROI delivered a good set of results despite currency headwinds, with to franchisees to encourage proactive opening ofstores in areas that system sales of 56.0m 2014: 51.7m in local currency, with a sterling meet our strategic requirements for the estate, including lower address value of 40.7m 2014: 41.8m.
In local currency sales were ahead by counts and splits.
Depending on the nature of the incentive these may 8.3%, but in sterling they were 2.7% behind, reflecting the relative be spread over the life of the lease.
The total incentives cost in 2015, strength of sterling against the euro.
We now operate 47 stores across including the impact from previous years, was 1.7m.
Five stores were the ROI with the Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the closed in 2015.
Four of these were non-traditional formats, which had continued economic recovery.
We are looking at upgrading and initially been launched as a trial in 2013 but did not generate sufficient relocating our supply chain centre.
volumes to make them viable.
A full provision was made in 2014 for Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI.
Online sales were thecosts associated with closing these stores.
30.4% ahead of 2014 and now represent 51.7% of delivered sales, upfrom 44.3% last year.
App-based growth continues to drive digital adoption and now accounts for 60.2% of online sales, up from 46.9% in 2014.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Switzerland We made good progress in Switzerland with three relocations and four new store openings, resulting in 15 stores at the end of 2015 2014: 11, all of which are under corporate ownership and operation.
Despite the pressures within the Swiss economy, on retail sales in particular, following the upwards revaluation of the Swiss Franc at the beginning of 2015, our business managed to generate an increase in system sales of 18.4% in local currency to CHF17.0m sterling: 21.0% and 11.7m.
Like-for-like sales were 5.4% ahead of last year in local currency, with the mature store portfolio significantly improving profitability, although the country experienced a very hot summer with a negative impact on sales.
Underlying operating losses for the year were 1.3m 2014: 1.0m withthe increase reflecting the costs of training, food and labour costs associated with opening new stores.
The increased profitability of the existing store portfolio gives us a solid base which allows us to continue building up the store network.
Outlook Despite the volatile macroeconomic environment, 2015 has been a Germany record year for system sales, and also saw us entering into a landmark We announced in December 2015 that the Group has entered a strategic joint venture transaction to transform our activities in Germany.
In joint venture in Germany which has acquired the largest German pizza Switzerland, we are seeing encouraging signs of progress and have delivery chain.
As a result of the transaction, the Group is no longer a completed a programme of store refurbishments which are already direct operator in the German market.
The transaction completed on showing some of the intended improvements.
The UK and ROI business 1February 2016 and we are excited by the prospects that a larger continues to set sales records, and we sold 82.4m pizzas in the year, scalebusiness in this market can generate.
We continue to exploit the opportunities Most of our existing operations in Germany have been sold into the new of new technology to the full, with e-commerce now being the source of joint venture.
The remainder of the business has either closed down over two thirds of our total sales.
This robust base gives us confidence already or been earmarked for closure.
The total result for Germany, for the future, and during 2016 we expect to be opening around 65 new which is shown as discontinued operations, is a loss of 9.6m, which stores and will be investing in additional supply chain centres in the UK includes underlying trading losses of 3.3m 2014: 7.3m.
We have opened six stores in the UK and one store in Switzerland in 2016 already and we believe that significant growth remains possible Our People in the core UK and ROI business for many years to come.
I would like to thank the Dominos team for their hard work.
I also want We have made a good start to 2016, although we are conscious to pay tribute to our franchisees whose tireless endeavours ensure that ofincreasingly tough comparatives for the rest of the year.
our customers continue to enjoy great pizzas at great prices every day whether ordered online or by phone, delivered to the door or collected in store.
David Wild Chief Executive Officer 2 March 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09
