22 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief Executives review For any business operating intheUK energy market, 2015wasadifficult year.
For Drax it was especially so.
Yet operationally, In November the Secretary of State for The fastest, most it was a year of strong progress: we moved a Energy and Climate Change announced the affordable and safest step closer to the completion of our biomass governments proposal to consult on setting a transformation, upgrading our third unit to clear end date for coal of March 2025.
Given it still way to get off coal enhanced co-firing and the power station to provides around 25% of the countrys generating now is to further a predominantly biomass fuelled generator: capacity, this is an ambitious target which could deploy the world we began manufacturing and supplying deliver significant carbon savings and secure compressed wood pellets from our mills in electricity if carefully implemented.
We stand leading low carbon the USA: and Haven completed another ready to assist with this.
Coal is high carbon and technology Drax has year of record sales.
The scale of these we need to urgently reduce our dependency achievements cannot be underestimated, on it.
Part of the solution is new nuclear and pioneered.
even more so when one recalls that at gas.
But, as a recent report by the Institute of the start of our biomass journey we had Mechanical Engineers noted, the country will neither a generation nor supplysolution.
find it very difficult to build enough new facilities in time to replace the lost coal capacity.
Sat alongside this strong operational achievement were some of the toughest The fastest, most affordable and safest commodity markets I have known in mycareer.
way to end coal use is to further deploy the These were then accompanied bya series world leading low carbon technology Drax of unexpected regulatory announcements, has pioneered to upgrade some of the UKs including the removal of the CCL exemption, existing coal fired power stations to biomass.
which severely affected the renewables Our strategic priorities are aligned with this sector and caused many to question the UK and, with the right support framework we governments commitment to decarbonisation.
stand ready to help makethis happen.
2025 The governments target year for ending coal generation Dorothy Thompson CBE Chief Executive Strategic report Drax Group plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2015 On both a personal and professional level I was Affordability pleased with the continued progress being The current administration has been clear made by the SBP.
In March it launched its when it comes to new renewable generating framework which would allow companies in capacity, affordability is a critical criterion.
the biomass sector to demonstrate compliance Recent work by the economic consultancy with legal, regulatory and sustainability NERA and Imperial College has found that on requirements relating to woody biomass.
In awhole system cost basis biomass is 735 December this framework was recognised MWh more affordable than other technologies.
by Ofgem as being fully compliant with the If these support levels were then modelled in UKs RO legislation.
This firmly established thegovernments planned renewable energy SBP as an effective certification scheme for auctions for later this year, consumers could biomass users to demonstrate compliance Our ability to respond in an ever savein the region of 2 billion.
At the same time with regulatory requirements.
It also adds it could take four years for a new build gas facility more flexible way will help us to recognition in Denmark through the to come online, even if it can be shown that better support the grid.
Danish Energy Agreement, and is undergoing itcould achieve an acceptable return on evaluation in Belgium and The Netherlands.
It is because of these factors that we believe there to be a very strong case for further coal to biomass upgrades at Drax and we Safety will continue to work closely with government to Excellent safety management has always help the country achieve its goals.
been at the centre of our management ethos and I am pleased to say that in the UK our performance remains industry-leading.
In Sustainability the US, we exceeded our safety targets for It is important to note that Drax is on the journey 2015 and have made great strides towards from coal to sustainable biomass quickly and instilling a culture of safety through the safely reducing the UKs carbon emissions whilst implementation of various proactive safety still generating reliable and affordable electricity.
As has always been the case, the safety and well being Our biomass technology achieves a carbon of our employees and contractors will saving of up to 80% vs coal a figure remain my primary operational priority.
independently audited by PwC and verified by our industry regulator, Ofgem.
We are Europes single largest decarbonisation project and if we were able to upgrade 100% of our power station to sustainable biomass, we would make an even larger contribution towards the decarbonisation of the UK.
Continue our transformation from coal to biomass generation.
Critical infrastructure 1 Continue to develop our expertise and technology in the sourcing, manufacture, World leading biomass transportation and combustion of compressed wood pellets.
technology 2 Laser sharp focus on controlling and where possible reducing operating costs Improve operational efficiency whilst seeking continual operational improvements.
3 Across the Group focus on areas where we can exploit our differentiation Grow revenues and improve andunique capabilities to create value, being agile and flexible to develop margins newmarkets.
4 Use the expertise, knowledge and talents of our people across all geographies Develop new markets to identify and develop activities in new and existing markets, with a focus on diversifying risk.
5 Strategic priorities 24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Chief Executives review continued in an ever more flexible way will help us better Commodities We have developed support the grid and, in being able to play a more As I have already stated, commodity markets and have already active role in the prompt market, create have been challenging, driving the price of incremental shareholder value.
begun to implement a power to some of the lowest levels in the last 15 years.
Unlike in previous cycles this fall was not robust plan to identify Our use of non-standard sources of coal offset by the drop in the price of coal, with dark and create incremental increased significantly over the year to 503Kt green spreads being very weak.
An example is the use of coal incredibly proactive in limiting our exposure to shareholder value.
residues recovered from former coal mines volatility in the commodities markets and were asclean up operations take place.
As well as able to limit the negative impact on earnings.
providing a useful outlet for these residues and ensuring they do not end up in landfill, they are The year in question was one of the windiest in exempt from carbon tax.
We expect to continue the last 20 years, which, when combined with use of these fuel types in 2016. increased wind generating capacity, led to an oversupply of ROCs.
This will continue into 2016but we are pleased to note that the UK government has taken action to address this for future years.
Regulation Energy is a complex industry: the challenge of addressing climate change even more so.
Both require effective policies that help meet the worlds energy needs while significantly reducing carbon emissions.
The need to tackle security of supply also requires Haven effective policies to encourage long term Haven achieved a record 13.8TWh of sales 2014: investment in a diverse range of technologies.
Our customer proposition remains And above all, industry needs stability and compelling as does our ability to delivera service surety so that it can secure shareholder that consistently exceeds expectations.
This support for long term investment decisions.
means that we have very strong renewal rates.
Over the period we were delighted to welcome This has been a difficult transitional year for Thames Water as a new customer further therenewable industry.
As one of the UKs demonstrating our strength in the utilities largest generators of renewable energy market, as well as many others.
we havebeen impacted more than most, but it is important to stress that the UK The link between record sales and strong government remains committed to, and customer retention is people at its core Haven supportive of, the current role of biomass.
Our customers have named 3,065m account managers: they deal with real people Strong operational performance from who take their business seriously.
Our service is Total revenue our business units second to none.
2014: 2,805m Each business unit has performed strongly during the year, as described below.
In previous years I made it very clear that scale and therefore growth was our primary objective Drax Power for Haven.
This growth has delivered cash into Excellent availability and reliability throughout the Group.
In future years we will shift our focus 0.31 the year meant that once again our power to creating new sources of value.
station was able to prove its worth, providing flexible generation output and balancing Group Total Reportable InjuryRate The removal of the CCL exemption had a services in support of system stability and 2014: 0.33 significant negative impact on the business, yet security.
As the amount of intermittency Haven was the first in the market to respond steadily increases we expect these services with a new product Biomass Renewable to become ever more valuable to the grid.
The market for renewable power is evolving but our renewable product has It was a record year for planned outages, already been well received by some of our with four takingplace, including the customers.
As the only product to guarantee successful completion of our first major 100% renewable energy, 100% of the time, overhaul of an upgraded biomass unit.
it is the strongest renewable offering currently available to business users.
For the first time since the beginning of the last decade our coal units have started to two-shift, In these uncertain economic times firms have to by which we mean they do not run in a continual, prioritise stretched resources.
Many have clear, base load manner.
We recognise that this is the long-standing commitments to purchase and future for these units, and our ability to respond use only renewable electricity and we hope that Strategic report Drax Group plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2015 despite the removal of the CCL exemption they Drax is a world leader in biomass technology We believe there aremany will continue to live up to both the spirit and not just in our ability to upgrade existing opportunities forus to develop letter of their public commitments.
Certainly we plant, but also in how to source, process and have been pleased to work with many of our improve its use as a fuel.
We will continue to and further exploit our biomass customers, such as Santander, in this regard.
search for opportunities to create value from pellet technology and supply this expertise in the UK, US and elsewhere.
In the UK this means we will continue to Drax Biomass play a critical role in the transition away This year was a milestone for Drax Biomass, from coal and in further decarbonisation.
as our port facility became operational in More biomass conversions are the means April, followed closely by our manufacturing by which this can be achieved quickly, safely facilities in June and July.
I am pleased with and most importantly of all, at the fairest the performance of our new US business price to the tax bill payer.
Wewill continue and I am encouraged by the potential to work closely with government to make for new business opportunities in the the case for further unit conversions.
US, spurred on by the implementation of President Obamas Clean Power Plan amongst other external developments.
Outlook This was a tough year for Drax and 2016 willbe equally challenging.
Your senior management Dorothy Thompson CBE team took decisive action to ameliorate the Chief Executive impacts of events outside of our direct control and will continue to do so.
We have developed and have already begun to implement a robust plan to identify and create incremental shareholder value.
Core to this will be moving our power station from not only being a reliable and consistent generator to one that, in a new age of low commodity prices, is also dynamic and agile.
The plan addresses three specific areas: a laser sharp focus on cost control including capital expenditure: revenue optimisation especially in changing the way we manage our coal units to provide system support to the grid and downstream development of the retail renewable power market.
At the same time we continue to evaluate a range of longer-term strategic options.
