14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Q&A In the spotlight Dorothy Thompson answers some of the key questions raised by shareholders during the course of 2015 and addresses some of the important issues facing the Group.
How would you describe the Q.
It is widely acknowledged that The case for more performance of Drax in 2015?
Draxs biomass conversion was a biomass generating bold step.
In light of recent changes capacity is strong.
This was a poor year for our shareholders.
to government policy on renewable Our financial performance disappointed due energy was it still the right thing for toa number of external factors, primarily the the Group to do?
collapse in commodity prices, which affected most companies in the energy sector, and A.
Absolutely, both for us as a business and for changes to established government policy.
Our biomass generation the UK with the significant carbon reductions What made it especially frustrating for me was is significantly better Drax is achieving.
The UK government is fully that operationally, the business performed as committed to the current biomass generation than coal 80% cleaner well as it has ever done.
The Group took steps capacity.
We firmly believe that with the urgency throughout the year to offset the financial interms of carbon to remove coal by 2025 and the need to support challenges we face, not least in reviewing emissions.
even greater intermittent generation, set against andreducing future operational and capital a backdrop of affordability, the case for more spend, optimising revenue from our coal units biomass generating capacity is strong.
and introducing new customer products.
I expect further progress on these and other We recently commissioned the economic areas in2016.
consultancy NERA and Imperial College, London, to look at the whole system costs for a variety ofrenewable technologies.
They found that biomass is 735 MWh more affordable than other technologies and that if these new support levels were modelled in the governments planned renewable energy auctions, consumers could save in the region of 2 billion.
Dorothy Thompson CBE Chief Executive Strategic report Drax Group plc 15 Annual report and accounts 2015 of Custody certification.
You are in the middle ofaState Aid Q.
Why dont you source biomass from able to prove that the wood fibre they supply investigation andhave previously sued the UK?
us is legal, sustainable and low carbon and the government.
Is this type of external that the criteria within the RO are being met.
A. Drax does source a very small proportion activity just business as usual for Drax?
With Ofgem benchmarking SBP as being ofbiomass from the UK, predominantly heating fully compliant with the UKs RO we and most pellets, agricultural residues, miscanthus and A.
It was clear from the very beginning of of our suppliers, are transitioning our pellet straw.
With regard to wood, in world terms theCfD process that any positive decision production to sustainability certification theUK has a relatively small forested area not would need to go through a State Aid process, under the SBP sustainability standards.
capable of meeting the countrys demand for as do many projects that receive state support.
As a consequence the UK is Whilst of course we would have liked a Q.
Is burning biomass really cleaner heavily reliant on imports for a range of somewhat speedier decision than is currently than coal?
What about those woodproducts including sawn-wood, the case, wefirmly believe it is right and proper reports that say otherwise?
wood-based panels, and pulp and paper that the European Commission conduct a aswellas wood pellets.
Our biomass generation is significantly better we are inthe second phase of the process we for the climate than coal - independently verified Q.
How can shipping wood half way look forward to working with them closely over to be more than 80% lower in terms of carbon thecoming months.
round the world ever be described emissions.
It also generates much less nitrogen as sustainable?
Reports with adverse The removal of the CCL exemption was a conclusions are usually predicated on false surprise to all within the energy sector.
Due to the compressed nature and high assumptions for instance that our demand is believe that the notice period provided by the density of the pellets, and the large ships used, contributing to deforestation or that we take government was inappropriate and it is for that we consistently show carbon savings of more from forests that are in decline, which is simply reason we, and other renewable operators, than 80% compared to coal including emissions not the case.
asked the courts toexamine the decision.
Global sea borne trade is a very efficient way of moving bulk commodities Q. Shouldnt wood be used for more Q.
Given the significant political such as compressed wood pellets.
Indeed, it is valuable purposes?
risk to which Drax is exposed, how more carbon efficient for us to transport them from across the Atlantic by sea than it would be can you be sure that any promised A.
The use of wood to replace fossil fuels to truck them several hundred miles.
The UK has shareholder returns will be forlarge scale electricity generation has a been a net importer of energy and, as outlined achieved over the short and higheconomic, social and environmental value.
earlier, wood products for many years and our medium term?
A great many businesses and homes depend trade in compressed wood pellets is no different.
onthe electricity generated from biomass in A.
The fundamental question to ask is this: addition to revenue generated in the forest Q.
Where will you find opportunities arewe making a valuable contribution?
If the industry and supply chain.
We source from for growth in the medium term?
answer is yes, which I am confident it is, and regions with large working forests that can thebusiness remains operationally strong, then readily supply our needs whilst continuing A. Drax is the world leader in biomass shareholder value will accrue.
Regrettably it is tomeet the demands of other wood-based technology and I am excited by the not within my giftto fully insulate the business industries.
In fact by providing landowners opportunities this will present the Group in both from commodity price movements and abrupt withthis additional source of revenue, we the medium and longer term.
It is encouraging changes to government policy, despite the good helpthem reinvest in their working forests that in the longer term, as the biomass market relations we have, and continuous engagement toensurethis resource remains available for matures, it should become competitive without with officials in the UK, EU andUSA.
subsidy support provided there is a robust carbon price and an equitable allocation of Q.
Do your suppliers use whole whole system costs.
is predicated on the sustainable trees?
Is that a sensible thing sourcing of your biomass.
With so many long serving Board you ensure compliance with all directors having left the Group in 2015 A.
Our suppliers often use thinnings relevant sustainability legislation?
this could be described as the end of smalltrees that have been removed from an era.
What impact do you think it workingforests to maximise the growth of the A.
The UK Renewables Obligation RO has willhave?
remaining trees, as well as lower-value wood arange of legislative requirements to ensure from final harvesting operations.
In all cases, biomass used for electricity generation we ensure that this wood is sustainably A.
We have been fortunate to have such is low carbon and sustainable including sourced from forests that are maintained or astable and dedicated Board for such a requirements to ensure that bio-diversity, increasing in size, thereby ensuring that our longperiod of time.
However, with the recent productivity and sensitive habitats are sourcing practices do not adversely impact additions, we have brought fresh perspectives protected and maintained.
Drax is audited long term carbon stocks.
and skills which complement those we already annually by independent auditors to ensure have.
Your Board is in good shape and focused that all these requirements are met.
Every on leading Drax through thenext phase of pellet plant is audited and should have Chain itsdevelopment.
