22 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review We have momentum behind developing our business portfolio to enhance the quality of the business.
OVERVIEW In the financial year 2014 15, DS Smith has again delivered strong underlying growth in volumes, margins, profits, returns and dividends, with all metrics well in line with our medium-term financial targets.
At the same time as gaining market share through organic growth, we have delivered a series of acquisitions and disposals this year which help to focus the business on recycled packaging, and expand our geographic footprint and customer offering.
We have also delivered against our non-financial key performance indicators, with further improvements in health and safety and in our environmental impact, reflecting our strategy of having a sustainable business model.
Corrugated box volumes have increased by 3.1 per cent year-on-year, on a like-forlike basis, with an acceleration in H2.
All regions demonstrated positive progress, with particularly good growth in Central Europe and Italy.
This is materially ahead of both our target of volume growth of GDP 1 per cent and the overall corrugated market in Europe, demonstrating how customers are continuing to move to DS Smith, reflecting our strength in innovation and design and the ability to deliver a pan-European solution for Miles Roberts their packaging requirements.
Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 23 We have an ongoing programme of opening In a market where the needs of consumers, IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF THE our Impact and Packright design centres, retailers and our customers are constantly BUSINESS BY INVESTMENT AND where we bring together our innovation changing, we continue to focus on developing RESHAPING THE ASSET PORTFOLIO and design expertise to develop the best innovative solutions for our customers and DS Smith is ambitious to improve the quality packaging solutions.
The strength of our the roll-out of our performance packaging and scale of our business.
Scale is important business model lies in our scale, as the programme.
This utilises our unique proprietary as it allows us to invest in innovation and design centres share expertise and a technology, in order to provide high quality design, with the benefit shared throughout database of designs, which means packaging for our customers on a consistent the business and across our customers.
customers receive the best solutions, basis in the most cost-effective way.
This results in a business that is able to while the cost of development is shared.
For the full-year period, revenues increased lead the market in quality and innovation To date we have rolled out 17 new or by 1 per cent on a constant currency basis, while remaining competitive on price and refurbished centres, which combined despite a slight reduction from the net providing a full geographic reach, which with existing design centres means impact of acquisitions and disposals.
together underpin our improvement in we have 30 such centres across Europe.
Reported revenues reduced by 5 per cent driving margins and returns.
Allied to this We expect to extend this to over 40 by due to foreign exchange FX translation is a focus on increasing the value-added the end of the 2015 16 financial year.
Adjusted products and services to our customers.
operating profit increased by 17 per cent Earnings per share increased by 24 per cent We have made significant further steps this on a constant currency basis to 335 million on a constant currency basis to 24.5 pence year to expand our scale and improve the 9 per cent on a reported basis, driven by 14 per cent on a reported basis 2013 14: quality of the business through organic the contribution from the volume growth, 21.4 pence.
This result follows four prior investment, acquisitions, and disposals.
our focus on higher value-added product years of consistent growth, with the 5-year and services to customers, together compound annual growth rate for reported We increased our interest in Italmaceri, with the benefit of synergies from the EPS being 34 per cent.
a recycling business in Italy, from 50 to SCA Packaging acquisition, where we 100 per cent in July 2014, and bought a The Board considers the dividend to be have delivered the expected, final tranche plastics manufacturing site in Croatia an important component of shareholder of 40 million of synergies in the period.
in September 2014. returns and, as such, has a policy to deliver We have continued our strategy to a progressive dividend, where dividend In November 2014 we acquired Andopack, licence certain of our technologies in a cover is between 2.0 and 2.5 times, through a corrugated packaging business in number of geographies worldwide.
For the year 2014 15, the Board Spain.
We have been delighted with the the period, we entered into an agreement recommends a final dividend of 7.7 pence, customer reaction and the performance with Georgia-Pacific Corrugated LLC GP, a which together with the interim dividend of of the business, with volume growth major packaging company in North America, 3.7 pence gives a total dividend for the year significantly ahead of the Group average.
whereby GP licenses our technology for of 11.4 pence per share 2013 14: 10.0 pence Since the year end we have completed real-time monitoring and measurement of per share.
This represents an increase of our acquisition of Duropack, a corrugated the quality and performance of packaging.
14 per cent on the prior year and cover of packaging business with a market leading 2.1 times in relation to earnings per share position in south eastern Europe.
The before amortisation and exceptional items.
reaction from customers and employees has been very positive and we look forward to integrating the business into the Group.
See p 19-21 for more information on our strategy and key performance indicators.
com 24 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Review continued During the year we have also acquired a Average working capital DELIVERING ON OUR MEDIUM-TERM small packaging consultancy business, TARGETS AND KEY PERFORMANCE to revenue serving global customers with operations INDICATORS in Europe, US and Asia.
This expands our We have made progress against our key global reach and increases our capabilities in performance indicators over the full-year the analysis of packaging and its interaction 2.7% with substantial improvement in our with supply chains.
We are adding additional 2013 14: 3.4% metrics.
As set out above, corrugated box capability in the US to offer greater packaging volumes grew by 3.1 per cent.
This exceeded Earnings per share design consultancy and procurement our target of GDP 1 per cent, with year-onservices, on the back of existing customer year GDP growth, weighted by our sales in contracts and strong demand for our services the markets in which we operate, estimated beyond Europe.
We are very pleased with the 24.5p at 1.3 per cent Source: Eurostat resulting in positive reaction from our global customers 2013 14: 21.4p a target of 2.3 per cent.
We have delivered to this new initiative.
this growth across all our regions with a We have made a number of disposals of particularly strong contribution from Central businesses that were not core to the Europe and Italy, which has benefited from Groups strategy, including a Foams business our investment in the region as well as good in Scandinavia, in September 2014, and growth in the markets.
This performance StePac, a specialist modified atmosphere reinforces our confidence in our investment packaging business, in May 2015, after the in the Duropack business, which expands year end.
We have also disposed of a paper our geographic reach in the region, with the mill at Nantes, France, in line with our new business expected to increase our strategy to reduce non-integrated paper corrugated volumes in the region by circa manufacturing.
As a consequence of our strong volume growth, DS Smith has gained market We have continued to invest in our assets share across Europe, where the overall ahead of depreciation, with net capex of corrugated packaging market has shown 149 million 2013 14: 156 million.
volume growth of 1.5 per cent Source: Approximately three quarters of this FEFCO, May 2014 April 2015. expenditure has been in the corrugated packaging business, with growth Adjusted return on sales has increased by expenditure focused on the regions 130 basis points on a constant currency where there is the greatest opportunity.
basis to 8.8 per cent, at the upper end For example, in the year, approximately a of our target range of 7 to 9 per cent, third of the growth capex in the packaging reflecting the improvement in profitability business was spent in Central Europe, with from our focus on higher value-added investment in our sites in Poland, Hungary, products and services, operational gearing Czech Republic and Romania.
and the final year of cost synergies from the acquisition of SCA Packaging, that have been achieved over the year as anticipated Return on average capital employed has improved by 160 basis points to 14.6 per cent 2013 14: 13.0 per cent, toward the Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 25 In the year we achieved 92 per cent, broadly upper end of our medium-term target In relation to cash conversion, the target similar to the level achieved in the prior year.
range of 12 to 15 per cent and significantly level of 120 per cent was also set in 2010, Standards of service, quality and innovation above our cost of capital.
The improvement when, inter alia, working capital was a are key to our differentiation in the market.
is driven by our improved profitability substantially higher proportion of revenue We are investing significantly in these areas, and our continual focus on tight capital than its current level of 2.7 per cent.
from design centres throughout Europe, to allocation and management within the The Board therefore believes that the the roll-out of our performance packaging business, including working capital, which appropriate cash conversion ratio for the methodology, in order to continue to lead has shown further improvement this year.
business going forward, having achieved the industry in this field.
Return on average capital employed is our the target of 120 per cent or above for the primary financial measure of success, and prior five years, is 100 per cent or above.
DS Smith is part of the sustainable economy, This reflects the structural working capital is measured and calculated on a monthly with our principal product of corrugated reductions achieved and the maturity of basis.
All senior management have part packaging fully recyclable, and substantially the current business.
of their remuneration package linked constructed from recycled material, as are to this measure.
many of our plastic packaging products.
Our OUTLOOK Net debt has decreased to 651 million Recycling business works with customers The current year has started well, with 2013 14: 827 million while net debt across Europe to improve their recycling momentum in volumes continuing.
We also EBITDA calculated in accordance with operations and overall environmental have momentum behind developing our our banking covenant requirements was performance.
We have invested in improved business portfolio to improve the quality of 1.49 times 2013 14: 1.96 times, in line environmental tracking systems with far our business.
We have been delighted with with our medium-term financial KPI of more detail now available, as set out in the positive customer reaction to our recent a ratio of 2.0 times or below and reflecting greater detail in our Sustainability Report acquisitions.
The progress we continue to ongoing tight cash management and 2015.
CO equivalent emissions, relative 2 make with global customers, together with control throughout the business.
to production, have reduced by 2 per cent, the opportunities we see for growth as we and we are on target to achieve our 2010 During the year the Group generated free expand our international reach and offering, commitment to a 20 per cent reduction cash flow of 307 million 2013 14: 140 gives us confidence to increase our mediumby 2020. million.
Cash conversion was 127 per cent, term margin target by 100 basis points, and, in line with our target.
UPDATED MEDIUM-TERM notwithstanding the continued challenging market environment, we remain excited TARGETS AND FINANCIAL KEY DS Smith is committed to providing all about the prospects for the business.
employees with a safe and productive PERFORMANCE INDICATORS working environment.
We are pleased to We believe that scale brings benefits for report a further substantial improvement customers and for our shareholders.
Five in our safety record, with our accident years ago, for the year ended 30 April 2010, frequency rate reduced a further 13 per cent DS Smith reported a return on sales of from 4.79 to 4.16, reflecting our ongoing 4.5 per cent.
In December 2010 the Board commitment to best practice in health set a medium-term target of 68 per cent, and safety.
Our target is for zero accidents, Miles Roberts and raised that to 79 per cent following the which we are pleased to report that 182 Group Chief Executive disposal of Spicers in 2011.
Having achieved sites achieved this year, up from 138 in a full-year return on sales of 8.8 per cent 2013 14.
We continue to strive to achieve this year, near the top of that range, the zero accidents for the Group as a whole.
Board consider it appropriate to raise this The Group has a target for customer service sustainable medium-term target by an of 97 per cent on-time, in-full deliveries.
