4 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Q&A We are leading change by providing innovative packaging solutions.
You joined DS Smith as CEO in May 2010 over five years ago.
What has been achieved in that time?
The business has changed a great deal over the last five years, but there remains plenty of opportunities and a lot more to do.
At the time I joined, DS Smith was principally an Anglo-French business, with substantial paper mills, a large business in office products supply and margins of 4.5 per cent.
I set out a simple strategy, focused on our customers, to design and manufacture recycled packaging with the high quality, service and innovation that customers want.
The goal of that strategy was to improve our financial performance and the consistency of our returns.
This idea was summed up in the key pillars of our strategy to delight our customers, to realise the potential of our people, to double the size and profitability of the business, and to lead the way in recycling.
Five years on, we have done a huge amount.
We have made a number of acquisitions, so that the corrugated business is now genuinely pan-European, in 27 countries.
We have also disposed of parts of the business that did not fit.
In financial terms, since 2009 10 we have doubled revenues, close to doubled our 2010 margins and nearly tripled our earnings per share.
We have achieved this by winning market Miles Roberts share, which is the most significant test of Group Chief Executive whether you offer an attractive proposition Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 5 to customers.
We have invested in employee something that can only be achieved with programmes to engage everyone in the a pan-European manufacturing network OUR VALUES organisation.
We have also invested in like ours.
Large pan-European customers our recycling business as well as our own are realising that it is more efficient for corporate sustainability.
them to have only a small number of corrugated suppliers rather than many, See p 20 for more about our key because we can offer consistency and performance indicators quality that is otherwise difficult to achieve.
Be caring Does that mean that everything Second, we have the size to be able to We take pride in what we do and invest in innovation and research, with is done?
care about our customers, our the benefit shared across the business.
DS Smith is leading change in the industry, people and the world around us.
For example, we have invested substantially not just within our own organisation.
The in the quality of the paper we manufacture, changes are driven by our customers and to allow us to build the best possible their customers changing needs, which corrugated boxes.
I believe that, in the we see as continuing to evolve, so I believe case of DS Smith, scale and quality of there is a great deal further forward for business therefore go hand-in-hand.
DS Smith to travel, as we continue to invest Be challenging in our business.
When you talk about leading We are not afraid to challenge each change in the industry, what The business is cash generative, which other and ourselves constructively means that we have choices on how to does that mean?
to find a better way forward.
We are investing We put our customers at the heart of our significantly in our plants and adding operation and focus on what is important new technology to produce high quality to them and delivers value for them.
packaging, for example display units.
We Corrugated boxes fulfil a role far wider than are investing in rolling out design centres just transit.
Packaging touches many points across Europe so that all our customers in the supply chain so it is important how have a centre within easy reach where we Be trusted easily it works on our customers packaging can develop innovative solutions for them.
lines, how it can be used to maximise the We can always be trusted In Europe, while we have a network of transit logistics, and then, at the end, how to deliver on our promises.
plants that broadly cover the full region, the packaging helps our customers sell more there are areas where we would like a too, by presenting the product in a way that greater presence.
attracts the attention of the consumer and is easy to shop.
Good retail-ready packaging There is also the challenge of integrating packaging that is used in a store can save the businesses we have acquired recently the retailers money too by reducing Andopack in Spain, for example, and the Be responsive shelf-stacking time.
Duropack businesses in south eastern We seek new ideas and Europe.
Making the acquisition is just the At DS Smith we think that this whole understanding and are quick start we then bring in our ways of working, supply cycle is important, and that to to react to opportunities.
our innovation, links to our design centres make packaging that fulfils the needs in order to make the acquired businesses of our customer, you need the skills to as successful as possible.
address all these areas, in innovation, design and manufacturing.
This is a big Is bigger always better in change for the industry and we are proud the corrugated industry?
to lead this change in becoming more customer focused.
Be tenacious The scale of DS Smith gives us some clear advantages versus our competitors.
See p 18 for more about how we First, we are able to offer solutions to analyse the supply cycle large customers across Europe.
com 6 Strategic Report Chief Executive's Q&A continued Why are you changing your return The returns for shareholders have Looking at the past year, on sales target in your financial been excellent over the last five what are you most proud of?
years how has the businesss I am proud of how the business balance has delivered another good set of financial success benefited employees?
This year we have delivered a return on results, despite difficult economic conditions.
sales margin of 8.8 per cent, near the top Employees are our key asset.
We have That has come from excellent work by of our range of 7 to 9 per cent.
The Board made health and safety a top priority and our commercial teams throughout the now believes we can achieve an additional have seen a 46 per cent drop in our lost-time organisation, working to design and 100 basis points, in the medium-term.
accident rate over the last five years.
We manufacture the best packaging possible.
This increase reflects two changes to our have a programme called OWN IT!
that aims We have further developed the shape business.
First is the quality of our whole to help our employees understand how of the business with both acquisitions and offering, from innovation, design and their own targets and actions contribute disposals, and invested in our own assets manufacture, adding more value across to the performance of the business as a and network at the same time.
This has all the whole supply chain for our customers.
At the same time we encourage been delivered thanks to our employees Second is the scale of our business, which share ownership among our employees, each one of whom takes responsibility for means, among other things, that the costs and in 2014 launched an award-winning delivering their part of our plan each year and benefits of innovation, research and SAYE scheme across 23 countries.
I am also proud of the work that DS Smith is undertaking, through our Charitable See p 20 for more about our KPIs Foundation, to reach out to both new Consumer behaviour has changed employees and potential employees.
In the last 12 months we have entered into significantly over the last few a partnership with Nestl in its Alliance 4 years, with more products bought YOUth programme to give opportunities on-line for example.
Is this an to young people across Europe to get that opportunity or a threat to DS Smith?
all-important first job or work experience.
We are now also entering our third year of We see the changing consumer and retail sponsoring 17 and 18-year-olds interested trends as an opportunity.
More and more in engineering, through the Arkwright is expected of the humble corrugated box Scholarship programme.
and packaging now needs to be adaptable to different retail environments from What does the circular supermarkets, a convenience store, a economy mean to DS Smith?
discounter, to an on-line distributor.
Each has slightly different requirements, which We are proud to be the largest recycler of means complexity.
We provide solutions paper and corrugated board in the UK, and for these challenges.
We have teams with a substantial position in that market who work on smart designs for each in Europe.
Not only is it a good business, format, and these solutions are shared but it provides an essential service to the throughout the organisation.
That gives economy, as there are not enough trees View our Supply Cycle Thinking us a commercial advantage.
for paper only to be made from new fibre.
com company As well as providing an essential, reliable who-we-are  See p 11 for more about packaging collection service for our customers, we for different retail channels will work with them to make sure that they are recovering all their used paper and corrugated board, rather than sending it to landfill.
That makes sense for them, for us, and is a benefit to the whole environment.
