Chief Executives Review Will Adderley Chief Executive Overview Growth opportunity 1 The last 12 months have seen exciting LFL stores sales growth developments within Dunelm.
We have We pride ourselves on the breadth of set ourselves a new growth ambition, choice we offer our customers, with relaunched our strategy and made key good quality products at value for appointments to further strengthen money prices across more than 20 the capability of the executive different departments.
We are always management team.
At the same time, looking to improve the Dunelm offer we have delivered good financial for customers by evolving our ranges performance including:- further, both in established departments as well as newer ones.
So, for example, X total sales of 822.7m on a 52 week we have continued to perform strongly basis, representing year on year Supported by the above initiatives, in bed linen thanks in part to developing growth of 12.7% sales in LFL stores grew by 3.4% over a much stronger range of kids bedding.
Looking ahead, X total sales of 835.8m on a statutory Similarly, the roll-out of our Dunelm at we will continue to evolve our product 53 week basis Home service has helped to reinforce offer and see many opportunities to X PBT of 121.4m on a 52 week basis our strength as a curtains retailer, with strengthen the proposition further, even 4.7% growth made-to-measure curtains being one of in established departments.
In addition, our fastest-growing departments.
X PBT of 122.6m on a statutory 53 we are starting to harness customer week basis feedback in new ways and will use this to We have also placed renewed X fully diluted EPS of 46.8p on a 52 inform trials of different store layouts and emphasis on seasonal merchandise, merchandising approaches.
Customer week basis 7.1% growth making deeper stock commitments to feedback will also be a key element campaigns such as Summer Living than X fully diluted EPS of 47.3p on a in determining our marketing strategy in recent years.
Trading these campaigns statutory 53 week basis going forward.
harder has been a successful strategy in Ambition the last financial year and we intend to Growth opportunity 2 Since our IPO in 2006 we have build on this going forward.
National coverage from rolling achieved strong growth in sales and The look and feel of our stores also profits.
Going forward, our target out new stores continues to evolve.
This is assisted by is to deliver sustainable, profitable The vast majority of our portfolio ret activity we completed nine medium growth, with a medium term ambition comprises out-of-town superstores, with rets in the last financial year and by of increasing sales by 50% from their the average store footprint comprising experimentation with new merchandising current level.
around 30,000 square feet of retail approaches.
For example, during the space.
In the last financial year we last year we developed the concept of opened 12 new superstores one being Dorma Living which we have introduced a high street relocation taking our to a number of stores creating a Progress with our superstore chain to 148 stores at the year dedicated Dorma area in which we end, providing 4.4 million square feet of GROWTH STRATEGY complement the Dorma bed linen range selling space.
with other Dorma-branded products We see three key areas of such as curtains, crockery, decor and Our new stores continue to deliver growth opportunity: wallpaper.
strong returns, with the average expected discounted payback for stores X GROWTH OPPORTUNITY 1: We continue to invest in customer opened in the last three financial years LFL stores sales growth service through our Customer First being approximately 30 months.
Rewards and incentives X GROWTH OPPORTUNITY 2: currently target the majority of our new for our colleagues in stores are now store openings to achieve discounted National coverage from aligned explicitly with customer service rolling out new stores cash ow payback of a maximum of 36 measures, as measured by direct months, although we recognise that as customer feedback.
We have a big focus X GROWTH OPPORTUNITY 3: our portfolio becomes more mature it on colleague engagement which we see Growing sales and profit in the will become harder to achieve this in all as a key enabler to delivering continued home delivery channel cases.
com Stock code: DNLM 8 STRATEGIC REPORT warehouse and distribution centre.
This facility is scheduled to become operational in spring 2016.
It is located close to our existing warehouse at Stoke on Trent and will double our warehouse space to 1 million square feet.
Recognising the importance of IT systems in any major retail business, we have been steadily upgrading our internal IT capability over the past two years.
The team is now working on important developments not only for our Since the year-end, we have opened In addition to homewares, our home online business, but also to make store one additional new store, and nine delivery proposition includes 700 larger operations more efficient and effective, more stores are contractually committed furniture items which require a more and to support the increased scale of including two relocations, with six of expensive two-man delivery service.
central activities as the business grows.
these scheduled to open in the current This type of business is relatively new The revenue impact of our investment financial year.
We remain confident that for us.
Whilst it is currently unprofitable, in this area will continue to grow, as the the UK can support approximately 200 we are pleased with the progress made team reaches full complement, as recent Dunelm superstores, with particular to date and we continue to rene our capital projects notably the new web opportunity for us to expand our operating model in order to ensure that platform begin to be amortised, and presence in London and the South-East.
it can generate the profitability which we as we resume the work of ongoing web require.
Growth opportunity 3 Overall growth in home delivery sales Growing sales and profit in Marketing during the last financial year was 55%.
the home delivery channel We have increased our investment Over the year as a whole this channel Our major achievement in this area in customer communication over accounted for 6.1% of our total business, during the last year was the launch of recent years to a level which now up from 4.4% in the previous year.
a new customer-facing web platform, represents approximately 1.8% of sales.
This People We anticipate retaining this scale of new platform improves the customer We continue to invest in our people and investment in the near term, albeit with journey and shopping experience, management capability, starting at the a shift in emphasis away from traditional provides significant further scalability, very top of the business.
I am delighted media in favour of digital marketing.
and paves the way for more frequent that John Browett has joined us and Summary and outlook future developments to allow ongoing will be our next Chief Executive.
John is enhancements to functionality starting The last 12 months have seen an outstanding retailer and in the early considerable changes within Dunelm with increased choice of delivery options stages of his induction to the business for greater customer convenience.
and the business is now in better is already bringing fresh thinking and shape than ever.
We have good sales stimulus.
With Keith Down identied as We currently offer 17,000 homewares momentum and clear plans for further our new CFO to succeed David Stead lines for home delivery, representing growth.
I look forward to leading on his retirement later this year, and with the major part of our business in this the business in implementing these other senior appointments also in place, channel.
Order fullment is outsourced plans over the next few months and, we have a top class executive team to to a specialist third party partner using subsequently, to supporting John continue driving growth over the coming a one-man delivery service.
We achieve Browett and his executive team in further years.
satisfactory profitability from this developing the business.
business in its own right, with additional Infrastructure benets when customers bypass home We are also developing further the Will Adderley delivery and use our Reserve & Collect infrastructure which will be needed to Chief Executive service.
We anticipate substantial further allow us to realise our growth ambition.
10 September 2015 growth in both home delivery orders and Central to this is the commitment we Reserve & Collect transactions.
have made to an additional leasehold Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 9
