Introduction to our new Group Chief Executive Watch the video online www.
com Education Age BSc, Engineering Industrial Distribution, Texas A&M University MBA Marketing, Texas A&M University 44 years old Career history Hometown 2002 2015 Future Electronics Inc. - From 2011, Executive Vice President Kingsport, T ennessee 1999 2002 Solectron Corporation - Vice President, Materials 1994 1999 TTI Inc. - Director 1992 1994 Texas A&M University - Assistant Lecturer, College of Engineering Skills and experience Management Emerging markets Leadership Distribution Mergers and acquisitions Sales and marketing International operations Manufacturing Supply chain and procurement www.
com Stock Code: ECM 12 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Q&A with Lindsley Ruth What attracted you to Electrocomponents?
Lindsley: Electrocomponents is a global market leader in high service distribution with a good reputation for customer service and strong market positions, which I believe can be built upon to significantly improve the performance of the business going forward.
What is your career background ?
Lindsley: I have spent much of the last 20 years running and managing global distribution businesses experiencing similar challenges to those at Electrocomponents.
I also have experience working for a supplier so I understand supplier needs.
Over my career I have worked in numerous roles from sales, marketing and business development to procurement and supply chain management and I have run extensive international operations.
As such, while I consider myself creative on the sales and marketing side of the What is your management style?
business, I also have a deep understanding of the operations Lindsley: I have a deep understanding of the distribution of distribution and supplier businesses and have experience business and I would say that I have a no-nonsense, of executing change programmes.
I believe in keeping things simple and creating value for shareholders through delivering You are joining us from Future Electronics, outstanding value for both customers and suppliers.
can you tell us about them?
Lindsley: Future Electronics is the fourth largest electronics What are your initial observations ?
components distributor in the world.
It is headquartered Lindsley: I am more convinced now than I was prior to in Montreal and has extensive international operations joining that our business model is not broken it remains in 42 countries.
Future has a reputation for providing a strong one with the ability to scale.
However, I believe outstanding service and developing efficient, global supply the business strategy could be simplified to focus on chain solutions.
The Group has been outperforming industry what matters most the customer and our performance.
growth rates in recent years.
Its success is built on its My most important priority over the next year will be on commitment to maintain close partnerships with suppliers simplifying the strategy to get our financial performance and customers, coupled with its strength of commercial and back on track whilst putting the customer at the heart of technical competencies through all stages of the designour business.
We must improve the customer experience production cycle.
This requires a change in mindset from internal to external focus.
How do we improve ease of Why are you the right person to take the doing business?
How do we improve our service accuracy?
How can we help our customers achieve success in their Lindsley: From 2011, I was part of the core leadership businesses?
team which oversaw a significant period of growth and expansion at Future.
Over those four years, a strong Since my arrival, I have been extremely impressed by customer and supplier focus helped reinvigorate sales the quality of people worldwide within the Group.
Across growth, drive market share gains and improve returns at the Company I have found many leaders who share my that business.
We also managed a successful international enthusiasm for change and a desire to return the financial expansion plan during that period.
While Future is a volume performance of the business to where it needs to be.
This distributor, it shares many key business characteristics is extremely motivating as it means I have the right people with Electrocomponents and was seeing some similar around me to take a simpler strategy forward and deliver challenges I see an opportunity to bring aspects of what I the changes necessary to deliver outstanding performance have learnt from my time at Future to my new role.
As such, and drive improved shareholder returns.
I will present my I am extremely excited about driving forward the strategy comprehensive plans for the business at our half-year at Electrocomponents to deliver faster revenue growth, financial results in November.
improved profitability and higher returns for shareholders.
Lindsley Ruth Group Chief Executive 21 May 2015 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 13 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
