12 H Ce ha ied f Ex ing e O cuti neves Review We have grown our like-for-like net income in every quarter of the year with the full year growing by 0.8% Simon Townsend Chief Executive Officer pubs based in the Greater London Maintaining growth Supporting our publicans region remained particularly strong momentum We have seen an improvement in with like-for-like net income up by consumer confidence and the broader We are pleased to report our full 3.1%.
We have a strong core of our economic environment through the year results for the year ended 30 estate trading very well with the year which has provided a more September 2015, during which period top 90% 4,532 pubs, in terms of stable backdrop for our publicans we have delivered EBITDA before income earned, showing like-for-like and this has been enhanced by the exceptional items of 296 million, net income growth of 2.6% on the successful implementation of our down 6 million on the comparative previous year.
many initiatives aimed at enhancing period primarily as a result of publican profitability.
The continued Like-for-like net income growth has planned asset disposals.
Profit before provision of discounted services such been derived from increased rental taxation, excluding exceptional as WiFi, sports TV packages and food income and growth in the net income items, increased by 1 million to offerings, combined with training from the sale of beer and other 122 million as lower interest costs, programmes and product marketing products to our publicans.
The strong resulting from debt reduction, have services, are aimed at assisting rental income performance is driven offset the decline in EBITDA.
With a publicans to grow sales and reduce by returns from our capital investment lower effective tax rate the increased costs.
supplemented by reductions in profits before taxation deliver adjusted the level of business failures and a earnings per share, before exceptional We also continue to offer direct return to rental increases achieved items, of 19.4p, an increase of 2.1% financial assistance where it is at rent reviews, particularly in the on the previous year.
deemed appropriate, to aid publicans South, which provide reassurance to sustain their businesses through The earnings growth momentum with regard to the stabilisation of has been delivered through an trading for us and our publicans.
The improvement in like-for-like net growth in net income from the sale income achieved from our leased, of beer and other products reflects tenanted and free-of-tie estate.
We In May of this year a wet-led business revival fuelled have grown our like-for-like net income by the provision of deeper discounts we announced in every quarter of the year with the to our publicans complemented by full year growing by 0.8%.
We are our new strategy the availability of the widest range pleased with this outcome particularly of product choice in the market, for the business, as the previous year, which included including craft and local beers.
the FIFA World Cup, represented a which enables strong comparative period.
As with us to unlock the last year, all geographies across our estate reported year-on-year stability embedded value of income, but it was the South in every one of where the growth was once again most significant.
Trading in the 661 our assets Simon T ownsend Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 12 07 12 2015 17:24:38 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 13 for the year ended 30 September 2015 more difficult trading periods, and Optimising returns Enhancing have spent 6 million in the year from the estate shareholder value 2014: 7 million on such assistance.
Our capital re-investment strategy In May of this year we announced As a consequence of the successful is an important contributor to the our new strategy for the business, application of this support framework delivery of like-for-like net income which enables us to unlock the we have further reduced the level growth.
We actively identify embedded value in every one of of business failures, by 18%, during opportunities to invest in our estate, our assets and ensures that we are the year compared to the previous often alongside our publicans, in ready to respond to the potential year.
We actively monitor our estate order to enhance returns from our implications of impending regulatory for the signs of potential business assets by providing local communities changes.
The strategy aims to bring failure and proactively manage the and consumers with well invested, about an evolution of our business process of publican change when it is attractive retail offerings.
During the model, utilising consumer insight, to unavoidable.
Approximately 8% 2014: year we re-invested 69 million 2014: develop a plan for every pub in order 9% of the estate has seen a change 66 million in our estate with 44% to maximise value for shareholders.
of publican due to failure during the 2014: 41% directed toward income We are pleased with the progress we financial year but more significantly enhancing opportunities.
We target have made with the implementation only 2% of the estate 2014: 3% has Return on Investment ROI in excess of this strategic plan.
seen a change due to an unplanned of 15% on our growth oriented capital Implementation of our new strategy failure rather than a managed expenditure and have achieved an will further strengthen the highly cash transition.
average ROI of 19% on such schemes generative nature of our business.
completed in the last 12 months.
During the next year we will move In the current year we delivered into a new regulatory environment We are using market analysis to 265 million 2014: 278 million of with the expected introduction of identify the optimum use of our cash flow from operating activities the Market Rent Only MRO option.
assets and to identify the priorities for which, after net interest costs, yields While this is likely to present some capital investment.
The segmentation 108 million 2014: 111 million of challenges to the stability of the tied analysis applies an understanding of free cash flow.
Our re-investment estate it may also offer opportunities demand and supply characteristics strategy of funding capital investment for us to re-evaluate the optimal use of the local market for every requirements broadly through the of each asset and its retail proposition property to identify the optimum disposal of under-performing assets to enhance shareholder value in retail proposition for the property leaves free cash flow available for accordance with our strategic plans.
and the most appropriate operating allocation.
model to deliver that proposition.
The We operate a disciplined approach to segmentation analysis is increasingly the allocation of this free cash flow.
used to identify assets that are Currently the most appropriate use under-performing and which have of our free cash flow is to meet our challenging local market conditions debt repayment obligations, primarily such that disposal becomes the through the scheduled amortisation of optimum outcome so that cash can the Unique securitisation notes.
be realised and re-invested in the retained estate.
During the year we Outlook disposed of 260 2014: 230 assets Trading in the first six weeks of the realising 75 million 2014: 73 new financial year has been in line million of net proceeds.
with our expectations and continues to maintain the growth momentum of last year.
We aim to deliver positive like-for-like net income in our leased, tenanted and free-of-tie estate for the full financial year.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 13 07 12 2015 17:24:41 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 14 Chief Executives Review We already operate effective policies Additionally they recognise the Regulatory and procedures in order to satisfy increased risk to their business During 2014, the then Government the existing industry code of practice associated with MRO as their published its proposals, contained framework and we have recently operational gearing is significantly within the Small Business, Enterprise recruited additional compliance higher and their working capital and Employment SBEE Bill, to resource to ensure that we satisfy funding needs increased.
introduce a Statutory Code of any additional requirements of the Practice, to be overseen by an OPERATIONAL & statutory Pubs Code.
independent Adjudicator, for all STRATEGIC REVIEW companies with over 500 pubs While the unintended consequences Our pubs operate in a dynamic operating under tied leased and of the SBEE Act will only become marketplace.
We have set out to tenancy agreements in England clear over time, we are prepared improve our capability in retailing, and Wales.
In November 2014, the for the implementation of the developing our understanding and proposals were amended to include legislation and its potential impact usage of consumer and competitor a tenants right, under certain limited on our business.
The impact will insights to help us to identify the circumstances, to change the be phased over five years from the most appropriate retail proposition for freely-negotiated commercial terms implementation of the Act, as MRO each pub, to inform our subsequent of their agreement to a new MRO events are largely expected to arise investment decisions and to contract.
This MRO option enables through the cycle of five yearly rent determine the appropriate operating some occupational tenants to elect reviews and renewals.
model with which to optimise the to opt-out of the supply tie at certain Subject to the date of implementation pubs performance and deliver greater points or after certain exceptional of the MRO option, we anticipate shareholder value as a result.
events during the term of their lease that in our 2016 financial year we agreement and therefore occupy the Reinvigorated tied will have approximately 200 events premises on a standard commercial tenanted business that may potentially constitute an property lease, paying rent only.
In MRO event under the new regulatory Against a background of fragile the event that a tenant elected to regime and some 600 such events economic recovery, intense invoke this option, whilst our income per year thereafter.
We have already competition and legislative derived from the supply of tied drinks started to address outstanding rent uncertainty, the performance of our products would be partially offset by reviews and renewal discussions leased and tenanted pub estate increases in rent, it is possible that with publicans and have introduced has been transformed over the last our total income from that property strategies to mitigate potential MRO two years, demonstrating improved would be adversely affected.
risks, as this often enables us to underlying stability and growth The SBEE Bill received Royal make assets available for alternative momentum.
This has been achieved Assent on 26 March 2015 and operating models where our returns as a result of the quality of the has therefore become primary can be optimised.
Resolution can take publicans who occupy our pubs, legislation.
Further work is now many forms and can include renewals and the hard work of our operational taking place to finalise the detail where the MRO risk has not been teams who help our publicans of the new regulatory regime.
The removed but has most likely been grow their sales and improve their Government has advertised the delayed until the next trigger event, profitability.
We have continued position of the Adjudicator and it has usually five years later.
to extend the range of goods and launched the first tranche of two of services available to our publicans, In our management of these its Consultation on the wording of to help them reduce costs, and were potential MRO events it is clear the statutory Pubs Code, which is pleased to commence a strategic that many publicans recognise the expected to come into effect on 26 partnership with the Booker Group value of working with us as our May 2016.
We continue to participate to provide high quality food services partner and appreciate the support in the process to develop the Pubs to Enterprise publicans at extremely and operational simplicity the tied Code and associated guidance competitive prices.
and shall respond formally to both tranches of the Consultation.
indd 14 07 12 2015 17:24:42 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 15 for the year ended 30 September 2015 We have pursued a sales-led recovery, which every one of our pubs is Expanded ensuring that we provide an extensive located.
We have now started to managed business range of drinks, comprising over utilise these consumer insights to Our strategy to build capability in 1,745 beers, lagers and ciders, and inform recruitment and investment the direct management of pubs is utilising discounts to ensure that decisions, and to determine the progressing well, and while it remains the drinks offer in our pubs is both optimal retail format in which each of early days, we are pleased that attractive and competitive.
This has our pubs could potentially operate.
the majority of the 35 pubs trading been demonstrably successful in The forthcoming secondary in this model are performing well our Beacon tenancies, and it has legislation, which is due to be and in line with our expectations.
been encouraging to see this salesimplemented during 2016, has created Greater operational control, complete led recovery translated into like-foruncertainty as to the returns that transparency of all sales and cost like growth in rental income during might be generated from some pubs lines and the use of consumer 2015, a key indicator of stability on certain types of agreement, and is insights are giving us greater certainty which demonstrates the improving likely to lead to some pubs becoming over the returns we can generate prospects and profitability of our unattractive to the Group.
We are from these pubs, together with the pubs.
unlikely to invest in businesses on opportunity to leverage best practice Our support and proactive leases where our returns are unclear, across the wider Enterprise estate.
intervention in businesses facing and we will only grant long-term, tied We have demonstrated how such financial difficulty has also led to the leases in exceptional circumstances.
attributes can be applied to great further reduction in business failures, We remain committed to the effect in smaller, wet-led pubs in and to the majority of the changes successful partnerships that can our Beacon estate over the last few of publican associated with those be created between the landlord years, and are now applying these failures being managed in a planned company and tenant.
Their success is disciplines more widely.
We disposed clearly evident within the tied model of 260 individual pubs during the year Furthermore, we now have the operated by Enterprise, and we will that, in the main, we did not believe opportunity to occupy our properties be re-launching the Enterprise tied could be sustainably profitable in the at the expiry of a lease agreement, offer prior to the implementation of long-term, ensuring that we maintain where previously we might have the new legislation.
This will ensure our focus on those assets and renewed such agreements regardless that every Enterprise publican businesses where we can generate of whether the performance of understands the merits of the tied optimal returns.
the pub was being optimised.
agreement under which they occupy This approach enables us to take We have developed, with the support their pub, and can accurately and possession of underperforming assets of LEK Consulting and Deloitte, a comprehensively compare their and allows us to create additional comprehensive segmentation model agreement with that which would be value for our shareholders.
which allows our operational teams available to them if they were to elect to assess the supply and demand to take up the MRO option.
dynamics of the local markets in www.
indd 15 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 16 Chief Executives Review We also recognise that we require Recognising that the operation of tailored agreements which suit managed houses requires different the particular circumstances of skills and capabilities from our our operating partners, and have historical leased and tenanted therefore designed three variants of business, we have developed three the commercial agreement to allow managed house operating models us to partner with both start-up and that are designed to secure maximum established businesses and to enable operational control while mitigating us to work alongside other investors.
the execution risks associated with such operating models.
Bermondsey Managed expert Pub Company We have developed a partnership Fourteen of our current managed Expert model whereby we can houses are operated by our work with expert managed house Bermondsey Pub Company.
We have experienced multi-site operator operators in order to utilise their retail recruited and resourced our own team who will ensure that these two flair and capability in pubs with retail and are using our segmentation work trading formats are tightly defined complexity and exceptional profit to identify those pubs into which we and executed, and able to evolve potential, thereby optimising the can most effectively install a managed as market opportunities arise.
In this model, the operating model utilising one of two anticipate operating approximately operational resource and expertise are preferred choices of retail proposition.
25 to 35 sites in Bermondsey Pub provided by our retail partners.
As demonstrated by our experience Company by 30 September 2016, and in existing sites, this managed model Our first variant of the Expert model have identified a pipeline of suitable is best suited to a mainstream offer is a partnership with Rupert Clevely, conversions to meet this aspiration.
which has a mix of food and wet founder of Geronimo Inns and sales.
The Craft Union most recently with Youngs & Co, to operate premium, mixed food and Pub Company We currently have eight of the drink outlets in central London in a Bermondsey Pub Company sites In addition to the 14 managed subsidiary called Hippo Inns.
operating in our Meeting House sites operated by Bermondsey format, an upper mid-market, mixed Pub Company we are currently Hippo opened its first pub, The Signal food and drink offer.
Four of these operating 21 managed sites within in Forest Hill, on 8 October 2015.
The sites are in London and the South The Craft Union Pub Company, pub is trading well, in line with our East.
Our Friends and Family format which has developed a wet-led, expectations, offering craft beers, is currently operating six sites in the good value, community pub offer ales, select wines and cocktails mid-market, mixed food and drink operating in predominantly urban alongside high quality, well-priced segment, predominantly in the North.
We have identified a further four model allows us to attract the sites which will convert to the Hippo Our average capital investment in entrepreneurial flair of great trading format over the next year.
these sites has been 159,000 to managers, who seek the opportunity date, and the sites are currently We are aiming to establish, at least, to enjoy the support and protection achieving average weekly takings a further three Expert partnerships of our managed business, whilst of 11,000.
It remains early days for during 2016, with the objective of retaining some freedom to co-evolve many of these investments as we having around 8 to 12 sites in total our retail offer in order to best meet build sales and capability, but we operating in the Expert model by 30 the needs of their local communities.
expect to deliver returns in excess of September 2016.
The experience our 15% ROI hurdle rate across this Conversion to this trading format we have gained in working with estate.
is relatively straightforward and we Rupert in the design and execution are pleased with the performance of the model gives us confidence We have recently recruited an of these outlets to date.
Capital that this approach provides us with Operations Director for Bermondsey investment upon conversion has the optimum means with which to Pub Company who is formerly averaged 105,000, with a significant operate sites with exceptional profit of Mitchells & Butlers and an proportion of the expenditure directed potential.
indd 16 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 17 for the year ended 30 September 2015 high quality of the assets converted, properties until such time as an towards high quality installations and the quality and covenant strength opportunity arises to generate optimal of sports-viewing audio visual of the occupational tenants in situ.
returns through conversion to an equipment, and we are currently The average rent in the whole alternative model.
generating average weekly takings commercial property estate has of 7,000 and returns on investment Enhancing our team therefore increased from 53,000 in ahead of our 15% ROI hurdle rate.
Our continuing operational May 2015 to 56,000 by the year-end.
We have identified a strong pipeline momentum is due, in no small part, This estate is currently 100% let with of future conversions and anticipate to the quality and tenacity of the 94% on substantive agreements with operating 60 to 80 outlets in this Enterprise team.
While our strategy an average length of lease of 18 years model by 30 September 2016. requires new skills and capabilities, and average length of agreement we are committed to developing and remaining of 13 years.
The quality Quality commercial redeploying the necessary talent from of tenure in this estate is high, with property portfolio within, wherever possible, in order to minimal overdue balances or bad debt Where appropriate, our high quality, facilitate the effective execution of our history.
well-located, estate of sites are plans.
suitable for letting under standard Our total income annualised in the However, we have identified the commercial property agreements.
commercial property estate is 12 requirement to recruit new expertise, The capital expenditure requirement million, and the estate is currently particularly in such areas as retail in this estate is low, and the overhead valued at 142 million, implying a operations, concept development, required to manage the portfolio is yield of 8.4% or a multiple of 12 times change programme management and extremely low.
We Under such agreements, our We anticipate growing our are very pleased to have been able predominant source of income commercial property estate to 300- to attract high quality, experienced is rent, paid quarterly in advance 350 sites by 30 September 2016, and recruits into all of these areas in order and reviewed every five years on we are committed to maintaining the to underpin the effective delivery an upwards-only basis, and the high quality of the characteristics of of our strategy and drive returns to properties are let on a fully repairing the properties in this estate.
and insuring basis, in common believe that the scale and economics As our strategic execution grows in with standard commercial property of the portfolio are optimal, we pace and scale, we expect to grow agreements.
The majority of such hope to be in a position to secure our central overhead in a disciplined, sites continue to operate as pubs, the potential benefits of conversion but forward-looking manner, and and the operators may choose to to REIT status, were the Board to anticipate costs to increase from 37 procure their drinks requirements determine that it was in the best million to 39 million in 2016, with from us, taking advantage of the interests of shareholders to make similar increases in each of 2017 and extensive range we offer.
We now such election at the relevant time.
2018. have four pubs within our commercial Where publicans who are currently property estate operating on turnoveron tied agreements transfer to W S T ownsend related rental agreements where the MRO model, the sites will be Chief Executive Officer we receive a fixed monthly rent and managed by our commercial property 16 November 2015 a supplementary share of turnover, team, but will only be transferred to allowing the Group to share in the our commercial property estate on upside of sales growth in such sites.
a permanent basis if they meet our strict quality criteria, in order that the We have grown our commercial underlying quality of the estate is property estate from 185 sites at not compromised.
Sites that fail to 12 May 2015 to 213 sites at 30 meet the quality criteria, and where September 2015, adding a net 28 we believe that the MRO outcome is sites at an average rent of 89,000 unattractive, will be run as commercial during this period, demonstrating the www.
indd 17 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
