COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 2 In 2015, the first year of Drive for 2020, Consistent with our strategic objectives, Our new, 23,000ft purpose-built we delivered our strategic objectives: in we successfully completed a number distribution centre in Leduc, Canada addition, we exceeded 1bn of revenue of value-adding transactions which is strategically located in Alberta and for the first time in the Companys history.
complemented the organic performance accommodates both our PPT and This is notwithstanding the significant of the Company during the year.
In Components businesses, thereby negative impact on our Pipe Protection Distribution, in February we announced consolidating our previous activities on Technologies PPT business of that we had purchased Specialty Plastics, the west coast.
Meanwhile, we officially 2 a sustained low oil price and the a leading Australian distributor of an opened a 4,500m Components consequent impact on drilling activity.
extensive range of protective plastic distribution centre in Paris, France to products for a wide variety of attractive help support growth in this commercially Continued delivery of balanced, growth end-markets, including hydraulics, significant market: already serving 12,000 profitable growth fabrication, construction and mining.
active customers from a range of c. 18,500 In FY 2015, like-for-like revenue growth essential components, this new facility excluding PPT was 4.6%, and was Separately, in Health & Personal Care which consolidates our sales and supported by continued innovation, Packaging, in January we completed distribution activities at a single site new business wins and investment in the acquisition of Clondalkin SPD, will help to ensure that we provide our both existing and new geographical a leading global provider of a broad customers with an even better delivery markets.
However, with a c. 65% decline suite of speciality secondary packaging and service proposition, and that we are in PPT, total Group revenue increased solutions for the pharmaceutical, health optimally placed to meet their exacting to 1,098.1m, with like-for-like growth and personal care industries.
approximately US$455m, Clondalkin Australia, our c. A$3m investment in a SPD is by far the largest transaction dedicated manufacturing and distribution FY 2015 adjusted operating profit was we have undertaken to date and we facility entails a 400% increase in stock ahead 20.3% at constant exchange to have made significant progress with locations to leverage our global supply 171.5m.
Excluding the significantly dilutive the integration of the business this year.
chain, with products from the new site impact of the acquisition of Clondalkin Indeed, at the HY 2015 results stage, serving customers in 16 countries across Specialist Packaging Division SPD, the we increased the target for potential Europe, Asia, Australasia and the US.
adjusted operating margin was up 10bps synergy savings by 50% to at least at both actual and constant exchange US$24m on an annualised basis from Further to a comprehensive review at 16.6%: ex-PPT, the uplift was higher, 2016, underscoring our confidence in of our global site footprint in Filter at 80bps 70bps at constant exchange.
rapidly enhancing Clondalkin SPDs Products, we took the decision to close With only a modest increase in our operating margin towards the Company our Jarrow, UK manufacturing facility financing costs resulting from higher net average.
Then, in October, we announced and to transfer the filter manufacturing, debt post the Clondalkin SPD transaction, that we had signed an agreement to product development and innovation and a further 210bps improvement in the acquire the pharmaceutical packaging activities to Szigetszentmikls, Hungary.
tax rate, adjusted earnings per share at assets of Kamsri Printing & Packaging Indeed, as an innovator and complete constant exchange increased by 12.6%.
Based in Bangalore, solutions provider to the tobacco industry, Kamsri is a leading manufacturer of it is essential that Essentra continues to During the year, we continued to invest in premium packaging solutions for the identify evolving market trends and future revenue growth opportunities, with pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors respond to them in a way that enables FY 2015 net capital expenditure of 54.8m.
in India and provides Essentra with an us to continue to add value to our However, notwithstanding this spend, our entry point into this attractive market, customers.
In Europe, these trends cash generation remained good and our thereby reinforcing our global capabilities reflect the continued shift in consumer financial ratios strong, with net debt to and enhancing the opportunities for our demand from mature western countries EBITDA of 1.8x and interest cover of 17.7x customers.
As anticipated, the acquisition to the more dynamic, developing markets as at 31 December.
Underpinned by this completed shortly after the year-end.
Over the past ten years, cash flow generation, we again confirmed cigarette sales volume in western Europe our commitment to paying a progressive In 2015, we also continued our investment has declined by almost 30%, with the dividend, with a recommended 13.1% in our site footprint, as well as identified tobacco companies supplied by Essentra increase in the FY 2015 payout to 20.7p further opportunities for rationalisation responding to this trend by relocating their per share.
and efficiency savings through adopting own manufacturing footprint to central a more Company-wide approach to and eastern Europe.
Indeed, only a tiny our manufacturing and distribution percentage of the filter production at capabilities: as a result, 14 facilities our Jarrow facility was destined for the were closed during the year.
6 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
As such, and by change taking place three months later.
the year, we further built upon these aligning with the strategies and footprint Accordingly, with the transaction taking foundations, and the adoption of our of our customers in the most efficient Essentra from a leading European player matrix organisational structure has way possible, the transfer of activities to the global number two in specialist demonstrated the opportunities which to Hungary will help to underpin our health and personal care secondary are still available to Essentra in terms long-term position as the leading global packaging, we made a good start in terms of realising our Drive for 2020 strategic independent supplier of filter products and of integrating our activities and leveraging objectives notwithstanding the related services to the tobacco industry.
our combined scale and skills under a improvement we delivered over single Essentra brand.
Additionally, we took the opportunity of consolidating certain of our smaller Given the responsibility of the SBUs However, it is the operational aspect that sites in the UK into larger, better-equipped to identify market trends and drive has represented the heaviest lifting, and existing facilities.
As a result, we product innovation and range we are pleased with the progress in 2015 transferred our Speciality Tapes activities development, during the year we further both in terms of creating an efficient to our packaging site in Nottingham and enhanced our go-to-market efforts manufacturing footprint and the delivery our Security operations to our European by category and, thus, increased our of synergy savings.
Indeed, having acquired distribution hub in Kidlington: further relevance and market penetration.
24 sites, we have either closed or are in to this relocation, the facilities in Underpinning this was the agreement and the process of closing nine in the US, UK, Bridlington and Banbury were closed.
communication of a strategic plan in Ireland and the Netherlands with a view Health & Personal Care Packaging across to either consolidating them into the Drive for 2020 in action all geographic regions, behind a common Essentra footprint or other Clondalkin In last years Annual Report which set of objectives and criteria, and based on SPD facilities.
A notable case in point is followed almost immediately after detailed industry insight.
The commercial in Newport where, having already opened the completion of our acquisition of teams were provided with newly-created, a state-of-the-art labels and foils site in Clondalkin SPD we commented that Essentra-branded product sample kits 2014, our additional multi-million pound the diversification of Essentras business and literature, highlighting the breadth investment in an adjacent facility will activities into health and personal care of solutions that the Group can provide receive the business of four smaller, packaging since 2013 represented the sort to meet the exacting requirements of capacity-constrained sites and will of bold thinking entailed by our Drive for multi-national customers in these sectors transform this combined location into a 2020 strategy which is required to deliver from regulatory-compliant product genuine centre of excellence, not only for the next phase of the Companys growth.
leaflets to authentication and tamperour customers but also for our employees.
And while the integration of Clondalkin evident brand protection technologies.
Indeed, having held a recruitment Open SPD is still in hand and there are naturally These efforts have been particularly Day in September for in excess of 100 things we can continue to improve upon important in the personal care and beauty roles which will be created as a result in our core business as well nonetheless, space, in which the Clondalkin SPD of our expansion, we were very pleased the evolution of our Health & Personal Care acquisition significantly increased our that some 250 people visited us to find Packaging SBU during 2015 provides some exposure and where customers are not out more about the exciting career compelling examples of our Drive for 2020 only focused on the practical attributes opportunities which Essentra is looking strategic objectives in action and, but also the aesthetic qualities of the to provide at this new site.
We were accordingly, our relentless drive to deliver components which form an intrinsic part equally encouraged by the feedback we long-term value to our shareholders.
of their overall brand proposition to received from those who already work consumers.
In response to this demand, in the printing and packaging industry, Having completed the transaction on 30 we have flexed the look and feel of our in terms of the calibre of our location January 2015, we welcomed our Clondalkin offering and communication, to better and the working environment we can SPD colleagues through an extensive day reinforce Essentras capabilities in the field provide there.
Accordingly, through one on-site communication programme, of prestige packaging components from creating centres of manufacturing co-ordinated across 24 sites in six countries flared and embossed folding cartons to excellence, we firmly believe that this in Europe and North America.
will ensure that Essentra is optimally and benefiting from our own experience positioned to provide a market-leading in 2013, we rapidly rebranded the acquired Over the last couple of years, we have product range and superior service level business to Essentra within 60 days communicated our efforts to operate in to our customers from a site footprint from signage and workwear to office a more co-ordinated fashion across the based on future growth opportunities.
consumables and IT platforms with Essentra Group and how our rebranding formal customer and legal entity has facilitated this objective.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Evolving our organisational manufacturing process and footprint influencing skills and performance structure for even greater focus not least since the afore mentioned management being launched at the 2015 represented the first full year relocation of manufacturing to end of the year in response to the LDC of the implementation of our matrix Nottingham.
In addition, a set of behavioural organisational structure, with the grouping comprise Components, PPT, Extrusion and competencies was finalised, clearly of our activities into the three geographic Security each of which serves customers articulating what is expected of our regions of Europe, Americas and Asia in light and heavy industry while our people at all levels of the organisation, supplementing our SBUs.
And while there Filter Products and Porous Technologies which will be used to drive performance are naturally aspects we can improve upon businesses will combine to form the management further in 2016. to ensure more seamless interaction across Filtration Products SBU, as they share the Company, we are already seeing many common raw material and The Essentra Graduate Development tangible benefits.
For example, in Europe, production processes.
Programme enjoyed further success in further to operational challenges arising 2015.
The two-year graduate programme from winning more orders than we could Talent has provided a talent pipeline for a profitably fulfil, we have developed and At all levels, our employees are a vital number of years and, in 2015, 19 people implemented best practice processes resource in the Companys pursuit joined the scheme, which continues to and procedures for the onboarding of of operational excellence and the expand its international reach.
The 2015 new health and personal care packaging provision of quality products and intake will join the 21 graduates recruited business which have been adopted services to our customers.
in 2014, and will have the opportunity to throughout the Group.
Meanwhile, in the develop their management skills through Americas, we successfully leveraged the Indeed, as an international organisation, bespoke training which takes place around Essentra offering and technologies with a it is important that we attract an Essentras sites, giving graduates exposure key writing instrument customer to exploit appropriate level of local talent and to the business while carrying out an category selling opportunities, securing enhance mobility through increasing operational role from day one.
Separately, business not only in our traditional cross-divisional moves.
In this respect, in December, the 2013 graduate intake reservoir and nib offering, but also with we made further progress during the year, completed their programme, with a speciality wipes and extruded plastic.
both in terms of developing our existing number of successful presentations hosted Finally, in Asia, the regional structure employees as well as adding to our talent in Kidlington.
Representatives from senior facilitated the very rapid integration of base from outside the Company and management were invited to watch the the major operating subsidiaries of Abric through recent acquisitions.
graduate teams drawn from across Berhad Abric Seals into the Essentra functions and geographies present footprint and product range, such that At Board level, and consistent on projects focusing on Global Key the acquired business was fully rebranded with the Companys comprehensive Account Management and How to and integrated within the space of succession planning, Stefan Schellinger Improve Stakeholder Perceptions for four months.
was appointed to the position of Group Revenue Generation.
Having joined Essentra Having had the opportunity of reviewing in 2013 as Corporate Development The Board and the GMC are committed the structure in action and also taking Director, Stefan combines excellent to ensuring that Essentra is a great place into account the impact of the acquisition financial and leadership skills with an to work and that we continue to improve of Clondalkin SPD the Board and the outstanding track record of strategic as an organisation.
Having undertaken Group Management Committee GMC and corporate development.
Stefans our second Group-wide employee have taken the decision to further evolve appointment to the role followed the engagement survey in December 2014, the SBUs, to provide even greater focus resignation of Matthew Gregory who, action plans responding to the feedback to the organisation.
As a result, with effect following a successful twelve-year career were developed and implemented during from 1 January 2016, we are operating with with Essentra, left to pursue an the course of 2015.
For example, in the three: Health & Personal Care Packaging, opportunity outside the Company.
Americas region, employee communication Component Solutions and Filtration and recognition initiatives have been Products.
In respect of the former, this Having introduced assessment-based improved at Erie, Richmond and will now see our pharmaceutical, health Leadership Development Centres LDC Greensboro in the US, and in Brazil.
& personal care and consumer goods in 2014, a total of 89 colleagues across all Meanwhile, in Asia, there has been a focus packaging activities grouped with geographical regions have now attended, on employee training and development, Speciality Tapes, which shares many with three management development including aspects such as new product common features in terms of programmes covering coaching, awareness in Korea, job enrichment at 8 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM the Filter Products joint venture site in Reinforcing the importance of HSE to the OHSAS 18001.
In addition, eleven sites India and supervisory skills in Thailand.
Company, we are expanding the annual gained ISO 50001 during the year.
Finally, in Europe, there has been a focus Safety, Health, Environment & Quality Attaining the ISO 50001 energy on improved communications and Awards programme, the objective of which management standard at all our performance development reviews across is to recognise employees and facilities that manufacturing facilities is a key objective a number of sites including Cervia and have achieved or are progressing towards and, consistent with our target, we are Piacenza in Italy, as well as in Finland world-class levels of HSE performance, on track to meet the more stringent and Sweden.
including the development, sustainment conditions required to gain a single and continuous improvement of a positive Group-wide certificate by the end of 2016.
These action plans will continue to be and supportive culture.
Going forward, monitored and reviewed, and we intend there will be five award categories: Essentra is committed to efficiency to launch our third engagement survey Certificate of Operational Safety in all aspects of our organisation, and we during the course of 2016.
Performance: Health & Safety Best have further reduced the environmental Practice Project and Improvement Award: impact of our business in other aspects, Further to the appointment of a new Environmental & Social Responsibility with our War on Waste initiative Chief Information Officer to the Group Award: Quality Best Practice & continuing to deliver better utilisation Leadership Team last year, in 2015 we Improvement Award: and Safety, Health, and reuse of raw materials across made further progress in terms of Environment & Quality Champion Award.
addressing the growing Information Technology risks which all companies face As Essentra continues to increase in size Summary in the cyber security domain.
In addition, both organically and via acquisition Essentra made a solid start to our Drive and consistent with our Drive for 2020 and the global legislative backdrop for HSE for 2020 strategy notwithstanding the objective of Integration, we deployed a continues to change apace, the Board and challenging environment in the oil & standard set of policies and controls across the GMC are convinced that our regional gas industry.
We also made encouraging the Group behind a harmonised central IT structure will allow the Company to make progress with the integration of the platform Standard Desktop, an industrycontinuous improvement, to benefit from Clondalkin SPD, over and above which leading, best-in-class solution which has local expertise and to share best practice acquisition rationalisation we consolidated also provided us with enhanced, more around the organisation in this critical area.
a further five facilities across the Group, to seamless global collaboration capabilities.
better leverage our footprint and generate Reinforcing our responsibilities further opportunities for efficiency savings.
Continuing to build on our track record Essentra is committed to the highest in health and safety standards of corporate governance and In delivering these results, I would Essentras overriding concern in the responsibility, to ensure that the way in like to acknowledge the efforts of all our workplace continues to be the health, which we manage our activities reflects employees, and to thank them for their safety and welfare of all its employees the expectations of all the Companys commitment and dedication to Essentras and those who visit the Companys stakeholders.
As a member of both the continued growth and development.
locations, as well as those who carry FTSE4Good Index and the Carbon Trust, out work on our behalf.
we recognise that our interaction with Outlook the environment and local communities In an environment where economic In 2015, the regional leadership is a critical component of the international growth is by no means well established structure continued to help drive further reputation and quality of Essentras or uniform not least in the oil & gas improvements in the HSE standards which businesses, as well as a cornerstone of sector we are nonetheless confident the Company has already achieved.
developing a responsible, progressive of delivering balanced profitable growth Indeed, the Group-wide HSE management and winning culture.
in 2016, due to our international footprint system and Stop, Think, Evaluate, Proceed and diverse range of products and STEP shop floor programme which was All our principal manufacturing facilities end-markets.
rolled out in 2014 has already resulted in an hold the ISO 14001 environmental improvement in performance and better accreditation and, with the exception COLIN DAY engagement and reporting of HSE issues.
of recently acquired sites which, as Chief Executive As a result, such initiatives, which focus per Essentra policy, have a period of 24 19 February 2016 on risk identification as opposed to mere months to reach the required standard, accident reporting have led to a further they have also achieved the Occupational reduction in our lost-time accident rate.
