04 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Chief Executives Statement Its a privilege to join Euromoney with its unique portfolio of businesses and outstanding people.
Richard Ensor will be a tough act to follow.
I know our shareholders will join me in thanking him for his decades of service to our company.
The results in this report reflect the strong headwinds, both cyclical and structural, facing many of our customers and our businesses.
But they also show areas of real strength, for example in our  businesses.
They demonstrate, too, how cash generative the business is.
These strengths create great opportunity.
We are reviewing our strategy and we shall present to investors in early 2016.
The following is a summary of our results for Adjusted operating profit fell by 15.6m to The statutory profit before tax of 123.3m the year ended September 2015: 104.2m.
The adjusted operating margin is higher than the adjusted profit before tax fell from 30% to 26%.
Half of the decline as a result of gains realised on assets sold Our adjusted profit before tax was 107.8m.
in operating margin was as a result of during the period, partly offset by acquired In 2014 it was 116.2m.
Adjusted diluted factors we highlighted at the start of the intangible amortisation and goodwill earnings a share were 70.1p 2014: 70.6p.
year: higher property costs: the full-year impairment charges.
The directors recommend a final dividend impact of the groups investment in its The group continued to invest in its digital of 16.40p 2014: 16.00p, giving a total Delphi content platform: and the impact products during 2015 including rolling out dividend for the year of 23.40p 2014: of the Dealogic transaction.
The other half Delphi to most of the groups remaining 23.00p, to be paid to shareholders on came from higher people costs and from titles.
February 11 2016. declining advertising and delegate revenue The group ended the year with net cash Total revenue of 403.4m fell 1% where there is little direct cost to be saved for the first time since the acquisition of 1 compared to the previous year.
Underlying from the loss of revenue.
Net cash revenue, after also excluding the impact The 7% fall in adjusted profit before tax of 17.7m at September 30 compared of the timing of events, decreased by 2%.
was better than the 13% drop in adjusted with net debt of 37.6m at last year end.
Subscription revenue grew at a consistent operating profit because of a 2.5m credit This reflects the groups strong operating rate all year: advertising revenue declined 2014: 2.4m expense from reversing last cash flow, supplemented by net property throughout the year.
On the other hand, years long-term incentive accrual, and an proceeds of 10.6m following the groups event revenue declined in the second half of increase of 2.2m in the adjusted share of move to new London offices.
This was the year having grown in the first half.
This results in associates following the Dealogic offset by net M&A of 15.6m, including was due to the downturn in commodity transaction.
11.6m for the deferred consideration on prices and weakness in emerging markets.
Adjusted diluted earnings a share fell the acquisition of Insurance Insider.
only 1% because of a lower tax rate and a reduction in the number of shares in issue following last years share buy-back.
Earnings for dividend purposes increased by 2% and this is reflected in the increase in the final dividend.
1 Underlying revenues exclude the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency movements.
A detailed reconciliation of the groups adjusted results is set out in the appendix to this statement.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Overview ChIEf ExECutIvEs statEmEnt Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05 boarD Structure Following the initial stage of the strategic review, the board agreed that the company would be better served with a more traditional board structure, including the appointment of an independent non-executive Chairman and the creation of the new role of Chief Executive.
This will improve the governance of Euromoney and simplify its management structure.
Christopher Fordham, Diane Alfano, Bashar AL-Rehany, Neil Osborn and Jane Wilkinson will not seek re-election at the AGM.
They have all made a huge contribution to the success of Euromoney over many years and will continue to play a central role in the development of the company.
I look forward to working with them and the rest of the executive team.
outlook The first quarter of the new financial year has started with a continuation of the challenging market conditions we experienced in the second half of financial year 2015.
The groups activities in the investment banking and commodities sectors, which together account for more than two thirds of the groups revenues, continue to face significant structural and cyclical headwinds, while emerging markets remain generally weak.
In contrast, the groups businesses serving the asset management industry, which are predominantly subscriptiondriven, have remained relatively robust.
We expect these conditions to continue for the foreseeable future.
Finally, in my first few weeks with the company, I have discovered what I am sure our shareholders already know that Euromoney is made up of dedicated and expert people who have shown great resilience and resourcefulness during a difficult year.
I thank them and look forward to working with them all in the year ahead.
aNDrew raShbaSS Chief Executive December 14 2015 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8
