Governance Corporate governance report 67 business, including country-specific Conflicts of interest Non-executive directors updates, as well as an overview of the The Companys articles of association Appointment market in terms of client relationships, allow the Board to authorise actual Non-executive directors are initially regional trends, challenges, risks and a or potential conflicts of interest.
The appointed for a term of three years which summary of growth initiatives.
authorisation procedure involves Group may, subject to satisfactory performance Corporate Secretariat issuing guidance and election or re-election by the Costa Mesa, California at the March and a questionnaire each August, asking shareholders, be extended by mutual 2015 meetings, business presentations directors to identify any conflicts or agreement.
Non-executive directors included an overview of the North American potential conflicts, which the Board then normally serve for a maximum of nine years, market, updates on the four global business considers at its September meeting.
In through three terms of three years each.
lines, product demonstrations, a legal and addition, directors are expected to advise regulatory update and an external expert Meetings of non-executive directors the Company Secretary of any actual or discussed the evolution of Big Data and In addition to attending Board and potential conflicts as soon as they arise, so analytics with the Board.
committee meetings, the non-executive the Board can consider them at the next directors meet without the executive available opportunity.
In the Boards view, Other the Board also received and directors present at the end of each this procedure operated effectively during reviewed updates and training on: the scheduled Board meeting.
In addition, the year under review.
Groups cross-channel marketing platform: the non-executive directors also met a the evolution of the Experian brand and Senior Independent Director number of times this year with the Deputy information on the Groups corporate Chairman, and without the Chairman The Senior Independent Director is the reputation: the Consumer Services present, and discussed matters including Deputy Chairman, George Rose.
The Senior business: share dealing: and compliance.
Independent Director is available to meet Following her appointment in January shareholders who have concerns that Independence 2015 as Chairman of the Audit Committee, cannot be resolved through discussion with The Board considers each of the nonDeirdre Mahlan undertook further the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer executive directors to be independent in focused risk management, compliance, or the Chief Financial Officer, or where character and judgment and that there are government and regulatory affairs, such contact is inappropriate.
no relationships or circumstances that are internal audit, legal and information likely to affect or could appear to affect security induction.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, which is set down in writing.
The schedule of their responsibilities is available on the Companys website, www.
com, and an extract appears below.
Chairmans responsibilities include: Chief Executive Officers responsibilities include: Running the Board effectively and ensuring that the Running the Groups business and developing the Groups Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in strategy and overall commercial objectives.
developing and determining the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity Implementing, with the executive team, the decisions of and corporate governance throughout the Group and the Board, its committees and the principal subsidiaries.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important information on the Groups performance and its issues, and strategic issues facing the Group and ensuring that the challenges and opportunities.
Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Ensuring effective communication with the Companys Leading the communication programme with shareholders.
shareholders, including by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other executive management, and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
