Chief Executive s strategic review We keep customers moving and communities Our improved financial prospering by providing solutions for todays transportation challenges.
performance this year The demands placed on transport systems both within and between demonstrates that our cities are becoming increasingly complex, and customer expectations multi-year transformation for safety and punctuality, value for money, comfort and connectivity are higher than ever.
In meeting these challenges we have a unique programme is making competitive advantage: the scale, diversity and track record of our progress, though we must portfolio of transport businesses means we have a huge range of expertise and experience across the Group to draw on.
maintain the momentum of Our strategy is designed to leverage our scale by harnessing all of change to meet our medium ourinternational expertise and experience for the benefit of our local markets.
We focus on five strategic objectives where our strengths term financial targets.
andcapabilities across the Group have the most potential to add value: these are focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses, driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our Tim OToole passenger revenue businesses, continuous improvement in operating Chief Executive and financial performance, prudent investment in our key assets eets, systems and people, and maintaining responsible partnerships with our customers and communities.
In this strategic report we set out our business model, strategy and objectives in detail and review how we performed operationally and nancially in the year against our plans.
We explain how we measure our progress against a range of financial and non-financial indicators, and review the principal risks and uncertainties that we face, together with the approach we take to managing them.
Effective transport links play a vital role in the prosperity of any economy, and responsible partnerships with our customers and communities are therefore oneofour strategic objectives.
The corporate responsibility section ofour website expands on the summary contained in this report.
Progress with our transformation plans In 2013 we put forward a multi-year programme to reposition the Groupfor improved financial performance and to restore us to a prole of consistent financial returns, more reective of our leading market positions and our international capabilities.
We strengthened the balance sheet to give us the exibility to invest in this transformation, and set out detailed medium term financial targets.
We are confident that this programme represents the most compelling way to drive asustained improvement in returns for our shareholders while continuing to deliver for our other stakeholders.
I am pleased to say that the Group as a whole has made good progress in our transformation over the last two years, notwithstanding some unexpected external challenges since that time.
In First Student we continue to make progress in renewing our contract portfolio at prices more reective of the capital we employ whilst delivering significant cost efficiencies, despite the unusually severe winter in North America in 2013 14.
In UK Bus our tailored market-by-market approach has restored our ability to deliver passenger volume growth and market-based pricing yields whilst also reducing our cost base.
In Greyhound our programme to adopt yield management and customer relationship management systems is on track and the importance of having these tools has been amply highlighted by the impact of fuel price volatility on passenger demand this year.
We have secured 08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued operation of First Great Western until at least March 2019, Outlook which provides us with animportant foundation to build on in the UK We intend to deliver further progress from our multi-year transformation rail industry.
We were disappointed with the outcome of recent plans in our 2015 16 financial year.
We currently anticipate strong franchise competitions, but we remain confident that our disciplined progression in our non-rail businesses, driven mainly by the ongoing bidding process is the most appropriate approach for us.
Moreover, turnarounds of First Student and UK Bus, to largely offset the ourtrack record of operational delivery stands us in good stead as substantially lower contribution from UK Rail as a result oftheend of theremaining two thirds of the franchises by value are awarded over the First ScotRail and First Capital Connect franchises.
Importantly during a period when we have been First Student will continue to seek higher pricing with the resultant risk reinvesting in the business, our cash generation is ahead ofour of some contract losses during the 2015 bid season, though with just initialexpectations.
over half of the negotiations completed so far, we are encouraged by As our transformation plans move forward, we will continue to build our progress, with average price increases achieved to date of over 5%.
onthe improvements in our revenue and profitability towards our We anticipate this improvement together with further cost efficiencies medium term growth and margin targets.
We expect to continue to toresult in further margin progress for First Student in 2015 16, despite invest across the Group at similar absolute levels for the medium term, an impact of approximately $17m to operating profit as a result of the with our free cash ow improving over time as our operating earnings lower number of operating days compared with the prior year.
We also expect our nancing costs to continue to reduce, expect First Transit to continue to bid for contracts offering good ascash generation increases and our relatively high coupon bonds margins with modest capital investment, though we expect some mature over time.
We continue to target a ROCE of 10-12% and a reductions in demand for our shuttle services in the Canadian oil sands netdebt:EBITDA ratio of two times in the medium term, and remain region asaresult of lower oil prices.
In Greyhound we expect our yield committed to reinstating a sustainable dividend policy at the management systems to be operational from the middle of our 2015 16 appropriate time.
financial year, with the financial benets building over time.
If recent oil prices are sustained throughout the year, we would expect Greyhound People passenger demand to remain relatively muted, and we will continue to In March 2015 we were pleased to announce that Wolfhart Hauser manage our variable costs in response.
In UK Bus we will continue to would join the Board from May, and will become Chairman following drive overall volume growth and market-based yield enhancements our AGM in July.
Wolfhart recently retired after ten years as CEO of while targeting further cost efficiencies in 2015 16, tailoring our actions Intertek Group plc, the international quality and safety services provider tolocal conditions in the light of the progress each market has made and FTSE 100 constituent.
Under his leadership, Intertek developed through our turnaround plan.
UK Rails contribution to Group earnings from a medium-sized group of separate testing businesses into an will be substantially lower in 2015 16, as a result of the First Capital integrated global organisation with more than 38,000 employees Connect and First ScotRail franchises coming to an end.
As previously andoperations in more than 100 countries.
Wolfharts track record indicated, we expect cashow in our 2015 16 year to be broadly ofsustained value creation and his experience and counsel willbe atbefore the remaining UK Rail end of franchise outows of invaluable as we continue to drive forward the transformation ofthe approximately 30m.
On behalf of the Board and our employees, I would also like Our improved financial performance this year demonstrates that our tothank John McFarlane for the important contribution he has made multi-year transformation programme is making progress, though we during his tenure as Chairman and we wish him every success as must maintain the momentum of change to meet our medium term Chairman of Barclays.
Accordingly we will continue to work hard to deliver I would like to echo the sentiments of the Chairman in thanking Chris the considerable potential of the Group and return to a consistent Surch for his contribution to the Group since he joined in 2012.
During prole of cash generation and sustainable value creation.
this time of significant transformation he has played a key role in placing the business on a stronger footing and he will leave with our good Tim OToole wishes in all his future endeavours.
Chief Executive During the year our former colleagues at First Capital Connect and 10 June 2015 FirstScotRail transferred into new franchise owners.
We worked hard to ensure smooth transitions and we wish them well for the future.
We continue to invest in our people throughout the Group, giving themthe leadership, professional development and other tools which are strengthening our ability to deliver our transformation plans and leverage the extraordinary breadth of expertise across our business.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
