Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chief Executives Letter We remain prepared to act, of course, The mining industry faces significant pressures and challenges today: favouring actions that accelerate cash flow depressed prices, technical difficulties in accessing mineral resources while deferring investments that do not and rising demands of multiple stakeholders.
Many in our industry compromise the optimal timing of our critical growth projects.
Such was the case in 2015 have responded by increasing productivity, innovating processes and when we lowered our capital expenditure technologies, and improving their response to competing interests.
and exploration spending from their original budgeted amounts.
By necessity, best industry practices have been redefined.
We also encountered some internal challenges of our own in the year.
At the But many miners have rationalised These foundations uphold our commitment Fresnillo mine, we fell short of our own portfolios, curtailed production, cancelled or to balancing growth and returns, together expectations of operational excellence deferred investment in new projects and with maintaining a strong financial position, following development delays that had reduced exploration.
Such cash preservation allowing us to optimise performance in begun in 2013 concurrent with the natural measures may be critical in the short term current market conditions while pursuing and expected decline in silver ore grade.
but, taken to the extreme, could undermine profitability and sustainability across precious These delays, which limited access to richer the foundations of long-term value creation.
stopes, were caused by a combination of factors including narrower veins, which In that regard Fresnillo is well placed, with Indeed, we continued to generate solid profit increase dilution and require additional solid foundations on which to drive longmargins in 2015, albeit lower year on year, development to maintain throughput levels, term value creation: a strong balance sheet while all-in sustaining costs AISC for many poor rock quality necessitating additional that enables us to invest across cycles, high of our mines remain amongst the lowest in shotcreting and anchoring, issues with quality assets, low cost and flexible the industry.
We advanced our development contractors, and insufficient implementation operations, a disciplined approach to projects and by investing in exploration of in-mine infrastructure.
development, and a commitment to across price cycles, we generated increases sustainable business practices.
in gold resources over 2014, whilst silver resources remained relatively stable despite lower price assumptions.
Our commitment to balancing growth and returns, together with maintaining a strong financial position, allows us to optimise performance in current market conditions Octavio Alvdrez Chief Executive Officer 12 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations We continue to see the results of the Gold production of 762 koz increased 27.8% Exploration mainly focused on areas of measures we implemented at the Fresnillo over the same period of 2014, against our influence at current operating mines and mine gradually come through, with grades target of 715-730 koz and surpassing the 2018 key exploration sites, with our advanced and throughput increasing in the final gold production target of 750 koz.
This was a exploration projects all progressing according months of the year, whilst lowering dilution: I result of Herradura and its dynamic leaching to plan.
At Juanicipio, mining works am confident of a turnaround in 2016 with a plant being fully operational for the year, and continued at a good pace and drilling target of a double-digit increase in ore milled.
installation of a second Merrill Crowe plant showed positive results with a 10% increase that was key in increasing capacity and in silver resources.
We saw increases in At Herradura, our focus this year centred on reaching steady state.
silver-gold resources at the Huizache, San increasing our processing capacity to cater Julin Sur, Guanajuato and Rodeo projects.
for both the solution produced at the By-product lead production increased 48.3% leaching pads and the dynamic leaching on 2014, to 42,413 tonnes, as a result of Our resources and reserves reflect lowered plant DLP.
We installed a second Merrill increased ore throughput and higher ore price assumptions: the silver price Crowe plant and made technical grade at Saucito and higher ore grades at assumption decreased to US$15 per oz 2014: modifications to the DLP, which allowed us to Cinega and Fresnillo.
The gold price assumption for open reach steady state production by year end.
zinc production increased 45.2% to 46,022 pit resources was lowered to US$1,300 per oz tonnes due to higher ore throughput and ore 2014: US$1,350, consistent with the price Safety continues to be our highest priority grades at Saucito and higher ore grades and used for the purpose of the design of the pit and I am deeply saddened to report one recovery rates at Fresnillo.
We expect base shell, allowing for adequate long-term design fatality in late 2015 and two in early 2016, as metal production to continue to increase as flexibility.
The gold price assumption for well as an increase in injury rates.
Failure to we extract at deeper levels of the Fresnillo underground reserves and resources and for meet our targets in this regard has profound mine, and our capacity to process these reserves in open pits was unchanged at human implications, more than any other lead and zinc ores will increase following the US$1,150 per oz.
Notwithstanding these goal we set ourselves.
We must continue to plant expansion.
reductions, our high quality asset base strengthen our safety culture and address remains healthy.
Gold resources increased the human factors involved in the majority of Our development projects and high quality 4.2%, whilst silver resources and gold accidents in order to safeguard our workforce growth pipeline remain a key pillar of our reserves decreased by 1.9% and 1.5% and retain our licence to operate.
Silver reserves decreased, advanced development of the San Julin mainly at Fresnillo and San Julin, to In each of these areas above, we have taken silver-gold project, and despite delays in 547.6 moz.
important steps to improve performance in permitting, weather-related issues, security 2016 and we will hold ourselves accountable concerns and a high rotation of contractor We continued to advance our HSECR for the targets I outline below.
personnel arising from the projects remote framework in the year, and saw location, execution delays were relatively improvement in many key areas outside of Operating and financial performance minimal.
The commissioning of the stage 1 the aforementioned safety issues.
A notable We produced a record 47.0 moz of silver in leaching plant is now expected in the second highlight was the introduction of renewables 2015 including the Silverstream contract, at quarter of 2016, only months after the in our energy portfolio as we move to the top end of our guidance range and 4.4% revised target date.
decouple growth from carbon emissions.
This primarily reflected the Moreover, our progress in terms of carbon ramp-up of Saucito II that resulted in higher Detailed engineering continued at the pyrites emissions reporting transparency earned a ore throughput, as well as milling efficiencies project, which is expected to increase silver 93 rating from the Carbon Disclosure Project at the Saucito I plant.
Higher silver ore grade and gold recovery rates by processing against our initial rating of 58 in 2010.
The at Cinega also contributed to the increase in tailings, both historical and ongoing, from the response to climate change and the need production.
These factors more than offset Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
Once to build resilience in a carbon-constrained lower ore grade and volumes processed engineering is completed in mid-2016, economy, particularly in light of COP21 at Fresnillo.
further work on the project will be put on commitments, will require our considerable hold as part of the contingency plan focus.
Also notable was our inclusion as implemented by the Board to safeguard our a top emerging markets performer by financial position: equipment orders and Vigeo, an international research group on construction work will resume as market environmental, social and governance issues.
While our financial performance in the year was impacted by the decline in precious metal prices, with our average realised silver and gold prices 16.1% and 10.4% lower than in 2014, respectively, this was more than compensated by the higher volumes of metal produced and sold in 2015.
2015 silver production 2015 gold production 4.4% 27.8% 13 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Chief Executives Letter continued 2015 adjusted revenues 2015 EBITDA 2.5% -3.5% As a result, adjusted revenues totalled Our near-term focus remains on controlling I am humbled by and grateful for the US$1,583.3 million, 2.5% above the previous expenditures, optimising performance and confidence placed in us by our people and year.
Higher cost of sales that included a delivering returns, even as we hold firm to our our communities, our suppliers and significant hedging loss weighed on gross belief that value creation requires sustainable contractors, and our clients and profit, which declined by 16.9% to US$433.1 growth through the disciplined development shareholders, and feel a deep personal million.
Lower exploration expenses helped of new projects and ongoing investment in responsibility to meeting our commitments stem the decline in EBITDA to 3.5%, resulting exploration across prices cycles.
As such, and on sustainable value creation.
I look forward in an EBITDA margin of 37.9%.
The 16.9% in consideration of the contingency plan, we to working together in 2016 to drive that devaluation of the Mexican peso against the have budgeted US$600 million in capital vision ever forward.
US dollar resulted in non-cash charges to the expenditures for 2016, to be allocated income statement and affected the primarily to San Julin and sustaining capex at monetary position and value of certain current operations, and US$135-140 million for Octavio Alvdrez assets and liabilities, resulting in a much exploration.
However, we will continue to Chief Executive Officer higher deferred tax charge.
A detailed review monitor market conditions and may adjust of our performance is set out in the Financial the budget accordingly.
We aim to produce 49-51 moz of silver, Moving forward: our 2016 outlook and including 4 moz from the Silverstream, and objectives 775-790 koz of gold in 2016.
In addition, we While we see long-term fundamental will continue to pursue a favourable support for precious metals as we outline in resolution on Soledad-Dipolos, where mining our Market Overview pages 16 to 17, we do and beneficiation were suspended in 2013 not expect significant shifts in the factors following contested ownership of some driving current volatility, nor does there surface lands: since that time, we have appear to be a clear catalyst that would fostered strong relationships with other support a return to higher prices.
neighbouring agrarian communities that have led to the signing of new agreements.
Fresnillo remains well positioned to weather such volatility, with sufficient financial and As always, we will seek additional efficiencies operating flexibility.
Our long-term strategic at all our operating mines, investing in goals are unchanged: to profitably and productivity and controlling costs to maintain sustainably maintain the Groups position as our cost position and solid margins.
I the worlds largest primary silver company personally benchmark our success by the and a leading gold producer in Mexico.
ability to meet our objectives within a Having already attained our 2018 gold framework of maturing sustainability and production and reserves targets, we remain good governance, and continuous committed to our silver targets of 65 million improvement in our safety culture.
ounces production at that time, and 650 million ounces in reserves.
14 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Strategy Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2016 silver production guidance 2016 gold production guidance 49-51 moz 775-790 koz 2015 objectives 2015 performance See more Zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety One fatality in 2015 vs. one in 2014 : two in January 2016 p7073 45-47 moz silver, including Silverstream Met guidance at 47 moz mainly due to higher throughput p2 at Saucito, offsetting lower ore grade at Fresnillo 670-685 koz gold, later revised upwards to 715-730 koz Exceeded guidance at 762 koz mainly due to Herradura p2 and its DLP being fully operational for the year, and steady state having been reached at the mine post the installation of the second Merrill Crowe plant San Julin phase 1 start-up in 4Q15 Deferred to Q2 2016 following delays in permitting, p60 weather-related issues, security concerns and a high rotation of contractor personnel Launch next phase of growth at Cinega: start construction Following positive exploration results, capacity expansion p5455, 61, 63 of plant expansion, build tailings dam #3, conduct preat Cinega was deferred in order to evaluate need for feasibility study of mine expansion for Board approval: finalise increased milling levels, permitting process underway for detailed engineering of the pyrites plant and commence tailings dam: detailed engineering works continue at the construction pyrites plant Exploration budget of approximately US$170.0 million, Risk capital invested in exploration reduced to p6265 focused around current mines and advanced exploration US$151 million projects Evaluate mine plan option for Centauro Extension: continue At Centauro Extension, development of optimal pit design p5657, 63 exploration of Centauro Deep was concluded: mining works continued at Centauro Deep, geological model being revised Adapt water stewardship and biodiversity strategies Collaborating internally to forecast future energy p7479 demands and identify reduction opportunities Further advance maturity of HSECR system towards fully Maturity of HSECR system reached an overall level of p66, 68 integrated system by 2016 target 92.3% Our commitments and targets for 2016 See more Maximise the potential of existing operations p50-59 Fresnillo: Stabilise the rate of development at 4,500 metres per month, improve ore grade and production levels: advance engineering on the capacity optimisation project Produce 49-51 moz of silver, 775-790 koz of gold Increase efficiency and control costs Deliver growth through development projects p6061 San Julin: Commission leaching plant to process ore from the veins phase 1 in 2Q16, flotation plant to process ore from the disseminated ore body phase 2 in 4Q16 Pyrites plant: Complete engineering: equipment orders and construction on hold as per contingency plan Extend the growth pipeline p6265 Deploy US$135-140 million in exploration investment Advance and enhance the sustainability of our operations p6686 Continue to strive for zero fatalities, continuous improvement in safety Conclude advancement of HSECR system towards its 2016 target 15
