Chief Executives review SECURING YOUR WORLD Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer was to improve the strategic focus Strategy transforming G4S During 2015 we made substantial and performance of the group.
In November 2013 we set out progress with the strategic and our strategy to transform G4S Since 2013, we have sold or are operational transformation of and build a business capable of exiting 61 businesses, with aggregate delivering sustainable, profitable G4S.
Our portfolio management revenues of around 1.2 billion and growth.
During 2015 we made pre-tax losses of 30 million.
We programme combined with our substantial progress implementing have completed the sale or closure this strategy and the G4S group investment in sales, innovation and of 23 businesses and raised 281 now has three distinct components: million in disposal proceeds.
Since re-structuring is reflected in the 31 December 2015 we have Businesses sold or to be sold results of our underlying operations or closed under the portfolio identified a further four businesses to be sold, with aggregate revenues programme: where the groups revenues rose of around 400 million.
Legacy contracts to be managed by 4% and earnings rose by 14%.
to an effective conclusion: and The implementation of our portfolio programme is fundamentally changing Continuing businesses, which the shape of G4S, improving the are making tangible strategic, strategic, commercial and operational operational and financial progress focus and strengthening the financial as we implement G4Ss strategy.
position and performance of our The first two components do not continuing businesses.
form part of the long-term future of G4S, whereas the continuing % Legacy contracts businesses form the core of G4S 14 Between 2005 and 2012, G4S today and in the future.
Each of entered into a number of multi-year Increase in these components of the group contracts which contained obligations, underlying is described in further detail below.
terms and conditions that make earnings in these contracts inherently unprofitable 2015 Businesses sold or to be sold for G4S.
Virtually all of these relate or closed portfolio programme to UK public service contracts.
In In November 2013 we announced addition, we have invested substantial the start of a portfolio review time, resource and capital in the programme, the aim of which corporate renewal programme 6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report which we agreed with the People and values: Our people and Effective 1 January 2016, we created UK Government following the values are critical to the successful two new regions Asia Pacific and overbilling for services under the execution of our strategy.
We are Middle East & India replacing Asia UK Electronic Monitoring contract.
strengthening our organisation by Middle East which brings additional investing in talent via recruitment, executive resource and focus to Since 2013 we have set aside internal development, promotion these important markets.
To lead around 250 million to cover the and training.
these regions we made two new cost of legacy contracts, including appointments to the group executive the UK Electronic Monitoring In 2015 we undertook a global team: Claude Allain joined our contract, of which around 150 employee survey and were executive team in January 2016 million has been paid to date.
We delighted that 449,000 colleagues and took up the position of Regional have also identified a contingent took the opportunity to provide President for the Middle East and liability of 57 million relating to the us with their feedback on working India region, based in Dubai.
Claude UK Compass contract, should the for G4S.
Around 80% of participating has a strong and proven track contract be extended to August 2019. employees provided favourable record working in global service scores, confirming that they would Managing these contracts to an and technology businesses see recommend G4S as an employer.
effective and efficient conclusion biographical details on page 58.
Whilst these are comparatively remains an important element of Jon Corner was appointed as good results, we have no room our business plan.
Over the next Regional President for Asia Pacific, for complacency and the survey two to four years we expect this to based in Hong Kong.
Jon was provides us with invaluable become significantly less important formerly Commercial Director, information which we can use to as these contracts come to an end.
Asia Middle East and has extensive actively engage with our colleagues In the meantime we have materially business experience in the Asia across the group.
I am grateful to strengthened controls over the Pacific region see biographical each and every colleague who approval of major contracts to details on page 58. contributed to this important prevent such contracts from work in 2015. being signed in future.
Continuing businesses We continue to make substantial investments in these businesses and in 2015 we saw these investments producing tangible strategic, operational and financial benefits.
It is important to recognise that we have much further to go to realise the full potential of our strategy.
Our investment in continuing See page 10 businesses is focused on a number for our strategy of key strategic priorities which update are described below and set out in more detail on pages 16 to 35: Investing in people and values Investing in growth and innovation Investing in customer relationships and service excellence Investing in operational excellence financial discipline See page 18 for our people and values Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 7 Chief Executives Review continued In 2015, we welcomed Jenni Myles have partially offset the positive is zero harm and to achieve that we to the group executive team as impact of new contracts.
In the are striving to ensure that each and group HR Director biographical current economic environment we every employee at G4S understands details page 59.
Mel Brooks, already expect demand for our services to and complies with safe and secure a member of the executive team, grow by around 4-6% per annum working practices.
We work in an was appointed as Regional President over the medium term.
inherently hazardous industry: many for Africa.
of our colleagues travel extensively We continued to invest in product and many are trained to protect At the end of 2015, Jesus Rosano and service innovation and made our customers and their property.
moved from his role as COO of substantial progress with services As a result, road traffic accidents our Latin America region, to join such as Symmetry access control and criminal attacks are inherent the group executive committee system, Symmetry-Connect visitor risks we face in delivering some in the role of Group Commercial management, CASH360 and of our services.
We have therefore & Strategy Director.
invested in considerable improvements New services in these areas of We have a stronger senior leadership to our health and safety policies, our business are gaining commercial team in place across the group and practices, training and resources traction in the marketplace, both as we are better placed to achieve our across the group.
Whilst we have stand-alone and integrated offerings strategic goals in the coming years.
made progress in these areas, we and we are excited about the remain dissatisfied with safety At the start of 2016 we launched potential to grow these services performance in some parts of the our new group values.
These values over the coming years.
company and I regret to report that are the standards we set for ourselves Customer relationships and service 46 colleagues lost their lives in the and through our behaviours and excellence: During 2015 we line of duty in 2015.
We pay tribute actions, we are working to embed continued to invest in progressively to the courage and service of them in the culture of our organisation.
embedding a rigorous approach colleagues who lost their lives These values help us to retain and to sales operations, strategic account and we remain whole-heartedly attract employees and to meet and management and customer service committed to our goal of zero harm.
We use a standard They are vital to the long term Financial discipline: We have sales management tool, Salesforce, success of G4S and are described strengthened capital investment across the group and this has improved in further detail on page 19. processes and we are applying the visibility and management of our capital with greater consistency We re-launched our Speak Out sales pipeline.
We have also adopted and rigour.
service for employees to raise any a Net Promoter Score model to concerns they have about conduct measure and respond to customer Our working capital processes are which is inconsistent with our values.
Alongside these improving, but this remains an area Recent events at our UK Medway measures we continue to invest in where much greater consistency facility underline the importance strategic account managers to ensure and discipline is required.
Our of this on-going programme.
that we anticipate and serve our management of this area fell short customers needs.
of our standards in the final quarter Growth and Innovation: Against of 2015 and this is a key priority for a backdrop of macro-economic Operational excellence: We our finance and line management volatility and challenging trading continued to invest in improving our teams in 2016.
To that end we have conditions in some of our markets, efficiency through the execution of increased the weighting of operating demand for our services remained our restructuring and productivity cash flow in our annual incentive plans.
resilient and we won new contracts programmes and the positive effects with an annual value of over 1.3 of this are reflected in the groups Underlying performance billion and total contract value of commercial, operational and financial Revenue growth was positive in 2.4 billion.
At the same time, we performance for 2015.
We expect all regions apart from the UK, where replenished our pipeline which now to extract further benefits in 2016. our revenues fell by 3% reflecting has an annual value of 5.7 billion.
Health & Safety: The safety and the loss of a cash services contract We sustained average contract wellbeing of our employees and in the retail sector and the UK retention rates of around 90%, those in our care is a key priority Electronic Monitoring contract in although lower volumes drawn for the group executive team and 2014.
Compared with 2014, our under contracts in some markets the global leadership team.
Our goal revenues grew by 8.6% in emerging 8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report markets and by 5.8% in North of some of our key businesses by America, whilst our business in reducing their cost structures.
These Europe returned to growth with a programmes have payback periods 2.6% increase in revenues.
Overall of 12-36 months and deliver attractive group revenues increased by 4%.
The cost of these programmes 2015: 44 Underlying PBITA profit before million 2014: 29 million is interest, tax and amortisation of excluded from underlying results.
427 million was 5.7% higher than 2014, which reflects revenue growth, The board is recommending that the operational gearing, and the benefits final dividend is maintained at 5.82p of our restructuring and productivity per share DKK 0.5615, bringing the programmes.
Underlying earnings total dividend for the full year to and EPS increased 14% to 227 9.41p per share, a 1.8% increase.
Outlook: Against a backdrop Cash flow from operating businesses of global economic uncertainty, was 460 million, down by 13% on demand for our services remained last year mainly due to a 69 million resilient and growth accelerated in increase in working capital in 2015, the second half of 2015, providing related to revenue growth and the good support for further operating transition to a shared service centre, and financial progress in 2016.
In the which reversed in the first two current economic environment we months of 2016. expect medium term demand for our services to grow by around Although the group made good 4-6% per annum.
progress on an underlying basis, our statutory earnings of 8 million were Finally, I would like to thank all of adversely impacted by a number of our colleagues across the world significant factors described below: whose expertise and dedication to our customers and our group is Onerous contracts: as described reflected in the substantial progress above, the group continued to incur made by G4S in 2015. significant costs in relation to legacy contracts and we provided a further 65 million, principally in relation to the Compass contract with the UK Government asylum seeker Ashley Almanza accommodation and a UK PFI Group Chief Executive Officer contract NHS.
Goodwill impairment: a net charge of 66 million in relation to businesses acquired prior to 2013 and businesses expected to be sold or closed.
Exchange rates: the sterling value of emerging market revenues around one-third of group revenues was adversely affected by the sharp falls in many emerging market currencies and this reduced our statutory PBITA.
During the year, we continued to invest in restructuring programmes Watch the CEO Review online which improved the competitiveness at: www.
com investors 9 Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc
