Strategic report Chief Executive Officers review Background Financial market sentiment weakened considerably during the course of 2015, amid concerns over slowing economic growth.
The commodity sector was particularly adversely affected by a succession of disappointing China macro-economic data, declining oil prices, and the strong US dollar and, as a result, sector focus quickly switched from cash distribution to balance sheet concerns and cash preservation.
This led to further industry-wide cost and capex reductions, project closures and curtailments, asset sales, dividend cuts and equity issuance.
Robust performance despite difficult environment The financial performance in 2015 reflects our industrial activities exposure to lower commodity prices.
Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive Officer Adjusted EBITDA declined 32% to $8.7 billion, compared to 2014.
Marketing delivered Adjusted EBIT Summary: of$2.5 billion in 2015 despite the commodity headwinds noted above, Financial market sentiment weakened during 2015 12% down on 2014.
The business and the focus in our sector quickly switched from enhanced cyclical resilience and cash distribution to cash preservation defensiveness helped to offset the Our investors were concerned about the Companys impact of lower commodity prices, level of financial leverage.
We rapidly put in place a whereby earnings are underpinned by strategy to address these concerns, culminating in logistics activities services, economies the $13 billion debt reduction plan of scale and business diversification: Our diversified portfolio, based around a core of Tier 2016 EBIT guidance range confirmed at 1 assets, coupled with the counter-cyclical nature of $2.4 to $2.7 billion, adjusted somewhat our marketing business, underpins Glencores ability below the long-term range, reflecting to continue to be cash generative despite the current the lower net working capital levels.
environment for commodities Industrial assets Adjusted EBITDA declined 38% to $6.0 billion, compared to 2014, reflecting the impact of lower commodity prices, offset by currency benefits and cost and productivity improvements.
04 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information The unique flexibility of our capital Improving health and safety structure enabled a working capital performance has substantially release of more than $6.6 billion, progressed, achieving, one year ahead reflecting lower commodity prices, of schedule, our targeted 50% but also proactive working capital reduction in lost time injury rate management.
Net funding reduced by against 2010 baseline, with further $8.5 billion during 2015 to $41.2 billion, reductions being targeted.
while net debt at period end was Looking forward $25.9 billion.
Our diversified asset portfolio, based Re-positioning the balance sheet around a core of Tier 1 assets, During H2 2015, it became apparent combined with our highly resilient that financial markets were concerned marketing business, underpins about the Groups level of financial Glencores ability to continue to be leverage.
We rapidly put in place a comfortably cash generative, despite plan to address these concerns, the current environment culminating in the $10.2 billion debt for commodities.
reduction plan announced in Furthermore, our continued proactive September.
Further measures were balance sheet initiatives will lead toa communicated in December.
In total, significant reduction in our net the initiatives announced are expected funding and net debt levels and ensure to support our end 2016 Net funding a high degree of flexibility regardless and Net debt targets of $32 33 billion of future market conditions.
and $17 18 billion respectively, which remain on track.
We remain focused on preserving our investment grade credit rating status.
The steps that we have announced and Ivan Glasenberg taken so far have contributed to our Chief Executive Officer current stable credit ratings from both major credit ratings agencies.
Corporate governance Sustainability It is with sadness to report that we have not achieved our goal of zero fatalities during 2015, whereby ten people lost their lives at our operations.
Any loss of life is unacceptable and we continue to strengthen our efforts in this regard.
In last years report, we highlighted steps being taken to address the safety performance at our focus assets, historically responsible for the majority of our safety incidents.
These assets are located in challenging geographies, without a culture of safety prior to our involvement.
We are pleased to report the delivery of positive results, with three of the five focus assets fatality-free throughout 2015.
