Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information CEOs statement The progress we have made in 2015, strongly positions the Group to deliver the mediumterm outlook we set out to investors in May last year and to return to core earnings growth in 2016.
Restructuring and modernising Over the last two years we have launched a 2015 highlights our business number of new pharmaceutical and vaccine We are ahead of schedule on our products and in 2015 sales from this group integration and restructuring programmes reached 2 billion.
This performance was and in 2015 realised 1 billion of driven by continued excellent uptake of incremental annual cost savings.
our HIV launches Tivicay and Triumeq, bn We are well on track to deliver 3 billion growing momentum in our new respiratory 23.9 a of savings by the end of 2017. portfolio Relvar Breo, Anoro and Incruse 2015 Group turnover and significant contributions from newly We are modernising our business and up 6% CER 1% CER pro-forma acquired meningitis vaccines Bexsero making significant changes to our and Menveo.
We have already New product sales are now more than changed how we compensate our sales bn 2.0 offsetting the declines in Seretide Advair: representatives and from the beginning sales of which are now around 30% below of January 2016 stopped paying external New product sales their peak in 2013. doctors to speak about our products.
up 100% These are industry rsts.
At the same time, 2015 also saw a very strong performance we are investing signicantly in our own from our Consumer Healthcare business medical expertise and developing new bn with sales up 44% 6% pro-forma 1.0 digital capabilities to improve our driven by a number of key brands including interactions with physicians.
Sensodyne and allergy treatment Flonase 2015 incremental annual cost savings from integration and restructuring which we switched from prescription status Outlook to over-the-counter in the US.
The progress we have made in 2015, strongly positions the Group to deliver Strong R&D innovation the medium-term outlook we set out to 2015 marked further progress against Our R&D organisation continued to deliver investors in May last year and to return our strategy of creating a balanced Group significant innovation for the Group in 2015. to core earnings growth in 2016. of three world leading business in A key milestone was the approval in the US Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer and Europe of Nucala, our first biologic Finally, and this year more than ever, I would Healthcare, with a clear aim to deliver growth treatment for severe asthma.
We also like to thank all of our employees for their and improving returns to shareholders.
successfully gained approval for our malaria extraordinary energy, passion and tenacity.
vaccine, the first vaccine against a parasite.
In the year, we completed our major 3-part transaction with Novartis and made good Since 2008, the Group has received progress to integrate new businesses in approvals for 15 new molecular entities Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines and NMEs.
In November 2015, we proled restructure our Pharmaceuticals business.
around 40 new potential medicines and At the same time, sales of our new vaccines, 80% of which we believe could products have dramatically accelerated.
Trading performance Over the next two years we expect to see Sir Andrew Witty Group sales rose 6% 1% pro-forma significant development milestones for a Chief Executive officer to 23.9 billion, despite trading conditions number of these assets including lings remaining challenging in a number of for our vaccine for shingles, Shingrix, markets.
Core earnings per share was sirukumab, for rheumatoid arthritis, and 75.7 pence, -15% CER, ahead of our our triple combination therapy for chronic guidance for the year.
Total earnings per obstructive pulmonary disease COPD.
share were 174.3 pence, a rise of more In addition, we expect continued progress than 100%, reecting the significant gains in our mid and late stage pipeline in core from the transaction.
therapy areas of respiratory, immunoinammation, HIV, vaccines and oncology.
Footnote a 1.6bn savings achieved as at 31 December 2015 with a further 1.4bn to come over the next two years GSK Annual Report 2015 7
