8 Chief Executives Review Karim Bitar Genus achieved very good progress in 2015, Group Performance Genuss overall performance was with the benefit of many of the strategic strong in 2015.
Revenues grew 7% changes that have been made over the last to 398m, on volume growth of 6% fewyears contributing towards the strong in porcine and 6% in dairy and beef.
We continued Adjusted profit before tax, including joint ventures JVs, was up 19% to step up the pace of genetic improvement to 46.6m and growth in constant and achieved encouraging progress in our R&D currency was even stronger at 23%.
initiatives, which bodes well for the future PIC had an outstanding year, with as we become an increasingly science and 17% operating profit growth including intellectual property based company.
The JVs in constant currency.
This was acquisition of 51% of IVB will also enable us to driven by an excellent performance provide innovative new genetic solutions to our in the Americas, with the completion of Gntiporcs integration and customers in the dairy and beefindustries.
the addition of Birchwood both contributing.
We also saw a recovery in the porcine industry, as the impact of porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus PEDv waned.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 9 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Performance in ABS and Asia was In March, we acquired 51% of IVB, the Genuss overall performance more mixed, with both businesses worlds leading supplier of bovine IVF was very strong in 2015. delivering stable profits in constant services.
Combining IVBs skills with currency compared with the prior year.
ABSs leading genetic management ABSs sales performance was positive tools will enable us to accelerate in all regions despite weakening the genetic improvement of our conditions in global dairy markets customers herds and opens up but higher product costs held back new opportunities.
During the year, overall profits.
Our strategic actions IVB introduced a novel method of During the year, we strengthened in ABS to increase differentiation producing frozen embryos which further our people management through breeding our own bulls, makes their implantation significantly practices, training and talent developing proprietary indices and easier.
Our initial integration of the development, and increased our new technologies, such as IVF and business is progressing well.
emphasis on the health and safety GSS, all made good progress.
Our employee pulse We generate value for our genetics by survey showed that our employees Our Asian operations continued to targeting key markets and segments have a very significant commitment face challenging conditions in porcine and tailoring our business model to to our vision, values and strategy.
markets, with Chinese producers the needs of our customers in these Their passion and engagement making losses through most of the markets.
PIC increased its market makes a big contribution to the year.
Russia was also affected by weak share and grew penetration of the value we deliver to our customers markets and closure of the border to royalty model, particularly in Europe and our success in the market.
Conditions in both of these and Asia.
Gntiporc was fully markets appear more encouraging integrated a year ahead of schedule Outlook as we enter the new financial year.
and we are very pleased with the In 2015, we significantly exceeded our results in North America and Latin target double-digit compound annual Strategy America.
We also acquired Birchwood, growth in adjusted operating profit Our innovation strategy starts with a boar stud operation serving midin constant currency.
We continued to implement sized customers in North America, to currency growth rate in 2016, while advances in selection techniques strengthen our distribution of male in line with expectations, is expected that are significantly accelerating genetics in this segment.
Its results to be more moderate.
Based on genetic gains in our porcine nucleus are consistent with our expectations.
current conditions, we are cautiously herds.
These new genetics are now optimistic about improved results in working their way through our In China, we continued to adapt Asia.
However, we remain cautious supply chain, and customers will our business model to reduce about prospects in dairy, where market start to benefit from them during financial investment and exposure conditions are very tough for our 2016 and 2017.
We also applied to the volatile farming market, customers, and porcine commodity these approaches in bovine, as we exiting two owned farms and prices have worsened compared developed proprietary indices and completing the stocking of our first with last year.
The sharp depreciation pursued our breeding programme third-party multiplier, Riverstone, of the Euro, Rouble and most Latin in the dairy and beef nucleus herds during the year.
Riverstone, which American currencies over the last year we initiated in 2014.
Some of the elite is also a royalty-based customer, will also be a continuing headwind.
young sires from this programme will stock a second farm in 2016. will enter production in 2016.
We gave more details of our strategy Karim Bitar Our leading-edge research and our progress with its execution Chief Executive programmes in the areas of disease at a Capital Markets Day we hosted 7 September 2015 resistance and genetic dissemination in London in May 2015.
A webcast technology passed several of the event is available at scientifically significant milestones, www.
although these projects remain long-term in nature.
In addition, we Our People continued to make good progress GELT was unchanged in 2015 and I with the technical milestones on am very pleased with the Groups high GSS and are vigorously pursuing energy, individual capabilities and our anti-trust litigation in the US to collective teamwork.
It is a privilege seek to create an open market for to work with such a strong team.
The trial date has now been set for 1 August 2016.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 10 Market Opportunities The Animal Genetics Market Consumers around the world are increasingly demanding safe, affordable and high-quality animal protein.
At the same time, farmers are striving to produce animal protein more efficiently, inpart because of increasing competition for finite resources.
Genetics are critical to addressing these challenges.
Demand Drivers for Animal Genetics There are four key drivers of demand for our animal genetics.
Changes in production animal protein At the same time as demand is In response to all these issues, rising, production is becoming more food producers are increasingly The global population continues to challenging.
Competition for resources turning to high-quality genetics to grow and is becoming increasingly such as water and land for producing increase production and efficiency.
These demographic animal protein is intensifying.
For example, artificial insemination shifts mean much of the increase Increasingly volatile and unpredictable AI in dairy has reached 75% in in demand is coming from weather patterns can also significantly the US and 50% in India.
There is emerging markets, in regions such affect crop harvests and hence the scope for considerable growth as Asia and Latin America.
availability and cost of animal feed.
in markets such as Brazil, where This puts pressure on producers AI is used in just 13% of herds.
World Population Growth 1990-2050 to be as efficient as possible.
Billion The scale of production is also 2050 6.3 3.2 increasing, as producers focus on 3.
Shorter, simpler 2045 6.0 3.3 efficiency and look to consolidate supply chains 2040 5.7 3.3 and vertically integrate, leading Supply chains that were previously to a greater proportion of animal 2035 5.4 3.3 fragmented, with multiple steps protein being delivered by larger, 2030 5.1 3.4 between food producers and more technified producers globally.
2025 4.7 3.4 consumers, are becoming shorter For example, in porcine, large scale and transparency is increasing.
integrated pork production accounts 2020 4.3 3.4 The result is that consumer needs for the majority of pork production 2015 4.0 3.4 are having a more direct influence in the US and Brazil, and is a growing 2010 3.6 3.3 on food producers.
This is driving proportion of production in China.
demand for higher-quality animal 2005 3.2 3.3 protein and less use of drugs.
2000 2.9 3.3 1995 2.6 3.2 1990 2.3 3.0 Urban Rural Source: United Nations, Department of Economic and Social A airs, Population Division 2014.
As consumers move from an agricultural to an urban lifestyle, they tend to become wealthier.
This in turn leads to an increasing demand for animal protein, as meat and dairy products become a larger part of peoples diets.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 11 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Market Profiles Porcine Dairy Beef Significant Lower barriers Lower barriers Industry barriers to entry, to entry, with to entry, with with high product less product less product differentiation differentiation differentiation Customer landscape Consolidated Fragmented Fragmented and highly and some and some technified, with technification, technification, royalty contracts with prices per with prices per linking price to unit of sale unit of sale value added The Scale of the Opportunity World production millions of tonnes In dairy and beef, the global market is much more fragmented and customers are typically less technified.
Products and their genetic merit have historically been benchmarked to public indices and all breeders genetics are typically sold in an open market system, with no restrictions on further genetic dissemination through the resale of genetic offspring.
Barriers to entry are therefore lower and Milk Pork Beef products are priced on a transactional basis.
However, both the dairy and 2024 933 2024 129 2024 75 beef industry are seeing an increasing 2015 794 2015 118 2015 68 trend towards technification, with some of the leading dairy and beef producers looking to invest in Forecast compound growth 20152024 bilateral partnerships with genetic suppliers to improve their productivity % % % 1.8 0.9 1.1 and the quality of their herds.
Data set: OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook 2015-2024.
Note Beef includes veal: Beef and pork measured as cwe.
Genus PIC and Genus ABS operate often rely on head-to-head validation in markets with different dynamics.
trials to select their preferred supplier of genetics.
These genetics are The global porcine sector is supplied from proprietary animal lines consolidated and technified in many and purchased on multi-year genetic of our key markets, with strong improvement contracts, with payment representation of large integrated pork tied to the resulting improvement in producers.
Such producers are more the customers breeding herd.
The net able to measure and realise the direct result is a market with differentiated benefits of genetic improvement and products and high barriers to entry.
