CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Continued growth Acquisition of Fokker The most significant development was the Nigel Stein acquisition of the leading Dutch aerospace C Chief hief Ex Exec ecuti utiv five e company Fokker in October 2015.
The acquisition is covered extensively later in this report.
The business brings excellent technology which complements our own in aerostructures and gives us capability in new areas such as electrical wiring and landing gear.
Fokker has an impressive facility in China that will help boost GKN Aerospaces activity in this important region, and it has good positions on successful programmes such as the Lockheed Martin F-35 and the Airbus A350 platforms where output is growing.
Fokkers strength is based on the quality of its people who are an excellent addition to the GKN team.
I am confident that Fokker will prove an important complement to the I was pleased with our performance in 2015.
Aer extensive planning, the integration process is now under way.
continued to grow and delivered profit before tax in line with our plans, despite more challenging conditions in Performance against our markets Our strategy is aimed at outgrowing some of our markets.
We kept our focus on technology our markets on an organic basis, and and operational excellence which underpin our position in 2015 GKN Driveline and GKN Powder as leaders in our markets, at the same time taking some Metallurgy achieved that, overcoming dicult market conditions in China significant steps forward in pursuit of our strategy.
I am and Brazil through strong growth in confident that as we enter 2016, GKN is an even better Europe.
GKN Drivelines sales grew by 5% organically, comfortably ahead of the business than it was a year ago.
growth in global car production 1.4%, with margins moving slightly ahead.
GKN Aerospace is in a period of transition, with some of our newer commercial programmes ramping up and mature military programmes winding down.
In 2015, commercial aircra sales increased by 6% while military sales declined 9%.
Overall, sales in GKN Aerospace increased 2% organically.
The switch from mature to new programmes put GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 7,689m 603m Management sales including Management profit before tax the impact of Fokker including the impact of Fokker margins under pressure, and it took Group margin held steady at 9.2% in Financial summary concerted management effort together spite of the headwind from lower profits We measure long-term financial success with some help from one-off items to in GKN Land Systems.
using three key metrics: growth above hold profits broadly level with 2014.
ROIC moved up slightly, heading market: margin improvement within towards the 20% target.
an 8% to 10% range: and return on GKN Powder Metallurgy had a very good Cash flow and dividend both increased.
invested capital ROIC at around year, growing profits by 6% organically 20% before tax, delivering increasing and taking its margin to 12%.
Through cash flow and dividend growth.
Strategic progress their operational excellence and skill Avoiding accidents at work is a top priority in developing hard to make Design for Against that framework our performance for all GKN employees.
I was pleased with PM components, the team succeeded in in 2015 was respectable.
In summary, and our good performance this year shown in securing a record level of new orders.
ignoring the two months impact of Fokker: our KPIs on page 12 however we will look for even further improvement in 2016.
GKN Land Systems gave a creditable Group sales grew organically by 2%, performance, with organic sales with growth above the market in Being the best at what we do is part of our down by 6% in very tough market both automotive businesses.
The team worked hard to Aerospaces growth was slightly below is an important part of our aim to move address falling sales by cutting costs, the overall market.
GKN Land Systems, ahead of our competitors and consolidate and the results reflect the impact of with its differing markets, is hard to our market-leading positions.
measure, but its results certainly compare favourably with most of its peers.
Our financial goals To deliver sustainable shareholder value over the long term, our financial goals are based on a balanced approach between sales growth, margin and return on invested capital ROIC.
Our automotive businesses outperformed the market in 2015: at Growth 9.2% Group trading margin exceeded our minimum target of above market 8%, while we continued to make progress on ROIC at 17.8%.
Further details are set out in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 14 and 15.
Delivering strong financial returns Trading ROIC 20% margin 8-10% Increasing cash flow, EPS and dividends GKN plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued As well as new aerospace technology more units on the road than our competitors.
In automotive, external forecasts predict growth in global light vehicle gained through the addition of Fokker, eDrive today is a relatively small part of production of around 3% with increases during the year we acquired Sheets our business, but it is expected to grow as in China, North America, Europe and Manufacturing Inc. which provides us vehicles become increasingly electrified.
India, while Brazil is expected to show with the opportunity to manufacture a further sharp decline.
Against this innovative lip skin products on an GKN Land Systems made progress background, GKN Driveline and GKN industrial scale.
The lip skin technology with a new industrial shaft monitoring Powder Metallurgy are expected to offers weight reduction and improved service and innovative wheel profiles.
continue to grow organically above aerodynamics, and will be used on the the market.
Boeing 737 MAX and other Boeing aircraft.
The progress of the past year could GKN Land Systems sales are expected to fall further due to softer agricultural not have been delivered without the and construction equipment markets.
Additive manufacturing AM, or the tremendous efforts of the whole GKN team 3D printing of metallic components, around the world.
I thank them sincerely Although the economic backdrop is is increasingly seen as an important for their hard work and commitment.
uncertain and some of our markets remain new process for most of our markets.
challenging, 2016 is expected to be a year We are developing our position in AM Looking ahead of good growth, helped by the contribution and were pleased that GKN Aerospace Looking to the future, I am confident that from Fokker.
proved successful in winning its first GKN's strategy which is set out in more production orders for parts, which will detail on pages 6 and 7 of this report will be used on military aircraft.
GKN Powder bring continuing success.
Metallurgy is now supplying aerospace certified titanium powder from our USAs regards the outlook for 2016: based pilot plant for new AM parts.
Nigel Stein Aerospace markets generally remain in Chief Executive GKN Drivelines leading technology was transition as some aircraft programmes run down and others ramp up.
The overall demonstrated when its eDrive axle project market will be slightly down, according to won a prestigious Automotive News PACE external forecasts.
Against that backdrop, award, considered to be the industry GKN Aerospaces 2016 organic sales are benchmark for automotive innovation.
expected to be broadly flat, although the eDrive axles are a second electrically driven results will benefit from the contribution axle which provide all-wheel drive AWD of Fokker.
In the medium term, our strong capability as well as improved fuel efficiency.
commercial order book supports GKN Driveline is the leader in that market with continuing growth for GKN Aerospace.
Group strategic progress The acquisition of Fokker strengthened GKN's progress against all of our strategic objectives.
Strategic objective Progress Leading in our Organic wins across the Group and strong sales performances in the automotive businesses.
chosen markets Further strengthening capacity in Mexico GKN Aerospace, US GKN Leveraging a strong Driveline and China GKN Powder Metallurgy and GKN Land Systems.
global presence Acquired Sheets Manufacturing Inc. to provide GKN Aerospace with Sustaining Differentiating ourselves unique new technology.
above market Strong progress in eDrive and eAxle developments.
through technology growth Continued to develop strong position in additive manufacturing across GKN.
Further strengthened the Voice of the Customer programme, aimed at Driving operational improving GKN performance.
excellence Quality and process excellence programmes across the business.
GKN plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
