GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW David Brown, Group Chief Executive Collaboration and partnership working are particular strengths for Go-Ahead.
We have always worked closely with our key strategic partners and are continually striving to strengthen these relationships.
Profit growth in all divisons Record passenger numbers in our rail division The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 6 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information expectations, as passenger revenue growth in our regional bus operations STRONGER TOGETHER slowed, particularly in the second half, and Quality Incentive Contract QIC This year, once again, the Group has achieved a considerable amount: making revenue declined in our London bus business due to increased congestion progress towards our longer term goals.
We have faced challenges as well as and roadworks.
As a result, we now believe that we will achieve 100m of bus successes.
These experiences leave us better placed for the future.
operating profit in 2016 17, one year later than originally expected.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our rail division delivered stronger than expected profitability of 25.7m Through our regional bus operations, Go-Ahead has continued to keep people 2014: 19.7m up 30.5% on the previous year, despite the operational in cities and towns across the UK moving over the last three decades.
During challenges faced during the year.
This strong performance was helped by this time we have become an integral part of the local communities that we contract management benefits towards the end of the Southern franchise.
serve and have contributed to economic growth in these areas, working closely BUS in partnership with local authorities.
We always strive to improve services for our passengers and are proud of our high levels of customer satisfaction, which Our regional bus operations delivered operating profit of 46.7m remain the best in the sector at 90%.
We believe in investing in our operations to provide high quality services.
Over the last five years, we have invested over 180 million in our regional While the majority of our regional operations saw growth in passenger bus services, largely placed with UK-based manufacturing and construction journeys, passenger growth in our regional bus business overall was down 1.4% businesses.
This investment in our fleet and facilities helps us attract and as a result of continuing economic weakness in the north east and the impact retain customers by improving accessibility, comfort, convenience and the of roadworks on our services in Oxford and Brighton.
In particular, in Oxford, environmental sustainability of our services.
Successive governments have ongoing long delays due to congestion are deterring bus travel.
recognised the contribution of the UKs cost-effective and flexible regional In London, we maintained our market share and contract revenue increased in bus industry, in which Go-Aheads businesses play a prominent role.
However, high levels of roadworks and congestion associated with public realm improvements and the cycle super highway in As the largest operator of buses in London, Go-Ahead plays an important the capital, impacted our QIC revenue significantly, dropping to 4.6m 2014: role in delivering the capitals integrated passenger transport network.
Running 9.1m in the year, predominantly in the second half.
some 2,500 buses every weekday and enabling almost half a million passenger journeys each year, we help to keep London moving.
We are currently operating in an environment of low inflation, with low revenue growth and some upward pressure on the cost base.
Some headwinds, such The rail franchising system brings great value to the UK taxpayer.
The industry as the reduction in QIC revenue and specific issues in some of our regional contributes over 2bn through net premium payments, more than funding the areas, are impacting our business in the short term.
Looking to the future, TfL annual maintenance requirements for the national network.
In the year, our has stated it expects bus reliability to reach record levels by 2017, which should operations have continued to create value for the UK economy, with our rail result in improvements in our QIC revenue.
Pressure on some of our regional operations directly contributing 255.9m, an increase of 191.9m on last year: bus services due to roadworks will ease when infrastructure programmes 10 times the profits generated by our rail division.
Over the life of its six year are completed, presenting us with the potential for revenue growth and an franchise, Southern generated over 600m for the Government through its improved operating network for the future.
In addition, Government forecasts efficient running of the operation.
estimate that inflation will rise at a time when some of our costs, such as In addition to the financial contribution we make, we are also committed to fuel, will reduce.
All of these factors give us confidence in the prospects for improving services for our passengers.
Over the next three years 1,400 new our bus division.
train carriages will be introduced across our rail network, providing more comfortable, reliable and efficient services.
We are collaborating with our RAIL industry partners to deliver the benefits associated with the 6.5bn Thameslink Under its new direct award contract, Southeastern delivered a strong financial Programme.
Notwithstanding a number of planned infrastructure projects performance in the year to 27 June 2015, with an increase in revenue of 8.5% being postponed, such as electrification on certain routes, the Governments year on year.
This strong performance more than offset the weakness in GTR, 38bn investment plan remains one of the most transforming and ambitious in which reported a loss in the year due to additional costs incurred as it sought the history of our countrys railway.
Increased rail infrastructure investment is to rectify the issues at the beginning of the contract in September 2014.
These essential to improve services and, while an investment programme of this scale issues were quickly identified by GTRs management team and improvement will inevitably result in disruption while infrastructure improvements are made, it plans were put in place.
Investment has been made in temporary rolling stock will deliver considerable benefit in the long term.
We understand the disruption and permanent drivers, with the largest ever driver training programme in the this has on passengers and are working closely with Network Rail to minimise UK currently underway.
Over the coming years we will be working hard to deliver a comprehensive Following the general election in May 2015, the new Government has proposed programme of works, within a complex contractual arrangement, and a the introduction of a Bus Bill.
At this stage, there is very little clarity on what franchise which has inevitably changed from the original bid.
GTR will employ this may contain, how it may be linked to the Devolution Bill, or the impact it the normal industry contract remedies to help mitigate these changes over time.
may have on existing bus operators.
Go-Ahead continually engages with the We are heavily reliant on third parties, which have their own targets, budgets Department for Transport DfT, MPs and other local stakeholders to help and deadlines to meet, but we strongly believe that working in partnership is inform the debate.
The concept of devolution is not unfamiliar to us as we vital to the successful delivery of the Thameslink Programme.
have always operated within a devolved management structure.
We believe Although this franchise will continue to be challenging and we expect margins partnership working brings about the best results for passengers and taxpayers to be impacted in the near term, our expectations for the life of the franchise and we continue to work closely with the local authorities in the areas where remain unchanged.
Read more about managing our risks on page 34 we operate.
London Midlands performance continued to improve throughout the year, OUR PERFORMANCE with the franchise making a modest contribution to profit.
Southern performed I am pleased with the Groups financial performance in the year.
Overall, in line with our financial expectations and, following the year end, it was operating profit of 114.7m 2014: 103.2m exceeded our initial expectations successfully integrated into GTR.
Integrating two large franchises is an enormous and rose 11.1% from the previous year.
project and I would like to thank everyone involved for their commitment and professionalism through this process.
We saw another year of record bus profits with operating profit for the division up 6.6% to 89.0m 2014: 83.5m.
This was marginally behind the Boards www.
com 7 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED to meet our customers changing needs.
Being a business with a devolved EXPLORING OPPORTUNITIES structure makes it natural for us to understand and support the principle of We have always considered growth prospects in a range of markets, looking greater local accountability in political structures.
for value adding opportunities that complement our portfolio, in line with our measured approach to risk.
Go-Ahead is an integral part of the UK public transport industry and we believe in offering wider transport solutions.
We work closely with our industry During the period, we submitted bids for the DfTs Northern and TransPennine partners and believe that together, we can build a better future for UK Express rail franchises and were pleased to be shortlisted for TfLs London passenger transport.
Read more about stakeholder relations on page 62 Overground contract.
Over the next two years, there are a number of other We are committed to being a responsible business.
Our continuous efforts UK rail franchise opportunities which we will also consider.
to improve environmental performance throughout all our bus and rail We are bidding for contracts in the German regional rail market and have a operating companies have contributed to the achievement of our highest ever small bid team based in Berlin.
Germany has the largest rail market in Europe Carbon Disclosure Project score.
This recognises the ongoing commitment and it is amongst the most liberalised.
The regional passenger rail market to environmental responsibility and sustainability, which saw the Group being generates annual revenue of around 9.6bn and operates more than awarded the Carbon Trust Standard triple accreditation for our achievements in 50bn passenger kilometres a year.
carbon, water and waste reduction.
We look forward to submitting a second contract bid in the Singaporean bus As a socially responsible organisation, transparency and openness are important market, which has many similar features to the London bus market, where to us.
A fair tax system is to the benefit of everyone and is crucial to support a we are the largest operator.
At almost half the size of the London market, this vibrant economy.
We are pleased to be one of only two FTSE 350 organisations presents an attractive opportunity for the Group.
Annually, over one billion to have been awarded the Fair Tax Mark in recognition of our responsible passenger journeys are made on Singapores bus network.
We have gained approach to UK corporation tax.
valuable experience and knowledge of this market through our bidding activity to date.
All of our stakeholders are important to us.
Demonstrating our commitment to our suppliers, we were pleased to be recognised by the Prompt Payment Code As with all development activity, we undertake careful analysis to establish which during the year.
Read more on page 30 opportunities best complement our portfolio, match our risk appetite and offer attractive returns for our shareholders.
Read more about our approach to exploring OUTLOOK new markets from page 14 The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the second half OUR PEOPLE of 2014 15.
Our 26,000 people remain the backbone of our business and are vital to our We expect to deliver 100m of bus operating profit in 2016 2017, a year later success as a Group.
Our employees reward us with hard work and dedication than originally anticipated.
We would expect some of the headwinds which around the clock and in return we strive to make Go-Ahead a great place to we have experienced over the past year to reverse over time and this, along work.
We understand the importance of reward and recognition in all its forms with reduced fuel costs, gives us continued confidence in the prospects for and also believe in providing opportunities for the development of our people.
As we reported last year, a lot of attention has been placed on succession In our rail division, the Boards expectations remain unchanged as a stronger planning and talent management across the Group.
At all levels of the businesses performance in Southeastern continues to offset underperformance in GTR.
we aim to attract, retain and develop high calibre individuals.
We have built Our focus will remain on delivering improvements for customers and minimising on the progress made and throughout the year have developed our talent disruption caused by large scale infrastructure work.
We continue discussions management and graduate programmes and launched The Academy, which with the DfT regarding the extension of the London Midland franchise from offers online training and learning materials to all our people.
March 2016 to October 2017 and hope to agree terms shortly.
Our local teams are well placed to understand their local markets and We look forward to hearing the outcome of the Northern and TransPennine individually they bring great value to the Group, but we are stronger together Express rail franchise competitions, and submitting our bid for TfLs London and are consequently greater than the sum of our parts.
Our operating Overground contract in the autumn.
Overseas, we await the outcome of a bid companies are encouraged to share what works, coming together to build a submitted in the Singapore bus market and our business development team stronger Group.
Our local managing directors, who are accountable for and take continues to explore other opportunities for the Group, particularly in the ownership of their businesses, embrace this approach.
Read more about our people German rail market.
from page 26 As a Group, our purpose is to serve our customers.
We will continue to invest in our services to improve the experience of every customer that OUR APPROACH travels with us.
Our strategy is to increase the profitability of our existing business and to grow The Group remains in a good financial position, with strong cash generation and the Group to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
In order to deliver against a robust balance sheet supporting our progressive dividend policy and allowing our strategy, we ensure the sustainability of our business model for the long flexibility to pursue value-adding opportunities.
This strong position underpins term.
Corporate responsibility is at the heart of what we do and we avoid short the Boards decision to propose an increased final dividend for the year, in line term solutions in all areas of our business.
We believe that this approach is the with our dividend policy.
best way to achieve sustainable profitability.
Our approach is underpinned by our strategic priorities of being a leading employer which provides high quality, locally-focused passenger transport services, running our companies in a responsible manner, and with strong financial discipline.
David Brown, We believe firmly that public transport is best delivered through working Group Chief Executive in partnership, with strong alliances between operators and local authorities.
2 September 2015 Collaboration and partnership working are particular strengths for Go-Ahead.
We have always worked closely with our key strategic partners and are continually working to strengthen these relationships.
Our devolved structure, with local management teams making local decisions, combined with the flexibility inherent in commercial operations, helps us to tailor our services The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 8 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DAVID ADDRESSES SOME TOPICAL QUESTIONS FROM OUR SHAREHOLDERS YOUR EXPECTATIONS FOR TARGET 100 HAVE CHANGED.
YOU HAVE INCREASED THE DIVIDEND AGAIN, BUT WHAT WHY ARE YOU NOT GOING TO HIT THE TARGET NEXT YEAR?
ARE THE PLANS FOR THE FUTURE?
We announced our 100m operating profit target in October 2012 and set The Board was pleased to propose another increase to the full year dividend out a roadmap of how this would be achieved.
Since then, our bus division this year, recognising the importance of our dividend to the investment has performed very well: growing revenue both in and outside London, decision of many of our shareholders.
This reflects our confidence in the reducing costs and overcoming a number of challenging headwinds.
2014 15 Groups performance and prospects for the future.
We are a long term has presented some particularly testing conditions in some of our operating business committed to delivering sustainable returns to our shareholders.
areas with continuing weakness in the north east economy and roadworks Our strong balance sheet leaves us well placed to explore which options in Oxford and Brighton significantly impacting our regional bus services.
will deliver the best value for investors.
In London, roadworks and congestion have affected the punctuality of YOURE BIDDING FOR WORK OVERSEAS.
THIS HAS our services and consequently impacted the revenue we receive through Quality Incentive Contracts.
Regardless of the targets weve set ourselves, NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL FOR THE GROUP IN THE PAST.
we remain focused on delivering long term sustainable growth.
Exploring opportunities overseas isnt a new stance for the Group.
We HOW ARE COMPANIES LIKE UBER GOING TO AFFECT have always sought growth and consider opportunities in all markets.
arent interested in planting flags or buying market share: we are looking for We operate in competitive markets in the UK and are always mindful of real value adding opportunities that will deliver shareholder value.
We are existing competition and new entrants to these markets.
Advancements in interested in markets that are similar to those in which we currently operate technology are changing the way people access information and services.
and to which we can bring value through our expertise.
All opportunities Go-Ahead responds to these changing needs and innovates to constantly pursued by the Group are with full backing from the Board, in line with improve the customer experience, so for instance our bus apps are the best our strategic objectives and appetite for risk.
in class and enable real time journey planning, personalised information and social media traffic and travel updates.
View the full year interview online, visit: www.
com HOW ARE THE CHANGES IN NATIONAL LIVING WAGE GOING TO AFFECT THE GROUP?
We believe in good reward and recognition for the work our people do.
All of our companies already pay the vast majority of our employees the national living wage or higher.
By the end of the year all employees, who are not apprentices or in training, will be on, or earning more than, the national living wage.
