4 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report chief executives review Our extensive and unrivalled experience in all aspects of the residential market puts us in an excellent place to be the market leader.
It is an important time for the sector and the whole business looks forward to thefuture with confidence and excitement.
In addition to the solid trading performance Financial performance Building a modern prs business this year, we have continued to simplify We have seen strong levels of growth in The imbalances between housing supply the Groups operations and accelerate our key performance measures.
NAV has and demand allied with the changing the growth of our Private Rented Sector increased by 9.7% and NNNAV by 8.8% attitude towards home ownership have led PRS business.
Over time we will maximise and our return on Shareholders equity was to increased demand for good quality, well the returns from our regulated tenancy 10.0%.
At the asset level our UK portfolio managed private rented accommodation.
portfolio as properties naturally fall vacant increased in value by 5.7% and we sold The PRS is the fastest growing housing and are sold.
In turn we will grow the our vacant properties at 9.1% above last tenure in the UK, with nearly one in five PRS business to increase the proportion Septembers valuation at a margin of people renting privately today.
This growing of our income generated by rents.
50.5%, producing a strong sales profit demand is a result of changing lifestyles and Underpinning this long-term strategic performance of 68.4m, 12.9% above economic drivers, which are set to continue.
change is our continuing simplification of last years figure of 60.6m.
After several We will meet some of the demand through the business.
We have announced the sale years of outperformance, this year our UK the acquisition of existing assets and we of our German JV with Heitman and of our Residential portfolios performed broadly have successfully bought 927 such units intention to dispose of our German assets, in line with the wider UK housing market.
in the year for 86.7m, producing a gross which together will leave us as a UK-only We continue to see positive signs of future yield of 7.7%.
These acquisitions have focussed residential business.
growth in the English regions and continue the advantage of producing immediate to invest accordingly.
income and the opportunity to produce Our profit before tax reduced to 50.0m future income and capital growth once from 81.1m, having been adversely absorbed into Graingers residential affected by the 18.2m loss we incurred management platform.
as we exercised our security rights to reWe have focussed much of our effort acquire the ERIL portfolio, a 7.0m increase this year in building a pipeline of purpose in the derivatives fair value charge and a built rental properties.
We believe 4.6m reduction in fees and other income there is considerable demand for such compared to last year.
assets, particularly when linked to good property management and high customer service standards.
Strategic report Governance Financials 5 The attractiveness of purpose built PRS Estate Sustainability Benchmark, and being assets to the consumer market has been awarded Residential Asset Manager for the evidenced by our experience at our first fourth successive year in the Property Week such development released to the private RESI Awards amongst others.
rental market earlier this year, Abbeville Apartments in Barking.
This building was outlook fully let in less than eight weeks at rent This year has seen us make real progress levels above both our expectations and in accelerating the strategic change of the local market and is producing a gross the business.
We are simplifying our yield on cost of 10.2%.
The block was built activities to create a UK focussed residential under a forward purchase agreement and specialist with exposure to two main we will deliver further projects through asset classes a highly cash generative similar purchase or funding agreements.
portfolio of reversionary properties which This pipeline of assets is further enhanced deliver a unique exposure to both capital by our direct development activities, for appreciation and rental income and example at land that we own at Seven a growing portfolio of PRS properties Sisters, on sites being developed with which will provide consistent rental the Royal Borough of Kensington and income streams.
Chelsea and at strategic land sites such as As part of this simplification, we have Berewood in Hampshire and Wellesley near exchanged contracts for the sale of Aldershot.
Going forward the activities of our German JV with Heitman, which our development division will increasingly follows our stated intention to dispose be focussed on delivering product for our of our wholly owned German assets.
Following completion of these transactions In total including acquisitions completed we will be a UK-only focussed residential since our year end, we now own, or business.
As we simplify the Group, manage in co-investment vehicles, c. 3,650 our balance sheet will be significantly PRS units in the UK with a further pipeline strengthened providing a robust financial of c. 1,500 units either already secured or platform on which to build a modern at an advanced stage, of which we expect PRS business.
the majority to be developed over the next The beginning of the 2015 16 year three years.
continues to provide evidence of the robust trading characteristics of the business.
As at creating a sustainable business 31 October 2015, our total Group sale 1 We recognise the importance of pipeline amounted to 68m, which should creating a sustainable business for all our deliver 33m of profit, with vacant UK sales stakeholders.
In particular we are conscious values on completed sales 1.0% above of our responsibility to provide homes September 2015 valuations FY14:77m, to our customers with a personal level 35m and 1.9% respectively.
Consequently we continue to Our extensive experience in all aspects of We have develop ways of communicating with our the residential market place puts us in an continued tosimplify tenants whether through tenants charters excellent place to be the market leader.
It is or customer satisfaction surveys.
We believe an important time for the sector and the the Groups operations that this communication and feedback whole business looks forward to the future and accelerate the will become increasingly important in with confidence and excitement.
growth of our prs creating a distinctive PRS product in a competitive environment.
business We are delighted that our commitment to sustainability and customer service has Andrew cunningham been recognised in a number of ways this Chief Executive Officer year Green Star Status in the Global Real 19 November 2015 1 C ompleted sales, contracts, exchanged and properties insolicitors hands.
