Chief Executives Strategic Review A record year with increased investment for the future Halma has delivered a strong performance, achieving 1 recordrevenue and profit for the twelfth consecutive year.
Widespread organic growth, three acquisitions and one disposal once again demonstrated the benefits of having aclear growth strategy, a simple financial model and a customer-focused organisation.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive 6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements These results, combined with increased investment in talent, innovation and international expansion give us good momentum Market snapshot forthe future.
The sector-focused management structure, introduced inApril 2014, is well-established and ensures Halma can continue Macro-economic, regulatory and togrow whilst harnessing our core values and operating culture.
 Ihave been particularly impressed with the way in which our Halmas strategy is to develop market positions primed for growth operating companies continued to perform well during this period over 10 years or more.
Growth strategies within each operating oforganisational change and thank all Halma employees for their company are developed with three to five year horizons.
contributions to another successful year.
Our focus on the supply of safety, health and environmental related Good organic growth, high returns and strong products positions our businesses in relatively non-cyclical markets cashgeneration with high barriers to entry and long-term growth driven by: 1 Adjusted profit was up by 10% to 153.6m 2014: 140.2m after increasing health and safety regulation absorbing a 2% negative impact from currency.
Organic profit growth increasing demand for healthcare was 7% at constant currency.
increasing demand for life-critical resources Revenue increased by 7% to 726m 2014: 677m, after absorbing Regulation underpins most of our markets, driving sustained a2% negative impact from currency.
Organic revenue growth was demand and often making customer spending non-discretionary.
Our companies strong market positions leverage upgrade and High returns were maintained with Return on Sales increasing to replacement sales opportunities as customers seek to maintain 21.2% 2014: 20.7%.
Return on Capital Employed at the operating compliance and conform to best practice.
company level remained exceptionally strong at 78% 2014 restated: Our competitive environment is influenced by global, regional and 77% andReturn on Total Invested Capital post-tax was 16.3% national product approvals or technical validations.
with new and updated product regulations is a steadily increasing Strong cash generation ensured that we ended the financial year cost and technical challenge but our expertise in this area enables withnet debt of 101m 2014: 74m after spending 23m on capital us to respond quickly and build competitive advantage.
expenditure 2014: 17m, 88m on current and prior year acquisitions Halma is exposed to a very diverse range of niche markets, 2014: 17m and paying out 43m in dividends 2014: 40m to eachwith its own unique conditions.
As a result, macro-economic shareholders and 31m 2014: 28m of tax.
factors can affect our businesses very differently according to their Ourbalance sheet is strong and we have revolving credit facilities particular market and geographic exposure.
ofup to 360m until November 2018 to support investment in our Our approach is for local operating company management to future growth.
develop and execute their own growth strategy and respond to changes in their specific markets.
Sector management teams Widespread growth in all regions provide strategic support and oversight for wider-reaching and We achieved organic constant currency revenue growth in all four longer term market dynamics.
More details are given in the sector sectors and all major regions.
Revenue from the USA increased by 4% to 223m 2014: 214m All of the factors above provide our businesses with genuine including organic constant currency growth of 7%.
UK revenue grew stability: resilience in challenging economic conditions and organic by 8% to 138m 2014: 128m and Mainland Europe revenue was up growth above prevailing market rates.
This underlying, intrinsic by 2% to 167m 2014: 164m with both including organic constant strength enables us to plan and to invest for the longer term currency growth of 2%.
Revenue from outside the USA, UK and Mainland Europe improved For 2015 16, growth projections have been raised for the US by 16% to 197m 2014: 170m, representing 27% of total Group economy, which is our largest geographic market, possibly revenue 2014: 25%.
This included 5% organic constant currency opening the way for revitalised R&D spending in markets such growth from China which, at 49m 2014: 47m, contributes 7% to aslife sciences.
Fluctuations in the oil price have not substantially total Group revenue.
Strong growth in our two safety-related sectors impacted our business so far, as spending on highly-regulated helped revenue from Africa, Near and Middle East grow by 33% to safety equipment is largely non-discretionary and the vast 44m 2014: 33m.
majorityof our revenue comes from mid-stream or downstream applications.
However, we are mindful that a sustained low oil pricewill eventually make our current high rates of growth in Process Safety more difficult to maintain.
Conditions in Europe and the UK are expected to support steady growth, though the relative strength of Sterling means that our companies need to manage input costs and pricing closely.
Growth in emerging markets is forecast to continue at around 4% to 5% through 2015-16.
Developing socio-economic conditions in Asia and South America are expected to fuel greater demand for our products used to create safer workplaces, provide healthcare, improve infrastructure safety and manage life-critical resources.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 7 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued Organic revenue growth in all sectors at constantcurrency Market snapshot Process Safety revenue grew by 25% to 159m 2014: 127m 2 including organic constant currency growth of 9%.
Profit improved Increasing health and safety regulation byan impressive 28% to 44.8m 2014: 34.9m with organic Employers throughout the world must comply with increasingly constant currency growth of 14%.
Return on Sales increased strict government laws and regulations to protect their workers, from27.5% to 28.3%.
the environment and their assets from workplace hazards.
Inparallel with this increasing national regulation in developing Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the regions, many multinational employers based in the developed USA with good growth in Mainland Europe and a small decline in world are extending their health and safety practices across their theUK, Asia Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East.
These factors drive demand for our Process anencouraging contribution from Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. Safety and Infrastructure Safety products.
RCS, the pipeline corrosion monitoring product company acquired in May 2014, which traded in line with expectations.
The human cost of workplace accidents and diseases is enormous.
The International Labour Organisation estimates Infrastructure Safety revenue increased by 6% to 234m 2014: that2.3 million people around the world die each year from 2 220m including organic constant currency growth of 5%.
Profit work-related accidents or diseases.
That is over 6,000 fatalities wasup by 12% to 50m 2014: 44.4m including organic constant perday, or one person every 15 seconds.
Return on Sales increased from 20.2% to21.4%.
In addition, every year 313 million work accidents occur, many resulting in extended work absences.
Workplace injury and Organic revenue growth in constant currency was strongest in the occupational disease is a significant economic burden on UKand Africa, Near and Middle East with more modest growth in nationaleconomies and businesses.
The financial impact of poor theUSA and Europe and a small decline in Asia Pacific.
Advanced occupational safety and health practice is due to absences from Electronics Limited, the UK-based fire detection control systems work and sickness, disability benefits, compensation, interruption manufacturer acquired in May 2014, performed well.
of production and medical expenses.
These costs are estimated In the Medical sector, revenue increased by 4% to 169m 2014: to be as high as 4% of global GDP.
Above-average workplace 2 163m including organic constant currency growth of 6%.
Profit casualty rates in some countries are estimated to be costing up improved by 9% to 45.4m 2014: 41.8m including organic constant to10% of annual GDP.
Return on Sales increased from 25.6% Safety and health at work standards and practices vary to26.8%.
considerably between countries, economic sectors and social groups.
However, they are generally rising and becoming more There was strong organic constant currency revenue growth in the closely aligned.
Deaths and injuries take a particularly heavy toll in USA, more modest increases in Mainland Europe and Asia Pacific developing countries, where a large part of the population may and a slight decline in the UK.
The integration of Plasticspritzerei AG, work in hazardous conditions.
However, greater investment and acquired in May 2014, into our ophthalmic surgical device business, advances in occupational safety are reducing the number of fatal Medicel, was completed to schedule and trading has been good for accidents at work.
Environmental & Analysis revenue was 164m 2014: 167m Governments around the world are prompted by deaths and 2 including a small organic constant currency increase.
Profit was injuries caused by accidents to introduce new and tougher 14%lower at 27.4m 2014: 31.7m including a 12% decline in regulations that protect people from harm in commercial buildings organic constant currency terms.
Return on Sales was 16.7% and public places.
The continuous introduction of new, mandatory 2014:19.1%.
building codes affecting fire protection, building security, automated doors and elevators drives demand for our After a disappointing first half year, operating performance improved Infrastructure Safety products.
in the second half with organic constant currency revenue growth of 2%, providing encouragement for a more sustained recovery in revenue and profitability in 2015 16.
Regionally, in organic constant currency terms, revenue was down in the USA and UK with the latter mainly due to lower investment by UK water utilities in the final year of their five-year investment cycle.
There was organic constant currency revenue growth in Mainland Europe and all other major regions in particular Asia Pacific.
8 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In the coming years, we expect Market snapshot Increasing demand for healthcare to benefit from our new sectorFour long-term demographic trends drive healthcare demandworldwide: focused structure which will ageing of the global population growth of the global population provide greater resources to increase in chronic disease rising incomes in the developing world support our acquisition activity.
Population ageing and rising numbers of people suffering from age-related chronic diseases provide a strong, long-term driver for healthcare services and products in our Medical and Environmental & Analysis sectors in both developed and developing economies.
Advances in medical technology and new medical procedures also stimulate demand for new equipment.
Globally, the number of people aged over 65 is expected to more Three acquisitions completed and a good pipeline than triple over the next half-century.
Life expectancy is expected to Halma completed three acquisitions and one disposal during theyear.
This will mean that more than 10% of the worlds population will be over 65.
In Western The current M&A market remains competitive although our pipeline Europe the proportion will hit 20% and in Japan, 28%.
In the USA, ofopportunities remains good.
In the coming years, we expect to theworlds largest healthcare market, increasing life expectancy benefit from our new sector-focused structure which will provide ispredicted to double the population of seniors by 2050. greater resources to support our acquisition activity.
While the oldest population profiles are currently in developed Our corestrategy remains to continue to find privately-owned countries, the vast majority of older people and the fastest rates businesses in, oradjacent to, our existing markets although each ofchange are in developing countries, where the number of older sector has the freedom to find new niches which possess the right people is forecast to rise over 250% by mid-century.
product, market and financial characteristics.
Worldwide healthcare expenditure is about 10% of global Every transaction is approved by the Group CEO and Finance GDP, and is forecast to increase by over 5% a year until 2018.
Director, with all deals worth more than 10m also approved by the Healthcare spending continues to rise rapidly in the developed Halma plc Board.
In the USA, for example, total healthcare expenditure was All transactions in the year were completed in May 2014. estimated at $3.09 trillion in 2014, and is projected to increase to $3.57 trillion within three years.
Plasticspritzerei AG, a Swiss-based supplier to our ophthalmic In addition to ageing, population growth and rising wealth are surgical instrument company, Medicel, was acquired for strong drivers of healthcare demand in the developing world.
This business was Spend on healthcare in emerging nations is projected to rise immediately merged into Medicel and contributed to the Medical dramatically with annual growth estimates for India and China at sectors performance.
over 15% and 12% respectively, boosted by national initiatives to Advanced Electronics Limited, a UK-based manufacturer of improve accessibility and quality of healthcare.
networked fire detection and control systems was acquired for Globally, the incidence rates of cancer, heart disease, stroke, aninitial cash consideration of 14m, excluding the cash acquired.
respiratory disease, diabetes and hypertension have risen sharply Advanced operates as a stand-alone business within our inthe past decade, particularly in developing regions.
These chronic Infrastructure Safety sector.
diseases are the leading cause of mortality worldwide due to Rohrback Cosasco Systems Inc. a California-based manufacturer population ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, changing diets and of pipeline corrosion monitoring systems was acquired for US$108m rising obesity.
Halmas focus on ophthalmology and advanced 64m, excluding the cash acquired.
RCS operates as a standblood pressure monitoring products directly relates to the diagnosis alone business within our Process Safety sector.
and treatment of these chronic and age-related diseases.
Monitor Elevator Products Inc. a New York-based manufacturer ofelevator control panels was sold to another industry player, Innovation Industries, for US$6m 4m.
Halma recorded a gain before tax of approximately 1m on this transaction.
Monitor used to report its performance within our Infrastructure Safety sector.
In May 2015, we completed the acquisition of Value Added Solutions, LLC trading as VAS Integrated.
VAS, which will become part of Diba Industries within the Medical sector, designs and manufactures fluidic-related plastic machined components and assemblies for life sciences and analytical instruments.
The initial cash consideration wasUS$5m 3m.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 9 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued New sectors and Executive Board changes now wellestablished Market snapshot In April 2014, Halmas Executive Board was reorganised with four Increasing demand for life-critical resources newSector Chief Executive SCE positions replacing seven Divisional Rising energy consumption and water usage, the inevitable Chief Executive roles and the addition of a Group Talent Director.
consequences of social and economic development, are driven During the year, the Executive Board has devoted significant time bythree key trends: todeveloping into their new roles both individually and collectively, andthis leaner board is already proving to be a more efficient population growth leadership team.
rising living standards dietary and agricultural changes The strategic rationale for making this change was to give each sectorthe potential to grow to become the size of the whole of Water consumption grew twice as fast as the world population in Halmatoday while retaining the growth strategy and culture which the 20th century.
Already one third of the worlds population lives hasmade Halma successful in the past.
in water-stressed countries, and by 2025 that may rise to two thirds.
By 2030, only 60% of the worlds water needs will be This improved scalability of the Halma model comes from the metifcurrent trends continue.
By 2050, water demand for SCEsappointing Sector Vice Presidents SVPs to chair operating manufacturing alone is expected to increase by between 400% companies within their sector and, during the year, we have recruited and 700%.
anew SVP for each sector including two internal promotions.
Each Competition for water resources is forecast to increase between sector also has a Sector Finance Director which, together with the industries and economic sectors, and between countries in both SVPs, providessignificant additional resources to support each developed and developing regions.
The rising value of finite water SCEsacquisition efforts.
resources drives demand for our water conservation, treatment In May 2015, Philippe Felten took over from Neil Quinn as Process and testing products.
Safety SCE, after a succession planning process started in April 2014.
Demand for water is strongly linked to energy demand.
Water is Iwould like to thank Neil for his service to Halma since joining Apollo needed to convert resources into electricity via thermal, nuclear, Fire Detectors as their Sales Director in 1987.
Over 28 years, Neil has and hydro processes and also alternative sources such as served as a Managing Director, Divisional Chief Executive, Sector irrigation of biofuel crops.
15% of water withdrawal is currently ChiefExecutive and as a Halma executive Director, making a used for energy production, but this is expected to rise 20% by significant contribution to Halmas growth.
2035 due to population growth, urbanisation and changing consumption patterns.
Worldwide energy demand is expected to grow by more than onethird up to 2035, with China and India accounting for more than half of the growth.
Rising demand for energy will put further strain on the worlds fresh water resources in the coming decade, especially in developing and emerging economies as energy is needed at all stages of water extraction, treatment and distribution.
During the year, the Executive Increasing wealth in developing regions is enabling populations to change from starch-based to meat and dairy diets, which raises Board has devoted significant agricultural water demand.
Dietary change has had the biggest impact on global water consumption over the past 30 years, and time to developing into their this trend is expected to continue well into the middle of the twenty-first century.
newroles both individually and As global demand for water becomes unsustainable, the importance of improving efficiency and effective monitoring is growing.
Several collectively, and this leaner board of our Environmental & Analysis sector businesses operate in markets driven by the global trends of rising demand for life-critical is already proving to be a more resources such as energy and water.
Global investment in traditional and unconventional energy sources also drives efficient leadership team.
demandfor our Process Safety products.
10 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements How we are boosting We have spent considerable growthinChina by local time assessing our senior productdevelopment management talent and we Halma is always looking for ways in which we can help to accelerate areputting in place better the growth and development of our businesses.
A key growth strategy in fast-growing, developing economies like China is to processes to improve our develop innovative, locally-designed products that exactly meet the needs of local customers.
talentpipeline, both internally Two years ago we began a programme to subsidise the cost ofhiring additional R&D staff in China.
This encouraged our and externally.
companies to significantly expand their local design engineering teams.
It has been a great success.
So far, 15 Halma businesses have taken advantage of the subsidy.
They have hired 22 extra Continued strategic investment to drive engineers, with another three in the pipeline.
To date, 27new R&D organicgrowth projects have begun and 10 new Chinese-market products have Halma is a diverse and decentralised business.
Our companies been launched, generating sales of over2m in 2014 15. benefitfrom being part of the Group both through collaboration with other Halma companies and the targeted central investment made byHalma in three key areas: Talent Development, Innovation and International Expansion.
Talent development Following the appointment of our Group Talent Director, Jennifer Ward in April 2014, we have spent considerable time assessing our senior management talent and we are putting in place better processes to improve our talent pipeline, both internally and externally.
Each subsidiary Managing Director has completed an individual assessment which has highlighted their core strengths and development needs against our future leadership requirements.
We have also revised and re-launched our Diversity and Inclusion policy and this was a focus for our senior managers attending the Halma Innovation and Technology Exposition HITE in Barcelona in April 2015.
We have an increasingly diverse customer base and recognise the need to continuously work to reflect this in the diversity of our leadership teams.
Innovation Our investment in new products increased once again, with R&D spend up by 8% to 34.6m 2014: 32.1m, representing around 5% of revenue.
New product innovation is a vital component of growing revenue through market share gain and market expansion, but Halmas commitment to innovation is much broader and encompasses Martin Zhang allaspects of our business.
President, Halma China The success of our Chinese R&D staff subsidy programme, The biennial HITE events enable senior managers of all Halmas whichsupports our strategy of moving product development subsidiary companies to meet and share their experience and closer to customers, is a good example of how we add value knowledge with each other.
This years event embraced digital toour operating companies.
It has greatly improved our ability technology with a virtual trade show which increased the time tomeet local customer needs and injected fresh new ideas andspace available for collaboration.
It also enabled the winners indeveloping innovative ways to solve customer problems.
ofthe Halma Annual Innovation Awards to be voted for byHITE delegates during the event itself.
The award for Best Product Innovation was won by Alicat ScientificsWhisper series of gas flow meters which accurately measures gas flowrates without the sensor device itself adversely affecting the measurement.
The Best Process Innovation was awarded toNetherlocks for its R&D internship programme and the Best Collaboration award went to Crowcon and Perma Pure for CrowconsSprint eVo gas analyser which incorporated Perma Puresgas sample conditioning technology.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11 Chief Executives Strategic Review continued International expansion Halma continues to invest to accelerate subsidiaries growth in international markets.
Regions outside the USA, UK and Mainland Europe now contribute over 27% of the Group revenue compared with less than 18% in 2005, even though we have achieved strong growth in our core developed markets too.
A catalyst for our success has been theHalma hubs first created in China in 2006, in India in 2008 and, more recently, replicated by individual sectors in South America.
Halmas approach is to put in place the commercial infrastructure necessary to enable our subsidiary companies to build a direct presence inthese target markets more quickly than they would be able to do so alone.
For example, in the last two years Halma has subsidised the cost of additional R&D engineers in China for our businesses todevelop new products for the local market.
To date subsidiary companies have added around 25 new engineers and revenue from the new products launched so far exceeded 2m in2014 15 and is forecast to be more than double that in the comingyear.
Delivering corporate responsibility and sustainability Our primary market growth drivers mean that Halma companies operate in markets in which their products contribute positively to the wider community.
These market characteristics and our commitment to health and safety, the environment and people development are reflected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
We review our responsibility and sustainability reporting in accordance with best practice.
Legislative changes, particularly concerning the environment and bribery and corruption, have provided an opportunity to review and ensure that our procedures inthese important areas are accessible, compliant and firmly embedded within our business.
A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 42 to 47.
Outlook I am very pleased with the progress that Halma has made this year byachieving good organic growth, completing three acquisitions and adisposal while further increasing investment in talent development, innovation and international expansion.
Changes made to our organisation in April 2014 mean that, in the longer term, each of our four sectors has the potential to grow to become the size of the whole of Halma today, through continued anddisciplined execution of our well-proven growth strategy.
Weexpect to make further progress in the year ahead.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive 1 See Financial Highlights.
12 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
