STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW FOCUS & SCALE KEY INSIGHTS INTO THE YEAR, FROM CHIEF EXECUTIVE ALISTAIR COX In this section Ill provide my view on how At the same time, they are dealing with We delivered growth in greater levels of attrition as current the Group has performed this year, as well as providing an update on the significant employees become more confident and all of our core markets move jobs.
All of this creates a vibrant strategic and operational progress we have around the world for the made over the last twelve months against the recruitment market, exacerbated as the demand for skills in many sectors now priorities I set out last year.
Finally, Ill outline first time since 2008. our long-term goals and our key areas of exceeds supply.
This in turn leads to wage inflation and skills shortages becoming focus for 2016. more commonplace around the world.
The role we play in the business world and This increasing demand for talent enabled society in general is an important one: to us to help over a quarter of a million people help our clients find the right person for the find their next job last year.
right job at the right time, and to help our In doing so, we worked with thousands of candidates find the perfect role to develop organisations in both the public and private the next stage of their own career.
Every day, sectors to find the skilled people they we work with organisations from the worlds needed to build their businesses.
We are largest to the smallest to help them find the proud of this and it is what we call Powering talent they need to thrive and grow.
It is the role we play Feedback via ir@hays.
com global economy has continued to recover, in helping to drive forward the worlds F ollow Hays Investor many of our clients are investing in growing businesses, economies and societies Relations @haysplcir their workforce to cater for the increased and it is why we exist as a business.
F ollow Hays on LinkedIn demand for their products and services.
com company hays 14|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION OUR OBJECTIVES PRIORITIES WE SET OUT LAST YEAR: PROGRESS WE HAVE MADE IN 2015: 1 Equipping consultants with the UK & Ireland productivity up 3%, helping to drive 1 best tools to make them as effective 19.6 million divisional profit improvement CONTINUE TO IMPROVE as possible Reinvested in Asia and Germany to drive Utilising new technologies future growth CONSULTANT Investing in and developing our Group consultant average headcount, excluding PRODUCTIVITY training and development the Veredus acquisition, up 9% in the year: 1 programmes worldwide Group net fees also up 9% Focus on training management and the effectiveness of all consultants Targeted investment in those Group consultant closing headcount, excluding 2 businesses which need additional the Veredus acquisition, increased 9% in the capacity year, as we added 464 consultants CONTINUE TO Focus resources on those businesses Headcount was targeted at high-growth best positioned to deliver meaningful markets such as Asia, up 20%, and Germany, INVEST SELECTIVELY contribution to the Groups results up 14%, as we invested in the areas of our TO DRIVE PROFITABLE over the next five years business which are focused on smalland Take tough decisions to protect medium-sized clients GROWTH profitability where appropriate Replicating the strength of our UK, Completion of the Veredus acquisition in the US, 3 Australia and Germany businesses providing the Group with a strong platform for in more countries around the world growth in the worlds largest recruitment market BUILD SCALE ACROSS Be aggressive with investment in Continued roll-out of our Contracting model to markets offering long-term growth capitalise on a macro shift in the skilled OUR PLATFORM opportunities such as US and Japan workforce marketplace.
The Veredus acquisition added a further 700 contractors Build on the technology lead we Consistent focus on maximising productivity and 4 enjoy in the industry effectiveness of all processes around Research and develop new and the Group CONTINUE TO SEARCH emerging technology tools and German back-office automation project under routes to market way to increase efficiencies FOR WAYS TO IMPROVE Innovation team continue to research, analyse EFFICIENCY AND and build relationships with new and emerging business models EFFECTIVENESS 2015 IN REVIEW SUPPORTIVE MARKETS In the rest of Europe we delivered strong 1 This has been another strong year for Hays.
Market conditions remained supportive in the double-digit growth in key businesses such 1 We grew our net fees by 9% and increased vast majority of our 33 countries throughout as Belgium, Switzerland and Poland.
Stable economic conditions and lack markets that have been challenging for performance was also strong as we converted of major economic shocks reinforced greater some time, including Spain and Italy, returned 116% of operating profit into operating cash confidence amongst our clients to replace to strong growth and we continued to grow flow, and we ended the year with 31 million leavers and hire new staff and our candidates rapidly in France, a market where we are of net debt, down from 63 million last year.
Importantly, we delivered now creating real scale as we outperform Our goal is to eliminate net debt and build a growth in all of our core markets around the our competitors.
net cash position in the business and we are world for the first time since 2008. well on the way to achieving this.
Our strong In Australia we saw a return to growth for the 1 financial performance has allowed us to In the UK & Ireland net fees increased 11% first time since 2012 as confidence returned propose to increase our core dividend by and our exceptionally strong profit leverage to a number of our market segments, 5%, while also continuing to build our core in this business allowed us to increase particularly in the permanent recruitment 1 1 dividend cover towards the goal of 3x operating profits by 19.6 million, with 74% markets in the non-mining states.
Paul Venables, Group Finance of incremental net fees flowing through into conditions were good throughout the year, 1 Director, discusses our financial performance incremental profit.
In Germany, our largest as our Japan business grew 15% to deliver in more detail from page 30. business in profit terms, conditions were a record year and Malaysia, Hong Kong and 1 good throughout the year, and we produced China all saw strong double-digit growth.
another record year for net fees and 1 operating profits, which were both up 6%.
1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|15 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED In South America, conditions in Brazil Throughout the year we have continued remained challenging and we took Veredus is delighted to become to focus on improving our consultants appropriate action to reduce our cost base.
productivity and making selective, rapid Hays partner in the US market.
Elsewhere, the rest of our Latin America investment into the business where we see We are focused on growing business in Mexico, Chile and Colombia further growth opportunities.
In the UK we continued to deliver excellent growth with net increased productivity by 3% and that was a and expanding our existing IT 1 fees in each country growing by over 40%.
key driver in the improved profitability of this Contractor and Permanent business business.
That extra profit gave us the space to invest in additional capacity in places such In North America, our Canadian business and introducing new specialisms 1 was up 10% but ended the year flat as as Asia where we see buoyant markets, and into our branch network.
in Germany where we invested in the areas the slowdown in the energy and resources industries impacted the overall economy.
of our business which are focused on smallDAN RODRIGUEZ and medium-sized clients.
In the USA, however, conditions continued CEO VEREDUS, NOW MD HAYS USA to be very positive and we not only grew our existing business aggressively, but we also Excluding the acquisition of Veredus, closing took the important step of acquiring Veredus Group consultant headcount was up 9%, Corp. instantly providing us with a significant which equated to an addition of 464 new developed an exciting plan for how we will platform to grow further in this attractive consultants to our business.
Our approach to create significant value in the US business.
You can read more about this later this investment has been consistent for many As part of that plan, the original Veredus in this section.
We appraise each opportunity leadership team are now the Hays US on its own merits and we invest selectively leadership team, incorporating the existing where we see clear and compelling CONTINUED PROGRESS TOWARDS OUR Hays Life Sciences and Oil & Gas businesses opportunities for growth.
Decisions are taken FINANCIAL GOALS in New York and Houston into the Veredus on an office-by-office and a desk-by-desk Back in 2013, we outlined our five-year network and rebranding the business basis, and we review our options constantly.
Having brought the businesses The key to our success is our ability to aspirations are to broadly double the Groups together, our initial priorities are now to understand and interpret trends in local operating profit between 2013 and 2018, and invest aggressively in building scale in the markets quickly and accurately.
This relies to diversify from where we earn our profits.
existing IT Contracting business, reinforce on high-quality management teams running These aspirations assumed a global the permanent recruitment offering and our businesses around the world, but also macroeconomic backdrop of modest but add new specialisms across the current 12 requires real-time information and data.
In todays world we office footprint, starting with Construction One of the advantages of the frontand fully expect the occasional minor economic & Property.
Having a meaningful presence in back-office system investments we shock, but our base case assumes no major the US is also increasingly important to many completed globally in 2012 is the quality, destabilising event.
So far, two years into of our global clients and the opportunity to accuracy and speed of the data we are able that five-year period, this assumption has leverage existing relationships both into and to produce to inform rapid decision-making proved accurate and remains valid.
The major out of the US is significant.
We are already based on facts, informing the investment economies of the world, including our making excellent progress at leveraging those decisions we make into the business.
own key markets, have returned to steady relationships and winning work both in the US economic growth.
Issues clearly remain in the and around the rest of the world as a result of Eurozone, Russia and the Middle East, but no SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC AND the unique scale and coverage we now have single event has escalated and derailed the OPERATIONAL PROGRESS in our industry.
With an excellent platform solid recovery we continued to enjoy.
Against We have made significant strategic and in place and a world-class management this backdrop, we believe we can be very operational progress in a number of areas team driving the business forward, I am successful.
Two years into our plan, overall this year.
One of the most important was our very optimistic about the growth we will trading has been ahead of where we originally acquisition, in December 2014, of IT staffing ow be able to deliver from the worlds anticipated and many of our businesses are company Veredus Corp. in the US.
performing better than we planned, although is an important milestone in our strategic the recent strength of sterling has been an development, about which you can read more Elsewhere we have made further strategic obvious headwind which has materially on the opposite page.
The US is the worlds progress rolling out our market-leading IT diluted our translated results.
Regardless, largest recruitment market, the industry there Contracting business, led by experts from our the business has performed very well on is long-established and well understood, Germany business, into other markets where a like-for-like basis and we finished 2015 but significant further growth potential we believe the model can be successful, on track to deliver on our original 2018 undoubtedly remains.
I expect the Hays including Canada, France and Japan.
This aspirations, even after the currency impact US business to quickly become one of the initiative is designed not only to drive further to date has been accounted for.
Looking largest in our Group, and it immediately diversification of our global revenue stream forward, sterlings strength means we will joins our Future Material Profit Drivers: and profitability, but also to respond to one have to work hard and deliver significantly those businesses with the potential to reach of the macro trends we see in the global beyond our original expectations to meet 10 million of operating profit by 2018. skilled labour market, namely the increasing our five-year goals on a headline basis, Since the acquisition we have successfully requirement for temporary and flexible labour but we remain confident of doing so.
integrated Veredus into Hays and have in a number of disciplines and skill sets to 1 LFL like-for-like growth represents organic growth of continuing operations at constant currency.
16|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 148 VEREDUS CONSULTANTS AS AT JUNE 2015 OFFICES Veredus Hays US 10 HAYS COMPLETED THE ACQUISITION OF 80% 2 OF VEREDUS CORP.
VEREDUS NET FEES SINCE ACQUISITION Temp Perm PLACEMENTS MADE ACROSS 80% 30 US STATES 20% Initially paying $44 million for 80% of the equity of the business, Hays has the option to acquire the remaining 20% from the selling shareholders who hold an equivalent option to sell which is first available in March 2018.
Veredus is a pure-play IT staffing company that generates c. 80% of its net fees from Contracting and Temp assignments and c. 20% from Perm placements.
Established in 2000, it is headquartered in Tampa, Florida, with 10 offices focused in the Southeast and Midwest of the USA.
On acquisition it had 150 employees and has over 700 contractors currently active on assignments with a broad range of clients, and in the last year made placements across 30 states.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|17 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED complement a clients permanent workforce.
However, being the world leader in our Again, I see huge opportunities for us to build industry is about more than just delivering a much bigger contractor base around the superior financial performance.
It also world and we have all the components, systems means having the best brand in our industry, and skills to do that in a world-class way.
recognised not only for the quality of the service we offer our clients and candidates, 36m but also for our reputation in the communities In summary, we have enjoyed a successful HITS ON HAYS year, delivering strong financial results, in which we operate and as thought-leaders WEBSITES in the world of work and recruitment.
making profound steps forward in building PER ANNUM our global network, reinforcing our brand, bringing new ideas into the business and There is huge value in a compelling and placing huge numbers of professional talent powerful brand and I believe our brand is into new and exciting roles around the stronger today than ever before.
However, none of this would have very publicly recognised in todays world of been possible without the hard work and social media as a leader in our field and now commitment of the 9,023 people who are benefit from over one million followers on the MORE THAN Hays and I would like to place on record my LinkedIn platform, making us the seventeenth personal thanks to them all for what they most followed company in the world and far have delivered this year.
and away the most followed recruiter on this important network.
Our partnerships with 1,000 Manchester City FC in the English Premier OUR STRATEGY League and New York City FC in Major JOBS FILLED EVERY Our long-term aim is clear: to be the League Soccer in the USA take our message WORKING DAY undisputed world leader in specialist LAST YEAR out to billions of followers around the world recruitment, and, as we build towards this on a weekly basis, driving very high levels of aim, we focus on delivering well-diversified, awareness of our business.
Our sponsorship profitable, cash-generative growth.
of the annual CBI conference in the UK puts us very publicly at the heart of the business Back in November 2013 we outlined our debate in Britain.
Elsewhere around the view of where we believed we could take world, every day we are building our local our business from a financial perspective.
brand to achieve our goal of being the We set out our aspiration to broadly double most recognised and most highly regarded the Groups operating profit from the company in our sector.
Each of these 2013 level of 125 million to 250 million initiatives is designed to raise awareness by 2018, and to materially diversify the of our business and position us as the make-up of that operating profit by sector go-to specialist recruiter in every one of and geography.
Historically, we have our local markets.
delivered the majority of our profits from our largest three markets in the UK, Australia Equally, being the world leader means and Germany.
Going forward, we are seeking having world-class services to offer clients, to develop a number of other countries and evolving those services as clients which we believe can make a meaningful needs evolve.
Equipping our consultants contribution to the Groups financial with state-of-the-art tools so that they performance.
So whilst our big three may build better networks and solve our businesses will still be hugely important clients problems faster and better than our to us and constitute the majority of our competitors is also key to success in our profits as a Group for some time, our reliance industry.
Thats why we invested significantly on them will be reduced over time and we throughout the recession to build new frontwill be able to leverage the opportunities and back-office systems and databases available in so many other areas.
across the Group, creating and owning the intellectual property of these tools along the In building this future portfolio, we rigorously way.
As the economy and trading conditions prioritise our investments.
To achieve this, have improved, we are now seeing the we segment our 33 country businesses into benefits of those investments crystallise four categories, thereby helping inform and in the form of a more effective business, decide where we focus resources, whether improving consultant productivity, raising those be capital or people.
Each of these service levels and gaining market share as categories is described in detail in the boxes on pages 20 and 21.
18|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION our people utilise the technology and tools at their disposal.
Building those systems OUR STRATEGY was challenging.
Now they are complete, I believe it will be difficult for others to copy our approach, thereby providing us a clear competitive advantage in the industry.
However, we do not stand still and we are already exploring new tools and ideas to To deliver enhance our business further.
To be the well-diversified, undisputed world Ultimately though, Hays is a people business.
profitable and Our people are and will always be at the very leader in specialist heart of what we do.
To be the world leader cash-generative we must therefore be the company that the recruitment growth best people in our industry aspire to work for.
We believe in a meritocratic culture and a rewards system that promotes high performance.
We believe in promoting from within, developing our own future managers and leaders and offering them the chance to build their entire career at Hays.
We have also invested to develop the best training and development programmes available, both to AREAS OF FOCUS TO DELIVER make our consultants the experts they need to be in their own field, but also to ensure we OUR OBJECTIVES have a strong pipeline of local management developing throughout the business so that To deliver on our aspiration of 250 million we may capitalise on all the opportunities we see around the world.
operating profit by 2018, and materially Building a strong community within Hays in diversify the geographic mix of those profits which all our people are actively engaged in versus prior peak the development of the business is important to me as I believe such engagement fosters a powerful culture.
To gauge our progress in this area, we survey our people every year for To tactically invest in our business to capitalise their input and I was delighted that this year on all market opportunities and support long- 80% of our colleagues globally gave us their feedback on things we might do better.
The term growth in structurally opening markets leadership teams around the world use these insights to continually refine our people policies to ensure we remain an employer of To hire, retain, train and develop the best and choice.
We are now seeing public recognition for our efforts in this area and I am proud our most productive people in our industry.
Focus company has won a number of People and on culture, quality of leadership and reward Culture Awards over the last year, including Best Places to Work in 2015 in the UK and Employer of Choice for Gender Equality 2014 in Australia.
To develop Hays as the thought-leading authority on the world of work and the most respected specialist recruitment brand in each of our markets To continue to equip and respond to new and emerging media, technologies and routes to market Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|19 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED TODAY & TOMORROW As market conditions remain favourable and continue to show gradual and steady improvement, our focus and priorities remain largely unchanged as we enter year three of our five-year plan.
CURRENT CORE PROFIT DRIVERS FUTURE MATERIAL PROFIT DRIVERS Germany, Australia and the UK France, Japan, US, Canada TODAY 5 YEARS These markets are large, well-established businesses with We are clear in our need to build more of the businesses within world-class management teams.
The UK and Australia are Hays which can materially contribute to the Groups overall more mature recruitment markets and we are the market-leading earnings.
This increased diversification reduces our reliance on specialist recruiter in each, having been operating in these markets a small number of countries and will add more resilience to our for over 40 years.
By contrast in Germany, the specialist recruitment earnings through the various stages of the economic cycle.
market is far less mature.
We estimate that only around 20% of Each of these businesses is capable of delivering 10 million all skilled jobs are filled by a third-party agency such as Hays and operating profit by 2018.
In each case, we will be investing to so the key driver in this market is less about the macroeconomy and rapidly build headcount, office capacity and introduce new more about the growth in the proportion of the recruitment market specialisms where and when appropriate.
20|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION LOOKING FORWARD TO 2016 UK, Germany and Australia.
However, have an impact on our business.
We have We will continue to focus on maximising the economic cycle influences our business, our own in-house Innovation team, reporting the productivity and effectiveness of our so we continually monitor conditions in to me, who continually assess this evolving consultant teams around the world.
That our markets to be able to respond quickly world so that we spot opportunities early in means focusing on hiring the best people if conditions become unfavourable.
Through this process, we have and training them to be the best in the advanced systems provide us real-time already engaged with many interesting ideas industry.
Furthermore, we will then equip information that allows us to be better and I expect this to continue as we seek to them with the latest tools and technology informed than ever before when making remain at the forefront of these innovations.
they need to gain a competitive edge and these decisions.
to fulfil their true potential.
Overall, we have positioned the business to We will continue to promote our brand capitalise on a growing market and we are We will continue to invest in additional through multiple routes globally so that now seeing the fruits of our earlier work as capacity where we see strong demand and we become the go-to expert when clients markets move steadily forward.
We have a today that means investment across large are looking to recruit professional and highly engaged and motivated team around parts of the network.
Our objective is to technical staff.
Digital engagement is a key the world, a world-class client network, capitalise both on short-term market part of this strategy and we will continue unprecedented access to the candidates our opportunities as well as investing to support to invest in and innovate with tools and clients need and the tools and capabilities the long-term growth and development platforms to build our reputation in our to ensure we reinforce our market-leading of the Group.
We intend to make further client and candidate marketplaces.
While risks obviously exist in the progress in rapidly developing a number world, our business is strong and dynamic of our emergent businesses across Europe, Finally, we will continue to research and and I am optimistic about our prospects for the Americas and Asia so that they might 2016 and beyond.
respond to new and emerging technologies complement our larger businesses in the and business models which we believe can MEANINGFUL CONTRIBUTORS NETWORK CRITICAL New Zealand, Switzerland, Belgium, China, Mexico, Brazil 20 other countries 510 YEARS ONGOING In some cases, these businesses are already contributing in Several of our country businesses, while individually not delivering a meaningful way to Group earnings, with profits at 5 million levels of profitability which are material at the Group level, are critical or more, but these markets, by their nature, will always be of to the success of our network.
They play a role to serve global clients limited size.
Others have the potential to reach that level in in local markets, provide us access to candidates and deliver attractive the near term or move beyond it.
We also see other cases returns given the scale of their local markets.
We will continue to run such as Latin America or China, which can become very large these businesses to grow profits ahead of net fees.
Our investment approach will be driven by the long-term opportunity to reach significant scale where we see the potential as well as the short-term need to deliver profits along the way.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|21
