HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Chairman and Chief Executives statement Entering a new phase of growth a truly unique asset has grown at a CAGR of 18% since 2005, through a combination of organic growth and strategic acquisitions that completed our footprint in the region and enabled us to consolidate in key markets.
We currently employ close to 2,000 sales and marketing professionals in MENA, up from around 330 in 2005, who have extended the awareness and enhanced the perception of Hikma brands across the region.
In Europe, we have built strong injectable sales organisations in Germany, Portugal and Italy and have made significant investment in manufacturing capacity and new technologies.
Today, our European manufacturing capabilities are We have come a long way We remain very ambitious truly impressive.
Our high-quality This year we celebrated ten years for Hikma and we are manufacturing facilities in Europe since Hikma listed on the London produce 212products across a range confident in our ability Stock Exchange.
In 2005, Hikma of dosage forms, including vials, to drive continued growth was just emerging as a global ampoules, pre-filled syringes and pharmaceutical company, with in the years to come.
bags, and we are continuing to revenue of $262 million and a invest in new technologies and market capitalisation of $1.2 billion capabilities.
With equipment by year end.
With 2015 revenue transferred from Ben Venue, we of around $1.4 billion and a market are expanding our lyophilisation capitalisation of close to $6 billion, capacity with nine new lyophilisers we are firmly established as a leading and have just broken ground on global pharmaceutical company a new oncology centre.
with a successful and diverse business model.
Our business in the US has seen the greatest transformation.
The We remain the leading regional acquisition of Baxter Healthcares pharmaceutical manufacturer in the generic injectables business in 2011 MENA region.
Our Branded business and of Bedford Laboratories in 2014 8 STRATEGIC REPORT have positioned Hikma as one of the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc Total shareholder return since IPO % FTSE 250 largest suppliers of generic injectables FTSE 350 Pharmaceuticals in the US by volume.
Through these 806.2% & Biotechnology acquisitions, our injectable product 1,000 portfolio and pipeline have gained significant breadth and differentiation.
800 Our agreement in 2015 to acquire Roxane, which closed in February 600 2016, transforms our non-injectables 400 Generics business, adding more than 80 attractive products to 200 our current portfolio and close to 90 differentiated products to our 0 pipeline, and makes us the sixth largest generics company in the -200 Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov Nov 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 United States by value.
We expect our US businesses to contribute revenue ofaround $1.2 billionin 2016, up from just $130 million exceeds that of the FTSE 250 index talented Roxane team, who will in 2005.
From this strong platform, and the FTSE Pharmaceutical index, remain an integral part of the which gave a total shareholder return combined business going forward.
we are very well positioned for the coming years.
of 191.9% and 123.3% respectively, To conclude, I would like to recognise over the same period.
Our business model is sound and all my father, Samih Darwazah, who passed away in May 2015.
He is, of three of our business segments are Dividends course, sorely missed by the entire operating from a position of strength.
The Board has recommended a Hikma family, yet his legacy lives on in final dividend of 21 cents per share virtually everything we do at Hikma.
Board changes and composition approximately 14.6 pence for 2015, Daily, we are fulfilling his commitment Many of our Directors have been bringing the total dividend for the to making high-quality medicines with Hikma since we listed ten years full year to 32 cents per share accessible and affordable for patients ago, whilst some have joined more approximately 22.3 pence per across the globe.
I would like to thank all share, in line with the total dividend his entrepreneurial spirit as we look of them for their sound advice and paid in 2014.
The proposed dividend for new technologies to invest in and unwavering commitment to Hikma will be paid on 19 May 2016 to new capabilities to develop.
We are during their tenure on the Board.
shareholders on the register on following in his footsteps as we look With their support, Hikma has 8 April 2016, subject to approval to enter new markets and take on new successfully delivered on its growth at the Annual General Meeting challenges.
We are convinced of the strategy.
I would like to say a special on 12 May 2016. need for continuing education and thanks to Breffni Byrne, who will training as we strive to expand our stand down from the Board this Prospects knowledge and learn new skills.
Most May at our AGM after more than Our immediate priorities are the importantly, we are working together tenyears of valuable and committed integration of Roxane, the continued as a team to build on his success.
service, which has included his introduction of the Bedford injectable We remain very ambitious for Hikma exemplary chairmanship of the products and the launch of more and we are confident in our ability Audit Committee.
We wish him differentiated products in the MENA to drive continued growth in the well for the future.
Since we closed the Roxane years to come.
transaction on 29 February 2016, our Shareholder returns US and global teams have been Since Hikma listed in November working tirelessly to implement our 2005, through to the end of 2015, integration plan as swiftly as possible.
we have delivered a total shareholder Said Darwazah This is being executed with the strong return of 806.2%.
We are delighted Chairman and Chief Executive Officer support of the experienced and with this performance, which 9
