Home Retail Group 8 Annual Report 2015 Chief Executives statement The Group delivered a good overall performance in FY15, achieving like-for-like sales growth in both businesses for a second consecutive year, benchmark profit before tax growth of 14% to 132.1m, and benchmark EPS growth of 25% to 13.0p.
technology development, which over the Plan inconsistent performance of new term is replacing an out-dated and complex propositions across reformatted stores: and infrastructure with a comprehensive digital a need to accelerate its digital and architecture, and installing an agile capability fulfilment capabilities.
for developing customer experiences across digital devices: and On the basis of the review, in October 2014 we consumer take-up of new Argos propositions introduced the Homebase Productivity Plan.
The key elements of the Productivity Plan include: raise store operating and customer Argos has progressed well on its Plan.
In fact, as service standards: I reflect on how far the business has come in only a 25% reduction in the Homebase store estate: two years, I am pleased with how much has been improvements to Homebase propositions, achieved.
Our team has accomplished a great deal, including more Argos and Habitat concessions, and is now operating in a faster paced and more and more competitive product pricing: and innovative manner.
As expected in a five-year an upgraded Homebase digital offer that The digital revolution continues to dramatically strategy with high complexity and ambition, leverages investments being made in Argos.
alter the way consumers communicate, learn, the Plan has not unfolded exactly as we originally shop and are entertained.
Retailing in particular envisaged with minor delays and temporary The Productivity Plan, covering the three years is experiencing disruption and change.
Many customer disruption balanced with positive to FY18, will result in Homebase being a stronger retailers are increasing their investments in an new opportunities such as digital stores in small business with better profit ratios, a solid attempt to keep up with consumers, and some are formats enabled by hub & spoke distribution, and foundation of store operations and customer innovating and adopting new ways of working to partnerships with eBay and Sainsburys.
Overall service, improved offers and proven new customer reflect a faster paced and more technologicallythe Transformation Plan is broadly on track, and propositions.
As Argos approaches the end of its driven competitive environment.
Home Retail we continue to believe we can reach our ambitious Transformation Plan in FY18, Homebase should Group believes that it has an opportunity to build operating and financial goals.
Most importantly, also be well positioned for investment in its a leadership position as the market becomes independent of when the goals are reached, the long-term growth as a digital and multi-channel more digital, by developing capabilities and strategic opportunity for Argos to be a retail leader leader in the home improvement sector.
multi-channel customer experiences that in a digital future, with access to even greater anticipate a digital future.
long-term growth opportunity, remains Building capabilities for a digital future The Argos Transformation Plan will continue compelling and achievable.
FY16 will be an During FY15 Home Retail Group made good to be the Groups principal source of shareholder important year as Argos will, for the first time, progress in building strategic capabilities that will value over the medium term.
This Plan was introduce to the market several new customer form the foundation of its digital and multiintroduced in October 2012 after several years propositions, enabled by new digital capabilities.
channel business, particularly in the areas of of eroding performance at Argos, declining In the course of the Argos Transformation Plan, technology infrastructure, digital development advantage in its offer and operating model, and Home Retail Group is building leading capabilities and product fulfilment.
As these capabilities are in a market context of growing digital trends that can ultimately be leveraged for the benefit of built first for Argos, they can later be leveraged transparency of product ranges and prices, Homebase.
This was an important consideration into Homebase, Habitat and potentially other innovation across digital shopping channels, and as the Group undertook a strategic review of businesses or partnerships to achieve long-term emerging competition for faster and cheaper Homebase during FY15.
The review concluded that growth for the Group.
We believed that Argos had Homebase, while having several strengths to build Replacing the technology infrastructure several assets that could be leveraged to build from, also faced several challenges including: supporting Argos remains the largest element potential competitive advantage in this context, inconsistent store operating standards such of our future investments, and the most complex and we introduced an ambitious Transformation as merchandising, stock availability and challenge of the Argos Transformation Plan.
Our Plan to reinvent Argos as a digital retail leader.
customer service: teams have made good progress introducing new We are now two years into the Argos an over-sized store estate in light of home systems such as real-time stock visibility across Transformation Plan.
As at the outset, the factors improvement market trends and Homebase our hub & spoke store network and new online most critical to the successful achievement of the sales volumes: payment and content management systems.
Plan continue to be: product pricing that was not competitive Several critical components of the infrastructure the ability for Argos to execute successfully the in certain categories when considering the remain to be developed and introduced over the quantity and pace of change required across effectiveness of promotional programmes: Plan term.
In addition to new applications, our many critical areas of its operations: Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2015 9 team has faced unanticipated pressure on the Home Retail Group offers over 90,000 unique Homebase has been enhancing its fulfilment resilience and scalability of existing systems due products across Argos, Homebase and Habitat, options along with its digital offer.
During FY15 it to extreme online volumes and volatility during including a substantial element of exclusive and further expanded the range of products available the FY15 peak trading period.
The Group attempts to meet for named or next-day express delivery.
the journey so far has been more challenging customer needs for product choice and value As Homebase progresses its Productivity than originally envisaged, our team is adapting by building partnerships with strong brands, Plan, it will increasingly draw on the innovative well and the end state of the Groups technology and maximising its buying scale and sourcing fulfilment options developed by the Group, infrastructure will be a unique advantage.
capabilities, particularly via direct import and including express large item delivery, click & Argos made good progress with its digital direct sourcing of product.
collect of Homebase products via the Argos capabilities during FY15, expanding the number Argos continued to expand its ranges during store estate, and eventually utilising the hub & of teams working at our London digital hub in order FY15 with the addition of a net c. 11,000 new lines, spoke model for fulfilling extended lines in store to become increasingly agile in the way we develop and now offers over 53,000 general merchandise or through hub-to-home delivery.
We made further progress in making our Argos introduced a number of innovative digital offer more universally appealing by extending lines Outlook features during the year such as its Christmas of more fully featured products and aspirational Economic conditions showed signs of gift finder, kids Christmas app and further brands.
Argos also launched Heart of House in improvement during FY15, with low levels of developments in augmented reality through FY15, its new exclusive brand for better quality inflation, increases in employment and the first Argos Scan.
Argos internet sales continued to and value in the home categories.
Homebase signs of real wage growth for a number of years.
grow during the year, such that they now represent maintains a strong product offer as well, with We are hopeful that as the uncertainty of the 46% of total Argos sales, up from 44% in the prior over 49,000 products including a strong portfolio general election passes, businesses and consumers year.
Mobile commerce was up 38% to 25% of of exclusive brands such as Habitat, Odina, will become more confident in the economic total Argos sales.
environment for the balance of the year.
Home Digital capabilities are also of increasing The presence of a local store remains Retail Group will, however, continue to plan importance to Homebase, as the role of the important for many customers, either to meet conservatively and assume only low levels of internet in DIY and home enhancement continues their traditional shopping needs or as locations market-driven growth.
Homebases multi-channel sales grew from which to click & collect items previously FY16 will be another important year in the 10% during FY15 to account for 8% of total sales.
Argos remains a market leader transformation of Home Retail Group.
Our sales I am particularly pleased with our progress in click & collect, with its c. 750 convenient performance in the first half is likely to be more on product fulfilment.
The speed and cost of locations and efficient local stocking.
Through challenging, as Argos focuses on improving its providing customers with the products they its new hub & spoke distribution network, technology and customer experiences, and we purchase is increasingly important.
With our which operates routes between larger hubs anniversary both strong Argos sales in certain complement of distribution centres, a national and neighbouring spoke stores, Argos enables slowing technology categories and strong seasonal network of stores, frequent stock replenishment stores of all sizes and stock-holding capacities performances in both businesses.
The second half and economies of sale, we believe we have an to offer the same broad range of around 20,000 should improve as we look forward to introducing opportunity to build a competitive advantage products to customers on a same-day basis.
new Argos digital offers in time for peak trading.
In FY15 Argos added to our The unique hub & spoke model also enabled The Argos Transformation Plan and the capabilities by scaling its unique hub & spoke Argos to trial successfully several new store Homebase Productivity Plan are important distribution model nationally.
This enables us formats during FY15, including Argos digital strategic plans for the Group as we seek to to stock extended product ranges in c. 150 larger concessions within Homebase stores, and a variety innovate and lead in a rapidly changing and hub stores, and make them available for faster of small-format digital stores such as Westfield increasingly competitive market, and to secure fulfilment in local markets.
Argos also began to Stratford City and Cannon Street tube station, long-term business growth for our colleagues, trial express overnight delivery on larger items, thereby accessing locations and catchments that communities and shareholders.
I am pleased with and hub-to-home delivery which will extend our were not previously feasible.
During FY15 Argos our progress, our strong financial position which hub & spoke capability with an Argos-operated also expanded the number of existing stores provides us capacity to invest, and our strategic local delivery network.
We have more to learn converted to our exciting new digital format.
direction which assumes a digital future that about stock optimisation across this new network, At the end of FY15 we were trading from 60 digital consumers seem ready to embrace.
as well as the operating challenges of local stores across three different formats, and during I would like to thank our team of 47,000 Home delivery, but we are excited by the potential FY16 we expect to further increase new locations Retail Group colleagues, especially those working of these capabilities.
and convert additional stores in the existing estate.
in our stores, home delivery fleet, distribution and Although store-based collection is a growing contact centres and the digital hub, who are Convenient multi-channel offer method for fulfilling digital orders, home delivery fundamental to how our customers experience On the basis of strengthening digital capabilities, is also a critical channel for customers and one our brands.
As consumers increasingly use digital Home Retail Groups retail brands endeavour to in which Home Retail Group has generally technology in their interactions with us, our offer leading multi-channel convenience to our under-participated.
We expect that our successful colleagues become even more important in customers.
In a digital world, convenience is being trial of hub-to-home delivery will conclude in providing differentiated service and as the human, redefined to mean the ability for customers to FY16, and enable Argos to offer a market-leading local face of our business.
I am proud to work with obtain the products they desire at the location home delivery service more convenient delivery each one of them.
and time appropriate for each particular occasion times, at a lower cost.
