Chief Executives statement OUR MODEL 06 Were always ready Wanting everyone to do well Howdens is a trade-only business, offering nearly 60 Howdens is a highly successful business, with 623 local kitchen ranges from local stock, together with accessories, depots, over 360,000 active customer accounts and over appliances, sinks and taps, worktops, flooring, lighting and 8,000 employees who are looking forward to a future of hardware, and a range of joinery including internal and opportunities for themselves and their families as well as external doors, skirting and stair parts.
Howdens is always for the business.
in stock locally, and everything can be picked up from our local depot theres no waiting for items to be ordered, or Looking back, it may appear that Howdens was always replaced, or swapped, or brought back.
destined to get to this point and beyond.
But in 1995, when the business started, nothing was predetermined.
Howdens We help builders make money success did not happen by accident, and it was neither Howdens in-stock model allows the small builder to plan and obvious nor easy.
sell a kitchen and fit it when he wants to do so.
Our skilled planners help the builder to secure the job in the first place.
The growth and development of Howdens have been driven An expert, accurate plan ensures that everything will look good by its model, culture and values, which remain as relevant as and fit, saving the builder time and supporting his margin.
The central idea of the business is that it should be worthwhile for all concerned.
Putting this into When a builder comes into our depot for the first time, we open practice wanting others to do well, not just ourselves is a nett monthly account for him, which gives him the ability to what sets Howdens apart, and what will guarantee its future.
The builder can complete the job and get paid long before he has to pay Howdens.
Wholly focused on the small builder Howdens is the leading supplier of kitchens to small builders The local depot manager is authorised to give the builder a across the country.
From the outset, our business model was personal, confidential discount, which gives him the freedom designed around their needs.
Builders have busy lives Many skills Local builders are entrepreneurs running small businesses.
The builder is a project manager, in charge of assembling and They need to remain profitable while juggling several jobs at coordinating many skills in order to achieve a satisfactory once.
Their plans change from week to week and from day kitchen installation.
These include joinery, tiling, plastering, to day, depending on whether their customers change their painting, glazing, electrical work, plumbing and heating as minds, whether something unexpected has been discovered well as other more specialist skills.
behind a partition wall, whether everything required for the job has been delivered as promised, whether anyone is off Saving time and money sick, and of course whether frost or rain mean they have to Howdens sells pre-assembled cabinets, increasingly with reschedule the work they had originally planned to do.
pre-fitted elements, which saves the builder hours, if not Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 days, on site.
Our cabinets are designed to be robust and Being important to our suppliers 07 easy to install.
They are manufactured to high standards of A shared understanding of what is expected ensures the consistency and they do not break.
This is what we call no-callsmooth operation of our flexible, reactive supply chain and back quality and it saves the builder even more time.
the support functions on which the depots depend.
In our peak autumn trading period in 2015, our supply division Howdens buys raw material and product in volume, and made 9,800 deliveries to our depots, and of the 7 million manufactures efficiently, so we can offer our customers quality items received only 160 were incorrect, which equates to a at an affordable price.
For example, we sell granite from stock, success rate of 99.998%.
It is very hard to achieve service of cutting out unnecessary costs as well as long lead times.
that order without shared values and personal relationships at every level, both within the business and with our 200 UK and Trusted managers international suppliers of bought-in product and raw materials.
Builders know us personally, not as a corporation but as individual managers in their local area who understand the Efficient manufacturing way they work and can provide practical help.
Builders buy Our two factories in Yorkshire and Cheshire are configured to from Howdens because our managers are authorised to the precise requirements of our model.
discount prices, swap items, take decisions and give advice.
They serve only one customer Howdens and do not Running their own depots supply anyone else.
Everything in the factories is arranged to Managers hire their own staff locally and develop relationships suit our requirements and we use only the space we need.
They do their own marketing to existing The machinery is bespoke to Howdens.
The staff know our and potential customers.
They adjust their pricing to suit specifications.
There are no special orders.
are agreed on the basis of known quantities, phasing and predictability.
There is no unnecessary waste anywhere, Managers manage their own stock.
They work out where whether of time, space, or product.
to put everything they can sell old favourites and new introductions.
Every day, they balance the needs of builders, Lowest cost of supply end-users, staff and everyone in their local area who has an We have our own warehouses and distribution operations, and interest in the success of their depot.
our trucks deliver our product only to Howdens depots.
We manage our fleet efficiently so that wherever possible trucks Shared goals do not return to base empty.
Managers are in charge of their own margin, and effectively of their own business.
Both managers and staff are strongly This allows us to keep Howdens depots replenished with incentivised on a share of their local profit less any stock the right stock at the lowest cost.
We are committed to loss, which results in a common aim to improve service, and maintaining and increasing our investment in supply to consequently profit, with virtually no stock loss.
Do what you say is a principle that extends right across the business.
Builders depend on it and so do our factories and our suppliers.
Chief Executives statement continued Nor could we collect prompt payment without keeping every Scalable systems 08 item required by the builder in stock and making sure it is, as We have also invested in robust, stable, scalable systems our mission statement promises, of no-call-back quality.
capable of supporting our current and future requirements.
These systems include manufacturing, warehouse OUR MARKET management, transport monitoring, depot stock and sales reporting, payment processing and management information Life is in the kitchen as well as industry-leading design tools for kitchen planning.
Every home has a kitchen, and the kitchen is fundamental During our peak trading period in October 2015, we processed to the home.
Our daily lives are played out in the kitchen.
We nearly 146,000 in one minute, and we have plenty of celebrate, commiserate, plan, argue, agree, make lists, mend capacity to trade at an even faster pace.
things, cook, eat, clean, work, shop, watch television and feed the dog in the kitchen.
Low-cost depots At depot level, Howdens has none of the costs usually The pace of change is accelerating associated with kitchen retailers such as expensive Twenty years ago, DIY was still viewed as a reasonable way of showrooms, installation services and national advertising tackling a range of household repair jobs.
Today, we cannot campaigns.
A typical Howdens depot occupies around 10,000 manage the simplest of tasks.
Putting up a shelf is challenging square feet, costs approximately 250,000 to fit out and for many, let alone fitting a kitchen.
breaks even once it has achieved sales of 650,000.
No time, no tolerance Builders pay promptly for Howdens service Our lives are changing rapidly and in many ways.
We dont Howdens extends a significant amount of working capital to have time to visit lots of showrooms or stay at home all day for our trade account holders on a continuous basis.
We have no tolerance for mistakes or breakdowns.
At the same time, we have a And we want things sorted out just fix it, right now, is the cry.
highly efficient collection operation and the total cost of credit control, including bad debts, decreased to less than 1% of Reliable information Group revenue.
In other words, builders are prepared to pay, Not enough time and too much information.
For ideas and and pay promptly, for the Howdens proposition.
advice on any aspect of domestic life, we turn to the internet.
The only snag is how to make sense of the avalanche An integrated model of information released by a few clicks.
Is it comment, The Howdens model works because we implement it as advertisement or fact?
To sort things out quickly, most a whole, not piecemeal.
For example, we could not satisfy the builders day-to-day needs without giving our depot managers the autonomy to make decisions on the spot.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Higher expectations Making life easier for the builder 09 We expect our kitchens, and everything in them, to be better Our aim is to help the builder save time and make money.
designed, to include more functions, to perform better, to have Innovation has led to the use of new materials and the more robust surfaces, to use less energy, to be child-friendly continuing introduction of new products that make life easier at all price points.
For example, Howdens offer now includes pre-primed, pre-glazed doors, kitchen cabinets with pre-fitted elements, premium screws and a smart latch that can be fitted in five We all need a local builder minutes, a quarter of the time required for a traditional latch.
At Howdens we have always believed that the best way to get a kitchen installed and working is to have it fitted by a small builder.
This is truer than ever before.
Sophisticating kitchens Kitchens are continually sophisticating.
This does not mean The small builder serves a variety of customers including they are becoming more expensive.
On the contrary, they are landlords, tenants, homeowners, housing associations and now expected to do more for less.
Kitchens are far from being local authorities.
The builder goes where the work is, which is commoditised, and the need for them to be properly installed why he needs to know that Howdens keep everything in stock.
Builders need sound advice and good training in order to do A changing housing market a proper job.
That is why we make sure our depot staff are As house prices have risen, the private rental sector has trained to the highest standards, and why we are increasing expanded to meet demand.
Of the 25 million homes in the UK, our focus on apprenticeships and the learning of new and nearly 20% are now privately rented.
More people are renting traditional skills.
from private landlords than from local authorities or housing associations.
156,000 new homes were built last year but that doesnt change the fact that there is still a lot of old Helping the builder to be responsible housing stock needing more frequent repairs.
Builders also need to know the products they are using are entirely reliable, and comply with an increasing number of regulations governing safety, data security, energy use, New technology in the home sustainability, the use of labour and waste management Technological developments are changing our expectations to name but a few.
in the home, and in the kitchen in particular.
You can read more about how we address regulations and Howdens already sells a growing range of programmable expectations in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report appliances.
The connected home, with systems that allow the beginning page 23. householder to control everything remotely, from cooking and washing to heating, lighting, security and more, is no longer a distant dream.
Chief Executives statement continued OUR STRATEGY More new depots 10 As far as new depot openings are concerned, we are still a Choices and opportunities long way from saturation coverage of the country.
The small Howdens has done well, and continues to do well.
The success builders need for a truly local, convenient service is growing of the business has created more choices and opportunities all the time.
When we open new depots in a city or area where than we could possibly have imagined when we opened our we are already present, the net effect is to increase sales from first depots in 1995. that area, usually by the second year of operation.
Our horizons are both wider and further away than they used to People and organisation be, which means we face more complex challenges along with We have always invested in upgrading all parts of our richer opportunities.
business, including product design, manufacturing, logistics, warehousing, systems and offices as well as people and Personal vs. digital incentives.
Over the past two years we have devoted Howdens is about people and development.
In an increasingly considerable energy and effort to organisational development digital-dependent world, the Howdens depot is a hub of to make sure we have the right structure, as well as the humanity and physicality, providing personal service in right people, to support a bigger future.
Here again, we are response to real, physical problems that require immediate fortunate.
Howdens prospects, coupled with its philosophy fixing.
This in itself represents a tremendous opportunity and culture, strike a chord with many peoples values and for us.
vision for the years ahead.
Looking after our customers Securing the future The first job of a new depot is to open accounts.
An account Howdens has to continue to invest simply in order to stand still.
is a personal relationship to be looked after for the long term.
We have no choice if we are to continue to support the As life in general and kitchens in particular become more essential ingredients of our offer range, quality, availability complex, it seems reasonable to expect that we will need and price at speed and at scale.
more people with specific skills designers, salespeople, experienced managers to look after our builders and The business is performing well, and has prospects.
So we increase sales per account as well as the volume of accounts.
are able to invest in its future as well as its present needs.
Proper service Manufacturing investment So we plan to continue to recruit good people who understand With this in mind, we have decided to make significant our values and culture, and to support our staff with more investments in our manufacturing and warehousing capacity training, more targeted incentives, even better systems, to meet planned demand to 2020 and beyond.
improved planning tools and everything we can do to allow them to offer proper service to the small builder.
When making this investment, we have to take into account the size and complexity of our prospects and how we should support them.
There are four main areas to consider.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 First, there are things that become old or need to be retired.
We are still at the trial stage outside the UK.
We continue to 11 This includes everything from equipment in our factories to our make interesting and sometimes surprising discoveries in distribution centre in Northampton which is approaching the these different markets for example, about the levels of end of its viable life.
discount that motivate builders, which formats are the most attractive to most customers, and the complex relationships Second, there is brand new technology: there is always a between the various parties involved in installing a kitchen.
better mousetrap and there is evolution too.
By the end of 2016, we will have a better view of the strategic options.
Now that the business is so much more valuable, we have to pay attention to our disaster Worthwhile for all concerned recovery capability and the need for dual running if necessary.
The overriding aim of Howdens is to create a lasting business that is worthwhile for all concerned customers, prospective Finally, do we have enough capacity to serve our aspirations customers, homeowners, tenants, local communities, local, for the future?
This involves long-term property decisions as national and international suppliers, investors, existing staff, well as planning for production and logistics.
their families, apprentices and those yet to join the business or be touched by it.
We have no intention of letting them down.
Continuous testing We also continue to carry out tests of all descriptions in all Ultimately, it comes down to this.
These include testing the market for products new to job is to resource the builder, and to resource our staff, so that Howdens such as granite worktops and branded appliances, they can help the builder in the best way they can.
and developing an exclusive, premium cabinet all available from stock.
This naturally makes demands on space within Howdens is a successful, balanced business, investing depots, but it also opens up new opportunities to open in sensible things and prepared for opportunities as well accounts, increase sales per account, improve margin, as threats.
The key to this is that we have lowest cost of increase stock turn and attract new people to the business.
production, flexible production and a low break even point in our depots, which are focused on the repair, maintenance and improvement market and have a growing trade account base.
Experimenting beyond the UK Another area in which we continue to test the Howdens proposition is continental Europe.
Later this year we will have Matthew Ingle a total of 24 depots outside the UK: 20 in France with two Chief Executive Officer different formats, two in Belgium, one in the Netherlands and one in Germany.
So sooner or later we will be looking at two 24 February 2016 formats and four countries.
