12 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Q&A with I am excited by Wayne Sheppard, the increased CEO opportunity we now have to develop Ibstock, working with the incredibly committed teams that we have in the businesses.
What are Ibstocks key strengths?
One of Ibstocks most important strengths is its people.
We have committed and loyal teams in all of our businesses who tend to develop long term careers with us.
Our strong market leading positions and focus on quality and customer service are fundamental to the success of the business.
We have well invested factories and depots strategically located to serve their respective markets and our clay businesses have access to long term clay reserves.
We work hard to innovate both in products and customer service and we employ the latest technology in our production and sales operations.
These strengths support the growing market share we have in all our key markets.
What is your value proposition andcan you describe your typicalcustomer?
A. P otential customers should choose Ibstock Group companies because ourcurrent customers tell us, through ourextensive independent surveys and also face to face, that they choose us because we have the best product range and we are the easiest supplier in our scope of supply to do business with.
I c ant really describe a typical customer because it depends on whom you consider to be the customer.
We see the initial specifier as a customer as well as each element of the construction process covering perhaps: main contractor, sub-contractor, builders merchant, client andso on.
So our customer could be a self-builder wanting assistance with brick matching via his chosen merchant or architect, through tomajor listed house builders, builders merchants or organisations such as Network Rail.
indd 12 12 04 2016 13:12 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 13 Q.
How have the competitive Ithink it is important to mention that we Q.
What excites you most about the environment and your market believe in maintaining the strong brands business as you move forward?
within the Group and Glen-Gery with A. I am excited by the increased opportunity A.
Our markets have always been highly its125-year history will always trade as we now have to develop Ibstock, working competitive and will continue to be so.
Glen-Gery under Ibstock plc ownership.
with the incredibly committed teams that New customer and technical or we have in the businesses.
Ibstock is regulatory challenges impacting the Q.
How does the strategy influence alegacy business with a near 200-year competitive environment are always day to day management and history and it is a privilege to steward present which we take in our stride priorities of the different operating itfor a period before passing on the BIM Building Information Modelling companies within Ibstock?
Company in an improved position to the capability would be an example.
Our focus on customer service influences next generation.
This is why succession businesses maintain strong and growing the way we manage the business.
For planning is such an important area to me.
This is driven by example, the production planning team in offering the best value proposition, that the UK brick company report to the Sales Q.
What will Ibstock look like in Director.
Our desire to service the customer is, cost with due consideration for the five years time?
impacts all aspects of the business value of the service, product support A. Ibstock will continue to be regarded as including innovation and obviously our and consistency provided throughout ahighly customer driven business but investment in information technology, the specification tothe project withan improved asset base in the UK agood example of this being our sales completion process.
following the investments being made in teams managing much of their customer both clay and concrete and potentially exchange live with smart technology.
What pleased you most about this with a broader product portfolio through years 2015 results?
In the US, I have a similar view.
What are your plans for A. I was pleased that we achieved strong acquisitions?
sales growth in both the UK and US and Q.
What do you see as the key benefits A.
We continue to look for enhancing that all businesses performed to plan.
of the significant capital investment acquisitions that will add to the UK The pricing strength in Glen-Gery was that has been made?
product portfolio and strengthen our particularly pleasing as was the above A. Ibstocks investment at Leicester footprint in the US.
We have worked target cash performance and thus lower provides 100 million bricks per year of hard to deliver current levels of year end debt position for the Group.
additional capacity into a market with performance so our performance strong growth fundamentals.
It will be hurdles are set high.
What could you have done better?
the newest and most efficient factory lookingfor quality businesses with A.
Considering all the work necessary to inEurope.
The factory has been goodgrowth prospects or businesses manage a successful IPO process I am designed to be the most cost efficient offering significant synergies and ideally particularly pleased that we did not lose and flexible stock brick facility in the both.
We will be taking a disciplined ourfocus on delivering strong 2015 results.
Along with previous approach, testing returns available Clearly one can always do better but investments this project ensures that fromacquisitions against enhanced thereis nothing in the 2015 performance Ibstock continues to maintain an cash returns for shareholders.
that did not meet our expectations.
Our investment in Forticrete is particularly Q.
How does sustainability fit into Q.
What difference has the IPO made exciting as it will add yet another your strategy?
innovative product to the roof tile A. Sustainability is very important A.
The IPO has been very motivating for range.
Forticrete has a strong history toIbstock.
We have employed a themanagement teams and all of our ofinnovation and this new product sustainability manager since 1995 employees.
This is largely because after willcontinue that tradition.
and issued annual sustainability aconsiderable period of uncertainty over reports since 1999: the first in our the potential disposal of the Group under Q.
What are the key risks to your industry to do so.
Our UK businesses its previous public company ownership, growth plans?
are accredited to ISO 14001, the we are now able to invest for growth.
The strength of underlying demand Environmental Management standard, supportive market fundamentals in all our inthe UK and US new home markets with the exception of our specials geographies and development projects iskey.
With supportive demand business which will be accredited underway in both clay and concrete there fundamentals in all our businesses bytheend of the year.
Ibstock and is a feeling of excitement in the business.
and, in particular, strong Government Forticrete have also achieved ISO 6001 Our enthusiasm is shared by the investors support for new build housing in the UK, Responsible Sourcing compliance.
we meet and it is always a pleasure to the outlook looks encouraging.
Clearly Allour UK businesses are compliant talkto people interested in our business, anything impacting on homebuyer and, with the Energy Management Standard we are very proud of it!
for RMI markets, home owner sentiment ISO 50001 or the Energy Savings would be a concern.
How will you integrate the UK and addition to this we continue to invest in US businesses?
energy efficiency, CO A. Glen-Gery was part of the original reduction, we 2 Ibstock plc before separation under generate electricity from landfill gas and CRH ownership.
In view of this shared recycle raw materials such as process history, cultures are similar and a strong water tominimise waste and cost.
architectural bias is evident in both businesses.
What should we expect from delighted to be back with Ibstock since Ibstock in the next 12 months?
the start of 2015 following separation A.
We will be focusing strongly on our in1999.
We are already sharing best markets and customer service as practice in Marketing, Technical, usual.
We will be managing the major Procurement and Engineering.
We wish investment projects we have underway toensure that our people see that inUK concrete and clay: our main careers can once again develop across officesite at Ibstock is now a major the UK and US as they did in the past.
We anticipate another year of progress in all our businesses.
indd 13 12 04 2016 13:12 14 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 IBSTOCK 05 Strategy Divider DRF2.
indd 14 12 04 2016 13:11 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 15 The power to realise potential q Our markets Page 16 q Our business model Page 18 q Our strategy Page 22 q How our KPIs help us maintain strategic focus Page 24 q Key resources and relationships Page 26 q How we manage our risks Page 30 The new brick factory under construction at Ibstock.
