CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our Transition Agenda The work were doing to optimise our brand portfolio is at the core of our transition agenda.
Our portfolio consists of Growth, Specialist and Portfolio Brands.
Growth and Specialist Brands are our most important brands and our priority is to build their equity and enhance the contribution they make to our success.
Portfolio Brands are a mix of local and regional offerings: some will keep adding to our volume and revenue momentum, while others are being delisted or migrated into stronger, higher quality Growth Brands.
Brand migrations are carefully planned and implemented gradually to ensure the highest possible number of consumers complete the journey from one brand to another.
We achieved consistently high consumer retention with the 21 brand migrations we completed in the year.
A number of other Alison Cooper Chief Executive migrations are currently underway and more will be progressed in 2016.
Managing fewer brands provides focus around the portfolio choices we make in markets and this is sharpening our focus on growth This was another successful year for Imperial, opportunities as we continue to develop our footprint.
one in which we delivered a good underlying Reducing complexity and streamlining the way we manage our performance and made further progress with brands and markets, combined with the changes were making our strategic transition.
to our operating model, supports our cost and cash objectives.
The ongoing review of our operating model involves looking at I am particularly pleased with the results from our Growth and how the business is run on a day-to-day basis and identifying Specialist Brands.
Our consistent focus on developing these areas where we can change systems, processes and structures brands continues to improve the contribution they make to the to improve our performance.
quality of the business and they now account for more than half of our tobacco net revenue.
For example, clusters of markets are starting to share support services such as HR, Finance and Corporate Affairs which From a footprint perspective, weve strengthened our delivery in is removing duplication and enabling more efficient resource Returns Markets and maintained positive momentum in many allocation.
Elsewhere, we are investing in new technologies Growth Markets, including in the USA where we significantly to provide our sales teams with real time information about expanded our operations with a major acquisition.
This investment, which saw Imperial acquire brands and other Simplifying the way we work is also instilling a more costassets sold as a result of Reynolds Americans purchase of conscious culture in the business and provides opportunities Lorillard, was a key highlight of the year.
Our strategic transition remains on track and continues to revolve Our focus on efficiently managing our cost base is balanced by our around optimising our brand portfolio and market footprint, commitment to capital discipline and this drives the effective implementing new ways of working and effectively managing deployment of our cash, which we use to reinvest in the business, cost and cash.
pay down debt and return to shareholders.
These initiatives are strengthening the business, improving our Our approach to building the capabilities and leadership skills quality of growth and enhancing our ability to generate sustainable of our employees is aligned with our strategic transition and we shareholder returns.
continue to invest in training and development to support their The underlying results disclosed in this report are adjusted career progression.
to remove the impact on our growth rates of our 2014 stock The ability of our people to make things happen, often in optimisation programme, which reduced the level of stock held challenging circumstances, has kept us on track throughout by distributors, impacting volume, revenue and profit.
Underlying the year and I would like to thank them all for their hard work results provide a clearer view of our 2015 performance against and commitment.
Our transition initiatives are creating a stronger, more agile On a constant currency basis adjusted operating profit was up by organisation thats better equipped to respond to changing 7 per cent and we grew adjusted earnings per share by 8 per cent.
Return on invested capital was 11 per cent and we delivered another strong dividend increase of 10 per cent.
Our detailed financial results are set out on pages 18-20.
8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Excellent Results from Growth Brands Contributions from Golden Virginia, Drum, Route 66 and Rizla Our Growth Brands are: Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, JPS, reinforced our world leadership in fine cut tobacco and papers, West, Fine, News, USA Gold, Bastos, Lambert & Butler and and included strong growth in modern variants of Golden Virginia Parker & Simpson.
These brands are clustered on five platforms, or brand chassis.
As a result of the USA acquisition our Growth and Specialist Brands that share the same chassis also share the same growth Brands have been reclassified, effective 1 October 2015. initiatives, including innovations and pack designs.
This further Winston has been added to Growth Brands, replacing USA Gold, reduces cost and complexity and enables greater consistency which becomes a Portfolio Brand, and Kool and blu have joined in the way we manage their performance.
Growth Brands continued to deliver excellent results and again Momentum in Growth Markets outperformed the market, with underlying volumes up 7.1 per cent Conditions in the Near East masked a number of good results in and underlying net revenue up 11.7 per cent.
In contrast, market Growth Markets, where our overall market share was 6.1 per cent.
volumes in our geographic footprint declined by 3.5 per cent.
Excluding Iraq and Syria, underlying Growth Brand volumes were Underlying net revenue declined by 2.5 per cent and adjusted up 13.9 per cent and net revenue was up by 14.9 per cent.
We operating profit increased by 19.0 per cent.
Excluding Iraq and also grew the market share of Growth Brands by 110 basis points Syria, underlying net revenue was up 4.5 per cent and adjusted to 6.6 per cent.
operating profit was up 27.0 per cent.
Our total Group tobacco volumes for the year were 285.1 billion Our performance in Russia improved in the year, buoyed by stick equivalents 2014: 294.4 billion, which includes five billion stronger pricing in the second half and gains from Maxim in the from ITG Brands in the USA since the acquisition was completed growing value segment.
Snus sales increased in Norway and on 12 June 2015.
On an underlying basis volumes declined by 5.6 Sweden and we improved our cigarette share in Saudi Arabia.
per cent, over half of which was as a result of Iraq and Syria.
Our We continued to build our position in Japan and Egypt and made total Group market share was broadly maintained at 13.3 per cent.
further progress in Italy and Kazakhstan.
Results in Vietnam were Growth Brands accounted for 50.9 per cent of total Group tobacco undermined by further growth in illicit trade following regulatory volumes 145.1 billion stick equivalents, an increase of 640 basis changes.
points, and 45.8 per cent of overall tobacco net revenue, an Underlying Growth Brand volumes were down 16.0 per cent at increase of 320 basis points.
46.5 billion stick equivalents, with the majority of the decline due Brand migrations supported these strong results, with Portfolio to lower volumes in Iraq, Syria and Vietnam.
Brands successfully migrated into a range of Growth Brands Excellent Progress in the USA including Parker & Simpson in Poland and Taiwan, JPS in Spain We completed the acquisition of assets in the USA from Reynolds and the UK, West in Spain and News in France.
American on 12 June and the enlarged business, ITG Brands, has Investment also supported the performance of Growth Brands, made excellent progress against its commercial and integration plans.
including the roll out of new marketing campaigns for JPS, Davidoff and Gauloises Blondes.
Our financial performance was enhanced by the contribution of ITG Brands.
In total, ITG Brands and our existing USA operations Performance highlights included share and volume growth of JPS generated tobacco net revenue of 707 million, an increase of in Australia and the EU and Davidoff gains in Greece and Taiwan.
39.4 per cent, and adjusted operating profit of 375 million, an Gauloises Blondes contributed to our success in Germany and increase of 47.2 per cent.
Since completion, the net contribution continued to make progress in Algeria, although the impact of Iraq of the acquisition to the USA performance was volumes of five and Syria held back the brands overall performance.
billion stick equivalents and tobacco net revenue of 242 million.
Momentum slowed for Bastos and Fine due to regulatory and The newly acquired brands maintained share and our national sales pricing pressures but West grew share in Saudi Arabia and Japan, team has introduced new retail programmes to support the and USA Gold made further progress in key focus states.
development of our enhanced portfolio.
We continued to focus on building the presence of Parker & Integration continues to be effectively managed, with all elements Simpson in a number of markets and in the UK another good of the plan moving ahead smoothly in line with our timetable.
The performance from Lambert & Butler Blue continued to strengthen transfer of manufacturing machinery between Lorillards factory in the brand franchise.
Greensboro and Reynolds Americans site at Tobaccoville as part of a reciprocal manufacturing agreement is also progressing well.
Underlying Growth from Specialist Brands Our Specialist Brands are: Style, Gitanes cigarettes, Golden Our cigarette business is complemented by a strong cigar position.
Virginia, Drum, Route 66 fine cut tobacco, Cohiba, Montecristo, Challenges persisted in the mass market cigar segment as a result Romeo Y Julieta premium cigars, Backwoods cigars, Skruf snus of competitor discounting, impacting revenue.
Our premium cigar portfolio performed well and we implemented These brands account for over 11 per cent of our tobacco net a restructuring of our distribution business JR Cigars to further revenue.
As a result of Iraq and Syria, underlying net revenue from strengthen our position in the premium segment.
Specialist Brands was down by 0.7 per cent: excluding this impact, underlying net revenue increased by 2.9 per cent.
Positive Performance in Returns Markets We made positive progress in Returns Markets, generating good Performance highlights included further share and volume growth results in Australia, Germany, Czech Republic, Portugal, Ukraine from Skruf in Scandinavia and growth in premium cigars in parts of and Algeria.
This mitigated the impact of weaker trading conditions Latin America and Europe, Africa and the Middle East, China and in France, Spain and Morocco.
Limited editions continued to support cigar growth, including exclusive offerings from Montecristo to celebrate the brands 80th anniversary.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 9
